--- page 1 ---
MADDY VARNER
SECURITY
JUN 10, 2026 6:00 AM
Mapping Every Flock License Plate Reader Near US World
Cup Stadiums
ILLUSTRATION: CRISTIAN MERA

--- page 2 ---
STARTING ON JUNE 11, soccer fans will be filling stadiums across North America
to watch the FIFA World Cup. Those driving to matches in the United States might
also find themselves being the ones watched: WIRED identified 1,181 automatic
license plate reader cameras, or ALPRs, within a five-mile radius of the 11 US
stadiums playing host to the World Cup this summer. Most of those cameras are
manufactured by Flock Safety.
ALPRs are set up along roadsides by municipalities, businesses, schools, and
private groups such as homeowners associations to continuously log the license
plate of each car that passes by them. A market survey report prepared for the US
Department of Homeland Security says that some providers can collect other
information like the make, model, and year of the vehicle and descriptions of
bumper stickers affixed to it. Groups that operate networks of these cameras can
then query those logs to find matches for specific plates, creating a dossier of
where a vehicle has gone and when. Flock Safety, in particular, allows operators
to share their data with other groups on their network, meaning that depending
on the operator, drivers can accidentally get caught up in a national dragnet.
Flock Safety spokesperson Paris Lewbel acknowledged that the company works
with government agencies and “other customers” in areas around World Cup
venues. Lewbel emphasized that Flock’s customers, not Flock itself, “own and
control their data, decide if, when, and with whom to share it.”
Andrew Elvish, the VP of global marketing for Genetec, which sells ALPR
software, says the Canadian company is focused on helping organizations
Most US World Cup stadiums are surrounded by surveillance cameras.
Want to know if you’re being watched on your way to a match? These
maps will help you.
SAVE THIS STORY

--- page 3 ---
manage parking and isn’t interested in providing excessive access to aggregated
license plate data, which he says is a practice that people should be rightfully
concerned about.
2026 FIFA World Cup
Here’s WIRED’s complete guide to the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
ALPRs are powerful surveillance tools and ripe for abuse: Cops have been
accused of using them to allegedly stalk exes and strangers. In 2025, US Customs

--- page 4 ---
and Border Protection were found to be violating a state law by accessing Flock
data about drivers by Illinois’ secretary of state, who said it was “a clear violation
of state law.” Flock employees even have reportedly accessed cameras inside a
children’s gymnastics room and other locations as part of a sales pitch, according
to 404 Media. (In a blog post, Flock Safety said that the employees were not
“spying on children” and were “well-intentioned employees who accessed a
camera network with the city's explicit permission, as part of their job.”)
Lewbel, the Flock spokesperson, says that the company is “aware of a very small
number of incidents of abuse,” adding that Flock Safety does not have a
relationship with DHS, including CBP, and that agencies outside of Illinois need to
say that they’re complying with Illinois law before they can access Illinois data.
Tracey Ades, a senior director of marketing for Genetec, says the company does its
best to make its tools as safe as possible, but at the end of the day it's their
customers’ tool to deploy. “So the need for legislation to limit what people can
do?” says Ades. “That needs to be thought through."
Across the US, communities have started pushing back against ALPR deployment
and fighting for more transparency. Activists have pried audit logs revealing
whose license plates were searched and why, and assembled it into a searchable
database. Dozens of cities have terminated contracts, and groups are planning a
national week of action against ALPRs in August. WIRED relied on data compiled
by one volunteer mapping project, DeFlock, to identify where ALPRs were located
near US World Cup stadiums. Since the data is crowdsourced, it may not be a full
picture of all the ALPRs in a given area.
Check out a few of the stadiums below.

--- page 5 ---
WIRED tallied 53 ALPRs surrounding the SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California.
Of those, 39 were manufactured by Flock Safety and 14 were made by Motorola
Solutions.
The city will host eight World Cup matches and will also be hosting the 2028
Summer Olympics. Anti-surveillance activists say the city has used the events to
nab more funding and expand its surveillance efforts, including by installing more
ALPRs.

--- page 6 ---
Out of all the World Cup stadiums in the US, WIRED counted the greatest number
of ALPRs—323 Flock cameras—around the NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas,
which will host seven matches. Harris County, where the stadium is located,
recently renewed its contract with Flock Safety for nearly $869,000. Harris
County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Jason Spencer says the office has access to
480 of the manufacturer’s cameras around the county but that those are located
outside of the Houston city limits.

--- page 7 ---
Atlanta, which also happens to be the headquarters for Flock Safety, has a large
number of ALPRs around Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where eight matches will be
played. WIRED counted 188 Flock cameras, 39 Genetec cameras, and 13 cameras
made by Motorola Solutions.
Motorola Solutions is also behind the ALPR app Mobile Companion, which
protesters in Maine allege is being used by DHS agents to surveil people. Motorola
Solutions did not respond to a request for comment.

--- page 8 ---
In the greater Atlanta area, law enforcement agencies have made other
technology purchases in preparation for the World Cup. About 30 minutes north
of the stadium, the Cobb County Police Department recently got approval to enter
into a $9.6 million contract with policing technology giant Axon Enterprise for
anti-drone tech, which it said was in preparation for both the World Cup and
America 250 events.
Near the MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, where eight matches including the final
will take place, WIRED identified 28 ALPRs manufactured by Motorola Solutions
and 13 Flock cameras. It’s extremely difficult to get to the stadium by walking or
biking, since it is surrounded by highways (though that hasn’t stopped various
people from trying it). Most of the Flock cameras are located along New Jersey

--- page 9 ---
Route 3, one of the main ways to get to the stadium from New York City and Long
Island.
Every World Cup host city in the US has some number of ALPRs surrounding their
stadiums. Though cities in Canada and Mexico are also hosting World Cup
matches, DeFlock’s crowdsourcing effort doesn’t extend to those countries, so it’s
unclear how prevalent ALPRs are there.
For those who would prefer to watch the World Cup rather than be watched on
their drive to the stadium, there are options. One of the infrastructure
contributors to DeFlock built a navigation app called FlockHopper, which lets
users choose between the fastest route and a route with the least amount of

--- page 10 ---
ALPRs. It’s available only for iOS right now, but its creator hopes to launch an
Android version soon.
Of course, if you'd like to avoid ALPR surveillance altogether, there's always the
option to watch the tournament from the camera-free comfort of your couch.
2026 FIFA World Cup
Redditors Are Using AI to Beat Obscene World Cup Ticket Prices
Robot Dogs Are on Going on Patrol at the 2026 World Cup
Mexico Preps for the 2026 World Cup With a Ticket Resale Platform and a
Tourism App
Here's What Azteca Stadium Will Look Like for the 2026 World Cup
Maddy Varner is a senior reporter for WIRED. In the past, she was an investigative data journalist
at The Markup, where she brought numbers to stories about labor, education and politics. Before
The Markup, she was a researcher at ProPublica, where she was on a team that won a Loeb ...
Read More
SENIOR WRITER, INVESTIGATIONS
TOPICS
WORLD CUP 2026
SURVEILLANCE
SPORTS
PRIVACY
POLICE
CARS
READ MORE

--- page 11 ---
Soccer Fans, You’re Being Watched
From anti-drone tech to face recognition, 2026 World Cup stadiums in the US, Canada, and
Mexico are subjecting fans to an array of surveillance tech. Here’s what you need to know.
VAS PANAGIOTOPOULOS

--- page 12 ---
A Bipartisan Amendment Would End Police License Plate Tracking
Nationwide
One line tucked into a federal highway bill would strip funds from cities and states unless they
kill their automated plate tracking programs—effectively banning the tech for all but toll
collection.
DELL CAMERON
Meta Silently Added Face-Recognition Code for Its Smart Glasses to Millions
of Phones
Code reviewed by WIRED uncovered an unreleased face-recognition system embedded in Meta’s
smart glasses platform. It’s designed to identify people via biometric data stored on users’
phones.
DHRUV MEHROTRA

--- page 13 ---
The Pentagon Knew Enemies Could Track Troops’ Phones for Years. Now
They Are
The US military has long known that cheap fixes could stop location data from exposing its
troops. It adopted almost none—and now says adversaries are using the data to target soldiers
during a war.
DELL CAMERON

--- page 14 ---
The US Built a Site to Ensure Fair Access to Public Lands. Then Everything
Went Wrong
Recreation.gov was supposed to make access to public lands more equitable and streamlined.
Instead, it’s rife with bots and inequality, while a government contractor benefits.
HEATHER HANSMAN

--- page 15 ---
DHS Plans Experiment Running ‘Reconnaissance’ Drones Along the US-
Canada Border
Autonomous drones and ground vehicles will stream “battlefield intelligence” over 5G along the
US-Canada border in a bilateral DHS experiment this fall.
DELL CAMERON
Data Brokers’ and AI Firms’ Opt-Out Forms Are Built to Fail, Report Finds
A new study finds AI companies, defense firms, and dating apps are among 38 data collectors
allegedly using manipulative design to confuse users while collecting their data.
DELL CAMERON

--- page 16 ---
The FBI Wants ‘Near Real-Time’ Access to US License Plate Readers
Plus: Google publishes a live exploit for an unpatched flaw, the feds arrest two men accused of
creating thousands of nonconsensual deepfake nudes, and more.
MATT BURGESS

--- page 17 ---
This World Cup, You Can Watch the Game From a Ref’s Point of View
Referees for the 2026 World Cup will be wearing cameras positioned at their temples, allowing
TV audiences to see a live view of the pitch from a vantage point they never have before.
BEN DOWSETT
Cybercrime Crew Claims It Hacked Mike Lindell’s MyPillow
Plus: A ransomware group is now stealing data in person, BusPatrol wants to hand its license
plate surveillance data to the cops, and more.
MATT BURGESS

--- page 18 ---
An Engineer’s Post Protesting Laptop Surveillance Is Going Viral Inside Meta
Meta employees in the US and UK are organizing against corporate software that tracks workers’
keystrokes and mouse activity.
PARESH DAVE

--- page 19 ---
Crypto-Funded Chinese Peptide Labs Are Booming
Plus: Hackers use Meta’s AI bots to hack Instagram accounts, Anthropic helps NSA hackers, a
decades-long GPS satellite mystery may have been solved, and more.
ANDY GREENBERG