How an Atlanta Suburb Ended Up Sharing Flock Data With More Than 2,000 Organizations | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please provide information on the privacy center and press “submit.” You can also submit this request by calling 1-877-241-4999. This information will not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than for processing this request. Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams WIRED Store Search Sign In Sign In Caroline Haskins Security Aug 28, 2026 5:00 AM How an Atlanta Suburb Ended Up Sharing Flock Data With More Than 2,000 Organizations Alpharetta, Georgia, cops share data with thousands of Flock users, ranging from federal agencies to a fish and wildlife commission. The reasons why show how vast—and invasive—the network has become. Photo-Illustration: WIRED Staff; Getty Images Save this story Save this story Alpharetta, a prosperous suburb of Atlanta, Georgia, is home to about 67,000 people, served by about 120 local police officers . It also hosts several dozen cameras sold by Flock Safety, the increasingly controversial surveillance company that collects license plate data and other information and makes it searchable by police . WIRED has made this article free for all to read because it is primarily based on reporting from public records requests. Please consider subscribing to support our journalism . Data captured by those Flock cameras, WIRED has learned via public records requests, is accessible to more than 2,000 police departments, colleges, airports, and government agencies across the United States. These range from Morehouse College to Florida’s Fish and Wildlife Commission and include Medicare fraud investigators in Illinois, a drug task force focused on east-central Missouri, and the inspector general of a federal agency. In return, Alpharetta receives Flock data from more than 1,300 entities, which span from the prosecutor’s office of Whitley County, Indiana, to the Metro Police Authority of Genesee County, Michigan. The Alpharetta Police Department—which, as reported by WIRED , had an officer resign due to Flock misuse on August 5—also exchanges Flock data with several agencies that have been similarly rocked by recent incidents of officers misusing its technology, including Georgia’s Bibb County Sheriff’s Department , the Savannah Police Department , and the Dallas Police Department . Alpharetta’s data-sharing network has expanded tremendously over the past year. Since June 2025, the number of entities receiving data from Alpharetta police has grown by about 42 percent, and the number of entities sending data to them has grown by about 125 percent. And, according to documents obtained via public records requests from several other cities around the country, Alpharetta is far from alone in having an expansive and complicated data-sharing system, providing a potent example of how pervasive Flock’s surveillance network has become. One of Flock’s central selling points is its network of customers—mostly, though not entirely, law enforcement agencies. If a criminal suspect crosses city, county, or perhaps state lines, Flock tells its customers , a query can prevent them from falling through the cracks. Data sharing across agencies is hardly novel. A police department can, for instance, share data from its automatic license plate readers (ALPRs) with state-run fusion centers , which centralize resources from law enforcement agencies in particular regions. They could also share it with a regional High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program. (Alpharetta police agreed to do just that in 2025, according to a memorandum of understanding that WIRED obtained.) Whereas HIDTAs are federally funded public programs, Flock is a private company that manages a sprawling, interconnected ALPR network governed by rules and restrictions that vary wildly from city to city. And if police departments don’t closely supervise their settings for data requests and sharing within Flock’s interface, they can unwittingly become nodes in a much larger surveillance network than they necessarily know or understand. This can lead to situations like that in Alpharetta, where citizens and visitors are embedded in a data-sharing network that has propagated to more than 2,300 nodes. So, how does it happen? Setting Boundaries To understand how cities like Alpharetta can build such expansive data-sharing networks with Flock, it’s important to understand how Flock’s interface actually works. WIRED analyzed a cache of files on Flock’s website that are served by its login pages to anyone who loads them. Some of the code that WIRED analyzed illustrates what a Flock administrator might see in their own Flock interface—specifically, in their settings and sharing preferences. An administrator can automatically share their agency’s Flock data with any organization within a custom radius, within their home state, or within one or more other states. Alternatively, they can individually choose organizations to share data with. Administrators can also limit specific data that other organizations can receive, like live or archived videos. They can also limit which organizations can ask them for data. They could restrict this, for instance, to organizations based in the same state, or within a 50-mile radius. Most Popular Physics and Math ‘I’m Really Terrified’: A Mathematician Grapples With AI’s Recent Breakthroughs By Isabella Ward Artificial Intelligence Why So Many AI Researchers Think the Machines Could Kill Everyone By Will Knight Business One of AI’s Fiercest Critics Says All the Doom Talk Is ‘Meant to Distract Us’ By Lauren Goode Gear I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It By Boone Ashworth Lieutenant Jason Hiott of the Alpharetta Police Department tells WIRED that per the city’s Flock settings, the department will “automatically approve” requests for its Flock data from law enforcement agencies within 500 miles. If they’re outside that radius, the police department has to individually request access to Alpharetta’s data. Hiott was unable to say what the Alpharetta police department’s default settings were, whether it altered the default settings, or how long the radius has been set to 500 miles—though he did note that the department “does not share any live feeds, analytics, etc. with anyone.” Flock spokesperson Jess Montejano claims that data sharing is turned off by default for new and onboarding customers—so no law enforcement agencies automatically get access to another agency’s data. Flock did not specify whether that has always been the case. Paris Lewbel, another Flock spokesperson, adds that “historically,” its customers have been able to request data from other customers that are within the same state, or within 50 miles—the precursor to actually sharing data. Coast-to-Coast Flock’s network settings allow agencies to set specific limits on what Flock data it shares and receives, but in some cases, police departments have been caught off guard by how expansive the search settings were for their officers. Often, the confusion has been tied to Flock’s Nationwide lookup tool, which the company introduced in 2021 and is available to customers that opt in, according to the company. It allows any Flock customer to query any other Flock customer in the country, as long as they have a specific license plate. (Flock disabled the tool for federal agencies following backlash to the company’s pilot program with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.) In several cases, Flock customers had no idea this tool was enabled. Got a Tip? Are you a current or former police officer, government official, or Flock Safety employee who wants to talk about the company? We’d like to hear from you. Using a nonwork phone or computer, contact the reporters securely on Signal at carolinehaskins.61. Chris Shook is the city attorney in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, where two officers recently resigned after the police department probed their alleged misuse of Flock’s technology. He tells WIRED that in June, the city’s police department made an unexpected discovery while attempting to complete a public records request: Per the department’s Flock settings, the Nationwide lookup tool was active. Police leadership, however, had been under the impression that officers could only search cameras within Ohio. Shook says that the police department immediately changed the settings to enable only in-state camera searches. But they had no idea when, or why, nationwide searches may have been enabled. Lacking answers, Shook turned to Flock. According to emails reviewed by WIRED, Flock customer success manager Caroline Bush could only say that Nationwide lookup “was enabled at some point before February 2025.” Due to an “event-log limitation” prior to that month, she could not say exactly when. But she added that, upon checking the police department’s audit, she “found nationwide searches as early as 03/2023.” Most Popular Physics and Math ‘I’m Really Terrified’: A Mathematician Grapples With AI’s Recent Breakthroughs By Isabella Ward Artificial Intelligence Why So Many AI Researchers Think the Machines Could Kill Everyone By Will Knight Business One of AI’s Fiercest Critics Says All the Doom Talk Is ‘Meant to Distract Us’ By Lauren Goode Gear I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It By Boone Ashworth This came as a surprise to Shook. If nationwide search was enabled, he said, there must have been an error, “but we are unsure of how that error could have occurred.” “The most likely explanation is that the setting was enabled during initial account setup or onboarding,” Bush replied. She said Nationwide lookup “was a common default configuration for agencies at that time, before Flock introduced stronger in-product disclosures and tighter controls around this feature.” In California, the Palo Alto Police Department had a similar experience. In a city council “study session” led by city manager Ed Shikada on June 1, he claimed that Flock activated Nationwide lookup “ for all customers ” in mid-2023. Flock says this is a “false claim,” based on research that found “agencies across the country that have never been in the Nationwide Network including in the state of California.” Notably, California law forbids sharing ALPR data with federal or out-of-state law enforcement. Shikada said that Flock quietly “disabled” Nationwide lookup for Palo Alto police in October 2024, and for all California law enforcement by March 2025. However, Shikada said Palo Alto police didn't know Nationwide lookup had ever been active until December 2025. Meanwhile, Commander David Hart of Minnesota’s Beltrami County Sheriff’s Office tells WIRED that while his office didn’t have a debacle with the Nationwide lookup tool, he had to reel in the permissions that were set up when the county started using Flock in early 2024. For the first few months, his officers could send and receive data requests to any Flock customer in the country. But toward the end of 2024, Hart says, he limited outgoing and incoming data requests to in-state agencies. No data requests are approved automatically. (Minnesota’s ALPR statute sets specific standards that agencies must meet before capturing or receiving ALPR data.) Hart tells WIRED that on principle, he doesn’t believe in using Flock casually for wide-ranging searches. “It’s gotten to the point where people want to search more agencies just to be able to search more agencies, without a real reason behind it,” Hart says. When examining Flock audit logs, it’s not always obvious why an officer would want or need to expand the scope of their search. WIRED filed a public records request to the Reynoldsburg Police Department and received 549 pages that log every Flock query its officers made from January 2024 through April 2026. The records show that even from query to query, the number of probed Flock networks can vary significantly. On January 1, 2025, for instance, a Reynoldsburg police officer queried 53 Flock networks. The officer’s “reason” for the search, according to the log, was a potential criminal offense coded “30.” Just 40 minutes later, the same officer cited the same criminal offense code but, for reasons the log does not specify, instead queried 5,392 Flock networks. Similar examples appear regularly throughout the log, though most of the searches WIRED reviewed had probed fewer than 100 networks. Most Popular Physics and Math ‘I’m Really Terrified’: A Mathematician Grapples With AI’s Recent Breakthroughs By Isabella Ward Artificial Intelligence Why So Many AI Researchers Think the Machines Could Kill Everyone By Will Knight Business One of AI’s Fiercest Critics Says All the Doom Talk Is ‘Meant to Distract Us’ By Lauren Goode Gear I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It By Boone Ashworth Flock users, as illustrated in a recent video on the company’s YouTube channel, can customize the number of networks they want to probe in a single query. A police officer can probe every single camera network their department has access to—or they can limit their search to their state, or simply their own jurisdiction. That decision is left up to the officer. “The particular officer can narrow the networks they want to search, but typically they don't,” Shook tells WIRED. “Typically, they search every network they have access to.” Mixed Company Alpharetta’s Flock data-sharing network shows that it sends data to and receives it from agencies that, along with being geographically distant, are a far cry from the local police departments and county sheriff offices that represent Flock’s prototypical customers. It’s often unclear, outside of a fluke circumstance, what the agencies would gain from exchanging data. For instance, it’s not obvious why the Office of Inspector General for the federal General Services Administration, Region G of the Alabama Drug Enforcement Task Force, or the University of North Texas’ Denton campus police would need to have a mutual exchange of Flock data with the police department of Alpharetta, Georgia. (None of these agencies responded to requests for comment.) WIRED contacted more than a dozen agencies sending or receiving data with the Alpharetta Police that are neither a police department nor a sheriff’s office, and most did not respond to requests for comment. Just one answered specific questions about its use of Flock: Kentucky’s Louisville Regional Airport Authority, a nearly seven-hour drive from Alpharetta. Natalie Ciresi Chaudoin, the airport authority’s director of public relations, tells WIRED that the Louisville Regional Airport Authority has 13 Flock cameras across its properties. She says that the airport shares data from its cameras with 2,240 federal, state, and local agencies across the country and receives data from 1,124 agencies. Chaudoin adds that the airport’s Flock settings are configured to “automatically accept a request for data-sharing with in-state law enforcement agencies, while out-of-state agencies’ requests are manually accepted or declined following their review.” When asked about Alpharetta, Chaudoin says that the airport was “aware that it received data from an agency” in the city. The airport has not shared its data in return. Limiting Factors Twenty-four states, as well as Washington, DC, have statutes covering ALPR use. The regulations they impose differ widely from state to state, with some being quite specific: Since 2023 , it’s been illegal for law enforcement in Illinois to use ALPR data in criminal cases related to immigration or abortion . The effects of California’s restrictions are visible in records obtained via public records request from the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center (NCRIC), which are published publicly on Muckrock , a public records request facilitator. According to the records, the fusion center shares and receives data from fewer than 400 agencies—a fraction of the agencies in Alpharetta’s network—and they’re all based in California. However, that fact alone doesn’t paint the whole picture. Most Popular Physics and Math ‘I’m Really Terrified’: A Mathematician Grapples With AI’s Recent Breakthroughs By Isabella Ward Artificial Intelligence Why So Many AI Researchers Think the Machines Could Kill Everyone By Will Knight Business One of AI’s Fiercest Critics Says All the Doom Talk Is ‘Meant to Distract Us’ By Lauren Goode Gear I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It By Boone Ashworth According to an audit of searches run on the NCRIC’s Flock network, NCRIC member agencies ran more than 57,000 Flock queries in the single month between November 26 and December 26, 2025. Many of the queries probed thousands of Flock networks, and more than 96 percent of them probed at least 100. In other words, the scope of the NCRIC queries tended to be significantly larger than those of the Reynoldsburg Police Department—the police department in a state with no ALPR statute, where officers had access to the Nationwide lookup tool until June and from which two officers recently resigned due to allegedly misusing Flock. On August 13, Flock announced a set of changes to how its software works, seemingly in response to a surge in news coverage about police officers misusing the technology. The company said that it is now “recommending a 7-day ALPR data retention period,” a reduction from 30 days. But Flock customers can pay for extended data retention, according to documents obtained via a public records request from St. Petersburg, Florida. Flock also says that law enforcement can’t run a Flock search without entering a criminal case code and that by the end of the year, all customers must activate its Audit Assistance tool, which scans for “defined criteria for abnormal behavior” and “automatically” suspends Flock access if detected. In Alpharetta, according to Lieutenant Hiott, police chief Trent Lindgren learned about the Audit Assistance tool in July and promptly activated it. By July 20, the department had opened an investigation into one of its officers . On August 5, the officer resigned. Updated 8/28/2026 at 3:55 pm EDT: The year the Nationwide lookup tool was introduced and Caroline Bush’s title have been updated to reflect comment offered by Flock after publication. Comments Back to top Join the discussion Comments Back to top You Might Also Like In your inbox: Maxwell Zeff's dispatch on the business of AI Why normal people aren’t using AI agents Big Story: How data centers broke American politics Hackers stalked me by hijacking a cheap pink plastic watch Special edition: The WIRED guide to expanding your mind Caroline Haskins is a business reporter at WIRED, covering war and defense contractors, the surveillance industry, and corporate accountability. She was previously a staff reporter at Business Insider, BuzzFeed News, and Vice's Motherboard, as well as a research editor at Business Insider. Send tips to carolinehaskins.61 on Signal. ... Read More Staff Writer Topics Freedom of Information Act privacy surveillance Police immigration Immigration and Customs Enforcement Flock politics Read More Top Squarespace Promo Codes: 20% Off in September 2026 Get 20% off your next website, 10% off with exclusive Squarespace discount code, 50% off plans, and more top coupons from WIRED. Molly Higgins Adidas Promo Codes: Up to 40% Off in September 2026 Save 15% or 30% with Adidas promo codes, plus explore Adidas deals for 40% off trendy sneakers. Molly Higgins Top Home Chef Promo Codes for September 2026 Enjoy up to 50% off deliveries, free meals, and more with the latest Home Chef coupons. Louryn Strampe HBO Max Promo Codes This September 2026 Stream your favorite shows and save up to 50% today with HBO Max discount codes and subscription deals. Molly Higgins AT&T Promo Codes: $50 Off This September 2026 Whether you’re looking to upgrade your internet or get the latest phone, we’ve got you covered with our selection of AT&T coupons and deals. Kat Merck Top Dell Coupon Codes: 20% Off for September 2026 Get 20% off with verified Dell promo code, plus today’s coupons for up to $600 off laptops, Alienware monitors, and all things tech. Scott Gilbertson Meta Quest Promo Codes and Coupons for September 2026 Experience cutting-edge VR and save up to 20% with coupons for the latest games, Meta Quest 3, Ray-Ban AI glasses, and more deals. Harry Rabinowitz Top Vitamix Promo Codes and Deals for September 2026 Score discounts on blenders, food processors, immersion blenders, and more with our selection of Vitamix coupons and deals. Matthew Korfhage DoorDash Promo Code: 50% Off for September 2026 Explore today’s top DoorDash promo codes for $25 off your first order, free delivery, and 50% off DashPass for students and select users. Molly Higgins Top Maytag Promo Codes: 15% Off Upgrade your home for less with these verified Maytag discount codes, military savings, and limited-time closeout offers on washers, dryers, and more. Matthew Korfhage Top Surfshark Promo Codes for September 2026 Save up to 87% with a Surfshark coupon code, 3 months of VPN free today, and more from WIRED. Scott Gilbertson Altra Running Promo Codes and Deals September 2026 Score big savings on Altra Running shoes with up to 50% off sale styles, 20% off select models, 10% off your first order when you sign up, plus free standard delivery on every purchase. Boutayna Chokrane WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices