Mapping Every Flock License Plate Reader Near US World Cup Stadiums | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please provide information on the privacy center and press “submit.” You can also submit this request by calling 1-877-241-4999. This information will not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than for processing this request. Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Powered by Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams Merch Search Sign In Sign In Maddy Varner Security Jun 10, 2026 6:00 AM Mapping Every Flock License Plate Reader Near US World Cup Stadiums Most US World Cup stadiums are surrounded by surveillance cameras. Want to know if you’re being watched on your way to a match? These maps will help you. Illustration: Cristian Mera Save this story Save this story Starting on June 11, soccer fans will be filling stadiums across North America to watch the FIFA World Cup . Those driving to matches in the United States might also find themselves being the ones watched: WIRED identified 1,181 automatic license plate reader cameras, or ALPRs, within a five-mile radius of the 11 US stadiums playing host to the World Cup this summer. Most of those cameras are manufactured by Flock Safety . ALPRs are set up along roadsides by municipalities, businesses, schools, and private groups such as homeowners associations to continuously log the license plate of each car that passes by them. A market survey report prepared for the US Department of Homeland Security says that some providers can collect other information like the make, model, and year of the vehicle and descriptions of bumper stickers affixed to it. Groups that operate networks of these cameras can then query those logs to find matches for specific plates, creating a dossier of where a vehicle has gone and when. Flock Safety, in particular, allows operators to share their data with other groups on their network, meaning that depending on the operator, drivers can accidentally get caught up in a national dragnet. Flock Safety spokesperson Paris Lewbel acknowledged that the company works with government agencies and “other customers” in areas around World Cup venues. Lewbel emphasized that Flock’s customers, not Flock itself, “own and control their data, decide if, when, and with whom to share it.” Andrew Elvish, the VP of global marketing for Genetec, which sells ALPR software, says the Canadian company is focused on helping organizations manage parking and isn’t interested in providing excessive access to aggregated license plate data, which he says is a practice that people should be rightfully concerned about. 2026 FIFA World Cup Here’s WIRED’s complete guide to the 2026 FIFA World Cup. ALPRs are powerful surveillance tools and ripe for abuse: Cops have been accused of using them to allegedly stalk exes and strangers. In 2025, US Customs and Border Protection were found to be violating a state law by accessing Flock data about drivers by Illinois’ secretary of state, who said it was “a clear violation of state law.” Flock employees even have reportedly accessed cameras inside a children’s gymnastics room and other locations as part of a sales pitch, according to 404 Media. (In a blog post , Flock Safety said that the employees were not “spying on children” and were “well-intentioned employees who accessed a camera network with the city's explicit permission, as part of their job.”) Lewbel, the Flock spokesperson, says that the company is “aware of a very small number of incidents of abuse,” adding that Flock Safety does not have a relationship with DHS, including CBP, and that agencies outside of Illinois need to say that they’re complying with Illinois law before they can access Illinois data. Tracey Ades, a senior director of marketing for Genetec, says the company does its best to make its tools as safe as possible, but at the end of the day it's their customers’ tool to deploy. “So the need for legislation to limit what people can do?” says Ades. “That needs to be thought through." Across the US, communities have started pushing back against ALPR deployment and fighting for more transparency. Activists have pried audit logs revealing whose license plates were searched and why, and assembled it into a searchable database . Dozens of cities have terminated contracts, and groups are planning a national week of action against ALPRs in August. WIRED relied on data compiled by one volunteer mapping project, DeFlock, to identify where ALPRs were located near US World Cup stadiums. Since the data is crowdsourced, it may not be a full picture of all the ALPRs in a given area. Check out a few of the stadiums below. Content To honor your privacy preferences, this content can only be viewed on the site it originates from. WIRED tallied 53 ALPRs surrounding the SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California. Of those, 39 were manufactured by Flock Safety and 14 were made by Motorola Solutions. The city will host eight World Cup matches and will also be hosting the 2028 Summer Olympics. Anti-surveillance activists say the city has used the events to nab more funding and expand its surveillance efforts, including by installing more ALPRs. Content To honor your privacy preferences, this content can only be viewed on the site it originates from. Out of all the World Cup stadiums in the US, WIRED counted the greatest number of ALPRs—323 Flock cameras—around the NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas, which will host seven matches. Harris County, where the stadium is located, recently renewed its contract with Flock Safety for nearly $869,000. Harris County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Jason Spencer says the office has access to 480 of the manufacturer’s cameras around the county but that those are located outside of the Houston city limits. Content To honor your privacy preferences, this content can only be viewed on the site it originates from. Atlanta, which also happens to be the headquarters for Flock Safety, has a large number of ALPRs around Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where eight matches will be played. WIRED counted 188 Flock cameras, 39 Genetec cameras, and 13 cameras made by Motorola Solutions. Motorola Solutions is also behind the ALPR app Mobile Companion, which protesters in Maine allege is being used by DHS agents to surveil people. Motorola Solutions did not respond to a request for comment. In the greater Atlanta area, law enforcement agencies have made other technology purchases in preparation for the World Cup. About 30 minutes north of the stadium, the Cobb County Police Department recently got approval to enter into a $9.6 million contract with policing technology giant Axon Enterprise for anti-drone tech, which it said was in preparation for both the World Cup and America 250 events. Content To honor your privacy preferences, this content can only be viewed on the site it originates from. Near the MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, where eight matches including the final will take place, WIRED identified 28 ALPRs manufactured by Motorola Solutions and 13 Flock cameras. It’s extremely difficult to get to the stadium by walking or biking, since it is surrounded by highways (though that hasn’t stopped various people from trying it). Most of the Flock cameras are located along New Jersey Route 3, one of the main ways to get to the stadium from New York City and Long Island. Content To honor your privacy preferences, this content can only be viewed on the site it originates from. Every World Cup host city in the US has some number of ALPRs surrounding their stadiums. Though cities in Canada and Mexico are also hosting World Cup matches, DeFlock’s crowdsourcing effort doesn’t extend to those countries, so it’s unclear how prevalent ALPRs are there. For those who would prefer to watch the World Cup rather than be watched on their drive to the stadium, there are options. One of the infrastructure contributors to DeFlock built a navigation app called FlockHopper , which lets users choose between the fastest route and a route with the least amount of ALPRs. It’s available only for iOS right now, but its creator hopes to launch an Android version soon. Of course, if you'd like to avoid ALPR surveillance altogether, there's always the option to watch the tournament from the camera-free comfort of your couch. Comments Back to top 2026 FIFA World Cup Redditors Are Using AI to Beat Obscene World Cup Ticket Prices Robot Dogs Are on Going on Patrol at the 2026 World Cup Mexico Preps for the 2026 World Cup With a Ticket Resale Platform and a Tourism App Here's What Azteca Stadium Will Look Like for the 2026 World Cup Maddy Varner is a senior reporter for WIRED. In the past, she was an investigative data journalist at The Markup, where she brought numbers to stories about labor, education and politics. Before The Markup, she was a researcher at ProPublica, where she was on a team that won a Loeb ... Read More Senior Writer, Investigations Topics World Cup 2026 surveillance Sports privacy Police cars Read More Soccer Fans, You’re Being Watched From anti-drone tech to face recognition, 2026 World Cup stadiums in the US, Canada, and Mexico are subjecting fans to an array of surveillance tech. Here’s what you need to know. Vas Panagiotopoulos A Bipartisan Amendment Would End Police License Plate Tracking Nationwide One line tucked into a federal highway bill would strip funds from cities and states unless they kill their automated plate tracking programs—effectively banning the tech for all but toll collection. Dell Cameron Meta Silently Added Face-Recognition Code for Its Smart Glasses to Millions of Phones Code reviewed by WIRED uncovered an unreleased face-recognition system embedded in Meta’s smart glasses platform. It’s designed to identify people via biometric data stored on users’ phones. Dhruv Mehrotra The Pentagon Knew Enemies Could Track Troops’ Phones for Years. Now They Are The US military has long known that cheap fixes could stop location data from exposing its troops. It adopted almost none—and now says adversaries are using the data to target soldiers during a war. Dell Cameron The US Built a Site to Ensure Fair Access to Public Lands. Then Everything Went Wrong Recreation.gov was supposed to make access to public lands more equitable and streamlined. Instead, it’s rife with bots and inequality, while a government contractor benefits. Heather Hansman DHS Plans Experiment Running ‘Reconnaissance’ Drones Along the US-Canada Border Autonomous drones and ground vehicles will stream “battlefield intelligence” over 5G along the US-Canada border in a bilateral DHS experiment this fall. Dell Cameron Data Brokers’ and AI Firms’ Opt-Out Forms Are Built to Fail, Report Finds A new study finds AI companies, defense firms, and dating apps are among 38 data collectors allegedly using manipulative design to confuse users while collecting their data. Dell Cameron The FBI Wants ‘Near Real-Time’ Access to US License Plate Readers Plus: Google publishes a live exploit for an unpatched flaw, the feds arrest two men accused of creating thousands of nonconsensual deepfake nudes, and more. Matt Burgess This World Cup, You Can Watch the Game From a Ref’s Point of View Referees for the 2026 World Cup will be wearing cameras positioned at their temples, allowing TV audiences to see a live view of the pitch from a vantage point they never have before. Ben Dowsett Cybercrime Crew Claims It Hacked Mike Lindell’s MyPillow Plus: A ransomware group is now stealing data in person, BusPatrol wants to hand its license plate surveillance data to the cops, and more. Matt Burgess An Engineer’s Post Protesting Laptop Surveillance Is Going Viral Inside Meta Meta employees in the US and UK are organizing against corporate software that tracks workers’ keystrokes and mouse activity. Paresh Dave Crypto-Funded Chinese Peptide Labs Are Booming Plus: Hackers use Meta’s AI bots to hack Instagram accounts, Anthropic helps NSA hackers, a decades-long GPS satellite mystery may have been solved, and more. Andy Greenberg WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Wearables Coupons Gift Guides Advertise Contact Us Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices