Flock Once Touted Its Cameras as ‘Made in the USA.’ Now It’s Not So Clear | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please email privacy_administration@condenast.com or call 1-877-241-4999 . Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to main content THE WIRED APP IS HERE DOWNLOAD NOW » SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams WIRED Store Search Sign In Sign In Paresh Dave Business Sep 17, 2026 5:00 AM Flock Once Touted Its Cameras as ‘Made in the USA.’ Now It’s Not So Clear Flock reveals little about where its license plate readers are assembled, but the answer could have geopolitical and cybersecurity implications. Photo-Illustration: WIRED Staff; Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Save this story Save this story Flock CEO Garrett Langley has said the company made its first license plate cameras in his Atlanta home, permanently scratching his dining table with drill marks. A decade later, where the company assembles its signature—and fiercely debated —product has become more of a mystery. For years, Flock touted publicly that its devices were produced in the United States. But more recent marketing materials from the company reviewed by WIRED no longer specify where its cameras come from. One US manufacturer that previously identified Flock as a customer quietly removed a mention of the company from its website earlier this year as public backlash against the company’s surveillance technology grew. The startup has become the subject of a nationwide protest movement that has prompted dozens of local governments to abruptly stop using its cameras. Congress is also considering legislation that would cut federal funding to states that fail to limit use of Flock and other license plate readers. While police have argued the cameras are crucial tools for deterring and solving crime, activists have criticized Flock for enabling officers to track the cars of their exes , share footage with immigration authorities , and follow the movements of pedestrians . But Flock’s manufacturing supply chain has received scant attention, even though where its hardware is produced could have implications for US national security. WIRED spoke with current and former Flock employees and supply chain analysts, reviewed data from US import records, and watched past marketing videos featuring Langley to piece together the first account of how its hardware pipeline has evolved. Got a Tip? Do you know more about Flock’s assembly and supply chain? We’d like to hear from you. Using a nonwork phone or computer, contact the reporter securely on Signal at peard33.24. Flock’s cameras largely rely on suppliers around the world that provide non-custom parts, which are also used in products from other companies. “Our value is in the aggregation and the packaging of all of these things … in a nice waterproof, consumer-friendly device,” Langley said in one marketing video from 2021. Import records collected by ImportGenius show the company has been increasingly bringing “commodity” cameras, radar systems, and other components over from Primax Electronics in Thailand. Primax is based in Taiwan, but has manufacturing facilities in China, Thailand, and elsewhere. “My understanding is that these are components, but it looks like Primax manufactures whole security camera solutions,” ImportGenius’ analyst Lynn Hughes says. “Quite a few shipments include ‘Radar’ in the product description which might be related to the radar sensor pods they’re attaching to their cameras.” Flock didn’t respond to most of the detailed questions WIRED asked for this story, though it did provide some general information. “All products that Flock builds are National Defense Authorization Act compliant,” Flock spokesperson Paris Lewbel said in an email, referring to a US law that effectively bars government contractors from using parts made by a handful of Chinese tech companies over security concerns. Cris van Pelt, creator of the anti-Flock advocacy project Have I Been Flocked, says that while where the cameras are made may have relatively minor implications for US communities, the lack of transparency about their origins underscores a broader problem . “It all speaks to the fact that there is no real oversight, and that tens of thousands of literal and figurative black boxes are being installed on American roads,” van Pelt says. “If any part of the supply chain is compromised, we would never know. That’s a much bigger problem than where the final product is assembled.” “Aggregation” The earliest Flock prototypes were made using cameras ripped out of Android phones bought on Alibaba, which were then attached to batteries and soldered onto a solar panel, Langley recalled in one video. The goal was to prove that a useful device could be created from parts collectively costing between $200 to $300. (WIRED reported earlier this week that Flock’s cameras continue to use smartphone-style processors and leave significant data unencrypted.) As Flock began securing contracts with homeowners associations, it shifted into a corporate office that also doubled as an assembly line. Langley described the setup as fun, but also unprofessional and arduous—pallets of parts shipped in from China had to be dragged a quarter of a mile through the building multiple times a week. Most Popular Security Hackers Got Inside a Flock Camera. Its Data Shows How the System Really Works By Dhruv Mehrotra Digital Culture A College Girl Was Exploited on Camera. A Network of Anonymous Men Got to Work By Ej Dickson Buying Guides The Best Meal Kits of 2026, Tested by a Former Restaurant Critic By Matthew Korfhage Gear ZuckOff Is a Free App That Sees Meta Glasses Before They See You By Megan Tomos Around 2020, Flock moved its assembly line to a WeWork-style warehouse facility in Atlanta, according to a marketing video produced by the space’s operator. A handful of Flock employees cranked out as many cameras as they could, with engineers assembling the main camera device and less technical staff attaching solar panels and mounts. Rather than opening up warehouses, Flock stored cameras in self-storage locations across the country for its installation crews to retrieve as needed, according to two former employees. One described the system as “janky,” noting it may have left cameras more vulnerable to tampering than they would have been if kept in more secure locations operated by Flock itself. In marketing materials from 2019, Flock touted its cameras as “manufactured in the United States.” The following year, it said they were “made in the USA.” In 2021, it got more specific, telling potential customers that assembly was done by “Flock Safety in Atlanta, GA.” Over the next couple of years, Flock began shifting final assembly to contract facilities in North Carolina and Wisconsin operated by East West Manufacturing and Plexus, according to a person familiar with the matter. It also opened up its own warehouses. The person says Flock wanted to keep assembly in North America, both to ease security concerns—particularly about potential Chinese surveillance—and to keep factories close enough that it could quickly customize products in response to customer needs. A Flock marketing brochure from 2023 described its cameras as “designed & manufactured in the U.S.” By 2024, Flock’s manufacturing partners were capable of producing 500 cameras a day, a ten-fold leap from several years prior, one of the people familiar with matter says. Parts still largely came from Asia. In mid-May, as backlash against the startup swelled, East West removed reference to Flock from a list of case studies on its website, according to archived versions on the Wayback Machine. (A video from East West promoting its work for Flock shared on LinkedIn in late 2021 remains online .) East West and Plexus didn’t respond to requests for comment. WIRED was unable to determine where Flock’s cameras are assembled now. A Flock marketing presentation from this year does not mention a location. In July, the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration cited Flock for allegedly failing to promptly report a June incident in which an employee was hospitalized for a leg amputation, according to records from the workplace regulator. The records indicate the injury happened at a Flock “audio and video equipment manufacturing” site in Houston, Texas. It’s possible that the location is actually the site of a camera, and the injury came during an installation or maintenance procedure. Flock and OSHA did not respond to WIRED’s requests asking for clarification about the nature of the site and what work may occur there. Flock is contesting a proposed penalty of about $9,500, saying it reported the injury quickly after learning about it. Even if Flock’s manufacturing supply chain remains in the United States, it may do little to calm bipartisan backlash against the company. Most Popular Security Hackers Got Inside a Flock Camera. Its Data Shows How the System Really Works By Dhruv Mehrotra Digital Culture A College Girl Was Exploited on Camera. A Network of Anonymous Men Got to Work By Ej Dickson Buying Guides The Best Meal Kits of 2026, Tested by a Former Restaurant Critic By Matthew Korfhage Gear ZuckOff Is a Free App That Sees Meta Glasses Before They See You By Megan Tomos “Domestic manufacturing is no substitute for accountability over how these systems are built, sold, and used,” says Matthew Guariglia, senior policy analyst at the civil liberties advocacy group Electronic Frontier Foundation. "The multi-billion dollar industry churning out mass surveillance technology is not safer or more acceptable based on where it is assembled.” Flock’s top competitors vary in terms of how much they disclose about their manufacturing. Motorola Solutions has described its license plate cameras as being assembled at its own facility in Richardson, Texas. Axon has said little about where its Outpost cameras are produced, but has noted it assembles other products in Scottsdale, Arizona. Motorola and Axon didn’t respond to requests for comment. US-Made Drone Flock has been more upfront about the manufacturing of its new surveillance drone. Last October, it announced the opening of its own facility in Smyrna, Georgia to assemble drones and solar panels, as well as refurbish various other products. US law now largely restricts foreign-made drones, including the models from China-based DJI that Flock has been deploying. No similar US rules apply to license plate cameras. It’s unclear how well the Smyrna operation is faring. Flock repeatedly postponed the timeline for launching its first so-called Alpha drone, which finally “hit the field” in May, according to a company executive . This year, Flock told Berkeley, California officials it would swap out DJI drones for the US model “within two years.” Lewbel, the Flock spokesperson, says it continues to “bring more Alpha drones online.” Additional reporting by Caroline Haskins. Comments Back to top Join the discussion Comments Back to top You Might Also Like In your inbox: WIRED's most ambitious, future-defining stories AI slop backlash is actually having an impact Big Story: The cop who took on Flock The rise of the 1am job interview Watch: I stole a car by hacking this hidden device Paresh Dave is a senior writer for WIRED, covering the inner workings of Big Tech companies. He writes about how apps and gadgets are built and about their impacts while giving voice to the stories of the underappreciated and disadvantaged . He was previously a reporter for Reuters and the Los Angeles Times, ... Read More Senior Writer Topics cameras Flock supply chain China privacy manufacturing Read More Hackers Got Inside a Flock Camera. Its Data Shows How the System Really Works A hacker collective pulled down a Flock camera and dumped its data. The files included thousands of videos and logs showing that the device captured 1.6 million images of 50,000 vehicles in 21 days. Dhruv Mehrotra A College Girl Was Exploited on Camera. A Network of Anonymous Men Got to Work Maddie Kowalski is one of countless young women who’ve had their lives destroyed by the burnerverse, a loosely connected online community of sports fans. Now she’s fighting back. Ej Dickson ZuckOff Is a Free App That Sees Meta Glasses Before They See You You can’t always tell if someone is recording you with their smart glasses, but your phone can help. Megan Tomos Those Viral Bodega Peptides Aren’t Actually Peptides WIRED tested samples of four types of peptides. The results show how lightly regulated the industry is, even as popularity surges. Sophie Kleeman ‘Smart’ Nanoparticles Deliver mRNA Directly to Tumors in New Cancer Therapy The treatment can reprogram immune cells that have been corrupted by the cancer, strengthening the body’s ability to attack. Javier Carbajal Why It Seems Like Great White Sharks Are Overrunning Maine While a bunch of sharks cruising the Maine coast may seem ominous, it’s actually a sign of a conservation success story. Molly Taft The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 27 and iPadOS 27 The latest iPhone update is chock-full of smart upgrades, with a big focus on improvements to Siri. Julian Chokkattu I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It The agricultural machine manufacturer has a subscription service that lets owners repair their own equipment. Why is barely anybody using it? Boone Ashworth The FBI Doubles Down on Easing ‘Bestiality’ Hiring Standards FBI director Kash Patel claimed to US senators that the removal of a bar on hiring people who had engaged in bestiality was aimed at protecting sexual assault survivors. Tim Marchman AI Agents Are Thirsty for Power Silicon Valley is shifting away from chatbot queries toward a future filled with resource-intensive agentic AI—and it's driving the data center buildout. Molly Taft The Census Bureau Is Overrun With Staffers From a MAGA Think Tank The US Census is home to vast troves of sensitive data on nearly every person living in the country, which is used for apportioning and drawing congressional districts as well as allocating federal funding based on population sizes. Vittoria Elliott China Isn’t Buying Silicon Valley’s Call for an AI Slowdown The US and China agree that advanced AI poses serious risks. But Beijing is deeply skeptical of a deal that prioritizes keeping US companies ahead. Louise Matsakis WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices