Security Roundup: Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to Hide Your Email | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please provide information on the privacy center and press “submit.” You can also submit this request by calling 1-877-241-4999. This information will not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than for processing this request. Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams Merch Search Sign In Sign In Matt Burgess Lily Hay Newman Security Jul 4, 2026 6:30 AM Security Roundup: Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to Hide Your Email Plus: Alleged Scattered Spider hacking member extradited, dozens of license plate reader errors, and Indian officials are concerned about WhatsApp’s username rollout. Photograph: Nayuki/Getty Images Save this story Save this story A politician on the European Parliament’s PEGA Committee—created to investigate spyware abuses, including of the notorious Pegasus malware— was targeted with Pegasus himself , according to new research findings released this week. Meanwhile, top Google security staff warned this week that the pro-competition rule proposals in the EU could make Google Search and Android systems vulnerable to hacking and other abuse. A WIRED investigation revealed this week that Meta contractors posed as kids and teens to see how chatbots like Gemini and ChatGPT responded to prompts about high-risk subjects, including suicide, sex, and drugs. And a researcher realized that he could use Anthropic’s Claude Opus 4.7 to break into the website of Front Gate and issue tickets to almost any United States music festival , including Lollapalooza and Bonnaroo. But wait, there’s more! Each week, we round up the security and privacy news we didn’t cover in depth ourselves. Click the headlines to read the full stories. And stay safe out there. Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to Hide Your Email Back in 2021, Apple launched its Hide My Email tool , which as the name suggests, allows people to sign up for online services using an email address that isn’t linked directly to them. The privacy feature generates “unique, random email addresses” that will forward incoming messages to a user’s personal email address—reducing the amount of information you need to hand over to companies. Reporting from 404 Media this week revealed that a vulnerability in the system has made it possible, for at least a year, for people’s real email addresses to be uncovered when they are using Apple’s privacy service. “Apple Hide My Email is leaking email addresses that are supposed to be hidden,” security researcher Tyler Murphy, who discovered the flaw in June 2025, told the publication. “In our limited tests with volunteers, 100 percent of Hide My Email addresses were exploitable,” he said. The exact details of the vulnerability and how it works have not been revealed, as the problem hasn’t been fixed. In tests conducted by 404 Media and Murphy, it was possible for a newly created Hide My Email address, which uses the @icloud.com domain, to be linked back to the real email address of its creator. Murphy said he originally reported the problem to Apple last summer and was told it had been “addressed” by March this year. However, when the researcher continued testing the issue, it remained exploitable, with Apple telling Murphy a couple of months ago that it was still investigating the issue. Apple did not respond to requests for comment from the publication. Alleged Scattered Spider Member Extradited to Face US Charges A 19-year-old has been arrested and extradited to the United States to face charges over their alleged involvement in the notorious Scattered Spider hacking group, the Department of Justice announced this week . Peter Stokes, an Estonian-US dual citizen, was arrested in Finland in April and has been charged with computer intrusion, conspiracy, and fraud, linked to the criminal gang. It is alleged that Stokes, along with other members of the loose hacking collective, hacked into an unnamed “luxury jewelry retailer” and demanded an $8 million cryptocurrency ransom in May 2025. The company did not pay but still spent $2 million on the incident, according to a DOJ press release . In recent years, the Scattered Spider group, which is largely believed to be composed of young, English-speaking teenagers , has caused havoc around the world by hacking into and disrupting dozens of businesses. The arrest of Stokes follows two British Scattered Spider members, Thalha Jubair and Owen Flowers, recently pleading guilt y to hacking Transport for London in 2024 and causing millions in damages. India Threatens WhatsApp Over Introduction of Usernames Following a move by encrypted messaging app Signal last year, WhatsApp has announced it will soon roll out usernames to billions of people . The option means it is possible for people to connect and message each other without having to share phone numbers, increasing privacy protections. However, officials in India, one of WhatsApp’s biggest markets, who have previously tried to unfurl encryption protections on the Meta-owned app, have opposed the introduction of usernames. A letter from the Indian government, seen by Reuters , asked WhatsApp to pause the rollout of usernames in the country. The letter claimed the move could increase fraud and cybercrime, citing concerns around allowing online anonymity. The letter was followed by separate messages to Signal and Telegram about their use of usernames. License Plate Reader Errors Are Getting Innocent People Stopped by Cops Thousands of automatic license plate reader cameras , known as ALPRs, have appeared across the United States over the past few years. The cameras, which can be deployed by cops, cities, and businesses, photograph passing cars and record details about their movements. As well as license plate numbers, the systems can log the time and location of the photos, make and model of a vehicle, as well as bumper stickers . Billions of images and details of car movements have been captured in vast ALPR databases. However, an increasing body of evidence shows that when the camera systems make mistakes, innocent people can be detained by law enforcement officials and accused of crimes. A review of court records and media reports, which are likely the tip of the iceberg, by the nonprofit the Institute for Justice this week found at least 24 cases of misidentification over the last eight years. These reportedly include a couple with a baby in their car being detained at gunpoint; a camera misreading an “O” as a zero, leading to grandparents being detained; and someone being pulled over after their license plate was not removed from a wanted list. The findings add to a growing list of errors from the AI-enabled cameras . Most Popular Culture The Odyssey Backlash Failed Tremendously By John Semley Business Use AWS? Thanks to a Billing Glitch, That’ll Be $3 Billion By Caroline Haskins Politics The CDC Has a Cyclospora Lab. DOGE Downsized It Last Year By Emily Mullin Business Lyft’s CEO Says, ‘We’re the Good Uber’ By Steven Levy Comments Back to top You Might Also Like In your inbox: Inside WIRED’s newsroom with Katie Drummond Trump mocked Zuckerberg and Bezos by showing off fawning texts Big Story: I found Jesus at a drone show Apple is making your older iPhone run faster and stay alive longer WIRED event: PepsiCo’s once-in-a-generation transformation Matt Burgess is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, privacy, and data regulation in Europe. He graduated from the University of Sheffield with a degree in journalism and now lives in London. Send tips to Matt_Burgess@wired.com. ... Read More Senior writer Lily Hay Newman is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, digital privacy, and hacking. She previously worked as a technology reporter at Slate, and was the staff writer for Future Tense, a publication and partnership between Slate, the New America Foundation, and Arizona State University. Her work ... Read More Senior Writer Topics security apple cybersecurity Europe security roundup Read More EU Politicians Investigated Pegasus Spyware. Then It Ended Up on One of Their Phones “It is a direct attack on the rule of law,” says one European Parliament member of the new findings from Citizen Lab. Lily Hay Newman Apple Is Suing OpenAI for Allegedly Stealing Hardware Secrets The iPhone maker claims OpenAI encouraged poached employees to bring over confidential presentations, secret prototypes, and key supplier details. Maxwell Zeff My Ebike Delivery Went Missing. When I Tried to Recover It, I Ended Up in Chatbot Hell Companies’ increasing reliance on AI chatbots isn’t making the customer service experience smarter. It’s just making it more infuriating. Dillon Thompson Here’s How Apple Is Updating Its Child Safety Features in iOS 27 Apple has announced several new Child Safety features coming soon to iPhones and other devices. Here’s what’s changing. Julian Chokkattu The Pentagon Is Looking Into the Dialog Data Exposure for Unmasking National Security Officials Exposed records from the private group included the personal information of a senior White House intelligence official and an active-duty special operations officer. Dell Cameron You Can Now Sound the Alarm on AI Behaving Badly Are you worried your AI chatbot is trying to build a bomb or leak personal information about you? There’s a website for that. Will Knight Top Google Security Staff Warn Search Data Could Be Hacked if EU Rules Change Europe’s pro-competition proposals could see Google Search and Android systems opened up. The company claims there are serious privacy flaws. Matt Burgess OpenAI Launches Full-Scale Effort to Patch Open-Source Bugs as It Takes on Anthropic’s Mythos Amid concerns about AI models’ cybersecurity capabilities, OpenAI revealed an improved version of GPT-5.5-Cyber and its “Patch the Planet” initiative to fix open-source software bugs. Lily Hay Newman ICE Is Using Data Broker Tools to ‘Identify Unaccompanied Minors’ and ‘Fraud’ A newly renewed, $25 million-per-year contract with a subsidiary of Thomson Reuters further expands the power of ICE under the Trump administration. Caroline Haskins Dialog Claims It Was Hacked. A Misconfigured Website Left Its Members Exposed The private events group, cofounded by Peter Thiel, says a “criminal” hacker is behind a breach that exposed members’ personal details. WIRED found no evidence a break-in was needed to access the files. Dell Cameron YouTube and X Have Become ‘Gateways’ to Nudify Apps A new study found that social media platforms are referring people to sites where they can create nonconsensual, sexually explicit deepfakes for as little as $1 an image. Ej Dickson AI Found a Root Bug in Linux That Everyone Missed for 15 Years Plus: The Pentagon is training amateurs to become part of its hacker army, a Flock license plate reader error led to cops surrounding a car reviewer, and more. Dell Cameron WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Wearables Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices