You Can Now Destroy Flock Cameras for Cash in GTA V | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please provide information on the privacy center and press “submit.” You can also submit this request by calling 1-877-241-4999. This information will not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than for processing this request. Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams WIRED Store Search Sign In Sign In Maddy Varner Security Sep 9, 2026 12:30 PM You Can Now Destroy Flock Cameras for Cash in GTA V A new GTA mod lets you smash and shoot Flock’s automatic license plate readers around the fictional Los Santos. Photo-Illustration: Jobanny Cabrera; Getty Images Save this story Save this story People are not happy about Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers and the cops that allegedly misuse them . If you’re one of those ALPR-haters, you can now take out your rage in the video game Grand Theft Auto V by installing Grand Theft Automated License Plate Reader , a mod built by artist Morry Kolman. The mod installs 235 Flock cameras around the fictional Los Santos, a riff on the real-life city of Los Angeles. Players can smash and shoot down the cameras and get paid $600 for each one they destroy, which Kolman priced based on a teardown of a Flock Falcon Flex Camera by the Iowa-based civil liberties group Eyes Off of Cedar Rapids. The in-game cameras log every time a player destroys and drives by one, and players can render a photo album of their interactions. In real life, vigilantes have allegedly wrecked Flock cameras in their communities using spray-paint , saws , bullets , and even flaming projectiles . An NPR analysis found that Flock cameras have been vandalized in at least 36 states. “GTPLR is not an endorsement of the activities that it allows in the game in the same way that GTA is not an endorsement of the activities that are allowed in the game,” says Kolman, referring to the fact that GTA is largely about doing fictional crimes. “But I think there is a public appetite for some kind of cathartic release against these machines.” In addition to being fun objects to destroy, the GTA cameras also operate as an extension of the police in-game. Passing by one of the 235 cameras while being chased by the cops prolongs the game’s cooldown period. Because of how dense the cameras are in some areas, it can make the game impossible to play. There’s also a 5 percent chance that the cameras will trigger a random police response even if the player isn’t doing anything wrong, which Kolman says was inspired by news reports about innocent people being held at gunpoint because of ALPR errors. “There are violent responses and really dangerous situations that are created by these cameras and their inaccuracies,” says Kolman. Flock did not immediately respond to a request for comment for this story. GTA V has been around for over a decade, and a rich modding community has built up around it (WIRED covered one back in 2015.) The long-awaited sequel, Grand Theft Auto VI , is slated to come out in November and will be set in a fictional version of Miami called Vice City. Kolman doesn’t have specific plans to build a version of GTALPR for that, joking, “We'll probably wait to see what the people of Vice City and their local government have already installed around their map.” In real-life LA, the Los Angeles Police Department suspended its use of Flock cameras this summer following a recommendation from the LAPD’s inspector general. The tide is turning in other places too—governors in both Texas and Florida recently took steps to curtail the use of Flock cameras in their respective states, and across the US, there were 131 Flock contract terminations in August alone, according to the anti-surveillance advocacy group Secure Justice. For all the fun that fake-smashing surveillance cameras can be, Kolman seriously hopes that players can feel the “insidiousness and inescapability of the surveillance” through GTALPR. “I know that you could read a thousand articles about why surveillance is bad and why Flock is horrible,” says Kolman. “Or I could make you feel how pervasive these Flock cameras are by having you try to drive around the map of Los Santos.” Most Popular Science ‘I’m Really Terrified’: A Mathematician Grapples With AI’s Recent Breakthroughs By Isabella Ward Artificial Intelligence Why So Many AI Researchers Think the Machines Could Kill Everyone By Will Knight Business One of AI’s Fiercest Critics Says All the Doom Talk Is ‘Meant to Distract Us’ By Lauren Goode Gear I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It By Boone Ashworth Comments Back to top Join the discussion Comments Back to top You Might Also Like In your inbox: WIRED's most ambitious, future-defining stories AI slop backlash is actually having an impact Big Story: The cop who took on Flock The rise of the 1am job interview Watch: I stole a car by hacking this hidden device Maddy Varner is a senior reporter for WIRED. In the past, she was an investigative data journalist at The Markup, where she brought numbers to stories about labor, education and politics. Before The Markup, she was a researcher at ProPublica, where she was on a team that won a Loeb ... Read More Senior Writer, Investigations Topics Flock privacy surveillance Police video games cameras Read More How an Atlanta Suburb Ended Up Sharing Flock Data With More Than 2,000 Organizations Alpharetta, Georgia, cops share data with thousands of Flock users, ranging from federal agencies to a fish and wildlife commission. The reasons why show how vast—and invasive—the network has become. Caroline Haskins The Anti-Woke Right Can’t Figure Out How to Stop Grand Theft Auto VI A subset of male gamers have spent years warning that the transgressive series has been neutered by progressive developers, but the backlash isn’t taking hold. Miles Klee I Fixed a Tractor Using John Deere’s Self-Repair Service. Farmers Aren’t Sold on It The agricultural machine manufacturer has a subscription service that lets owners repair their own equipment. Why is barely anybody using it? Boone Ashworth Flock Has a Powerful New AI Tool for Police. We Got Its Code Flock’s surveillance cameras have already sparked outrage. WIRED reconstructed its next-generation AI system, already in use by some police, to confirm it goes much further than tracking license plates. Dhruv Mehrotra ‘Killmonger Locs’ Are Everywhere in Video Games. This Artist Is Sick of It The Black Panther villain’s hairstyle has become a default for Black video game characters because it’s easy to code. Danielle Udogaranya is changing that. Alana Yzola Face Recognition Is Becoming the Norm for Dating Apps To keep scammers at bay, dating apps are embracing biometric scanning tools and “verified human” badges. These moves are sparking concerns about surveillance and privacy. Jason Parham Clearview AI Is Testing an AI Tool That Would Let Cops Unearth Your Life Online InquiryIQ, a previously unreported prototype, tested a model from xAI, maker of Grok, to surface associates, social accounts, and other information about people identified through Clearview. Dhruv Mehrotra OpenAI Agents Hacked Another Website Plus: Tens of millions of US and Canadian drivers’ licenses go up for sale on the dark web, the US military finally tries to tackle the risk online ad data poses to troops, and more. Lily Hay Newman We Just Got Our First Real Look at AI PCs With Nvidia’s RTX Spark ‘Superchip’ At IFA 2026, Nvidia and its partners showed off the first RTX Spark-powered laptops and mini PCs, designed to run AI models right on your computer. Luke Larsen Prediction Market Betting Is Getting People Banned and Arrested This week on Uncanny Valley , we dig into the latest prediction market buzz, Flock’s AI-powered police search tool, and how tech bros don’t know how to talk about “rouge” AI agents Brian Barrett The US and Mexico Announce They’re Teaming Up Against Drones The new joint operation uses laser-based technology capable of detecting, tracking, and disabling commercial drones linked to human and drug trafficking. Fernanda González A Georgia Cop Used Flock to Track 2 Other Cops: His Ex and Her Friend After an affair with a fellow police officer ended, a Georgia cop used Flock to track her movements—and those of a man whose vehicle often showed up near hers, internal investigation records show. Caroline Haskins WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices