--- page 1 ---
MATT BURGESS
LILY HAY NEWMAN
SECURITY
JUL 4, 2026 6:30 AM
Security Roundup: Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to
Hide Your Email
Plus: Alleged Scattered Spider hacking member extradited, dozens of
license plate reader errors, and Indian officials are concerned about
WhatsApp’s username rollout.

--- page 2 ---
A POLITICIAN ON the European Parliament’s PEGA Committee—created to
investigate spyware abuses, including of the notorious Pegasus malware—was
targeted with Pegasus himself, according to new research findings released this
week. Meanwhile, top Google security staff warned this week that the pro-
competition rule proposals in the EU could make Google Search and Android
systems vulnerable to hacking and other abuse.
A WIRED investigation revealed this week that Meta contractors posed as kids and
teens to see how chatbots like Gemini and ChatGPT responded to prompts about
PHOTOGRAPH: NAYUKI/GETTY IMAGES
SAVE THIS STORY

--- page 3 ---
high-risk subjects, including suicide, sex, and drugs.
And a researcher realized that he could use Anthropic’s Claude Opus 4.7 to break
into the website of Front Gate and issue tickets to almost any United States music
festival, including Lollapalooza and Bonnaroo.
But wait, there’s more! Each week, we round up the security and privacy news we
didn’t cover in depth ourselves. Click the headlines to read the full stories. And
stay safe out there.
Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to Hide Your Email
Back in 2021, Apple launched its Hide My Email tool, which as the name suggests,
allows people to sign up for online services using an email address that isn’t
linked directly to them. The privacy feature generates “unique, random email
addresses” that will forward incoming messages to a user’s personal email
address—reducing the amount of information you need to hand over to
companies.
Reporting from 404 Media this week revealed that a vulnerability in the system
has made it possible, for at least a year, for people’s real email addresses to be
uncovered when they are using Apple’s privacy service. “Apple Hide My Email is
leaking email addresses that are supposed to be hidden,” security researcher Tyler
Murphy, who discovered the flaw in June 2025, told the publication. “In our
limited tests with volunteers, 100 percent of Hide My Email addresses were
exploitable,” he said.
The exact details of the vulnerability and how it works have not been revealed, as
the problem hasn’t been fixed. In tests conducted by 404 Media and Murphy, it
was possible for a newly created Hide My Email address, which uses the
@icloud.com domain, to be linked back to the real email address of its creator.
Murphy said he originally reported the problem to Apple last summer and was
told it had been “addressed” by March this year. However, when the researcher
continued testing the issue, it remained exploitable, with Apple telling Murphy a

--- page 4 ---
couple of months ago that it was still investigating the issue. Apple did not
respond to requests for comment from the publication.
Alleged Scattered Spider Member Extradited to Face
US Charges
A 19-year-old has been arrested and extradited to the United States to face
charges over their alleged involvement in the notorious Scattered Spider hacking
group, the Department of Justice announced this week. Peter Stokes, an Estonian-
US dual citizen, was arrested in Finland in April and has been charged with
computer intrusion, conspiracy, and fraud, linked to the criminal gang.
It is alleged that Stokes, along with other members of the loose hacking collective,
hacked into an unnamed “luxury jewelry retailer” and demanded an $8 million
cryptocurrency ransom in May 2025. The company did not pay but still spent $2
million on the incident, according to a DOJ press release. In recent years, the
Scattered Spider group, which is largely believed to be composed of young,
English-speaking teenagers, has caused havoc around the world by hacking into
and disrupting dozens of businesses. The arrest of Stokes follows two British
Scattered Spider members, Thalha Jubair and Owen Flowers, recently pleading
guilty to hacking Transport for London in 2024 and causing millions in damages.
India Threatens WhatsApp Over Introduction of
Usernames
Following a move by encrypted messaging app Signal last year, WhatsApp has
announced it will soon roll out usernames to billions of people. The option means
it is possible for people to connect and message each other without having to
share phone numbers, increasing privacy protections. However, officials in India,
one of WhatsApp’s biggest markets, who have previously tried to unfurl
encryption protections on the Meta-owned app, have opposed the introduction of
usernames. A letter from the Indian government, seen by Reuters, asked
WhatsApp to pause the rollout of usernames in the country. The letter claimed the

--- page 5 ---
move could increase fraud and cybercrime, citing concerns around allowing
online anonymity. The letter was followed by separate messages to Signal and
Telegram about their use of usernames.
License Plate Reader Errors Are Getting Innocent
People Stopped by Cops
Thousands of automatic license plate reader cameras, known as ALPRs, have
appeared across the United States over the past few years. The cameras, which
can be deployed by cops, cities, and businesses, photograph passing cars and
record details about their movements. As well as license plate numbers, the
systems can log the time and location of the photos, make and model of a vehicle,
as well as bumper stickers. Billions of images and details of car movements have
been captured in vast ALPR databases.
However, an increasing body of evidence shows that when the camera systems
make mistakes, innocent people can be detained by law enforcement officials and
accused of crimes. A review of court records and media reports, which are likely
the tip of the iceberg, by the nonprofit the Institute for Justice this week found at
least 24 cases of misidentification over the last eight years. These reportedly
include a couple with a baby in their car being detained at gunpoint; a camera
misreading an “O” as a zero, leading to grandparents being detained; and
someone being pulled over after their license plate was not removed from a
wanted list. The findings add to a growing list of errors from the AI-enabled
cameras.
You Might Also Like
In your inbox: Inside WIRED’s newsroom with Katie Drummond
Trump mocked Zuckerberg and Bezos by showing off fawning texts
Big Story: I found Jesus at a drone show
Apple is making your older iPhone run faster and stay alive longer

--- page 6 ---
WIRED event: PepsiCo’s once-in-a-generation transformation
Matt Burgess is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, privacy, and data
regulation in Europe. He graduated from the University of Sheffield with a degree in journalism
and now lives in London. Send tips to Matt_Burgess@wired.com. ... Read More
SENIOR WRITER
Lily Hay Newman is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, digital privacy,
and hacking. She previously worked as a technology reporter at Slate, and was the staff writer for
Future Tense, a publication and partnership between Slate, the New America Foundation, and
Arizona State University. Her work ... Read More
SENIOR WRITER
TOPICS
SECURITY
APPLE
CYBERSECURITY
EUROPE
SECURITY ROUNDUP
READ MORE

--- page 7 ---
EU Politicians Investigated Pegasus Spyware. Then It Ended Up on One of
Their Phones
“It is a direct attack on the rule of law,” says one European Parliament member of the new
findings from Citizen Lab.
LILY HAY NEWMAN

--- page 8 ---
Apple Is Suing OpenAI for Allegedly Stealing Hardware Secrets
The iPhone maker claims OpenAI encouraged poached employees to bring over confidential
presentations, secret prototypes, and key supplier details.
MAXWELL ZEFF
My Ebike Delivery Went Missing. When I Tried to Recover It, I Ended Up in
Chatbot Hell
Companies’ increasing reliance on AI chatbots isn’t making the customer service experience
smarter. It’s just making it more infuriating.
DILLON THOMPSON

--- page 9 ---
Here’s How Apple Is Updating Its Child Safety Features in iOS 27
Apple has announced several new Child Safety features coming soon to iPhones and other
devices. Here’s what’s changing.
JULIAN CHOKKATTU

--- page 10 ---
The Pentagon Is Looking Into the Dialog Data Exposure for Unmasking
National Security Officials
Exposed records from the private group included the personal information of a senior White
House intelligence official and an active-duty special operations officer.
DELL CAMERON
You Can Now Sound the Alarm on AI Behaving Badly
Are you worried your AI chatbot is trying to build a bomb or leak personal information about
you? There’s a website for that.
WILL KNIGHT

--- page 11 ---
Top Google Security Staff Warn Search Data Could Be Hacked if EU Rules
Change
Europe’s pro-competition proposals could see Google Search and Android systems opened up.
The company claims there are serious privacy flaws.
MATT BURGESS

--- page 12 ---
OpenAI Launches Full-Scale Effort to Patch Open-Source Bugs as It Takes
on Anthropic’s Mythos
Amid concerns about AI models’ cybersecurity capabilities, OpenAI revealed an improved
version of GPT-5.5-Cyber and its “Patch the Planet” initiative to fix open-source software bugs.
LILY HAY NEWMAN
ICE Is Using Data Broker Tools to ‘Identify Unaccompanied Minors’ and
‘Fraud’
A newly renewed, $25 million-per-year contract with a subsidiary of Thomson Reuters further
expands the power of ICE under the Trump administration.
CAROLINE HASKINS

--- page 13 ---
Dialog Claims It Was Hacked. A Misconfigured Website Left Its Members
Exposed
The private events group, cofounded by Peter Thiel, says a “criminal” hacker is behind a breach
that exposed members’ personal details. WIRED found no evidence a break-in was needed to
access the files.
DELL CAMERON

--- page 14 ---
YouTube and X Have Become ‘Gateways’ to Nudify Apps
A new study found that social media platforms are referring people to sites where they can create
nonconsensual, sexually explicit deepfakes for as little as $1 an image.
EJ DICKSON

--- page 15 ---
AI Found a Root Bug in Linux That Everyone Missed for 15 Years
Plus: The Pentagon is training amateurs to become part of its hacker army, a Flock license plate
reader error led to cops surrounding a car reviewer, and more.
DELL CAMERON
YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES