source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0cf42278e84eadf00c118f8a508a6ba458a7d705899799a96746154fabec6edc
pages: 96
ocr_pages: 50
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
December 11, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Kimiko Narita, Chair 
Sigalle Michael, Vice Chair
Susan Rowinski
Clifford Robbins
Richard Kranz
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 11, 2024 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 882 4613 9586      Passcode: 032215
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval.
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission meeting of November 13, 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
New Construction Reach Codes for the 2022 Code Cycle
Review amendments to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” and Chapter 23.70
“Green Building Code” to encourage sustainable new buildings and recommend approval by the City Council.
th
1 of 96

--- page 2 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 96

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9368
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Matt Fabry
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 11, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval.
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission meeting of November 13, 2024.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the November 13, 2024
3 of 96

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO coveanike Netiw Chan

tainabili imiko Narita, Chair
Sustainability & 2 Sigalle Michael, Vice Chair
Infrastructure Commission Susan Rowinski
November 13, 2024 Clifford Robbins
7:00 PM Richard Kranz

City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403

CALL TO ORDER

Pledge of Allegiance

Roll Call
Present: Chair Narita, Vice Chair Michael, Commissioners Robbins, Michael, and Kranz.
Absent: None

AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or
Emergency Circumstances — there were no requests.

CONSENT CALENDAR

1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval

Public Comment: None

Motion made to approve the minutes of September 11, 2024, October 9, 2024, and October 23, 2024. Motion
passed 5-0.

Moved: Robbins, Seconded: Michael

Ayes: Narita, Michael, Robbins, Rowinski, and Kranz
Noes: None

PUBLIC COMMENT: None

NEW BUSINESS

1. San Mateo County Transportation Authority Project Updates.
The Commission received an update from Sue-Ellen Atkinson and Amy Linehan of the San Mateo County

Transportation Authority on the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA)’s US 101 San Mateo County
Crossing Improvement Implementation Plan Active 10land Mid-County Multimodal Strategy.

4 of 96


--- page 5 ---
5 of 96

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9283
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
December 11, 2024 
SUBJECT:
New Construction Reach Codes for the 2022 Code Cycle
RECOMMENDATION:
Review amendments to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code” and Chapter 23.70 “Green 
Building Code” to encourage sustainable new buildings and recommend approval by the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
Jurisdictions may adopt local building code amendments that exceed State requirements, often referred to as “reach 
codes,” to require more sustainable building design and construction. The adoption of reach codes is an important strategy 
for meeting the City’s Climate Action Plan goals and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from buildings and transportation. 
On October 17, 2022, City Council introduced an ordinance approving local amendments to require enhanced electric 
vehicle charging infrastructure beyond state requirements, all-electric new construction, and electric-readiness and 
electric appliances during residential building remodels for the 2022 Code Cycle. The ordinance was adopted on November 
7, 2022, with an effective date of January 1, 2023. 
In early 2024, due to a to a federal court decision, the City suspended enforcement of components of the reach code 
ordinance that prohibited the installation of gas infrastructure. At the October 7, 2024 City Council meeting, staff 
presented the Energy Performance Reach Code approach to replace the City’s suspended reach code for new construction 
for Council feedback. City Council was supportive of the Energy Performance Reach Code approach and directed staff to 
bring an ordinance for Council consideration for implementation during the 2022 Code Cycle which will end on December 
31, 2025. 
This report provides background on the City’s current reach codes and presents the Energy Performance Reach Code 
approach for new construction. This report also provides an overview of the City’s Sustainable Building Strategy effort to 
decarbonize existing buildings and future reach codes for the 2025 Code Cycle to contextualize the Energy Performance 
Reach Code approach.
 
CURRENT REACH CODES:
The City’s current reach code for new construction went into effect on January 1, 2023 and requires all newly constructed 
buildings to be all-electric. All-electric buildings have electric appliances for space and water heating, clothes drying and 
cooking. By avoiding the use of natural gas, an all-electric building has a smaller carbon footprint. 
 
In the last five years, more than 70 cities have adopted local regulations requiring new construction to be all-electric. The 
City of Berkeley was notably one of the first to adopt such a requirement in August 2019. On April 17, 2023, the Ninth 
Circuit Court of Appeals in California Restaurant Association v. City of Berkeley determined that a local ordinance that 
6 of 96

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
generally prohibited the installation of natural gas infrastructure was preempted by federal law, namely the Energy and 
Conservation Act (EPCA). Berkeley sought rehearing from a larger en banc panel of Ninth Circuit judges. On January 2, 
2024, the Ninth Circuit denied the request for the rehearing. The decision of the three-judge Ninth Circuit panel was 
reissued with minor amendments that do not change the substance or reasoning of the opinion. Due to this federal court 
decision, the City’s reach code requiring all-electric construction of new buildings cannot be enforced and is currently 
suspended. 
The City’s reach code that requires enhanced electric vehicle charging infrastructure in new construction was not impacted 
by the federal court decision. Additionally, the City’s reach code that requires electric readiness measures including the 
installation of an outlet during laundry area or kitchen renovations or the reservation of breaker space for future appliance 
electrification during panel upgrades in residential buildings are still in effect. 
 
PROPOSED ORDINANCE:
Energy Code Amendment: Energy Performance Reach Code for New Construction
Staff identified increasing building energy performance requirements through local amendments to the California Energy 
Code (Energy Code) as an alternative approach to conform to the EPCA-preemption standards set by the court. Peninsula 
Clean Energy (PCE) led the development of an Energy Performance Reach Code model ordinance to support cities in 
adoption. Across the state, cities have adopted an Energy Performance Reach Code for the 2022 Code Cycle, including Palo 
Alto, Brisbane, San Jose, East Palo Alto and Santa Cruz, and most recently the County of San Mateo and Burlingame.
 
The Energy Code establishes whole-building efficiency requirements, which account for a building’s water heater, HVAC 
(heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) system, solar generating system, and insulation, among other design elements. 
The Energy Code includes both prescriptive and performance pathways for each building type. The Energy Performance 
Reach Code primarily amends the performance pathway of the Energy Code and does not regulate cooking equipment, 
laundry dryers, or other energy uses not addressed by the performance pathway of the Energy Code.
 
The Energy Code relies on multiple metrics. For single family residences, there is Energy Design Rating (EDR). For 
multifamily and commercial buildings, there is Time Dependent Valuation (TDV), a standard that combines the value and 
cost of energy consumed at different times of the day and year and Source Energy, a metric that acts as a proxy for carbon 
emissions.
 
The Energy Performance Reach Code would increase the required EDR1 score for single family residential buildings and the 
required Source Energy scores for all other buildings. By increasing these requirements, the result is a decrease in 
emissions from newly constructed buildings. The Energy Performance Reach Code would adopt the following performance 
metrics:
 
Building Type
Compliance Margin
Single Family Residential Buildings
Exceed the standard EDR1 requirement by at least 9
Multi-Family Residential (Low-rise, ≤ 3 stories)
Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 10%
Multi-Family Residential (High-rise, ≥ 4 stories)
Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 4%
Non-Residential
Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 7%
 
To meet the higher standards proposed in the Reach Code, new buildings can include only electric appliances and systems 
or gas and electric systems. For mixed-fuel buildings, additional energy efficiency measures, solar photovoltaic (PV) 
systems, and/or a battery would be necessary to meet the Source Energy compliance margin. The enhanced performance 
requirements would apply equally to mixed-fuel and all-electric buildings and are cost-effectively achievable through the 
Energy Code’s performance pathway without requiring appliances that exceed federal efficiency standards. 
7 of 96

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
For buildings that include natural gas in their design, the proposed reach code also includes electric-readiness 
requirements. Note, nearly all of the reach code’s electric-readiness requirements are also included in the 2025 Energy 
Code as a mandatory requirement. Installing the electrical infrastructure during initial construction is far less costly than 
retrofitting buildings later to support electric equipment. Electric-readiness helps prepare building owners for the Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) regulations requiring zero-NOx water heating and space heating equipment by 
2027 and 2029, respectively.
The proposed ordinance exempts Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) from reach code requirements. The 2022 Statewide 
Utility Program Cost-Effectiveness Study highlights that compliance, and cost-effectiveness can be more challenging for 
smaller dwelling units like ADUs. Staff recommends exempting ADUs to align with state legislation aimed at protecting and 
streamlining ADU development while avoiding any restrictions or perceived barriers. While ADUs are increasingly being 
constructed as all-electric due to the higher cost of installing new gas infrastructure, this exemption ensures maximum 
flexibility for applicants.
Green Building Code Amendment: Repeal of All-electric New Construction Requirements, Repeal of Electric Appliance 
Requirements during Renovations, and Minor Update to the Electric-readiness Requirements
The proposed ordinance repeals the unenforceable components of the City’s reach codes due to the federal court case. 
This includes the requirements for all-electric new construction and the provisions that prohibit the installation of gas 
infrastructure or equipment in existing buildings. 
In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness requirement for alterations 
of kitchens or laundry areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6 feet of appliance 
installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the 2022 Energy Code.
 
COST EFFECTIVENESS:
The California Energy Commission (CEC) requires any local amendments to the Energy Code that affect energy use in 
regulated buildings to be cost effective and to use less energy than the standard requirements. In support of reach code 
development, the California Energy Codes and Standards Statewide Utility Program, which includes the State's Investor-
Owned Utilities (PG& E, SDG&E, and SCE, under the auspices of the California Public Utilities Commission) developed and 
published the following studies:

2022 Cost-Effectiveness Study: Single Family New Construction Study;

2022 Cost-Effectiveness Study: Multifamily New Construction Study; and

2022 Cost-Effectiveness Study: Non-residential New Construction Reach Code Cost-effectiveness Study.
 
These studies are highly detailed and support the findings required for CEC approval. The Energy Performance Reach Code 
can be achieved by building all-electric or by building with gas, and both approaches are cost-effective. Building an all-
electric single-family home that meets the proposed compliance margin would save the homeowner $4,900 in upfront 
construction costs compared to the mixed-fuel baseline single-family home without reach code requirements. Building a 
single-family home with gas that meets the proposed compliance margin would cost the homeowner $8,700 more in 
upfront construction costs compared to the mixed-fuel baseline single-family home without reach code requirements. 
Even with higher upfront construction costs, the mixed-fuel home still achieves cost-effectiveness because of monthly bill 
savings over 30 years. Thus, it is considered cost effective. Similarly, multifamily and nonresidential new construction 
offers cost-effective pathways for the construction of all-electric and mixed-fuel buildings that meet the proposed 
compliance margins of the Energy Performance Reach Code. In all cases, electing to building all-electric results in upfront 
construction cost savings compared to the mixed-fuel baseline. 
DISCUSSION
The City of San Mateo is known for being a leader in sustainability and for implementing strong reach codes to encourage 
sustainable construction. The adoption of reach codes is an important Climate Action Plan measure and essential to 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions in buildings. With the City’s all-electric new construction reach code currently 
suspended due to the federal court decision, this presented an opportunity for the City Council to evaluate a replacement 
8 of 96

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
reach code. 
New construction accounts for a small number of projects in San Mateo but new construction is a priority since it is the 
most cost-effective time to encourage sustainable design. It is important to note that at the end of every code cycle, there 
tends to be an uptick of building permit applications so that applicants can lock in the current building code requirements. 
Thus, there might be a flurry of building permit applications next year in 2025.
Stakeholder Engagement
Staff hosted a Developers Roundtable on September 26, 2024 via Zoom to get feedback on the Energy Performance Reach 
Code approach. There were six attendees including five developers and one real estate agent. The top concern brought up 
by attendees was related to the electric-readiness requirements of the reach code because of the added construction 
costs. One developer was concerned about the reliability of electric-powered space conditioning for buildings with life 
sciences/laboratories. Another developer said their building already plans to be all-electric, except for potential gas use in 
their retail space for a commercial kitchen which would be subject to the new electric-readiness requirements if adopted. 
At the end of the event, staff launched a Zoom poll to understand attendees’ support of the Energy Performance Reach 
Code, two answered unlikely to support, two answered neutral and two did not respond to the poll. 
Sustainable Building Strategy
On March 20, 2023, the City Council approved an agreement with Rincon Consultants, Inc. for the development of a 
building decarbonization strategy. This effort will result in San Mateo’s Sustainable Building Strategy that centers equity 
and promotes a collaborative pathway to the electrification of existing buildings. In 2023, the project team completed a 
building inventory analysis, market segmentation study, and decarbonization policy analysis but the project was put on 
hold February through July 2024 due to City staffing. The project team still needs to complete community engagement and 
develop the final the Sustainable Building Strategy for City Council approval. 
Staff worked with Rincon Consulting, Inc. to revise the project schedule and budget. In early 2025, the project team will 
work on community outreach and engagement prior to the completion of the draft Sustainable Building Strategy. The 
project team anticipates presenting to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission twice for review and once to the 
City Council for Sustainable Building Strategy approval, tentatively aiming for August 2025. 
2025 Code Cycle Reach Codes
The California Building Standards Code is updated every three years with the 2025 Code Cycle beginning implementation 
on January 1, 2026. Staff aims for reach code ordinance adoption concurrent with the updated Building Code adoption 
which tentatively would occur in Fall 2025. Robust reach code analysis and engagement is a priority for Spring and Summer 
2025. 
Staff are currently monitoring potential reach code opportunities for the 2025 Code Cycle. PCE and their consultant TRC 
will continue to provide reach code support for cities including providing model ordinance language and technical 
assistance. The following includes preliminary information about potential 2025 Code Cycle reach codes, this is not an 
exhaustive list of reach code options. Staff will return to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission throughout 2025 
for feedback on future reach codes, with community engagement being a critical step of reach code exploration and 
adoption.
Currently, PCE anticipates developing model ordinances for both new construction and additions and alterations. For new 
construction, there will likely be a model ordinance for the Energy Performance Reach Code approach with compliance 
margins updated for the 2025 Energy Code. For additions and alterations, PCE anticipates developing a model ordinance to 
require electric readiness and additional energy efficiency. One possible approach to consider is the City of Santa Cruz’ 
recently adopted Energy Code reach code that requires energy standards for alterations or additions of at least 350 square 
feet for existing single-family homes. To meet enhanced energy standards, property owners can select from a range of 
energy efficiency and electrification measures. Electrification is not required and is one of several options to meet the 
target set by the reach code. This flexible approach allows property owners to select the measures that align best with 
their project scope. 
9 of 96

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PCE also anticipates developing a model ordinance for HVAC heat pumps. Every triennial code cycle, the California Green 
Building Code (CalGreen) contains voluntary measures, essentially reach codes, that jurisdictions can adopt. The 2025 
CalGreen draft language has a proposed voluntary measure that would require a new or replaced air conditioning system 
to be a heat pump system as a primary path. An alternate path to compliance is the installation of an air conditioner that is 
installed along with six other efficiency measures including duct insulation, air sealing, and ceiling insulation. PCE 
anticipates a model ordinance to advance this measure.
NEXT STEPS:
Staff recommends the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission recommend approval by the City Council of the 
proposed ordinance containing the Energy Performance approach for new construction, repealing unenforceable 
measures of the City’s current reach codes, and making a minor edit to the City’s electric-readiness requirements.
Staff will introduce the proposed ordinance to City Council at the January 13, 2025 City Council meeting. If adopted, staff 
will file the ordinance with the California Energy Commission (CEC) and Building Standards Commission. The CEC needs to 
approve the City’s reach code ordinance prior to enforcement. On average, it can take three months for CEC approval. 
Staff estimate the proposed ordinance would begin implementation in April 2025 through the end of the 2022 Code Cycle 
on December 31, 2025. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 
15308, the adoption of local amendments or reach codes are categorically exempt from CEQA as an action by a regulatory 
agency for the protection of the environment, because the reach codes are intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance - redlines
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
10 of 96

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code,” of Title 23, “Building and 
Construction,” to amend the California Energy Code, 2022 Edition and amending San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 23.70 “Green Building Code,” of Title 23, “Building and Construction,” to amend the California Green 
Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo’s (City) Climate Action Plan recommends the City review local 
amendments to the California Energy Code and the Green Building Standards Code to promote building 
electrification, energy efficiency, and electric vehicle infrastructure; and
WHEREAS, California Energy Code and Green Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition, were adopted by 
the City of San Mateo on November 7, 2022 with local amendments to require all-electric new construction and 
electric-readiness and electric appliances during residential building remodels; and
WHEREAS, due to a federal court decision, in early 2024, the City suspended enforcement of local 
amendments that prohibited the installation of gas infrastructure; and
WHEREAS, this presented an opportunity to replace the City’s reach code to encourage sustainable new 
construction; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local amendments amend the California Energy Code to require energy 
compliance margins for newly constructed buildings; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local amendments amend the California Energy Code to require electric-
readiness when gas infrastructure is installed; and
WHEREAS, the local amendments repeal the amendments that are unenforceable due to the federal 
court decision; and
WHEREAS, California Health and Safety Code Sections 17922, 17958, 17958.5, 17958.7, and 18941.5 
authorizes the City to make local amendments to the California Energy Code and Green Building Standards Code 
upon express findings that the local amendments are reasonably necessary due to local climatic, geographical, 
or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS, concurrent with this ordinance, the City Council of the City of San Mateo has adopted a 
resolution adopting express findings in support of local amendments to the California Energy Code and Green 
Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 23.24.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
(a) Energy Code subsection 100.1(b) is amended to include the following definitions:
11 of 96

--- page 12 ---
Electric Heating Appliance. A device that produces heat energy to create a warm environment by the 
application of electric power to resistance elements, refrigerant compressors, or dissimilar material 
junctions, as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Kitchen, institutional commercial. A kitchen dedicated to a foodservice establishment that provides 
meals at institutions including schools, colleges and universities, hospitals, correctional facilities, private 
cafeterias, nursing homes, and other buildings or structures in which care or supervision is provided to 
occupants.
Kitchen, quick-service commercial. A kitchen dedicated to an establishment primarily engaged in 
providing fast food, fast casual, or limited services. Food and drink may be consumed on premises, taken 
out, or delivered to the customer’s location.
Net Free Area (NFA). The total unobstructed area of the air gaps between louver and grille slats in a 
vent through which air can pass. The narrowest distance between two slats, perpendicular to the 
surface of both slats is the air gap height. The narrowest width of the gap is the air gap width. The NFA is 
the air gap height multiplied by the air gap width multiplied by the total number of air gaps between 
slats in the vent.
Section 2. Section 23.24.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.030 Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Nonresidential Buildings
(a) Energy Code Section 120.2 “Required Controls for Space-Conditioning Systems” is amended to add a 
new subsection (l) to read as follows:
(l) HVAC Hot Water Temperature. Zones that use hot water for space heating shall be designed 
for a hot water supply temperature of no greater than 130°F.
(b) Energy Code Section 120.6 “Mandatory Requirements for Covered Processes” is amended to add a 
new subsection (k) to read as follows:
(k) Mandatory requirements for commercial kitchens. Electric Readiness for Newly Constructed 
Commercial Kitchens shall meet the following requirements:
1. Quick-service commercial kitchens and institutional commercial kitchens shall include 
a dedicated branch circuit wiring and outlet that would be accessible to cookline 
appliances and shall meet all of the following requirements: 
A. The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 50 amps minimum.
B. The electrical service panel shall have a minimum capacity of 800 connected 
amps.
2. The electrical service panel shall be sized to accommodate an additional either 208v 
or 240v 50-amp breaker.
Exception 1 to Section 120.6(k): healthcare facilities. 
12 of 96

--- page 13 ---
Exception 2 to Section 120.6(k): all-electric commercial kitchens.
(c) Energy Code subsection 130.0(a) is amended to read as follows:
The design and installation of all lighting systems and equipment in nonresidential and hotel/motel 
buildings, outdoor lighting, and electrical power distribution systems within the scope of Section 
100.0(a), shall comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 130.0 through 130.6. 
NOTE: The requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 apply to newly constructed buildings. Section 
141.0 specifies which requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 also apply to additions and 
alterations to existing buildings.
(d) Energy Code Subchapter 4 “Nonresidential and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – Mandatory Requirements 
for Lighting Systems and Equipment, and Electrical Power Distribution Systems” is amended to add a new 
section 130.6 “Electric Readiness Requirements for Systems Using Gas or Propane” and read as follows:
130.6 Electric Readiness Requirements for Systems Using Gas or Propane  
Where nonresidential systems using gas or propane are installed, the construction drawings shall 
indicate electrical infrastructure and physical space accommodating the future installation of an electric 
heating appliance in the following ways, as certified by a registered design professional or licensed 
electrical contractor.
(a) Branch circuit wiring, electrically isolated and designed to serve all electric heating appliances 
in accordance with manufacturer requirements and the California Electrical Code, including the 
appropriate voltage, phase, minimum amperage, and an electrical receptacle or junction box 
within five feet of the appliance that is accessible with no obstructions. Appropriately sized 
conduit may be installed in lieu of conductors; and 
(b) Labeling of both ends of the unused conductors or conduit shall be with “For Future 
Electrical Appliance”; and
(c) Reserved circuit breakers in the electrical panel for each branch circuit, appropriately labeled 
(e.g. “Reserved for Future Electric Range”), and positioned on the opposite end of the panel 
supply conductor connection; and
(d) Connected subpanels, panelboards, switchboards, busbars, and transformers shall be sized 
to serve the future electric heating appliances. The electrical capacity requirements shall be 
adjusted for demand factors in accordance with the California Electric Code; and 
(e) Physical space for future electric heating appliances, including equipment footprint, and if 
needed a pathway reserved for routing of ductwork to heat pump evaporator(s), shall be 
depicted on the construction drawings. The footprint necessary for future electric heating 
appliances may overlap with non-structural partitions and with the location of currently 
designed combustion equipment.
13 of 96

--- page 14 ---
(e) Energy Code Section 140.0 “Performance and Prescriptive Compliance Approaches” is amended to 
read as follows:
Nonresidential and hotel/motel buildings shall comply with all of the following:
(a) The requirements of Sections 100.0 through 110.12 applicable to the building project 
(mandatory measures for all buildings).
(b) The requirements of Sections 120.0 through 130.56 (mandatory measures for nonresidential 
and high-rise residential and hotel/motel buildings).
(c) Either the performance compliance approach (energy budgets) specified in Section 140.1 or 
the prescriptive compliance approach specified in Section 140.2 for the Climate Zone in which 
the building will be located.  Climate zones are shown in FIGURE 100.1-A.
NOTE to Section 140.0(c): The Commission periodically updates, publishes and makes available 
to interested persons and local enforcement agencies precise descriptions of the Climate Zones, 
which is available by zip code boundaries depicted in the Reference Joint Appendices along with 
a list of the communities in each zone.
NOTE to Section 140.0: The requirements of Sections 140.1 through 140.10 apply to newly constructed 
buildings.  Section 141.0 specifies which requirements of Section 140.1 through 140.10 also apply to 
additions or alterations to existing buildings.
(f) Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy Budgets” is amended to read as follows:
A building complies with the performance approach provided that:
1. The time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design 
Building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget calculated for the 
Standard Design Building under Subsection (a), and
2. The source energy budget calculated for the proposed design building under Subsection (b) 
has a source energy compliance margin, relative to the energy budget calculated for the 
standard design building under Subsection (a), of at least 7 percent for all nonresidential 
occupancies.
Exception 1 to 140.1 item 2. A source energy compliance margin of 0 percent or greater 
is required when nonresidential occupancies are designed with single zone space-
conditioning systems complying with Section 140.4(a)2.
Exception 2 to 140.1 item 2. Where it is technically infeasible to implement the 
performance approach standards, exceptions are subject to review and approval at the 
discretion of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee.
(g) Energy Code subsections 140.1(a)-(c) are adopted without modification.
14 of 96

--- page 15 ---
Section 3. Section 23.24.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
15 of 96

--- page 16 ---
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Single-Family Residential 
Buildings.
(a) Energy Code subsection 150.0(t) is amended to read as follows:
(t) Heat pump space heater ready. Systems using gas or propane furnace to serve individual dwelling 
units shall include the following:
1. A dedicated 240 volt branch circuit wiring shall be installed within 3 feet from the furnace and 
accessible to the furnace with no obstructions. The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 
30 amps minimum. The blank cover shall be identified as “240V ready.” All electrical 
components shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
2. The main electrical service panel shall have a reserved space to allow for the installation of a 
double pole circuit breaker for a future heat pump space heater installation. The reserved space 
shall be permanently marked as “For Future 240V use.”
3. A designated exterior location for a future heat pump compressor unit with either a drain or 
natural drainage for condensate.
(b) Energy Code subsection 150.1(b) is amended to read as follows:
(b) Performance Standards. A building complies with the performance standards if the energy 
consumption calculated for the proposed design building is no greater than the energy budget 
calculated for the standard design building using Commission-certified compliance software as 
specified by the Alternative Calculation Methods Approval Manual, as specified in sub-sections 
1, 2 and 3 below.
1. Newly Constructed Buildings. The Energy Budget for newly constructed buildings is 
expressed in terms of the Energy Design Ratings, which are based on source energy and 
time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy. The Energy Design Rating 1 (EDR1) is based on 
source energy. The Energy Design Rating 2 (EDR2) is based on TDV energy and has two 
components, the Energy Efficiency Design Rating, and the Solar Electric Generation and 
Demand Flexibility Design Rating. The total Energy Design Rating shall account for both 
the Energy Efficiency Design Rating and the Solar Electric Generation and Demand 
Flexibility Design Rating. The proposed building shall separately comply with the Source 
Energy Design Rating, Energy Efficiency Design Rating and the Total Energy Design 
Rating.  A building complies with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the proposed design building is no greater than the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the Standard Design Building AND Source Energy compliance margin of at 
least 9, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard Design 
building.
Exception 1 to Section 150.1(b)1. A community shared solar electric generation 
system, or other renewable electric generation system, and/or community 
shared battery storage system, which provides dedicated power, utility energy 
16 of 96

--- page 17 ---
reduction credits, or payments for energy bill reductions, to the permitted 
building and is approved by the Energy Commission as specified in Title 24, Part 
1, Section 10-115, may offset part or all of the solar electric generation system 
Energy Design Rating required to comply with the Standards, as calculated 
according to methods established by the Commission in the Residential ACM 
Reference Manual.
Exception 2 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a 
conditioned floor area less than 1,500 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy 
compliance margin of 4 or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 
calculated for the Standard Design building.
Exception 3 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a 
conditioned floor area less than 625 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy 
compliance margin of 0 or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 
calculated for the Standard Design building.
Exception 4 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed Accessory Dwelling Unit, 
as defined by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.165(a), shall achieve a 
Source Energy compliance margin of 0 or greater, relative to the Source Energy 
Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard Design building.
(h) Energy Code subsections 150.1(b)2, 150.1(b)3, and 150.1(c) are adopted without amendments.
Section 4. Section 23.24.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.050 Local Amendment Regarding Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of Multifamily Buildings.
(a) Energy Code subsection 160.4(a) is amended to read as follows:
(a) Reserved.
(b) Energy Code Section 160.9 “Mandatory Requirements for Electric Ready Buildings” is amended to 
add new subsections (d) through (f) as follows:
(d) Individual Heat Pump Water Heater Ready. Systems using gas or propane water 
heaters to serve individual dwelling units shall include the following components and 
shall meet the requirements of Section 160.9(f):
1. A dedicated 125 volt, 20 amp electrical receptacle that is connected to the electric 
panel with a 120/240 volt 3 conductor, copper branch circuit rated to 30 amps, within 3 
feet from the water heater and accessible to the water heater with no obstructions. In 
addition, all of the following:
A. Both ends of the unused conductor shall be labeled with the word “spare” 
and be electrically isolated; and
B. A reserved single pole circuit breaker space in the electrical panel adjacent to 
17 of 96

--- page 18 ---
the circuit breaker for the branch circuit in A above and labeled with the words 
“Future 240V Use”;
2. A condensate drain that is no more than 2 inches higher than the base of 
the installed water heater, and allows natural draining without pump 
assistance,
3. The construction drawings shall indicate the location of the future heat pump water 
heater. The reserved location shall have minimum interior dimensions of 39”x39”x96”.
4. A ventilation method meeting one of the following:
A. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall 
have a minimum volume of 700 cubic feet; or
B. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water 
heater shall vent to a communicating space in the same pressure 
boundary via permanent openings with a minimum total net free 
area of 250 square inches so that the total combined volume 
connected via permanent openings is 700 cu. ft. or larger. The 
permanent openings shall be:
i. Fully louvered doors with fixed louvers consisting of a single layer of 
fixed flat slats; or
ii. Two permanent fixed openings, consisting of a single layer of fixed 
flat slat louvers or grilles, one commencing within 12 inches from the 
top of the enclosure and one commencing within 12 inches from the 
bottom of the enclosure.
C. The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall 
include two 8” capped ducts, venting to the building exterior:
i. All ducts, connections and building penetrations shall be sealed.
ii. Exhaust air ducts and all ducts which cross pressure boundaries shall 
be insulated to a minimum insulation level of R-6.
iii. Airflow from termination points shall be diverted away from each 
other.
(e) Central Heat Pump Water Heater Electric Ready. Central water heating systems using gas or 
propane to serve multiple dwelling units shall include the following:
1. The system input capacity of the gas or propane water heating system shall be 
determined as the sum of the input gas or propane capacity of all water heating devices 
associated with each gas or propane water heating system.
18 of 96

--- page 19 ---
2. Space reserved shall include:
A. Heat Pump. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service 
clearances and air flow clearances and shall meet one of the following: 
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the heat 
pump shall be 2.0 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas 
or propane water heating system, and the minimum linear dimension of 
the space reserved shall be 48 linear inches.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for 
the heat pump shall be 3.6 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour 
the gas or propane water heating system, and the minimum linear 
dimension of the space reserved shall be 84 linear inches.
iii. The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump 
water heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as 
calculated and documented by the responsible person associated with 
the project.
B. Tanks. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service clearances 
and shall meet one of the following:
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the 
storage and temperature maintenance tanks shall be 4.4 square feet per 
input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating system.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum physical space 
reserved for the storage and temperature maintenance tanks shall be 
3.1 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane 
water heating system.
iii. The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump 
water heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as 
calculated and documented by the responsible person associated with 
the project.
3. Ventilation shall be provided by meeting one of the following:
A. Physical space reserved for the heat pump shall be located outside, or
B. A pathway shall be reserved for future routing of supply and exhaust air via 
ductwork from the reserved heat pump location to an appropriate outdoor 
location. Penetrations through the building envelope for louvers and ducts shall 
19 of 96

--- page 20 ---
be planned and identified for future use. The reserved pathway and 
penetrations through the building envelope shall be sized to meet one of the 
following:
i. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall be 70 CFM 
per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating 
system and the total external static pressure drop of ductwork and 
louvers shall not exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump water 
heater is installed.
ii. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater 
than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall 
be 420 CFM per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water 
heating system and the total external static pressure drop of ductwork 
and louvers shall not exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump 
water heater is installed.
iii. The reserved pathway and penetrations shall be sized to serve a heat 
pump water heater system that meets the total building hot water 
demand as calculated and documented by the responsible person 
associated with the project.
4. Condensate drainage piping. An approved receptacle that is sized in accordance with 
the California Plumbing Code to receive the condensate drainage shall be installed 
within 3 feet of the reserved heat pump location, or piping shall be installed from within 
3 feet of the reserved heat pump location to an approved discharge location that is 
sized in accordance with the California Plumbing Code, and meets one of the following:
A. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 
200,000 BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.2 tons of 
refrigeration capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
B. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than or 
equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.7 tons 
of refrigeration capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
C. Condensate drainage shall be sized to serve a heat pump water heater system 
that meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and documented 
by the responsible person associated with the project.
5. Electrical.
A. Physical space shall be reserved on the bus system of the main switchboard 
or on the bus system of a distribution board to serve the future heat pump 
water heater system including the heat pump and temperature maintenance 
tanks. In addition, the physical space reserved shall be capable of providing 
20 of 96

--- page 21 ---
adequate power to the future heat pump water heater as follows:
i. Heat Pump. For the Heat Pump, the physical space reserved shall 
comply with one of the following:
a. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
less than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.1 kVA per input 
10,000 BTU per hour.
b. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system 
is greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.1 
kVA per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c. The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical 
power required to power a heat pump water heater system that 
meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and 
documented by the responsible person associated with the 
project.
ii. Temperature Maintenance Tank. For the Temperature Maintenance 
Tank, the physical space reserved shall comply with one of the 
following:
a. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
less than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.0 kVA per input 
10,000 BTU per hour.
b. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system 
is greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.6 
kVA per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c. The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical 
power required to power a heat pump water heater system that 
meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and 
documented by the responsible person associated with the 
project. 
(f) The building electrical system shall be sized to meet the future electric requirements of the 
electric ready equipment specified in sections 160.9(a) through (e). To meet this requirement 
the building main service conduit, the electrical system to the point specified in each subsection, 
and any on-site distribution transformers shall have sufficient capacity to supply full rated 
amperage at each electric ready appliance in accordance with the California Electric Code.
(c) Energy Code Section 170.1 “Performance Approach” is amended to read as follows:
21 of 96

--- page 22 ---
A building complies with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget calculated for the 
proposed design building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a). Additionally,
1. The energy budget, expressed in terms of source energy, of a newly constructed low-
rise multifamily building (three habitable stories or less) shall be at least 10 percent 
lower than that of the Standard Design Building.
2. Newly Constructed high-rise multifamily buildings (greater than four habitable 
stories) shall be at least 4 percent lower than that of the Standard Design Building.
(g) Energy Code subsections 170.1(a)-(d) are adopted without amendments.
Section 5. Section 23.70.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
23.70.060 Repealed
Section 6. Section 23.70.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
23.70.070 Repealed
Section 7. Section 23.70.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.70.080 Local Amendment Regarding Electrification Requirements for Existing Residential Buildings
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106 "Site Development" is amended and to include new subsections 
as follows:
4.106.5.3 Existing one- and two-family dwellings.
4.106.5.3.1 Reserved.
4.106.5.3.2 Reserved.
4.106.5.3.3 Kitchen alterations shall include a 240v, 50 ampere circuit and receptacle installed within 3 
feet of the cooktop, oven, and/or range location.
4.106.5.3.4 Alterations to areas designated for the installation of laundry equipment shall include a 
240v, 30 ampere circuit and receptacle installed within 3 feet of clothes drying appliance location.
4.106.5.4 Existing residential buildings.
4.106.5.4.1 Alterations or additions that involve or require an increase to the capacity of electrical 
panels or transformers as part of the scope, the electrical panel shall include reserved physical space for 
overcurrent protection devices, and transformers shall include reserved electrical capacity, as calculated per 
California Electric Code Section 220 for the following current or proposed appliances, as applicable to the project 
site, that will not be connected to fuel gas infrastructure:
1. Electric water heaters meeting the requirements of the California Energy Code.
22 of 96

--- page 23 ---
2. Electric space heater and air-conditioner meeting the requirements of the California Energy 
Code.
3. Electric pool and/or spa water heater.
4. Electric clothes dryer.
5. Electric cooking equipment.
6. Electric vehicle charger
Exceptions:
1. Buss bar electrical capacity shall not be required to exceed the proposed utility 
electrical service to the building. Capacity and overcurrent protection spaces shall be reserved in 
the priority listed above to the extent allowable under the proposed buss bar capacity.
2. Reserved electric vehicle charger panel capacity may be shared with one of the 
following: water heater, clothes dryer, or cooking equipment.
3. Electrical panels with internet-connected overcurrent protection devices that monitor 
circuit load and manage power distribution.
Section 8. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15308, this action to adopt reach codes and amend the Energy Code is categorically exempt 
from CEQA as an action by a regulatory agency for the protection of the environment, because reach codes are 
intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
23 of 96

--- page 24 ---
23.24.010 Adoption
(a) The California Energy Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 6 of the California Code of 
Regulations, as adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Energy 
Code," is adopted as the rules, regulations and standards within this City as to all matters 
therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) One copy of the Energy Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City 
Clerk.
23.24.020 Local Amendment to Definitions
(a) Repealed. Energy Code subsection 100.1(b) is amended to include the following 
definitions:
Electric Heating Appliance. A device that produces heat energy to create a warm environment 
by the application of electric power to resistance elements, refrigerant compressors, or 
dissimilar material junctions, as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Kitchen, institutional commercial. A kitchen dedicated to a foodservice establishment that 
provides meals at institutions including schools, colleges and universities, hospitals, correctional 
facilities, private cafeterias, nursing homes, and other buildings or structures in which care or 
supervision is provided to occupants.  
Kitchen, quick-service commercial.  A kitchen dedicated to an establishment primarily 
engaged in providing fast food, fast casual, or limited services. Food and drink may be 
consumed on premises, taken out, or delivered to the customer’s location.  
Net Free Area (NFA). The total unobstructed area of the air gaps between louver and grille 
slats in a vent through which air can pass. The narrowest distance between two slats, 
perpendicular to the surface of both slats is the air gap height. The narrowest width of the gap is 
the air gap width. The NFA is the air gap height multiplied by the air gap width multiplied by the 
total number of air gaps between slats in the vent.
23.24.030 Local Amendment Regarding Mandatory Solar InstallationsElectric-readiness 
and Energy Performance of Nonresidential Buildings.
(a)
Repealed.Energy Code Section 120.2 “Required Controls for Space-Conditioning 
Systems” is amended to add a new subsection (l) to read as follows:
(l) HVAC Hot Water Temperature. Zones that use hot water for space heating shall be 
designed for a hot water supply temperature of no greater than 130 °F.
(b) Energy Code Section 120.6 “Mandatory Requirements for Covered Processes” is 
amended to add a new subsection (k) to read as follows:
 (k) Mandatory requirements for commercial kitchens. Electric Readiness for Newly 
Constructed Commercial Kitchens shall meet the following requirements:
24 of 96

--- page 25 ---
1. Quick-service commercial kitchens and institutional commercial kitchens shall include 
a dedicated branch circuit wiring and outlet that would be accessible to cookline 
appliances and shall meet all of the following requirements: 
a.
The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 50 amps minimum.
b.
The electrical service panel shall have a minimum capacity of 800 connected 
amps.
2.
The electrical service panel shall be sized to accommodate an additional either 208v 
or 240v 50-amp breaker.  
Exception 1 to Section 120.6(k): healthcare facilities. 
Exception 2 to Section 120.6(k): all-electric commercial kitchens.
(c) Energy Code subsection 130.0(a) is amended to read as follows: 
The design and installation of all lighting systems and equipment in nonresidential and 
hotel/motel buildings, outdoor lighting, and electrical power distribution systems within the scope 
of Section 100.0(a), shall comply with the applicable provisions of Sections 130.0 through 130.6. 
NOTE: The requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 apply to newly constructed buildings. 
Section 141.0 specifies which requirements of Sections 130.0 through 130.6 also apply to 
additions and alterations to existing buildings. 
(d) Energy Code Subchapter 4 “Nonresidential and Hotel/Motel Occupancies – 
Mandatory Requirements for Lighting Systems and Equipment, and Electrical Power Distribution 
Systems” is amended to add a new section 130.6 “Electric Readiness Requirements for 
Systems Using Gas or Propane” and read as follows:
(a)
130.6 Electric Readiness Requirements for Systems Using Gas or Propane  
Where nonresidential systems using gas or propane are installed, the construction drawings 
shall indicate electrical infrastructure and physical space accommodating the future installation 
of an electric heating appliance in the following ways, as certified by a registered design 
professional or licensed electrical contractor. 
a) Branch circuit wiring, electrically isolated and designed to serve all electric heating 
appliances in accordance with manufacturer requirements and the California Electrical 
Code, including the appropriate voltage, phase, minimum amperage, and an electrical 
receptacle or junction box within five feet of the appliance that is accessible with no 
obstructions. Appropriately sized conduit may be installed in lieu of conductors; and 
b) Labeling of both ends of the unused conductors or conduit shall be with “For Future 
Electrical Appliance”; and
c) Reserved circuit breakers in the electrical panel for each branch circuit, appropriately 
labeled (e.g. “Reserved for Future Electric Range”), and positioned on the opposite end of 
the panel supply conductor connection; and
d) Connected subpanels, panelboards, switchboards, busbars, and transformers shall be 
sized to serve the future electric heating appliances. The electrical capacity requirements 
shall be adjusted for demand factors in accordance with the California Electric Code; and 
25 of 96

--- page 26 ---
e) Physical space for future electric heating appliances, including equipment footprint, and if 
needed a pathway reserved for routing of ductwork to heat pump evaporator(s), shall be 
depicted on the construction drawings. The footprint necessary for future electric heating 
appliances may overlap with non-structural partitions and with the location of currently 
designed combustion equipment.
(e)
Energy Code Section 140.0 “Performance and Prescriptive Compliance 
Approaches” is amended to read as follows:
Nonresidential and hotel/motel buildings shall comply with all of the following:
(a) The requirements of Sections 100.0 through 110.12 applicable to the building project 
(mandatory measures for all buildings).
(b) The requirements of Sections 120.0 through 130.56 (mandatory measures for 
nonresidential and high-rise residential and hotel/motel buildings).
(c) Either the performance compliance approach (energy budgets) specified in Section 
140.1 or the prescriptive compliance approach specified in Section 140.2 for the Climate 
Zone in which the building will be located.  Climate zones are shown in FIGURE 100.1-
A.
NOTE to Section 140.0(c):  The Commission periodically updates, publishes and makes 
available to interested persons and local enforcement agencies precise descriptions of 
the Climate Zones, which is available by zip code boundaries depicted in the Reference 
Joint Appendices along with a list of the communities in each zone.
NOTE to Section 140.0:  The requirements of Sections 140.1 through 140.10 apply to newly 
constructed buildings.  Section 141.0 specifies which requirements of Section 140.1 through 
140.10 also apply to additions or alterations to existing buildings.    
(f)
Energy Code Section 140.1 “Performance Approach: Energy Budgets” is 
amended to read as follows:
A building complies with the performance approach provided that:
1.
The time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy budget calculated for the Proposed Design 
Building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget calculated for 
the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a), and
2.
The source energy budget calculated for the proposed design building under Subsection 
(b) has a source energy compliance margin, relative to the energy budget calculated for 
the standard design building under Subsection (a), of at least 7 percent for all 
nonresidential occupancies.
Exception 1 to 140.1 item 2. A source energy compliance margin of 0 percent or greater 
is required when nonresidential occupancies are designed with single zone space-
conditioning systems complying with Section 140.4(a)2.
Exception 2 to 140.1 item 2. Where it is technically infeasible to implement the 
performance approach standards, exceptions are subject to review and approval at the 
discretion of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee.
(b)(g)
Energy Code subsections 140.1(a)-(c) are adopted without modification.
26 of 96

--- page 27 ---
23.24.040 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for Residential 
Buildings and Buildings with Office Use.Electric-readiness and Energy Performance of 
Single-Family Residential Buildings.
(a) Repealed. Energy Code subsection 150.0(t) is amended to read as follows:
Heat pump space heater ready. Systems using gas or propane furnace to serve individual 
dwelling units shall include the following:
1. A dedicated 240 volt branch circuit wiring shall be installed within 3 feet from the furnace and 
accessible to the furnace with no obstructions. The branch circuit conductors shall be rated at 
30 amps minimum. The blank cover shall be identified as “240V ready.” All electrical 
components shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
2. The main electrical service panel shall have a reserved space to allow for the installation of a 
double pole circuit breaker for a future heat pump space heater installation. The reserved space 
shall be permanently marked as “For Future 240V use.”
3. A designated exterior location for a future heat pump compressor unit with either a drain or 
natural drainage for condensate.
(b) Energy Code subsection 150.1(b) is amended to read as follows:
(b) Performance Standards. A building complies with the performance standards if the energy 
consumption calculated for the proposed design building is no greater than the energy budget 
calculated for the standard design building using Commission-certified compliance software as 
specified by the Alternative Calculation Methods Approval Manual, as specified in sub-sections 
1, 2 and 3 below.
1.
Newly Constructed Buildings. The Energy Budget for newly constructed buildings 
is expressed in terms of the Energy Design Ratings, which are based on source 
energy and time-dependent valuation (TDV) energy. The Energy Design Rating 1 
(EDR1) is based on source energy. The Energy Design Rating 2 (EDR2) is based on 
TDV energy and has two components, the Energy Efficiency Design Rating, and the 
Solar Electric Generation and Demand Flexibility Design Rating. The total Energy 
Design Rating shall account for both the Energy Efficiency Design Rating and the 
Solar Electric Generation and Demand Flexibility Design Rating. The proposed 
building shall separately comply with the Source Energy Design Rating, Energy 
Efficiency Design Rating and the Total Energy Design Rating.  A building complies 
with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget calculated for the proposed 
design building is no greater than the TDV energy budget calculated for the Standard 
Design Building AND Source Energy compliance margin of at least 9, relative to the 
Source Energy Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard Design building.
Exception 1 to Section 150.1(b)1. A community shared solar electric generation 
system, or other renewable electric generation system, and/or community shared battery 
storage system, which provides dedicated power, utility energy reduction credits, or 
payments for energy bill reductions, to the permitted building and is approved by the 
Energy Commission as specified in Title 24, Part 1, Section 10-115, may offset part or all 
of the solar electric generation system Energy Design Rating required to comply with the 
Standards, as calculated according to methods established by the Commission in the 
27 of 96

--- page 28 ---
Residential ACM Reference Manual.
Exception 2 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a conditioned floor 
area less than 1,500 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy compliance margin of 4 
or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard 
Design building. 
Exception 3 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed building with a conditioned floor 
area less than 625 square feet shall achieve a Source Energy compliance margin of 0 or 
greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 calculated for the Standard 
Design building. 
Exception 4 to Section 150.1(b)1. A newly constructed Accessory Dwelling Unit, as 
defined by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.165(a), shall achieve a Source 
Energy compliance margin of 0 or greater, relative to the Source Energy Design Rating 1 
calculated for the Standard Design building.
(a) Energy Code subsections 150.1(b)2, 150.1(b)3, and 150.1(c) are adopted 
without amendments.
23.24.050 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric or Energy Efficiency Standards for 
High-Rise Multifamily Residential Buildings with 100% Affordable Units.Electric-
readiness and Energy Performance of Multifamily Buildings.
(a) Repealed.Energy Code subsection 160.4(a) is amended to read as follows: 
Reserved.
(b) Energy Code Section 160.9 “Mandatory Requirements for Electric Ready Buildings” 
is amended to add new subsections (d) through (f) as follows:
(d) Individual Heat Pump Water Heater Ready. Systems using gas or propane water 
heaters to serve individual dwelling units shall include the following components and 
shall meet the requirements of Section 160.9(f):
(c) A dedicated 125 volt, 20 amp electrical receptacle that is connected to the electric panel 
with a 120/240 volt 3 conductor, copper branch circuit rated to 30 amps, within 3 feet 
from the water heater and accessible to the water heater with no obstructions. In 
addition, all of the following:
(1) Both ends of the unused conductor shall be labeled with the word “spare” 
and be electrically isolated; and  
(2) A reserved single pole circuit breaker space in the electrical panel 
adjacent to the circuit breaker for the branch circuit in A above and labeled with the 
words “Future 240V Use”; 
(d) A condensate drain that is no more than 2 inches higher than the 
base of the installed water heater, and allows natural draining without pump 
28 of 96

--- page 29 ---
assistance,  
29 of 96

--- page 30 ---
(e) The construction drawings shall indicate the location of the future heat pump water 
heater. The reserved location shall have minimum interior dimensions of 39”x39”x96”  
(f) A ventilation method meeting one of the following:
(1) The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall have a 
minimum volume of 700 cubic feet; or
(2) The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall 
vent to a communicating space in the same pressure boundary via 
permanent openings with a minimum total net free area of 250 square 
inches so that the total combined volume connected via permanent 
openings is 700 cu. ft. or larger. The permanent openings shall be:
(A) Fully louvered doors with fixed louvers consisting of a single layer of fixed flat 
slats; or
(B) Two permanent fixed openings, consisting of a single layer of fixed flat slat 
louvers or grilles, one commencing within 12 inches from the top of the enclosure 
and one commencing within 12 inches from the bottom of the enclosure.
(3) The designed space reserved for the future heat pump water heater shall include two 
8” capped ducts, venting to the building exterior:
(A) All ducts, connections and building penetrations shall be sealed.  
(B) Exhaust air ducts and all ducts which cross pressure boundaries shall be 
insulated to a minimum insulation level of R-6
(C)  Airflow from termination points shall be diverted away from each other. 
(e) Central Heat Pump Water Heater Electric Ready. Central water heating systems using 
gas or propane to serve multiple dwelling units shall include the following:
1. The system input capacity of the gas or propane water heating system shall be 
determined as the sum of the input gas or propane capacity of all water heating devices 
associated with each gas or propane water heating system.
2. Space reserved shall include: 
A. Heat Pump. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service 
clearances and air flow clearances and shall meet one of the following: 
i.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 
200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the heat pump 
shall be 2.0 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or 
propane water heating system, and the minimum linear dimension of the 
space reserved shall be 48 linear inches.  
ii.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than 
or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the 
heat pump shall be 3.6 square feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour the gas 
or propane water heating system, and the minimum linear dimension of the 
space reserved shall be 84 linear inches.  
iii.
The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump water 
heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as calculated 
and documented by the responsible person associated with the project.  
30 of 96

--- page 31 ---
(g) Tanks. The minimum space reserved shall include space for service clearances and 
shall meet one of the following: 
(1) If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 
200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum space reserved for the storage and 
temperature maintenance tanks shall be 4.4 square feet per input 10,000 
BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating system. 
(2) If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than 
or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum physical space reserved 
for the storage and temperature maintenance tanks shall be 3.1 square 
feet per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating 
system.  
(3) The space reserved shall be the space required for a heat pump water 
heater system that meets the total building hot water demand as calculated 
and documented by the responsible person associated with the project.
3. Ventilation shall be provided by meeting one of the following:  
A. Physical space reserved for the heat pump shall be located outside, or  
B. A pathway shall be reserved for future routing of supply and exhaust air via 
ductwork from the reserved heat pump location to an appropriate outdoor location. 
Penetrations through the building envelope for louvers and ducts shall be planned 
and identified for future use. The reserved pathway and penetrations through the 
building envelope shall be sized to meet one of the following:  
i.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 
200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall be 70 CFM per 
input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating system and 
the total external static pressure drop of ductwork and louvers shall not 
exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump water heater is installed.  
ii.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than 
or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, the minimum air flow rate shall be 420 
CFM per input 10,000 BTU per hour of the gas or propane water heating 
system and the total external static pressure drop of ductwork and louvers 
shall not exceed 0.17 inch when the future heat pump water heater is 
installed.
iii.
The reserved pathway and penetrations shall be sized to serve a heat 
pump water heater system that meets the total building hot water demand 
as calculated and documented by the responsible person associated with 
the project.
4. Condensate drainage piping. An approved receptacle that is sized in accordance with the 
California Plumbing Code to receive the condensate drainage shall be installed within 3 
feet of the reserved heat pump location, or piping shall be installed from within 3 feet of 
the reserved heat pump location to an approved discharge location that is sized in 
accordance with the California Plumbing Code, and meets one of the following:  
A. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less than 200,000 
BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.2 tons of refrigeration 
capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
B. If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is greater than or equal 
to 200,000 BTU per hour, condensate drainage shall be sized for 0.7 tons of 
refrigeration capacity per input 10,000 BTU per hour.
31 of 96

--- page 32 ---
(h) Condensate drainage shall be sized to serve a heat pump water heater system that 
meets the total building hot water demand as calculated and documented by the 
responsible person associated with the project. 
5. Electrical.  
A. Physical space shall be reserved on the bus system of the main switchboard or on 
the bus system of a distribution board to serve the future heat pump water heater 
system including the heat pump and temperature maintenance tanks. In addition, 
the physical space reserved shall be capable of providing adequate power to the 
future heat pump water heater as follows:
i.
Heat Pump. For the Heat Pump, the physical space reserved shall comply 
with one of the following:   
a.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.1 kVA per input 10,000 BTU 
per hour.
b.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.1 kVA per 
input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c.
The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical power 
required to power a heat pump water heater system that meets the 
total building hot water demand as calculated and documented by the 
responsible person associated with the project.  
ii.
Temperature Maintenance Tank. For the Temperature Maintenance Tank, 
the physical space reserved shall comply with one of the following:   
a.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is less 
than 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 1.0 kVA per input 10,000 BTU 
per hour.
b.
If the system input capacity of the gas water heating system is 
greater than or equal to 200,000 BTU per hour, provide 0.6 kVA per 
input 10,000 BTU per hour.
c.
The physical space reserved supplies sufficient electrical power 
required to power a heat pump water heater system that meets the 
total building hot water demand as calculated and documented by the 
responsible person associated with the project. 
(f) The building electrical system shall be sized to meet the future electric requirements of the 
electric ready equipment specified in sections 160.9(a) through (e). To meet this 
requirement the building main service conduit, the electrical system to the point specified in 
each subsection, and any on-site distribution transformers shall have sufficient capacity to 
supply full rated amperage at each electric ready appliance in accordance with the California 
Electric Code.
(c) Energy Code Section 170.1 “Performance Approach” is amended to read as follows:
A building complies with the performance approach if the TDV energy budget calculated for the 
proposed design building under Subsection (b) is no greater than the TDV energy budget 
calculated for the Standard Design Building under Subsection (a). Additionally, 
1.
The energy budget, expressed in terms of source energy, of a newly constructed low-
rise multifamily building (three habitable stories or less) shall be at least 10 percent lower 
than that of the Standard Design Building.
32 of 96

--- page 33 ---
2.
Newly Constructed high-rise multifamily buildings (greater than four habitable stories) 
shall be at least 4 percent lower than that of the Standard Design Building.
(d)
 Energy Code subsections 170.1(a)-(d) are adopted without amendments.
23.24.060 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Buildings or Energy Efficiency 
Standards for Low-Rise Residential Buildings with 100% Affordable Units.
Repealed.
23.24.070 Infeasibility Exemption.
Repealed.
23.24.080 Expiration.
Repealed.
23.70.010 Adoption
(c)(i) The California Green Building Standards Code, 2022 Edition, Title 24, Part 11 of 
the California Code of Regulations, as adopted and amended by the State of California, 
hereinafter called "Green Building Code," is adopted as the rules, regulations and standards 
within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended;
(d)(j) One copy of the Green Building Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office 
of the City Clerk.
23.70.020 Local Amendments to Definitions
(a) The most commonly used definitions of the Green Building Code are set forth below:
Addition. An extension or increase in floor area of an existing building or structure.
Alteration or Alter. Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other than 
repair for the purpose of maintenance or addition.
Electric Vehicle (EV). An automotive-type vehicle for on-road use, such as passenger 
automobiles, buses, trucks, vans, neighborhood electric vehicles, electric motorcycles, and the 
like, primarily powered by an electric motor that draws current from a rechargeable storage 
battery, fuel cell, photovoltaic array, or other source of electric current. Plug-in hybrid electric 
vehicles (PHEV) are considered electric vehicles.  For purposes of the California Electrical 
Code, off-road, self-propelled electric vehicles, such as industrial trucks, hoists, lifts, transports, 
golf carts, airline ground support equipment, tractors, boats, and the like, are not included.
Electric Vehicle Charging Space (EV Space). A space intended for future installation 
of EV charging equipment and charging of electric vehicles.
Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). The conductors, including the 
undergrounded, grounded, and equipment grounding conductors and the electric vehicles 
33 of 96

--- page 34 ---
connectors, attachment plugs, and all other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatus 
installed specifically for the purpose of transferring energy between premises wiring and the 
electric vehicle.
Newly Constructed (or New Construction). A newly constructed building (or new 
construction) does not include additions, alterations or repairs.
Off-Street Loading Spaces. An area, other than a public street, public way, or other 
property (and exclusive of off-street parking spaces), permanently reserved or set aside for the 
loading or unloading of motor vehicles, including ways of ingress and egress and maneuvering 
areas. Whenever the term "loading space" is used, it shall, unless the context clearly requires 
otherwise, be construed as meaning off-street loading space. This excludes designated 
passenger loading/unloading.
(b) Green Building Code Section 202 is amended to include the following definitions:
Affordable Housing. Residential buildings that entirely consist of units below market 
rate and whose rents or sales prices are governed by local agencies to be affordable based on 
area median income.
All-Electric Building. A building that contains no combustion equipment or plumbing for 
combustion equipment serving space heating (including fireplaces), water heating (including 
pools and spas), cooking appliances (including barbeques), and clothes drying, within the 
building or building property lines, and instead uses electric heating appliances for service.
Appliance Upgrade. The installation, relocation, or replacement of any appliance.
Automatic Load Management System (ALMS). A control system designed to manage 
load across one or more electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), circuits, panels and to share 
electrical capacity and/or automatically manage power at each connection point. ALMS systems 
shall be designed to deliver no less than 3.3 kVa (208/240 volt, 16-ampere) to each EV 
Capable, EV Ready or EVCS space served by the ALMS, and meet the requirements of 
California Electrical Code Article 625. The connected amperage to the building site for the EV 
charging infrastructure shall not be lower than the required connected amperage per California 
Green Building Standards Code, Title 24 Part 11.
Combustion Equipment. Any equipment or appliance used for space heating, water 
heating, cooking, clothes drying and/or lighting that uses fuel gas.
Direct Current Fast Charging (DCFC). A parking space provided with electrical 
infrastructure that meets the following conditions:
(1) A minimum of 48 kVa (480 volt, 100-ampere) capacity wiring.
(2) Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) located within three (3) feet of the 
parking space providing a minimum capacity of 80-ampere.Electric Heating Appliance. 
A device that produces heat energy to create a warm environment by the application of 
electric power to resistance elements, refrigerant compressors, or dissimilar material 
junctions, as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Electric Vehicle Charging Station (EVCS). A parking space that includes installation of 
electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) at an EV Ready space. An EVCS space may be used 
34 of 96

--- page 35 ---
to satisfy EV Ready space requirements. EVSE shall be installed in accordance with the 
California Electrical Code, Article 625.
Fuel Gas. A gas that is natural, manufactured, liquefied petroleum, or a mixture of these, 
as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Fuel Gas Infrastructure. Piping, other than service pipe, in or in connection with a 
building, structure or within the property lines of premises, extending from the point of delivery at 
the gas meter, service meter assembly, outlet of the service regulator, service shutoff valve, or 
final pressure regulator, whichever is applicable, as defined in the California Mechanical Code.
Laboratory. A room, building or area where the use and storage of hazardous materials 
are utilized for testing, analysis, instruction, research or developmental activities.
Level 1 EV Ready. A parking space that is served by a complete electric circuit with the 
following requirements:
(1) A minimum of 2.2 kVa (110/120 volt, 20-ampere) capacity wiring.
(2) A receptacle labeled "Electric Vehicle Outlet" or electric vehicle supply 
equipment located within three (3) feet of the parking space. If EVSE is provided the 
minimum capacity of the EVSE shall be 16-ampere.
(3) Conduit oversized to accommodate future Level 2 EV Ready (208/240 volt, 
40-ampere) at each parking space.Level 2 EV Capable. A parking space provided with 
electrical infrastructure that meets the following requirements:
(1) Conduit that links a listed electrical panel with sufficient capacity to a junction 
box or receptacle located within three (3) feet of the parking space.
(2) The conduit shall be designed to accommodate at least 8.3 kVa (208/240 volt, 
40-ampere) per parking space. Conduit shall have a minimum nominal trade size of 1 
inch inside diameter and may be sized for multiple circuits as allowed by the California 
Electrical Code. Conduit shall be installed at a minimum in spaces that will be 
inaccessible after construction, either trenched underground or where penetrations to 
walls, floors, or other partitions would otherwise be required for future installation of 
branch circuits, and such additional elements deemed necessary by the Building Official. 
Construction documents shall indicate future completion of conduit from the panel to the 
parking space, via the installed inaccessible conduit.
(3) The electrical panel shall reserve a space for a 40-ampere overcurrent 
protective device space(s) for EV charging, labeled in the panel directory as "EV 
CAPABLE."
(4) Electrical load calculations shall demonstrate that the electrical panel service 
capacity and electrical system, including any on-site distribution transformer(s), have 
sufficient capacity to simultaneously charge all EVs at all required EV spaces at a 
minimum of 40 amperes.
(5) The parking space shall contain signage with at least a 12" font adjacent to 
the parking space indicating the space is EV Capable.Level 2 EV Ready. A parking 
space that is served by a complete electric circuit with the following requirements:
35 of 96

--- page 36 ---
(1) A minimum of 8.3 kVa (208/240 volt, 40-ampere) capacity wiring.
(2) A receptacle labeled "Electric Vehicle Outlet" or electric vehicle supply 
equipment located within three feet of the parking space.
(3) If EVSE is provided the minimum capacity of the EVSE shall be 30-
ampere.Low Power Level 2 EV Ready. A parking space that is served by a complete 
electric circuit with the following requirements:
(1) A minimum of 4.1 kVA (208/240 Volt, 20-ampere) capacity wiring.
(2) A receptacle labeled "Electric Vehicle Outlet" or electric vehicle supply 
equipment located within three (3) feet of the parking space. If EVSE is provided the 
minimum capacity of the EVSE shall be 16-ampere.
(3) Conduit oversized to accommodate future Level 2 EV Ready (208/240 volt, 
40-ampere) at each parking space.
Repair. Reconstruction, replacement, or renewal of any part of an existing building for 
the purpose of its maintenance or to correct damage, as defined in the California 
Existing Building Code.
(c) Green Building Code Section 202 is amended to delete the following definitions:
Electric Vehicle (EV) Capable Space. A vehicle space with electrical panel space and 
load capacity to support a branch circuit and necessary raceways, both underground and/or 
surface mounted, to support EV charging.
Electric Vehicle (EV) Ready Space. [HCD] A vehicle space which is provided with a 
branch circuit; any necessary raceways, both underground and/or surface mounted; to 
accommodate EV charging, terminating in a receptacle or a charger.
Level 2 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE). [HCD] The 208/240 Volt 
40ampere branch circuit, and the electric vehicle charging connectors, attachment plugs, and all 
other fittings, devices, power outlets, or apparatus installed specifically for the purpose of 
transferring energy between the premises wiring and the electric vehicle.
Low Power Level 2 Electric Vehicle [EV] Charging Receptable. [HCD] A 208/240 
Volt 20- ampere minimum branch circuit and a receptacle for use by an EV driver to charge their 
electric vehicle or hybrid electric vehicle.
23.70.030 Local Amendment Regarding Electric Vehicle Charging for New One- and Two-
Family Dwellings and Town-Houses
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.1, "New one- and two-family dwellings and 
town-houses with attached private garages," is amended to read as follows:
4.106.4.1 New one- and two-family dwellings and town-houses with attached 
private garages.
(b) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.1.1, "Identification," is amended to read as 
follows:
36 of 96

--- page 37 ---
4.106.4.1.1 New Construction One parking space provided shall be a Level 2 
EV Ready space. If a second parking space is provided, it shall be provided with a Level 
1 EV Ready space.
23.70.040 Local Amendment Regarding Electric Vehicle Charging for New Multifamily 
Residential Construction
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4 "Electric vehicle (EV) charging for new 
construction," is amended to read as follows:
4.106.4 Electric vehicle (EV) charging. New construction shall comply with Section 
4.106.4.1 or 4.106.4.2, and 4.106.4.3, to facilitate future installation and use of EV chargers. 
Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) shall be installed in accordance with the California 
Electrical Code, Article 625. For EVCS signs, refer to Caltrans Traffic Operations Policy 
Directive 13-01 (Zero Emission Vehicle Signs and Pavement Markings) or its successor(s). 
Calculation for spaces shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Exceptions:
1. On a case-by-case basis, where the local enforcing agency has determined 
EV charging and infrastructure are not feasible based upon one or more of the following 
conditions:
1.1 Where there is no local utility power supply or the local utility is unable 
to supply adequate power.
1.2 Where there is evidence suitable to the local enforcing agency 
substantiating that additional local utility infrastructure design requirements, 
directly related to the implementation of Section 4.106.4, may increase 
construction cost by an average of $4,500 per parking space for market rate 
housing or $400 per parking space for affordable housing. EV infrastructure shall 
be provided up to the level that would not exceed this cost for utility service.
1.3 Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units 
(JADU) without additional parking facilities and without electrical panel upgrade 
or new panel installation. ADUs and JADUs without additional parking but with 
electrical panel upgrades or new panels must have reserved breakers and 
electrical capacity according to the requirements of 4.106.4.1.
2. Projects with multifamily residential units that submitted Planning Applications 
prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
3. Parking spaces accessible only by automated mechanical car parking systems 
are not required to comply with this code section.
(b) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2, "New multifamily dwellings, hotels and 
motels and new residential parking facilities," is amended to read as follows:
4.106.4.2 New multifamily dwellings and new residential parking facilities. 
Requirements apply to parking spaces that are assigned or leased to individual dwelling units, 
as well as unassigned residential parking. Visitor or common area parking is not included.
37 of 96

--- page 38 ---
(c) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.1, "Multifamily development projects with less 
than 20 dwelling units; and hotels and motels with less than 20 sleeping units or guest rooms," 
is amended to read as follows:
4.106.4.2.1 New Construction. Fifteen percent (15%) of dwelling units with parking 
spaces shall be EVCS with Level 2 EV Ready. ALMS shall be permitted to reduce load when 
multiple vehicles are charging. Eighty-five percent (85%) of dwelling units with parking spaces 
shall be provided with a Low Power Level 2 EV Ready space. EV ready spaces and EVCS in 
multifamily developments shall comply with California Building Code, Chapter 11A, Section 
1109A. EVCS shall comply with the accessibility provisions for EV chargers in the California 
Building Code, Chapter 11B.
Note: The total number of EV spaces should be one-hundred percent (100%) of dwelling 
units or one-hundred percent (100%) of parking spaces, whichever is less.
(d) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.2, "Multifamily development projects with 20 
or more dwelling units, hotels and motels with 20 or more sleeping units or guest rooms," is 
amended to read as follows:
4.106.4.2.2 Existing Buildings. When new parking facilities are added, or electrical 
systems or lighting of existing parking facilities are added or altered and the work requires a 
building permit, ten (10) percent of the total number of parking spaces added or altered, shall be 
electric vehicle charging spaces (EV spaces) capable of supporting future Level 2 EVSE.
Notes:
1. Construction documents are intended to demonstrate the project's capability 
and capacity for facilitating future EV charging.
2. There is no requirement for EV spaces to be constructed or available until EV 
chargers are installed for use.
(e) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.2.1 "Electric vehicle charging stations 
(EVCS)" is not adopted
(f) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.2.1.1 "Location" is not adopted
(g) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.2.1.2 "Electric vehicle charging stations 
(EVCS) dimensions" is not adopted
(h) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.2.1.3 "Accessible EV spaces" is not adopted
(i) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.3 "EV Space requirements" is not adopted
(j) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.4 "Identification" is not adopted
(k) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.2.5 "Electric Vehicle Ready Space Signage" is 
not adopted
(l) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4.3 "Electric vehicle charging for additions and 
alterations of parking facilities serving existing multifamily buildings," is amended, and adds new 
subsections to read as follows:
38 of 96

--- page 39 ---
4.106.4.3 Electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS). Electric vehicle charging stations 
required by Section 4.106.4.2 shall comply with Section 4.106.4.3.
Exception: Electric vehicle charging stations serving public accommodations, public 
housing, motels, and hotels shall not be required to comply with this section. See California 
Building Code, Chapter 11B, for applicable requirements.
4.106.4.3.1 Location. EVCS shall comply with at least one of the following 
options:
1. The charging space shall be located adjacent to an accessible parking 
space meeting the requirements of the California Building Code, Chapter 11A, to 
allow use of the EV charger from the accessible parking space.
2. The charging space shall be located on an accessible route, as defined 
in the California Building Code, Chapter 2, to the building.Exception: Electric 
vehicle charging stations designed and constructed in compliance with the 
California Building Code, Chapter 11B, are not required to comply with Section 
4.106.4.3.1 and Section 4.106.4.3.2.
4.106.4.3.2 Dimensions. The charging spaces shall be designed to comply with 
the following:
1. The minimum length of each EV space shall be 18 feet (5486 mm).
2. The minimum width of each EV space shall be 9 feet (2743 mm).
3. One in every 25 charging spaces, but not less than one, shall also 
have an 8-foot (2438 mm) wide minimum aisle. A 5-foot (1524 mm) wide 
minimum aisle shall be permitted provided the minimum width of the EV space is 
12 feet (3658 mm).
a. Surface slope for this EV space and the aisle shall not exceed 1 
unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2.083 percent slope) in any direction.
Exception: Where the City's Municipal or Zoning Code permits parking space 
dimensions that are less than the minimum requirements stated in this section 
4.106.4.3.2, and the compliance with which would be infeasible due to particular 
circumstances of a project, an exception may be granted while remaining in 
compliance with California Building Code Section Table 11B-228.3.2.1 and 11B-
812, as applicable.
(m) Green Building Code Section 4.106.4, "Electric vehicle (EV) charging for new 
construction," is amended to add a new subsection and read as follows:
4.106.4.4 Direct current fast charging stations. One DCFC may be substituted for up 
to five (5) EVCS to meet the requirements of 4.106.4.1 and 4.106.4.2. Where ALMS serve 
DCFC stations, the power demand from the DCFC shall be prioritized above Level 1 and Level 
2 spaces.
39 of 96

--- page 40 ---
23.70.050 Local Amendment Regarding Electric Vehicle Charging for New Non-
residential Construction
(a) Green Building Code Section 5.106.5.3, "Electric vehicle (EV) charging," is amended, 
and adds new subsections to read as follows:
5.106.5.3 Electric vehicle (EV) charging. Construction to provide electric vehicle 
infrastructure and facilitate electric vehicle charging shall comply with Section 5.106.5.3 and 
shall be provided in accordance with regulations in the California Building Code and the 
California Electrical Code. Accessible EVCS shall be provided in accordance with the California 
Building Code Chapter 11B Section 11B-228.3. For EVCS signs, refer to Caltrans Traffic 
Operations Policy Directive 13-01 (Zero Emission Vehicle Signs and Pavement Markings) or its 
successor(s). Calculation for spaces shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Exceptions:
(1) On a case-by-case basis where the local enforcing agency has determined 
compliance with this section is not feasible based upon one of the following conditions:
(A) Where there is no local utility power supply.
(B) Where the local utility is unable to supply adequate power.
(C) Where there is evidence suitable to the local enforcement agency 
substantiating that additional local utility infrastructure design requirements, 
directly related to the implementation of Section 5.106.5.3, may increase 
construction cost by an average of $4,500 per parking space. EV infrastructure 
shall be provided up to the level that would not exceed this cost for utility service.
(2) Parking spaces accessible only by automated mechanical car parking 
systems are not required to comply with this code section.5.106.5.3.1 Nonresidential 
Occupancy Class B Offices – Shared Parking Space.
(3) New Construction. Twenty percent (20%) of parking spaces shall be EVCS 
with Level 2 EV Ready. ALMS shall be permitted to reduce load when multiple vehicles 
are charging. Thirty percent (30%) of parking spaces provided shall be Level 2 EV 
Capable.5.106.5.3.2 Hotel and Motel Occupancies – Shared Parking Facilities.
(4) New Construction Five percent (5%) of parking spaces provided shall be 
EVCS with Level 2 EV Ready. ALMS shall be permitted to reduce load when multiple 
vehicles are charging. Twenty-five percent (25%) of parking spaces provided shall be 
Low Power Level 2 EV Ready space. Ten percent (10%) of parking spaces provided 
shall be Level 2 EV Capable.5.106.5.3.3 All Other Nonresidential Occupancies – 
Shared Parking Facilities.
(5) New Construction. Ten percent (10%) of parking spaces provided shall be 
EVCS with Level 2 EV Ready. ALMS shall be permitted to reduce load when multiple 
40 of 96

--- page 41 ---
(e)(k) vehicles are charging. Ten percent (10%) of parking spaces provided shall be Level 2 EV 
Capable.5.106.5.3.4 Direct current fast charging stations. One DCFC may be substituted for 
up to five (5) EVCS to meet the requirements of 5.106.5.3.1, 5.106.5.3.2, and 5.106.5.3.3. 
Where ALMS serve DCFC stations, the power demand from the DCFC shall be prioritized 
above Level 1 and Level 2 spaces.
(b) Green Building Code Section 5.106.5.4 "Electric vehicle (EV) charging: medium-duty 
and heavy-duty," is amended to read as follows:
5.106.5.4 Electric vehicle (EV) charging readiness. Construction shall comply with 
Section 5.106.5.4.1 to facilitate future installation of electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). 
Construction for warehouses, grocery stores and retail stores with planned off-street loading 
spaces shall also comply with Section 5.106.5.4.1 for future installation of medium- and heavy-
duty EVSE. Accessible EVCS shall be provided in accordance with the California Building Code 
Chapter 11B Section 11B-228.3. For EVCS signs, refer to Caltrans Traffic Operations Policy 
Directive 13-01 (Zero Emission Vehicle Signs and Pavement Markings) or its successor(s).
Exceptions:
(1) On a case-by-case basis where the local enforcing agency has determined 
compliance with this section is not feasible based upon one of the following conditions:
(A) Where there is no local utility power supply.
(B) Where the local utility is unable to supply adequate power.
(C) Where there is evidence suitable to the local enforcing agency 
substantiating that additional local utility infrastructure design requirements, 
directly related to the implementation of Section 5.106.5.3, may increase 
construction cost by an average of $4,500 per parking space. EV infrastructure 
shall be provided up to the level that would not exceed this cost for utility service.
23.70.060 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for New Residential 
Construction
Repealed.
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106 "Site Development," is amended to include new 
subsections to read as follows:
4.106.5 All-electric buildings. New construction buildings shall comply with Section 
4.106.5.1 or 4.106.5.2 so that they do not use combustion equipment or are ready to 
accommodate installation of electric heating appliances.
(1) New construction. All newly constructed buildings shall be all-electric 
buildings. Exceptions:
41 of 96

--- page 42 ---
If the applicant establishes that there is not an all-electric prescriptive compliance 
pathway for the building under the California Building Energy Efficiency Standards, and 
that the building is not able to achieve the performance compliance standard applicable 
to the building under the Energy Efficiency Standards using commercially available 
technology and an approved calculation method, then the local enforcing agency may 
grant a modification. The applicant shall comply with Section 4.106.5.2.
Inactive Fuel Gas Infrastructure may be extended to spaces that are anticipated 
to qualify for the exceptions contained in this chapter. The inactive Fuel Gas 
Infrastructure shall not be activated, have a meter installed, or otherwise used unless the 
exemptions specified in this chapter have been confirmed as part of the issuance of a 
building permit. If the Fuel Gas Infrastructure is no longer serving one of the exceptions 
contained in this chapter, it shall either be capped, otherwise terminated, or removed by 
the entity previously entitled to the exemption, in a manner pursuant to all applicable 
Codes.
The City of San Mateo shall have the authority to approve alternative materials, 
design and methods of construction or equipment per California Building Code Section 
104.
(1) Requirements for combustion equipment. Where combustion equipment is 
allowed per Exceptions under 4.106.5.1, the construction drawings shall indicate 
electrical infrastructure and physical space accommodating the future installation of an 
electrical heating appliance in the following ways, as certified by a registered design 
professional or licensed electrical contractor:
(A) Branch circuit wiring, electrically isolated and designed to serve all 
electrical heating appliances in accordance with manufacturer requirements and 
the California Electrical Code, including the appropriate voltage, phase, minimum 
amperage, and an electrical receptacle or junction box within five feet of the 
appliance that is accessible with no obstructions. Appropriately sized conduit 
may be installed in lieu of conductors; and
(B) Labeling of both ends of the unused conductors or conduit shall be 
with "For Future Electrical Appliance"; and
(C) Reserved circuit breakers in the electrical panel for each branch 
circuit, appropriately labeled (i.e "Reserved for Future Electric Range"), and 
positioned on the opposite end of the panel supply conductor connection; and
(D) Connected subpanels, panelboards, switchboards, busbars, and 
transformers shall be sized to serve the future electrical heating appliances. The 
electrical capacity requirements shall be adjusted for demand factors in 
accordance with the California Electric Code; and
(E) Physical space for future electrical heating appliances, including 
equipment footprint, and if needed a pathway reserved for routing of ductwork to 
42 of 96

--- page 43 ---
(f) heat pump evaporator(s), shall be depicted on the construction drawings. The footprint 
necessary for future electrical heating appliances may overlap with non-structural partitions and 
with the location of currently designed combustion equipment.
23.70.070 Local Amendment Regarding All-Electric Requirements for New Nonresidential 
Construction
Repealed.
(a) Green Building Code Section 5.106 "Site Development" is amended to include new 
subsections as follows:
5.106.13 All-electric buildings. New construction buildings shall comply with Section 
5.106.13.1 or 5.106.13.2 so that they do not use combustion equipment or are ready to facilitate 
future electrification.
(1) New construction. All newly constructed buildings shall be all-electric 
buildings.
Exceptions:
(A) Nonresidential buildings containing kitchens located in a place of 
public accommodation, as defined in the California Building Code Chapter 2, may 
apply to the local enforcing agency for a modification to install commercial food 
heat-processing equipment served by fuel gas. The local enforcing agency may 
grant the modification if they find:
(i) A business-related need to cook with combustion equipment; 
and
(ii) The need cannot be achieved equivalently with an electric 
heating appliance; and
(iii) The applicant has installed energy efficient equipment based 
on Energy Star or California Energy Wise qualifications, as available.
(iv) The applicant shall comply with Section 5.106.13.2.
(B) Laboratory areas within Non-Residential Buildings may contain non-
electric Space Conditioning Systems. To take advantage of this exception, an 
applicant shall provide third party verification that the All-electric space heating 
requirement is not cost effective and feasible.
(C) If the applicant establishes that there is not an all-electric prescriptive 
compliance pathway for the building under the California Building Energy 
43 of 96

--- page 44 ---
(g) Efficiency Standards, and that the building is not able to achieve the performance 
compliance standard applicable to the building under the Energy Efficiency Standards using 
commercially available technology and an approved calculation method, then the local enforcing 
agency may grant a modification. The applicant shall comply with Section 5.106.13.25.106.13.2 
Requirements for combustion equipment. Where combustion equipment is allowed per 
exceptions under Section 5.106.13.1, the construction drawings shall indicate electrical 
infrastructure and physical space accommodating the future installation of an electrical heating 
appliance in the following ways, as certified by a registered design professional or licensed 
electrical contractor:
Inactive Fuel Gas Infrastructure may be extended to spaces that are 
anticipated to qualify for the exceptions contained in this chapter. The inactive 
Fuel Gas Infrastructure shall not be activated, have a meter installed, or 
otherwise used unless the exemptions specified in this chapter have been 
confirmed as part of the issuance of a building permit. If the Fuel Gas 
Infrastructure is no longer serving one of the exceptions contained in this 
chapter, it shall either be capped, otherwise terminated, or removed by the entity 
previously entitled to the exemption, in a manner pursuant to all applicable 
Codes.
The City of San Mateo shall have the authority to approve alternative 
materials, design and methods of construction or equipment per California 
Building Code Section 104.
(2) Branch circuit wiring, electrically isolated and designed to serve all electrical 
heating appliances in accordance with manufacturer requirements and the California 
Electrical Code, including the appropriate voltage, phase, minimum amperage, and an 
electrical receptacle or junction box within five feet of the appliance that is accessible 
with no obstructions. Appropriately sized conduit may be installed in lieu of conductors; 
and
(3) Labeling of both ends of the unused conductors or conduit shall be with "For 
Future Electrical Appliance"; and
(4) Reserved circuit breakers in the electrical panel for each branch circuit, 
appropriately labeled (i.e "Reserved for Future Electric Range"), and positioned on the 
opposite end of the panel supply conductor connection; and
(5) Connected subpanels, panelboards, switchboards, busbars, and transformers 
shall be sized to serve the future electrical heating appliances. The electrical capacity 
requirements shall be adjusted for demand factors in accordance with the California 
Electric Code; and
(6) Physical space for future electrical heating appliances, including equipment 
footprint, and if needed a pathway reserved for routing of ductwork to heat pump 
44 of 96

--- page 45 ---
(h) evaporator(s), shall be depicted on the construction drawings. The footprint necessary for 
future electrical heating appliances may overlap with non-structural partitions and with the 
location of currently designed combustion equipment.
23.70.080 Local Amendment Regarding Electrification Requirements for Existing 
Residential Buildings
(a) Green Building Code Section 4.106 "Site Development" is amended and to include 
new subsections as follows:
4.106.5.3 Existing one- and two-family dwellings.
4.106.5.3. Reserved. 1 Space cooling appliance upgrades shall use electricity for 
space heating, unconnected to fuel gas infrastructure. Any other space heating system 
serving the space shall be removed or configured to provide supplemental heat.
4.106.5.3.2 Reserved. Alterations and additions that include water heater 
appliance upgrades shall be all-electric, unconnected to fuel gas infrastructure.
4.106.5.3.3 Kitchen alterations shall include a 240v, 50 ampere circuit and 
receptacle installed within 36 feet of the cooktop, oven, and/or range location.
4.106.5.3.4 Alterations to areas designated for the installation of laundry 
equipment shall include a 240v, 30 ampere circuit and receptacle installed within 36 feet 
of clothes drying appliance location.4.106.5.4 Existing residential buildings.
4.106.5.4.1 Alterations or additions that involve or require an increase to the 
capacity of electrical panels or transformers as part of the scope, the electrical panel 
shall include reserved physical space for overcurrent protection devices, and 
transformers shall include reserved electrical capacity, as calculated per California 
Electric Code Section 220 for the following current or proposed appliances, as applicable 
to the project site, that will not be connected to fuel gas infrastructure:
1. Electric water heaters meeting the requirements of the California 
Energy Code.
2. Electric space heater and air-conditioner meeting the requirements of 
the California Energy Code.
3. Electric pool and/or spa water heater.
4. Electric clothes dryer.
5. Electric cooking equipment.
6. Electric vehicle charger
Exceptions:
1. Buss bar electrical capacity shall not be required to exceed the 
proposed utility electrical service to the building. Capacity and overcurrent 
45 of 96

--- page 46 ---
protection spaces shall be reserved in the priority listed above to the 
extent allowable under the proposed buss bar capacity.
46 of 96

--- page 47 ---
2. Reserved electric vehicle charger panel capacity may be 
shared with one of the following: water heater, clothes dryer, or cooking 
equipment.
3. Electrical panels with internet-connected overcurrent protection 
devices that monitor circuit load and manage power distribution.
4.106.5.4.2 Existing fuel gas infrastructure shall not be extended to any 
appliance, system or device within the building or building property. Inactive fuel gas 
infrastructure shall not be activated or otherwise operated.
Exceptions: The following are exempt from the provisions of Section 4.106.5.3 
"Existing one- and two-family dwellings" and Section 4.106.5.4 "Existing residential 
buildings,"
1. Where meeting the provisions of Section 4.106.5.3 or 4.106.5.4 would 
necessitate an increase in capacity for an electrical panel, feeders, transformer, 
or electrical service that is not part of the appliance upgrade scope, in order to 
meet the requirements of the California Electrical Code. To qualify for this 
exception, applicant must provide a calculation conforming to the California 
Electrical Code.
2. Economic hardship exemptions shall be provided if the replacement 
cost for an all-electric system, including all incentives, is greater than 110 percent 
of a like-for-like fuel gas system replacement, including the future costs of 
electrification retrofits. The building official shall consult with the Community 
Development Director in deciding whether to approve an economic hardship 
exemption.
23.70.090 Expiration
These local code amendments shall sunset when the California Green Building 
Standards Code, 2022 Edition, is no longer in effect.
47 of 96

--- page 48 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT


--- page 49 ---
TASS See SoS TEE Ps ACH

From: Dave Clark <qgigghmaiesipamleeteeeeeees >

Sent: Sunday, December 8, 2024 6:23 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Andrea Chow; Adam Loraine: Mary Eusebio;
Robert Whitehair

Subject: FW: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes : prewiring

Attachments: FactSheet.ResElecReady.2022.pdf

FYI -

Regarding Item 2 on Wednesday Agenda, the topic of prewiring has come up for discussion in the power group

(now a 501c3).
Page 4:

its too bad that the gas section of the reach code has been watered down. Conforming to 2022 Energy codeis a
good step forward. Please see the attached Energy Ace Fact Sheet on Electric Energy Readiness. Anything we can

In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness
requirement for alterations

of kitchens or laundry areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6

feet of appliance

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the

2022 Energy Code.

do to up the game and create more climate friendly structures is a win, including

§150.0(u) Electric Cooktop ready

§ 160.9(b) Loose Fill Insulation

§ 150 (t) heat pump space heater ready
§ 150 (v) clothes dryer ready

Single-family Buildings

Single-family buildings have electric readiness requirements as
shown in Figure 1:

+ Heat pump space heater .

+ Heat pump water heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Electric clothes dryer

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired
appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

+ A heat pump water heater also requires space large enough
to install it and plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and
cold water.

49 of 96


--- page 50 ---
Niultifamily Buildings

Multifamily buildings have electric readiness requirements as shown

in Figure 2:

+ Heat pump space heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Electric clothes dryer

+ Electric heat pump water heater with plumbing for a
condensate drain (This requirement is not applicable for a
central water-heating system.)

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet.

From: Cunningham, Kelly (she/her/hers) <KACV@pge.com>

Date: Sunday, December 8, 2024 at 5:23 PM

To: Dave Clark < , power@builditgreen.org <power@builditgreen.org>
Subject: RE: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes: prewiring

Classification: Public

It is an electric-ready requirement. Here is an Energy Code Ace fact sheet with the exact sections of code linked through
the Reference Ace.

https://www.energycodeace.com/resources/?itemld=91861

Mandatory requirements for cooktop, electric ready:

150.0(u)
160.9(b}

Kelly

Kelly Cunningham | Codes.& Standards
Pacific Gas and Electric Company

530-574-8756 | kelly. cunningham@pge.com

she / her / hers (?)
Embracing diversity and inclusion helps us do our best work every day.

50 of 96


--- page 51 ---
From: power @builditgreen.org <power@builditgreen.org> On Behalf Of Dave Clark
Sent: Saturday, December 7, 2024 3:47 PM

To: power@builditgreen.org

Subject: [POWER 4 ] FW: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes : prewiring

City of San Mateo Sustainability Commission agenda for meeting next Wed Dec 11th
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/Meeting?meetingTemplateld=9045

Jenny,
Possibly of interest to panel group. City of San Mateo is pretty proactive. While react codes for gas
appliances are much watered down, there is still some anticipation of baaqmd rules.

The agenda also mentions pre-wiring at 3’ instead of 6’ in kitchen and laundry areas for new construction per
2022 Energy Code.

>> In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness
requirement for alterations

of kitchens or laundry areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6
feet of appliance

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the
2022 Energy Code.

1 guess that tnis isthe ESS Ready requirement?

{iste Ase7 ricuihio47 oonst suctodvh7Oresidlondaléz gtaliding Elan icuotanan aeusaescoerieree

§ 150(s) solar panel ready
§ 150 (t) heat pump
§ 150 (v) clothes dryer

| see kitchen hoods, make-up air, lighting. Not sure where 240V circuit for induction stoves fit into the 2022 Energy
Code.

|------ (page 2 of agenda)

The Energy Performance Reach Code would increase the required EDR1 score for single family residential
buildings and the

required Source Energy scores for alt other buildings. By increasing these requirements, the resultis a decrease in

3

51 of 96


--- page 52 ---
emissions from newly constructed buildings. The Energy Performance Reach Code would adopt the following
performance
metrics:

Multi-Family Residential (Low-rise, < 3 stories)

To meet the higher standards proposed in the Reach Code, new buildings can include only electricappliances and
systems

or gas and electric systems. For mixed-fuel buildings, additional energy efficiency measures, solar photovoltaic
(PV)

systems, and/or a battery would be necessary to meet the Source Energy compliance margin. The enhanced
performance

requirements would apply equally to mixed-fuel and all-electric buildings and are cost-effectively achievable
through the

Energy Code’s performance pathway without requiring appliances that exceed federal efficiency standards.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

For buildings that include natural gas in their design, the proposed reach code also includes electric-readiness
requirements. Note, nearly all of the reach code’s electric-readiness requirements are also included in the 2025
Energy

Code as a mandatory requirement. Installing the electrical infrastructure during initial construction is far less
costly than

retrofitting buildings later to support electric equipment. Electric-readiness helps prepare building owners for the
Bay Area ,

Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) regulations requiring zero-NOx water heating and space heating
equipment by

2027 and 2029, respectively.

The proposed ordinance exempts Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) from reach code requirements. The 2022
Statewide

Utility Program Cost-Effectiveness Study highlights that compliance, and cost-effectiveness can bemore
challenging for

smaller dwelling units like ADUs. Staff recommends exempting ADUs to align with state legislation aimed at
protecting and

streamlining ADU development while avoiding any restrictions or perceived barriers. While ADUs are increasingly
being

constructed as all-electric due to the higher cost of installing new gas infrastructure, this exemption ensures
maximum

flexibility for applicants.

Green Building Code Amendment: Repeal of All-electric New Construction Requirements, Repeal of Electric

Appliance
Requirements during Renovations, and Minor Update to the Electric-readiness Requirements

52 of 96


--- page 53 ---
The proposed ordinance repeals the unenforceable components of the City’s reach codes due to the federal court
case.

This includes the requirements for all-electric new construction and the provisions that prohibit the installation of
gas

infrastructure or equipment in existing buildings.

In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness requirement for
alterations

of kitchens or laundry. areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6 feet of
appliance ;

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the 2022
Energy Code.

From: Brian Schmidt <brian@menlospark.org>
Date: Saturday, December 7, 2024 at 10:03 AM
To: Dave Clark <qgeee>, Wendy Chou inti , Robert Whitehair

<item >, fib sv-supporters@googlegroups.com <ffbsv-
supporters@googlegroups.com>, Angela Evans <

Subject: Re: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

Thanks Dave! Anyone attending/watching this? Please let us know the outcome if you are.

From: Dave Clark Ee.

Sent: Friday, December 6, 2024 9:36 PM

To: Brian Schmidt <bri lospark.org>; Wendy Chou <wendy.chou@acterra.org>; Robert Whitehair
< >

Subject: Fw: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

new construction reach codes

https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/Meeting?meetingTemplateld=9045

~ dave

From: City of San Mateo <webmaster-cityofsanmateo.org@sharedi1.ccsend.com>
Sent: Friday, December 6, 2024 16:30

_ To: Dave Clark ie

Subject: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

53 of 96


--- page 54 ---
2022 ENERGY CODE

Tile 24, Port 6

Fact Sheet

i Rae eed

~ osonsinatyrceantncettatsyataorasviges

What Is Electrification and ee
What Are Its Benefits?

Electrification is the process of replacing technologies that use
fossil fuels (such as natural gas and propane) with technologies
that use electricity.

California is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, while creating an energy system that is resilient to
climate risks. Because the California electric grid is clean and
will get cleaner over time, building electrification can reduce
GHG emissions, while improving air quality. The 2022 California
Building Energy Efficiency Standards (Energy Code or Title 24,
Part 6) encourages electrification through electric readiness
measures, while continuing its long-standing focus on energy
efficiency. Efficiency and electrification have symbiotic benefits
and are both critical for decarbonization of buildings.

Efficient electric technologies are commercially available, such
as electric heat pump space heaters, heat pump water heaters,
induction cooktops and electric (or heat pump) clothes dryers.

What Is Included in this
Fact Sheet?

The 2022 Energy Code requires most newly constructed single-
family and multifamily buildings with gas-fired appliances,
furnaces and water heaters to be ready for the future
installation of electric appliances and equipment.

RATA RONAN TEL ete

hata rita?

Bay

sedge ane

wcapank aE OPE ETAT GEA

A er eet

i
:
é
&
:
i
5
Hi
ft

TE EE Eo ES

"Eiko" Bang BIT 2
aaa

:

£ q
Compliance measures discussed in this fact sheet apply to i :
newly constructed single-family buildings-and multifamily =
dwelling units and common use areas, 7 '

QS FnergyCodedce”

2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residentiol Elechic Readiness

Residential

Electric Readiness

How Does this Fact Sheet
Apply to Your Project?

Use this fact sheet to get an overview of Energy Code
compliance requirements to make a newly constructed single-
family or multifamily building electric ready.

1. What requirements does your project need to meet to
comply with the Energy Code?

2. Is testing or verification required in the compliance process?
3. How should you document your project's compliance?

Table of Contents

What Makes a Project Electric Ready?
Electric Readiness Requirements

Heat Pump Space Heater

4
4
COOKOD 2... ee eeeceecceessansereserertesteraeseee 4
Clothes Dryer oo... ceccecseeecceeeeeevessccecees 5
6
7
8

Heat Pump Water Heater... ec ceccessesceeccuscuces

Compliance FOrMS...........cceeccecccescesceucsesenscnccuecs
For More Information

Ce ee ee er rrr

Na coi

Poge | of 9
2023-07-28

54 of 96


--- page 55 ---
What Makes a Project Electric Retrofit Ready
Electric Ready? Single-family Buildings |

Electric readiness requirements are triggered when gas appliances
and equipment are installed in most newly constructed single- Gas Clothes Dryer Gos Furnace

family and multifamily buildings.

A combination of several things ready a building for the future
installation of electric systems and appliances:

+ Sufficient capacity in the installed utility service /
+ Dedicated wiring

+ Reserved electrical breaker space

+ Space large enough for the electric appliance or equipment

+ Plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and cold water when
buildings must prepare for future installation of a heat pump
hot water heater

putt

— eo
Future Electric / Future Electric Heat
Pump Space Heater

cae,

Single-family ‘Buildings

Single-family buildings have electric readiness requirements as
shown in Figure 1:

+ Heat pump space heater

+ Heat pump water heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Flectric clothes dryer

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired
appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

+ A heat pump water heater also requires space large enough .  Furure Elaetele:

to install it and plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and Heat Pump
cold water, Water Heater '.

KO Eten
KO ™ electric

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet, ~

Single-family buildings also have requirements to be energy
storage system (ESS) ready, which are covered in the Single-family
and Low-rise Multifamily Solar and Battery Systems Fact Sheet
available from the Energy Code Ace™ Resources landing page at
bit ly/ECA-building-fact-sheets.

2022 Tithe 24, Part & - Residential Electric Readiness

55 of 96


--- page 56 ---
SAI A A ER Rl SANE BEN ER ASI IT ONO IF ls Ss PRD SAGAS A RPE RT en SORT Sm GNS OEE Woe

Multifamily Buildings

Multifamily buildings have electric readiness requirements as shown
in Figure 2:

+ Heat pump space heater
+ Electric cooktop
+ Electric clothes dryer

+ Electric heat pump water heater with plumbing for a
condensate drain (This requirement is not applicable for a
central water-heating system.)

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet.

Die eFC AR wakeipalthceawreeteta iz I Bin Tune hI Cokie a

Electric Retrofit Ready
Multifamily Buildings

Gos Tankess Water Heoter (in dwelling unit}

Fucure Eleceric

Furure Electric Hear
d Pump Space Heorer
wow
ou
Foture Electric

. Gas Clothes Dryer
« — (in dwelling unit}

Gas Furnace
(in dwelling unit}

* 6

Future Electric
Dryer

Future
Electric
Cooktop

* Gas Clothes Dryer .

. {in common area) -* Gas Cooktop (in dwelling unit}

a?
»
ees *

Figure 2. Electric Retrofit Ready Equipment and Appliances for Multifamily Buildings

jad SS VEAN si Die Baril

2022 Title 24, Part & - Residential flectic Readiness Poge 3 of 9

56 of 96


--- page 57 ---
Electric Readiness
Requirements

Heat Pump Space H Heater Readiness
§§750.0(t), 160.9(a)

Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane furnace is installed:
+ Ina newly constructed single-family home

+ Inan individual dwelling unit in a newly constructed
multifamily building

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Additions
+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings (R-type occupancies): when an
electric heat pump space heater is installed and there is no
gas hook-up for this appliance type

What Buildings Are R Occupancies?

R-1: Hotels, motels and similar businesses

R-2: Apartment buildings, dormitories and multi-user
residences with more than two dwelling units

R-3; Single-family homes and duplexes, as well as other
permanent dwellings

R-4: Care facilities and similar businesses

Energy Code Requirements

+ A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:

® Within 3 ft from the furnace and accessible to the furnace
without obstructions

9 With branch circuit conductors rated at 30 amps minimum
4 With the blank cover labeled “240V ready”

+ A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel
for a double pole circuit breaker for future installation of a
heat pump space heater. The reserved space must be labeled
“For Future 240V use.”

+ All electrical components must be installed in accordance
with the California Electrical Code.

agate

kwh What Is Accessible?

Areas for future electric appliances and equipment must be
accessible.

The Energy Code defines accessible as “having access
thereto, but which first may require removal or opening of
access panels, doors, or similar obstructions."

Readily accessible is defined as “capable of being reached
quickly for operation, repair or inspection, without
requiring climbing or removing obstacles, or resorting to

access equipment.”

bed Wace EL Fan Aetna nenar aie

2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residential Electric Readiness

Electric Cooktop Readiness |

§8150.0(u), 160.9(b)

Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane cooktop is installed:
+ Ina newly constructed single-family home

+ In a newly constructed individual dwelling unit of a
multifamily building

Non-applicahle Projects and Exceptions

+ Additions
+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings: when an electric cooktop is
installed and there is no gas hook-up for this appliance type

Energy Code Requirements

+ A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:

Q Within 3 ft from the cooktop accessible to the cooktop
without obstructions

9 With branch circuit conductors rated at 50 amps minimum
4 With the blank cover labeled as “240V ready”

+ A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel
for a double pole circuit breaker for the future installation of

an electric cooktop. The reserved space must be labeled “for
Future 240V use.”

+ All electrical components must be installed in accordance
with the California Electrical Code.

Page 4 of 9

57 of 96


--- page 58 ---
Electric Clothes Dryer Readiness : Installed Equipment or

$5150.0(v}, 180.9(c) Electric Clothes Clothes dryer location with | + A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:
Q mandatory Requirements Dryer Ready gas or propane plumbing 4 Within 3 ft from the clothes dryer location and accessible to the
~ to serve a single-family «am ta .
mye «ase clothes dryer location with no obstructions
§150.0(v) building or an individual ; _ 7
Commonly Applicable Project Scopes §160.9{c) dwelling unit ina 4 With branch circuit conductors rated at 30 amps minimum
7 ; multifamily building With a blank cover labeled as “240V ready”

This measure applies when a gas or propane dryer is installed: + A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel for a
+ Ina newly constructed single-family home double pole circuit breaker for the future installation of an electric
+ Ina newly constructed individual dwelling unit or common cooktop. The reserved space must be labeled “For Future 240V use.

use area of a multifamily building Clothes dryer locations with | + Conductors or a raceway must be installed:

chal lah al With termination points at the main electrical panel, via
Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions : eae subpanels if applicable, to a location no more than 3 ft from each
in a multifamily building gas outlet or the location of the future electric clothes dryer

+ Additions 4 With the ends of the conductors or raceway labeled “Future
+ Alterations 240V Use”
+ New residential buildings: when an electric clothes dryer is + The conductors or a raceway and any intervening subpanels,

installed and there is no gas hook-up for this appliance type panelboards, switchboards and busbars must be sized to meet the

future electric power requirements, at the service voltage to the
: point at which the conductors serving the building connect to the

Energy Code Requirements utility distribution system.
See Table 1 for requirements. + The capacity requirements may be adjusted for demand factors in

~ accordance with the California Electrical Code.

+ Gas flow rates must be determined in accordance with the
California Plumbing Code.

+ The capacity must be one of the following:
9 24 amps at 208/240 volts per clothes dryer

9 2.6 VA for each 10,000 Btu per hour of rated gas input or gas
pipe capacity

The electrical power required to provide equivalent functionality
of the gas-powered equipment

All electrical components must be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code.

4

Table 1, Electric Clothes Dryer Ready Requirements

paler ap U TM hls 38

2022 Title 24, Part 6 - Residential Hectic Readiness Poge 5 of 9

58 of 96


--- page 59 ---
Heat Pump Water Heater Readiness
§§150.0(n), 160.4(a)

Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane water heater is installed:
+ In anewly constructed single-family home

+ Ina newly constructed multifamily building in which each dwelling unit has a separate water
heater

+ As an added water heater to serve a new Addition to a single-family home or multifamily
building

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings: when a heat pump water heater is installed and there is no gas hook-
up for this appliance type

+ Centralized water-heating systems for multifamily buildings in which dwelling units do not have
separate water heaters

+ A dedicated 125-volt, 20-amp electrical receptacle must be installed:

> With connection to the electric panel via a 120/240-volt 3 conductor with a 10 AWG
copper branch circuit =

9 Accessible to the water heater with no obstructions
4 With both ends of the unused conductor labeled “Spare” and electrically isolated

+ A space must be reserved for a single pole circuit breaker in the electrical panel and labeled
“Future 240V Use.”

Table 2. Heat Pump Water Heater (HPWH) Ready Requirements for Multifamily and Single-family Buildings

Bu Ave rtuuiinntinends HuaNIN Kh oe

aac BSE NSN ISH Ruki Aaiiy WHSMEICION aT

2022 Tile 24, Part 6 - Residential Flectric Readiness

See

neat SIAR ert terete hire ranerereurarprinseessimeenie—e

Energy Code Requirements

Designated Space: There must be a space large enough to accommodate a heat pump water heater:

9 This can be the same space used for the installed water heater or a space adjacent to the
installed water heater.

) The space must be a minimum of 2.5' x 2.5' x7" tall.

Condensate Drain: A condensate drain must be plumbed:
The drain must be no mare than 2 inches higher than the base of the installed water heater.
Q The drain must drain without pump assistance.

Q See Table 2 for additional requirements based on the distance of the designated future
installation space from the current water heater.

Other Requirements: Additional requirements may apply:
9 For single-family buildings, see $150.0(n).
4 For multifamily buildings, see §160.4{a}.

Power Requirements

+ A dedicated 240-volt branch circuit must be installed within 3 feet from the designated space:
4 With a 30 amps minimum rating

4 With the blank cover labeled “240V ready“

+ A space must be reserved on the main electrical service panel to allow for the installation

of a double pole circuit breaker for a future heat pump water heater (HPWH) installation and
permanently labeled “For Future 240V use.”

Plumbing Configuration
+ Either a dedicated cold water supply must be installed or the cold water supply must be routed
through the designated HPWH location just before reaching the gas or propane water heater.

+ The hot water supply pipe coming out of the gas or propane water heater must be routed
through the designated HPWH location before serving any fixtures.

+ Hot and cold water piping must be exposed and readily accessible at the designated
HPWH location for future installation of a HPWH.

astute site RRA VEC R vais ess

Poge 4 of 9

59 of 96


--- page 60 ---
Single-family Buildings CF2R-ELC-01-E

This Prescriptive form must be filled out viaa | This form must be completed by the installer
HERS provider for a registered document. and must be registered via a HERS provider.

CF1R-PRF-01-E

This Performance form must be filled
out with CEC-certified software
(bit.ly/CEC-2022-Compliance-Software) and
then registered via a HERS provider.

Multifamily Buildings <3 Habitable Stories LMCC-ELC-01-E LMCI-ELC-01-E

This form is available only from a HERS This form is available only from a HERS
provider and must be registered with a HERS provider and must be registered with a HERS
provider. provider.

Multifamily Buildings = 4 Habitable Stories NRCC-ELC-E NRCI-ELC-E

This form is available through the VCA, and This form is available through the VCA and
it does not need to be registered viaa HERS | must be completed by the installer, It does not
provider. need to be registered via a HERS provider.

For single-family buildings, forms are supported on the Energy Code Ace Get Forms landing.page: https://enerqycodeace.com/content/get-forms.

+ The CFIR form defines Energy Code requirements for a whole project, including any electric readiness requirements. Currently nothing is being reported on CF1R form for the electric readiness

requirements. {Tip: Provide a Mandatory note block including these requirements within the design documents.) Instead, the electric readiness requirements are documented on the CF2R-ELC-01. If
there are HERS requirements, the form must be registered via a HERS provider. Find a HERS Provider at bit.ly/CEC-HERS-Providers.

+ The CF2R form must be provided by installers to match the CF1R form electric readiness requirements and registered via a HERS provider.

For multifamily buildings with 3 or fewer habitable stories, LMCC and LMCI Prescriptive forms are generated by using a HERS provider website, Find a HERS Provider at bit.| /CEC-HERS-Providers.

For multifamily buildings with 4 or more habitable stories, NRCC and NRCI Prescriptive forms are available through the VCA at https://ener

forms are available by using CEC-approved Performance compliance software. See more about this software at bit ly/CEC-2022-Com fiance-So
{although it is required for NRCV forms).

HERS =Home Energy Rating System; VCA = Virtual Compliance Assistant.

codeace.com/content/project-tool. NRCC Performance
ftware. No HERS verification is required for these forms

Table 3. Energy Code Residential Electric Readiness Compliance Forms

onanersrn

2022 Title 24, Part 6 - Residential flectiic Readiness Page 7 of 9

60 of 96


--- page 61 ---
Big Srtinc Rb haere koala aKUstA.

ENERGY “COMMISSION } ADDITIONAL F
www energy.ca.gov HERS Providers
Learn more about the California Energy Commission (CEC) and its Check the CEC website to see if new providers have been
programs on its website. approved bit.ly/CEC-HERS-Providers.
2022 Building Energy Efficiency Standards CalCERTS (HERS Provider}
bit.ly/CEC2022Standards www.calcerts.com
Explore the main CEC web portal for the 2022 Energy Code, CHEERS (HERS Provider)
including information, documents and historical information. www.cheers.org
2022 Building Energy Efficiency Standards Summary Reach Codes
bitly/CEC2022Summa LocalEnergyCodes.com
View or download this visual summary of the Energy Code’s Collaborating with cities, counties and stakeholders to
purpose, current changes and impact, drive reach code development and adoption for long-term

climate and energy efficiency benefits. View a list of adopted

2022 Single-family Residential Compliance Manual, ordinances at www.LocalEnerayCodes.com

Chapter 10
bit.ly/single-famil

-compliance-manual

2022 Nonresidential and Multifamily Compliance Manual,
Chapter 11, Section 10
bit.ly/nonresidential-multifamily-compliance-manual

Energy Code Hotline
Call: 1-800-772-3300 (Free)

Email: Title24@ener

Online Resource Center

bitly/CEC-ORC
Use these online resources developed for building and
enforcement communities to learn more about the Energy Code.

Modernized Appliance Efficiency Database System, (MAEDbS)
bitly/MAEDbS

Search this database to find products that comply with the
Energy Code.

Eee

2022 Title 24, Part 6 - Residential flectric Readiness

(Continued)

Poge 8 of 9

61 of 96


--- page 62 ---
For More Information
(continued)

Stop by this online “one-stop-shop” for no-cost tools,
training and resources designed te help you comply with

California's Title 24, Part 6 and Title 20.

Explore this suite of interactive tools to understand the
compliance process, required forms, installation techniques

and energy efficiency regulations in California.

Reference Ace -
wwww.ener

keyword search and hyperlinked text.

codeace.com/content/tools-ace-reference-ace
Navigate the Title 24, Part 6 Energy Code using an index,

Training

key measures.
Of Special Interest:

www.enerayveodeace.com/trainin

On-demand, live in-person and ontine training alternatives
are tailored to a variety of industry professionals and address

§ 2022 Title 24, Part 6 Essentials — Residential Standards:

What's New

Solar and Battery Storage

bit ly/ECA-training-2022-res-whats-new
9 2022 Title 24, Part 6 Essentials — Single-family Standards:

bit. ly/ECA-training-2022-sf-solar-batter

sco eh Nitin SURGE Ata Lt

d Resources

www.ener

codeace.

com/resources

Downloadable materials provide practical-and concise

guidance on how and when to comply with California's

building and appliance energy efficiency standards.
Of Special Interest:
Fact Sheets for Buildings
9 Single-family Buildings: Just the Basics: HERS Verification

Fact Sheets for Appliances

& MAEDDS 101

® 120 Basics - Retailers, Distributors & Installers

9 2022 Title 24; Part 6 Essentials — Single-family Standards
for Architects and Designers

Search our online knowledge base or submit your question

to Energy Code Ace experts.

Get Forms
WAww.ener

codeace.com/content/get-forms

Find the CF1R forms you need.

Virtual Compliance Assistant

www.ener

codeace.com/content/project-tool

Get interactive help to fill in NRCC or LMCC Forms.

This program is funded by California utility customers and administered by Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PGRE}, San Diego Gas & Electric Com;

© 2022 PGBE, SOGKE and SCE, All rights reserved,

of any data, information, method, product, policy or process disclosed in this document: or represents that its use will not infringe any privately-owned rights including,

except that this document may be used,

copied, and distributed without modification. Neither PG&E, SDGRE, nor SCE

bit.ly/ECA-training-2022-sf-architect-desigqner

© Check the Energy Code Ace YouTube channel for videos on
appliances regulated under Title 20:
bit.ly/ECA-YouTube-channel

SUUTHLNN CALIFORNTA

ZSDGE = _JidisGN

Energy for What's Ahead®

Pacifie Ga

hor any of their employees makes any warranty,

but not limited to patents, trademarks or copyrights,

any specific commercial products, processes or services by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation or favoring.
2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residential Hectrit Readiness

Create an account on the Energy Code Ace site and select
an industry role for your profile in order to receive messages
about all our offerings!

sand

Electric Company”

pany (SDG&E*), and Souther California Edison Company {SCE} under the auspices of the Califomia Public Uti

express or im

; of assumes any legal Jial

ity or responsibility for the accuracy,

completeness or usefulness

Images used in this document are intended for illustrative purposes only, Any reference or appearance herein to

Page 9 of 9

62 of 96


--- page 63 ---
POST PACKET
PUBLIC COMMENT


--- page 64 ---
rr

From: BC4AD <BC4AD

Sent: Wednesday, December 11, 2024 6:17 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: 12/11/24 S&l Meeting Agenda Item #2 Reach Codes

Dear City Clerk, please enter into the public record and circulate to S&! Commissioners and confirm receipt of this email.

Dear Commissioners,

My name is John and our group BC4AD is a coalition of residents seeking common sense in government. | work in San
Mateo frequently and spend a lot of time in the city. The reach codes come from a good place but have received bad
guidance. We all want to be good stewards of our environment. However, we must be careful that we do not fall into

the trap of taking everything the alarmists claim at face value.

Left out of the greater discussion is the science that has proven to show that climate change as presented is propaganda.
| have included the 2011, the Nongovernmental Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC) published Climate Change
Reconsidered: 2011 Interim Report, a 400-page report containing summaries and analysis of scientific research published
since the original 2009 edition of Climate Change Reconsidered. While not as comprehensive as the 2009 report,

the interim Report contains reviews of nearly 1,000 new research studies covering subjects including computer models,
forcings and feedbacks, paleoclimate and recent temperatures, and more. According to the report, “natural causes are
very likely to be [the] dominant” cause of climate change that took place in the twentieth and at the start of the twenty-
first centuries. “We are not saying anthropogenic greenhouse gases (GHG) cannot produce some warming or have not in

the past. Our conclusion is that the evidence shows they are not playing a substantial role.”

https://climatechangereconsidered.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Full-Interim-Report.pdf

| am also including the 2009 Report: http://weather.missouri.edu/gcc/CCR2009FullReport.pdf

880-page rebuttal of the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate

Change (IPCC), three years in the making, was released in June 2009. Coauthored and edited by S. Fred
Singer, Ph.D., and Craig Idso, Ph.D. and produced with contributions and reviews by an international coalition
of scientists, it provides an independent examination of the evidence available on the causes and
consequences of climate change in the published, peer-reviewed literature examined without bias and
selectivity. It includes many research papers ignored by the IPCC plus additional scientific results that became
available after the IPCC deadline of May 2006.

The reports must be taken into account as it regards public health & safety in the realm of changing the fundamental

fabric of the city. The reach codes are too restrictive in the sense that they are being used in attempting to bypass the

64 of 96


--- page 65 ---
9th Circuit Court ruling by making gas use expensive and effectively prohibiting it. Natural gas is vital to national security

and implementing codes that will try and diminish its use is bad public policy.

Finally, electricity is way too expensive. Many in our group are already paying in excess of S900 monthly in PG&E and
PG&E keeps getting rate increases passed every quarter from the CPUC. This is a burden on working class families &
people on fixed incomes. Basic economic theory & common sense tell you that increasing competition results in cheaper
prices for the consumer, However, mandating and cornering a market is effectively creating a monopoly by legislation
which has downstream & upstream effects in the supply chain & places the less fortunate with the decision over heating

vs eating.
Sincerely on behalf of BC4AD,

John

Sent with Proton Mail secure email.

65 of 96


--- page 66 ---
LL TL TS aS LOSS aTe Sasa SSS rcs iht sR .SGRAO SS C

From: Dave Clark <_gigigeimieieteeees >

Sent: Sunday, December 8, 2024 6:23 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Andrea Chow; Adam Loraine; Mary Eusebio;
Robert Whitehair

Subject: FW: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes : prewiring

Attachments: FactSheet.ResElecReady.2022.pdf

FY! —

Regarding Item 2 on Wednesday Agenda, the topic of prewiring has come up for discussion in the power group

(now a 501c3).

Page 4:

In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness
requirement for alterations

of kitchens or laundry areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6

feet of appliance

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the

2022 Energy Code.

its too bad that the gas section of the reach code has been watered down. Conforming to 2022 Energy codeis a
good step forward. Please see the attached Energy Ace Fact Sheet on Electric Energy Readiness. Anything we can
do to up the game and create more climate friendly structures is a win, including

§150.0(u) Electric Cooktop ready

§ 160.9(b) Loose Fill Insulation

§ 150 (t) heat pump space heater ready
§ 150 (v) clothes dryer ready

Single-family Buildings

Single-family buildings have electric readiness requirements as
shown in Figure 1:

+ Heat pump space heater .

+ Heat pump water heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Electric clothes dryer

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired
appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

+ A heat pump water heater also requires space large enough
to install it and plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and
cold water.

66 of 96


--- page 67 ---
Multifamily Buildings

Multifamily buildings have electric readiness requirements as shown

in Figure 2:

+ Heat pump space heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Electric clothes dryer

+ Electric heat pump water heater with plumbing for a
condensate drain (This requirement is not applicable for a
central water-heating system.)

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet.

From: Cunningham, Kelly (she/her/hers) <KACV@pge.com>
Date: Sunday, December 8, 2024 at 5:23 PM

To: Dave Clark < , power@builditgreen.org <power@builditgreen.org>
Subject: RE: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes: prewiring

Classification: Public

It is an electric-ready requirement. Here is an Energy Code Ace fact sheet with the exact sections of code linked through
the Reference Ace.

https://www.energycodeace.com/resources/?itemid=91861

Mandatory requirements for cooktop, electric ready:

150.0(u}
160.9(b)

Kelly

Kelly Cunningham | Codes & Standards
Pacific Gas and Electric Company

530-574-8756 | kelly.cunningham@pge.com

she /her/ hers (?)
Embracing diversity and inclusion helps us do our best work every day.

67 of 96


--- page 68 ---
From: power@builditgreen.org <power@builditgreen.org> On Behalf Of Dave Clark
Sent: Saturday, December 7, 2024 3:47 PM

To: power@builditgreen.org

Subject: [POWER 4 ] FW: City of San Mateo New Building Reach Codes : prewiring

City of San Mateo Sustainability Commission agenda for meeting next Wed Dec 11th
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/Meeting?meetingTemplate!d=9045

Jenny,
Possibly of interest to panel group. City of San Mateo is pretty proactive. While reach codes for gas
appliances are much watered down, there is still some anticipation of baaqmd rules.

The agenda also mentions pre-wiring at 3’ instead of 6’ in kitchen and laundry areas for new construction per
2022 Energy Code.

>> In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness
requirement for alterations

of kitchens or laundry areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6
feet of appliance

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction in the
2022 Energy Code.

l guess that this is the ESS s Ready requirement?

§ 150(s) solar panel ready
§ 150 (t) heat pump
§ 150 (v) clothes dryer

| see kitchen hoods, make-up air, lighting. Not sure where 240V circuit for induction stoves fit into the 2022 Energy
Code.

[------ (page 2 of agenda)

The Energy Performance Reach Code would increase the required EDR1 score for single family residential
buildings and the

required Source Energy scores for all other buildings. By increasing these requirements, the resultis a decrease in

3

68 of 96


--- page 69 ---
emissions from newly constructed buildings. The Energy Performance Reach Code would adopt the following
performance
metrics:

BulldingType

Single Family Residential Buildings

Compliance Margin

Exceed the standard EDR1 requirement by at least 9

Multi-Family Residential (Low-rise, <3 stories} Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 10%
Multi-Family Residential (High-rise, 2 4 stories) Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 4%
Non-Residential Exceed the standard Source Energy requirement by 7%

To meet the higher standards proposed in the Reach Code, new buildings can include only electric appliances and
systems

or gas and electric systems. For mixed-fuel buildings, additional energy efficiency measures, solar photovoltaic
(PV)

systems, and/or a battery would be necessary to meet the Source Energy compliance margin. The enhanced
performance

requirements would apply equally to mixed-fuel and all-electric buildings and are cost-effectively achievable
through the

Energy Code’s performance pathway without requiring appliances that exceed federal efficiency standards.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

For buildings that include natural gas in their design, the proposed reach code also includes electric-readiness
requirements. Note, nearly all of the reach code’s electric-readiness requirements are also included in the 2025
Energy

Code as a mandatory requirement. Installing the electrical infrastructure during initial construction is far less
costly than

retrofitting buildings later to support electric equipment. Electric-readiness helps prepare building owners for the
Bay Area ,

Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) regulations requiring zero-NOx water heating and space heating
equipment by

2027 and 2029, respectively.

The proposed ordinance exempts Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) from reach code requirements. The 2022
Statewide

Utility Program Cost-Effectiveness Study highlights that compliance, and cost-effectiveness can be more
challenging for

smaller dwelling units like ADUs. Staff recommends exempting ADUs to align with state legislation aimed at
protecting and

Streamlining ADU development while avoiding any restrictions or perceived barriers. While ADUs are increasingly
being

constructed as all-electric due to the higher cost of installing new gas infrastructure, this exemption ensures
maximum

flexibility for applicants.

Green Building Code Amendment: Repeal of All-electric New Construction Requirements, Repeal of Electric

Appliance
Requirements during Renovations, and Minor Update to the Electric-readiness Requirements

69 of 96


--- page 70 ---
The proposed ordinance repeals the unenforceable components of the City’s reach codes due to the federal court
case.

This includes the requirements for all-electric new construction and the provisions that prohibit the installation of
gas

infrastructure or equipment in existing buildings.

In addition, staff recommends this reach code ordinance to update the City’s electric-readiness requirement for
alterations

of kitchens or laundry. areas to include an outlet within 3 feet of appliance installation instead of within 6 feet of
appliance :

installation. This minor edit aligns with the electric-readiness requirements for new construction inthe 2022
Energy Code.

From: Brian Schmidt <brian@menlospark.org>
Date: Saturday, December 7, 2024 at 10:03 AM

To: Dave Clark Bc Pace am Wendy Chou (axumigumenttemmemmmemee | Robert Whitehair
“reels eter >, ffosv-supporters@googlegroups.com <ffbsv-

sSupporters@googlegroups.com>, Angela Evans <

Subject: Re: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

Thanks Dave! Anyone attending/watching this? Please let us know the outcome if you are.

From: Dave Clark Ea.

Sent: Friday, December 6, 2024 9:36 PM

To: Brian S jdt <bri lospark.org>; Wendy Chou <wendy.chou@acterra.org>; Robert Whitehair
< >

Subject: Fw: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

new construction reach codes

https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/Meeting?meetingTemplateld=9045

~ dave

From: City of San Mateo <webmaster-cityofsanmateo.org@shared1.ccsend.com>
Sent: Friday, December 6, 2024 16:30

_ To: Dave Clark >

Subject: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission Meeting

70 of 96


--- page 71 ---
2022 ENERGY CODE
' Ace | Tille 24, Port 6 . Residential
| “Fact Sheet Electric Readiness

ay Resources ©

How Does this Fact Sheet
Apply to Your Project?

Use this fact sheet to get an overview of Energy Code
compliance requirements to make a newly constructed single-
family or multifamily building electric ready.

1. What requirements does your project need to meet to
comply with the Energy Code?

2. Is testing or verification required in the compliance process?
3. How should you document your project's compliance?

What Is Electrification and (oe
What Are Its Benefits?

Electrification is the process of replacing technologies that use
fossil fuels (such as natural gas and propane) with technologies
that use electricity.

California is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, while creating an energy system that is resilient to
climate risks. Because the California electric grid is clean and
will get cleaner over time, building electrification can reduce
GHG emissions, while improving air quality. The 2022 California
Building Energy Efficiency Standards (Energy Code or Title 24,
Part 6) encourages electrification through electric readiness
measures, while continuing its long-standing focus on energy

gsm a

anarvtnlte

TAREE ene IE Test

fedntree?

aa

rieenembe

scart Conse AMADEO TURE

i eR a

Table of Contents

efficiency. Efficiency and electrification have symbiotic benefits ; What Makes a Project Electric Ready? 2
and are both critical for decarbonization of buildings. } Electric Readiness Reaui cose 4
ectric bed eea ees esesuecusavencases
Efficient electric technologies are commercially available, such ! menga Mines feduitements
as electric heat pump space heaters, heat pump water heaters, i Hrtterereeereecesneereee A
induction cooktops and electric (or heat pump) clothes dryers. i COOKtOD. eee ececceccccuesseesssrsctecssersserserses 4
i Clothes Dryer i....cccceceseeceecsecseessseeceseseeees 5
= . 2 toees . san euees
What Is Included In this : Heat Pump Water Heater... oo. cecccscseccceccceesee 8
Fact Sheet? Compliance Forms............cccceccccccseeeeessceuseeccesenee 7
The 2022 Energy Code requires most newly constructed single- rf For More Information ...........ccccecccsseeseccssseeceseaneee B
y

family and multifamily buildings with gas-fired appliances,
furnaces and water heaters to be ready for the future
installation of electric appliances and equipment.

Compliance measures discussed in this fact sheet apply to
newly constructed single-family buildings-and multifamily
dwelling units and common use areas.

cqporns chia Bas MnP

ereta HS

Spreader pete nme,

so

TT NNR cnet et

Ne a

SURV FCE RL Rua PEER H SiR 7 HE abn

WLAN AS Nad SLUG LIE LE,

2022 Title 24, Port 6 -Residentolfleetic Readiness Poge 1 of 9
. 2023-07-28

@ fnergyCodeAc€ en

71 of 96


--- page 72 ---
What Makes a Project
Electric Ready?

Electric readiness requirements are triggered when gas appliances
and equipment are installed in most newly constructed single-
family and multifamily buildings.

A combination of several things ready a building for the future
installation of electric systems and appliances:

+ Sufficient capacity in the installed utility service

+ Dedicated wiring

+ Reserved electrical breaker space

+ Space large enough for the electric appliance or equipment

+ Plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and cold water when
buildings must prepare for future installation of a heat pump
hot water heater

Single-family Buildings

Single-family buildings have electric readiness requirements as
shown in Figure 1:

+ Heat pump space heater

+ Heat pump water heater

+ Electric cooktop

+ Electric clothes dryer

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired
appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

+ A heat pump water heater also requires space large enough
to install it and plumbing for a condensate drain and hot and
cold water.

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet.

Single-family buildings also have requirements to be energy
storage system (ESS) ready, which are covered in the Single-family
and Low-rise Multifamily Solar and Battery Systems Fact Sheet
available from the Energy Code Ace™ Resources landing page a at
bitly/ECA-building-fact-sheets.

Electric Retrofit Ready
Single-family Buildings

Gas Clothes Dryer

Gus Furnace

a

—_—

Future Electric

Future Electric Heat
Pump Space Hearer

menceeanengt
one
5 3

Ht ti]

__ Gos Cooktop .

ee .
~~

~,

Fucure
eq eer

Caokrop

Future Electric:
Hear Pump
Water Heater

ind eatin Soa heis hom ik woke on

2022 Title 24, Part 6 - Residential Electric Readiness Page 2 of 9

72 of 96


--- page 73 ---
BD cont 6 rardicnicedatincd F

Multifamily Buildings
Multifamily buildings have electric readiness requirements as shown
in Figure 2:

+ Heat pump space heater

+ Electric cooktep

+ Electric clothes dryer

+ Electric heat pump water heater with plumbing for a
condensate drain (This requirement is not applicable for a
central water-heating system.)

For future installation, these require:

+ Dedicated wiring installed within 3 ft of the gas-fired appliance

+ Reserved electrical breaker space provided for the future
installation of these systems and appliances

For more details, see pages 4-6 of this fact sheet.

NCR Wath anabsietawiniy ents Eps Siieend wala Pat Kick:

Electric Retrofit Ready
Multifamily Buildings

Gos Tonkess Water Healer (in dwelling unit}

Future Electric

Oe .
7S

Future Eleceric Hear
Pump Space Heater

‘
¥;
re

Future Eleccric
Hear Pump
Warer Hearer >-

» Gas Clothes Dryer
+ — (in dwelling unit}

Gas Furnace
(in dwelling unit}

°
s
e

* «6

Future Electric
Dryer

e

* Gas Clothes Dryer .°

. fin common area) .° Gas Cooktop (in dwelling unit)

.*
=
aoa ?®

Figure 2. Electric Retrofit Ready Equipment and Appliances for Multifamily Buildings

ira as AVIA LEAN eC

Poge 3 of 9

73 of 96


--- page 74 ---
& an aieateneen ane E

Electric Readiness
Requirements

Heat Pump Space Heater Readiness
88750.0(t}, 160.9{a)

Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane furnace is installed:
+ In a newly constructed single-family home

+ In an individual dwelling unit in a newly constructed
multifamily building

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Additions
+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings (R-type occupancies}: when an
electric heat pump space heater is installed and there is no
gas hook-up fer this appliance type

Wistert

R-1: Hotels, motels and similar businesses

R-2: Apartment buildings, dormitories and multi-user
residences with more than two dwelling units

R-3: Single-family homes and duplexes, as well as other
permanent dwellings

R-4: Care facilities and similar businesses

asiaehah MERSIN 66.

erent reereemcemnetrntentiererns/ enn trnne stator rater terishrerertttnrnse nytt

Energy Code Requirements

+ A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:

© Within 3 ft from the furnace and accessible to the furnace
without obstructions

With branch circuit conductors rated at 30 amps minimum
With the blank cover labeled “240V ready“

+ A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel
for a double pole circuit breaker for future installation of a
heat pump space heater. The reserved space must be labeled
“For Future 240V use.”

+ All electrical components must be installed in accordance
with the California Electrical Code.

Areas for future electric appliances and equipment must be
accessible,

The Energy Code defines accessible as “having access
thereto, but which first may require removal or opening of
access panels, doors, or similar obstructions."

Readily accessible is defined as "capable of being reached
quickly for operation, repair or inspection, without
requiring climbing or removing obstacles, or resorting to
access equipment.”

ReenTD UMMNREODERE: 23/06 2.Us aca nclins tieammatabenauseiyrncae

2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residential Electric Readiness

Sista ok LLM SONS eT LOW da LAB YM eats

PRE

Electric Cooktop Readines
§87150.0(u), 160.9(b)

Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane cooktop is installed:
+ In anewly constructed single-family home

+ Ina newly constructed individual dwelling unit of a
multifamily building

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Additions
+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings: when an electric cooktap is
installed and there is no gas hook-up for this appliance type

Energy Code Requirements

+ A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:

9 Within 3 ft from the cooktop accessible to the cooktop
without obstructions

9 With branch circuit conductors rated at 50 amps minimum
With the blank cover labeled as “240V ready”

+ A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel
for a double pole circuit breaker for the future installation of

an electric cooktop. The reserved space must be labeled “For
Future 240V use.”

+ Allelectrical components must be installed in accordance
with the California Electrical Code.

Poge 4 of 9

74 of 96


--- page 75 ---
§8§150.0(v), 160.9(c)
Q mandatory Requirements

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes

This measure applies when a gas or propane dryer is installed:
+ Ina newly constructed single-family home

+ Ina newly constructed individual dwelling unit or common
use area of a multifamily building

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Additions
+ Alterations

+ New residential buildings: when an electric clothes dryer is
installed and there is no gas hook-up for this appliance type

Energy Code Requirements

See Table 1 for requirements.

i

MOTUS 3 ae rimant Suiits AobsS Ril aitald peaien ceil mere

Installed Equipment

: ie Appliance
Electric Clothes Clothes dryer location with + A dedicated, 240-volt branch circuit wiring must be installed:
Dryer Ready gas of propane plumbing Within 3 ft from the clothes dryer location and accessible to the

to serve a single-family
building or an individual
dwelling unit ina
multifamily building

clothes dryer location with no obstructions
9 With branch circuit conductors rated at 30 amps minimum
0 With a blank cover labeled as “240V ready”

+ A space must be reserved in the main electrical service panel for a
double pole circuit breaker for the future installation of an electric
cooktop. The reserved space must be labeled “For Future 240V use.”

+ Conductors or a raceway must be installed:

With termination points at the main electrical panel, via
subpanels if applicable, to a location no more than 3 ft from each
gas outlet or the location of the future electric clothes dryer

With the ends of the conductors or raceway labeled “Future
240V Use”

+ The conductors or a raceway and any intervening subpanels,
panelboards, switchboards and busbars must be sized to meet the
future electric power requirements, at the service voltage to the
point at which the conductors serving the building connect to the
utility distribution system.

+ The capacity requirements may be adjusted for demand factors in
accordance with the California Electrical Code.

+ Gas flow rates must be determined in accordance with the
California Plumbing Code.

+ The capacity must be one of the following:
9 24 amps at 208/240 volts per clothes dryer

0 2.6 kVA for each 10,000 Btu per hour of rated gas input or gas
pipe capacity

The electrical power required to provide equivalent functionality
of the gas-powered equipment

All electrical components must be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code.

§150.0(v)
§160.9{c)

Clothes dryer locations with
gas or propane plumbing to
serve a common use area
ina multifamily building

Table 1. Electric Clothes Dryer Ready Requirements

PRED sci UAL iP GAs nets Kel Setanniialh iwtenntaduane

2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residential Fleciric Readiness

oi HRA SA

Poge § of 9

75 of 96


--- page 76 ---
are eee

Heat Pump Water Heater Readines
§§150.0(n), 160.4(a)

Q mandatory Requirements

rere tentative ersene—ine

Commonly Applicable Project Scopes Energy Code Requirements
This measure applies when a gas or propane water heater is installed: Designated Space: There must be a space large enough to accommodate a heat pump water heater:
+ In anewly constructed single-family home 0 This can be the same space used for the installed water heater or a space adjacent to the
+ Ina newly constructed multifamily building in which each dwelling unit has a separate water installed water heater.
heater 4 The space must be a minimum of 2.5’ x 2.5’ x 7’ tall.
+ As an added water heater to serve a new Addition to a single-family home or multifamily Condensate Drain: A condensate drain must be plumbed:
building

The drain must be no more than 2 inches higher than the base of the installed water heater.
4 The drain must drain without pump assistance.

4 See Table 2 for additional requirements based on the distance of the designated future

Non-applicable Projects and Exceptions

+ Alterations installation space from the current water heater.
+ New residential buildings: when a heat pump water heater is installed and there is no gas hook- Other Requirements: Additional requirements may apply:
up for this appliance type For single-family buildings, see §150.0{n}.
+ Centralized water-heating systems for multifamily buildings in which dwelling units do not have % For multifamily buildings, see §160.4(a).
separate water heaters

Power Requirements
+ A dedicated 125-volt, 20-amp electrical receptacle must be installed:

4 With connection to the electric panel via a 120/240-volt 3 conductor with a 10 AWG
copper branch circuit =~

% Accessible to the water heater with no obstructions
9 With both ends of the unused conductor labeled “Spare” and electrically isolated

+ A space must be reserved for a single pole circuit breaker in the electrical panel and labeled
“Future 240V Use.”

Power Requirements
+ A dedicated 240-volt branch circuit must be installed within 3 feet from the designated space:
Q With a30 amps minimum rating
0 With the blank cover labeled “240V ready”

+ A space must be reserved on the main electrical service panel to allow for the installation
of a double pole circuit breaker for a future heat pump water heater (HPWH) installation and
permanently labeled “For Future 240V use.”

Plumbing Configuration

+ Either a dedicated cold water supply must be installed or the cold water supply must be routed
through the designated HPWH location just before reaching the gas or propane water heater.

+ The hot water supply pipe coming out of the gas or propane water heater must be routed
through the designated HPWH location before serving any fixtures.

+ Hot and cold water piping must be exposed and readily accessible at the designated
HPWH location for future installation of a HPWH.

Table 2. Heat Pump Water Heater (HPWH) Ready Requirements for Multifamily and Single-family Buildings

PRS Veins isiseesburasbiy AE ha KSSime td seek “pu Lsen: cn siinie Abe CREA SS EET UAT TCS RTCLINIS. BIE GI AS

2022 Tile 24, Part 6 -Residential Flectiic Reodiness Poge 6 of 9

76 of 96


--- page 77 ---
STS AO HER LEESLURTNASLRS GEILE eA RE AIG Hiei

sta Certificates of Verification
1-E
This form must be completed by the installer
and must be registered via a HERS provider.

This Prescriptive form must be filled out via a
HERS provider for a registered document.

CFIR-PRF-01-E

This Performance form must be filled
out with CEC-certified software
{bit.y/CEC-2022-Comopliance-Software} and
then registered via a HERS provider.

LMCC-ELC-01-E

This form is available only from a HERS
provider and must be registered with a HERS
provider.

NRCC-ELC-E

This form is available through the VCA, and
it does not need to be registered via a HERS
provider.

Multifamily Buildings <3 Habitable Stories LMCI-ELC-01-E

This form is available only from a HERS
provider and must be registered with a HERS
provider.

NRCI-ELC-E

This form is available through the VCA and
must be completed by the installer. It does not
need to be registered via a HERS provider.

Multifamily Buildings > 4 Habitable Stories

For single-family buildings, forms are supported on the Energy Code Ace Get Forms landing. page: https://enerqycodeace.com/content/aget-forms.

+ The CFIR form defines Energy Code requirements for a whole project, including any electric readiness requirements. Currently nothing is being reported on CF1R form for the electric readiness
requirements. (Tip: Provide a Mandatory note block including these requirements within the design documents.) Instead, the electric readiness requirements are documented on the CF2R-ELC-01. If
there are HERS requirements, the form must be registered via a HERS provider. Find a HERS Provider at bit. | /CEC-HERS-Providers,

+ The CF2R form must be provided by installers to match the CF1R form electric readiness requirements and registered via a HERS provider.
For multifamily buildings with 3 or fewer habitable stories, LMCC and LMCI Prescriptive forms are generated by using a HERS provider website. Find a HERS Provider at bit! /CEC-HERS-Providers,

For multifamily buildings with 4 or more habitable stories, NRCC and NRC! Prescriptive forms are available through the VCA at https://eneraycodeace.com/content/ roject-tool. NRCC Performance
forms are available by using CEC-approved Performance compliance software. See more about this software at bit! /CEC-2022-Compliance-So
{although it is required for NRCV forms).

HERS =Home Energy Rating System; VCA = Virtual Compliance Assistant,

ftware. No HERS verification is required for these forms

Table 3. Energy Code Residential Electric Readiness Compliance Forms

ibd MWR Saba LAPEER

Poge 7 of 9

77 of 96


--- page 78 ---
eX

MISSION

Wwww.energy.ca.gov

Learn more about the California Energy Commission (CEC) and its
programs on its website.

2022 Building Energy Efficiency Standards
bit.ly/CEC2022Standards

Explore the main CEC web portal for the 2022 Energy Code,
including information, documents and historical information.

2022 Building Energy Efficiency Standards Summary
bit ly/CEC2022Summa

View or download this visual summary of the Energy Code’s
purpose, current changes and impact.

2022 Single-family Residential Compliance Manual,
Chapter 10
bit.ly/single-family-compliance-manual

2022 Nonresidential and Multifamily Compliance Manual,
Chapter 11, Section 10
bit.ly/nonresidential-multifamily-compliance-manual

Energy Code Hotline
Call: 1-800-772-3300 (Free)

Email: Title24@ener

Online Resource Center

bit.ly/CEC-ORC
Use these online resources developed for building and
enforcement communities to learn more about the Energy Code.

Modernized Appliance Efficiency Database System,(MAEDbS}
bit.ly/MAEDbS

Search this database to find products that comply with the
Energy Code.

Srihii Rinse bitin Sie dieing sins ont

HERS Providers

Check the CEC website to see if new providers have been
approved bit.ly/CEC-HERS-Providers.

CalCERTS (HERS Provider}
www.calcerts.com

CHEERS (HERS Provider]
www.cheers.org

Reach Codes
LocalEner

Codes.com

Collaborating with cities, counties and stakeholders to

drive reach code development and adoption for long-term
climate and energy efficiency benefits. View a list of adopted
ordinances at www.LocalEnergyCodes.com

2022 Tile 24, Part 6 -Residentiol Flectric Readiness

S BaRinsata. Weer ee advert ite ete ee

brane, nisi sailed balwlidrice te AoE MASA, Bt

(Continued)

Poge 8 of 9

78 of 96


--- page 79 ---
eee ee

For More Information
(continued)

On-demand, live in-person and online training alternatives Downloadable materials provide practical.and concise
Stop by this online “one-stop-shop” for no-cost tools are tailored to a variety of industry professionals and address guidance on how and when to comply with California's
training and resources designed to help you comply with key measures. building and appliance energy efficiency standards.
California's Title 24, Part 6 and Title 20, Of Special Interest: Of Special Interest:
% 2022 Title 24, Part 6 Essentials — Residential Standards: Fact Sheets for Buildings
Tools What's New Single-family Buildings: Just the Basics: HERS Verification
bitly/ECA-training-2022-res-whats-new Fact Sheets for Appliances

§ 2022 Title 24, Part 6 Essentials — Single-family Standards: 6 MAEDbS 101
Solar and Battery Storage
bit ly/ECA-training-2022-sf-solar-batter

% 2022 Title 24; Part 6 Essentials — Single-family Standards
for Architects and Designers
bit.ly/ECA-training-2022-sf-architect-

) 120 Basics - Retailers, Distributors & Installers

Explore this suite of interactive tools to understand the
compliance process, required forms, installation techniques
and energy efficiency regulations in California.

Reference Ace desiqner

www.energycodeace.com/content/tools-ace-reference-ace 0 Check the Energy Code Ace YouTube channel for videos on
Navigate the Title 24, Part 6 Energy Code using an index, appliances regulated under Title 20:
keyword search and hyperlinked text. bit.ly/ECA-YouTube-channel

O&Ace
www.ener.

Search our online knowledge base or submit your question
to Energy Code Ace experts.

codeace.com/QAndAce

Create an account on the Energy Code Ace site and select
an industry role for your profile in order to receive messages
about all our offerings!

Get Forms
www.energycodeace.com/content/cget-forms — +
Find the CF1R forms you need. Geel
es BS
Virtual Compliance Assistant in|
Www.energycodeace.com/content/project-tool Se cee

SCAN ME

5

Get interactive help to fill in NRCC or LMCC Forms.

EE ee

EDISON’ Fe il Pacific Gas and
q

Electric Company”
Energy for What's Ahead? bs

J SDGE”

This program is funded by California utility customers and administered by Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PGRE!, San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E), and Southern California Edison Company (SCE} under the auspices of the Califomia Public Utilities Commission,

© 2022 PORE, SOBRE and SCE. All rights reserved, except that this document may be used, copied, and distributed without modification. Neither PG&E, SOGRE, nor SCE — nor any of their employees makes any warranty, express or implied; or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness
of any data, information, method, product, policy or process disclosed in this document; or represents that its use will not infringe any privately-owned rights including, but not limited te patents, trademarks or Copyrights. tmages used in this document are intended for illustrative purposes only. Any reference or appearance herein to
any specific commercial products, processes or services by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or olherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation or favoring,

2022 Title 24, Port 6 - Residential Electric Readiness Page 9 of 9

79 of 96


--- page 80 ---
ADYSNa NV31D A
VINSNIN3d

DULL %

vZ0Z LI Jaquieseq

UOISSILULUOD SuNjonssesju] pue Apyiqeure}sns
AITDAD AGOD 220¢ AHL YOS

SAdGO0O9 HOVsAY NOILONYLSNOD MAN



--- page 81 ---
°
i)
2

ALY

9x11 |

S9PO7) YDeaY GZOZ pue Oaje|\| UES AjlU}D9]9 «

UO!}eJUBWI|AWI! PUue JDeAWI! JO UOISSNISIG e
JUBWPUIWe BPO BSUIP|ING UDIIO e
yUBWPUIWe apo7 AdJOUZ e

JIUCUIPJO PASOdOld e

S9POD YDCII JUDIING «

DUNOJ3)Ieq S8POD YIedY e

epuasy



--- page 82 ---
SJeE038 J}JEWI!|D Ja9W O} S9POD UIeaJ Sulydope
Jo Asojsiy Suos}s e Sey Oa}eP UeS JO AID BUL

SUOISSIWA
ses asnoyuuaeass pue asn Aduaua aanpai sdjayH

SUOIINIJOS 9}EWI|9
UI SJ9PLI| Bq 0} SJUBLULIBAOS [CIO] SMO}|V7

Spiepuejs SUIPjING UaaId $,a}e}S

é

JY} BDUEYUD PUL PI9ddX—a JEU} SJUIWIUIIAOS |[€90|
Aq paydope sadueulpio jed07 = Sapoz yIeay

AouaNaNvaD G punoisy eg Sapo; yoeay



--- page 83 ---
Me] |esapa} Aq paydWeaadd si aunjyonsysesjul Ses jesnzeu JO UO!Ze]/eySU! BY} YIGIYyOoud
Ajjesouas JEU} BDUCUIPIO [e90] :Aajaysag fO AZID ‘A UOIJOIIOSSY JUDINDISAY OIUJOLI/OD «

SjapOWas SUIP|ING JeljuapIsas SulNp

sadueljdde d14}9a]9 pue SSaUIpeads-91a]a Pue ‘UO!IINIJSUOD MaU JO} BINJPNIYSesJul

BUISJEUD J/IIYSA I1jJIa8ja PADUeYUD ‘UO!INIJSUOD MaU IIJ}Da}a-|/e JINbas 0} apod
yeas paydope Ard :(GZ0z ‘TE Jaquiasaq — €70Z ‘T Ayenuef) aj9AD apo ZZOZ AY} JOY «

VIASNINGd C SOpO) Yoeoy USAIN



--- page 84 ---
Ajunoz oajyep ues pue awesuljing ‘asor ues ‘aueqsisg
‘Ol OJed SUIPNjoU! SaIzID Jo Jaquunu e Aq paydope sem apo7 Uydeay adUeWJOJJad ABsaU

JIUCUIPIJO
pasodoid e sulig 0} Jye}s payaIp jlOUNOZD AyD :Bulyaaw j!INUNOD AD ~ZOZ ‘Z 49GQ0190

Jel Wo}
yoddns jes!uyda} YUM 4Dd Ag paedojavap adUeUIPJO JaAPOW |VpoOD Ydeay BdUeWIOJJag AdiaUy

1WNOD ayy Aq jas Spuepuejs UOIWdWa=aId
VWOdq S}aaw Jey} YDeOudde aj}euUJayye se paljiqUap! BPOD YDeay BdUeWIOJad AssaU

ioe peer U01}INA}JSUOD MAN 10}
VIASNINAd apo) Ydeday D2UeWIOLIad ASjaUy



--- page 85 ---
ADYANA NV3aD A
VINSNINAd

golly,

SJUBSLUPUSLUYY 8pO4D BHulpjing usajIH -
JUsLUPUSLUY 8poOy ABueug -

BIULUIPAC pesodoid



--- page 86 ---
“UONCOIJINIO9]9 SINNJ JO}
sBulpjing suedeid pue suoissiwe wy
Bulpjing Meu soNnps oO} sI jeOb au]

‘uyed soueWJOLed

ay} YBnosy}) apoD ABseuzy ZZOZ |
ay} Ul pa}ejnBe si A6souy 80iNOS °

“SUOISSILUS
uoqied JO} Axojd e si yoluM ABseuzg
90NNOS JO UOHe|NBsu J98}911S VW

é3 SIJEUM

DIUCULIOL ad

ADYANA NV31D
VINSNINAd

ASiauz 10} JUBWIpPUaWY apoz Asuaugz



--- page 87 ---
jdwaxa aie SNdVx

%/ A8i19U 9DINOS JElUSpISoJUON
(Sd1l01S +17)
%D A3iaU 8DINOS jeltuapisay AjiWesIIN aSiy-USIH
(Salsoys € 0} T)
ZOT EEN] CMMs Jelquapisay Alief NIA] as!Yy-Mo7
(SAWOH ||/ewWs)
v TYG jelyuapisay Ajiwe4 a]3uUls
6 Tua] Jeuapisay Alle 3/3UIsS

JUdWaIINbsay
DIUCWIOJI9d

adA|_ Suipyjing

ADYANA NV31D
VINSNINAd

spiepuejys pasodoid



--- page 88 ---
eb = Yds 6= adds 0=4u4d4A

= = =

ebeJojs Aseyyeq pue sejos .

Adualolyjea PeSesJOU]
Bunesy Jeyemseg - Bunjesy Ja}eM OjO9|Q Oe Bujesay JoyeM Sse -
Bunesy soeds sey - Bunesy eoeds o1j098|5 «e Bunesy eoeds ojo8|4

(o1998/4 pue sed)
(o1J09/4 pue sed) jan4-pexi/\

|9N4-Pexi/ SEPSIS 9P0d YOR9J INOUIIM eseo eseg

apo9
yoeay YyyIM suol}dO
J9UMOC Aj1ad01d

sane eer: Ayiwie4 aj3uis ul suoido yo Asewiuuins
VINSNINAd - 3SOOYD 0} }USIY SUL



--- page 89 ---
OT

‘Asoyeg
8 Ad (MA
Jan4-pexi\

a

SOX

sBHulaes
006'r$

:puepueys
91}99/F-|IV

ADYANA NW419
VINSNINAd

5

PNIS JO-JSOD UOQMAN AWC SBUIS ZZ0c :801N0S

:SBUIACS ZOD %
LYds

£2NdayJF SOD

(auljaseq |anj-pPexiw 0} peJedwoo)

"JSOD UOI}ONIISUOD MEN

SS9UAAI}IAJJI-}S0D



--- page 90 ---
dO OpOD Abiouy :eainos

IT
“JOVEM

pjoo pue joy pue uleip a}esuepuod e JO} Buiquinig - euedoid
}I |Je}SUI 0} YBnous ebie] aoeds- Jo seB Bulsn swiajshs Jaujo ||y¥ e
‘SouInbes Osje uayeay yoyeM duund jeouy SUBYS}} JEIOJOLUWOD

‘seouel|dde pue sweajsKs esau} Jo uoleyje}Sul aunyny aunjesadwid}
OU} JOJ pepiAoud adeds sayeasq jed141}99]9 pomaese . uBlsep ounyeroduia} sa}eEM JOU WAH e

‘9ouel|dde

pasy-seB ay} Jo y ¢ UIYJIM paljeysu! Bul payesipeg “[EHUSPISoIUON

‘SjusWaIINbes a}duexy
Buizis wajsAs jeouj098|/9 Bulpjing e

swe}sAs Burjesy
wa ‘WV -J9}EM YUN Hulyjamp jenplAipuy =e
ye Vv swajshs Buljeay-sJayem paezijesjueD ee
Jenuapisey Ajimesyiny

\ do1yoo3
\ IDA
\eunang

\. Ja2D8H aopds dung y :9pood Yoesl S14} YBnoU}
\abaH 314399/J esNIN4

Si = peppe oie sjuswasinbas SSaUIpea. 911}99]9

e ~
.
*
°

aroun s09 BulMoj|Oj 9} ‘9pOd 9}e}S 94} 0} UOIJIPpe UT]

ADUANA NVA 4 sjuawasinbay
WINSNINad ()

ssaulpeay 311}99)4 papuedxy



--- page 91 ---
cl

uoljeyjeysul aoueljdde
JO 1924 9 JO peaysul UO!}e]jeySU! BDUeI|dde Jo Jaa} € UlYIM Palje su! aq pynoys ja]3NO
OU} ‘UO!}DNIJSUOD MaU JO} SJUDWAIIND|’ aBpOD ASsaUy ZZOZ BY} YUM JUI}SISUOD 9q O| e
sease Aspune] pue
SUIYIU JO Pue SUO!JeJ9Ie JOJ JUDWUDIINDa|I SSaUIpPeaJ-I14}Da]/a 0} aJEPAn JOUIP|

SUO!}EAOUDI BULINP SjUdWWAIIND|aJ aduUe!|dde I14}DaI]a Jo jeaday

SjuaWaJINbad UONINIFSUOID MOU IJIjIo9]9-||e JO jeaday e

ADYANA NV31D
VINSNINAd

S}USWIPUdWY apo> SUIp}INg Usa15



--- page 92 ---
ABsaue ajqemoudl

Aq Ajjeued so susyeay
jood gH Aq payeeu eq V/N sbulpying liv

0} seds pue sjood efie7

S]OOYOS PU SBdI}JO JO}

(Ayesqi| ‘yueq ‘ao1yjo
poinbead SqH euoziiny\

‘joouos ‘Ayeooi6 ‘|1e}9)
sed} Buipjing sou ul
painbes SqH euoz ejbuls

SU9YO}} |EIOJAWWLUOO

Joy sjuswauinbed CH IGC>
SSOUIPeds O1N}09/F S]OOUDS UI HMAdH

CH AGC>

s]OOUdS Ul HM\dH JeHUSpPISBJUON

jusweuinbas
au0z a|Buls swes

HMdH
UOHeOYINO9}O OuNyn} Jo suedoid/seg HMdH
Joy Buizis waeysXs ‘JesyUsD Jo auedoid/se5 pawinbed gH pouinbes dH Ajiwejnjni
Jeo1j99/9 Bulpjing pouinbed H/AAdH ‘swiaysAs ||V
-JENpIAIpu]
HMdH
V/N poawinbes HAAdH poasinbead dH pasinbed dH Ajime4 ajbuis

JO auedoud/sey

TAIT A (AAA TAIT A (ZA A

41210

jsoouetddy Bunespy 1972, Buneay eoeds

Apeay o1309|4 pemoj|yy se uoneoyujoe|4 :Aey

ADYANA NVa1D 4 (€ BUOZ 3}DUWII}D) UOI}IN4}SUOD MAN
WINSNINad ()

sasueu) aposz Assauy SZ0Z ‘SA ZZ0Z



--- page 93 ---
G7ZOZd ‘ET Avenues uo |I9UNOZ AZID 0} OF [IM BDULUIPIO BPOd YdeaJ
jyUdWaIe|daI ‘S707 ‘TE Jaquia9eq SpUa aJDAD BPOD Z7ZOZ :BUIJaWI]

a|qepunoy Jadojanaq 707 ‘97 Jaquiajdas :yoeqpaay .
syafoud jo yaquunu |jews e JOJ SJUNODDe UO!JNISUOD MAN :~edUW] «

yUaWaIe/dad e ayenjena 0} |I9UNOD
AyD soy Aytunqyoddo ue sjuasaid apoo yeas papuadsns :3x9}U07

ADYANA NV31D
VINSNINAd



--- page 94 ---
uoljdope sapood ydeaJ pue uoldope Aga}e413S $0 jeAoIdde
apoD spsepuejs Bulpling — SZOZ I|e4 |lpUNOD AYD - S707 []e4/4auWUNS

Agaje131S }O MalAaJ pue
YIeqPaa4 DIS - SZOT JaWINS/SuLdS

YICIVIINO SV9POD YICVd — GZOC JOWUWINS

S9pOd Yea ayenjera — G7OZ Ajseq jJUdWasesua pue YIeIIINO - Gz7OZ Ajseq

SUOI}dO apod UdeaL UODUIY
pue asensue| yep soWUOW — 7Z0Z YUM JUaWUIPUaWE 19EIUOD — ~ZOZ 2Eq

(8ZOZ ‘TE “9980-97207 ‘T uel) = A8ayesis Sulpjing ajqeuleisns

Sapod UdeAJ BJA BPO SZ0Z Oa owaS

VINSNINSd S8pod Yde9Y GCOT puke qies0q



--- page 95 ---
ADYANA NV3aD A
VINSNINAd

een
BB!

Nvs

O

=

pre

SS (a
9x11 |

"1I9UNOZD AD 9Ui Ag JeAOIdde puswWWoOdaJ
pue SSUIp|INg Mau ajqeuleysns adeinodua
O} ,2POD sulpjing UxeI9,, OL EZ JaIdeYyD pue

,~2po9 Asiaug,, p7'E7 4aIdeUD (DININS) Bpod
jJEdINIUN|A\] OB}e|\] UES 0} SJUBLWPUBWe MalAayY

NOILVGNANWOOsAY



--- page 96 ---
ADYANA NV3aD A
VINSNINAd

golly,

JO'OIVJEWUPCSJOAPIMMOYUIE
MOU) eaipuy

(noA yueuL

