source: packet.pdf
sha256: a88ceff59c8086c6af21160c6dbf0cba6b82e2c34dac3016f6c74e253a611485
pages: 131
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
March 23, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
REVISED AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 23, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 818 4548 7121 Passcode: 679696
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
2110 S. El Camino Real and 2175 S. El Camino Real - Findings of General Plan Conformance – Resolution Adoption
Adopt a Resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of San Mateo County’s acquisition of real
property located at 2110 S. El Camino Real conforms to the General Plan and that the proposed purpose and
extent of San Mateo County’s acquisition of the real property located at 2175 S. El Camino Real does not conform
to the General Plan.
2.
Archaeological Testing and Monitoring - Informational Report
Receive an informational report on the archaeological testing and monitoring associated with the 303 Baldwin
Avenue development project.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any supplemental material distributed to the Planning Commission after the posting of the agenda will be available for public review in
the Planning Division Office.
Planning Commission meetings are broadcast live at 7:00 p.m. on Cable Channel 27 for Comcast, Channel 26 for Wave, and Channel
99 for AT&T customers. For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 . Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4455
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 23, 2021 
SUBJECT:
2110 S. El Camino Real and 2175 S. El Camino Real - Findings of General Plan Conformance – Resolution Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of San Mateo County’s acquisition of real property 
located at 2110 S. El Camino Real conforms to the General Plan and that the proposed purpose and extent of San Mateo 
County’s acquisition of the real property located at 2175 S. El Camino Real does not conform to the General Plan.
BACKGROUND:
On March 12, 2021, the County of San Mateo filed a request for a General Plan Conformance determination with the 
intent to acquire two properties within City of San Mateo limits: 2110 S. El Camino Real and 2175 S. El Camino Real. In 
accordance with California Government Code Section 65402(b), the Planning Commission is required to make a finding of 
General Plan conformance whenever a City or County proposes to acquire or dispose of property within a municipality 
with an adopted General Plan.
Site Descriptions and History
The property located at 2110 S. El Camino Real (APN: 039-060-440) consists of a 0.7-acre parcel, situated on the west side 
of S. El Camino Real, just south of W. 20th Ave. (Attachment 2). This site has a General Plan land use designation of 
Regional/Community Commercial/ High Density Multi-Family (Attachment 3). The property was developed as a motel in 
1961 and has been continuously operating as one since that time. The motel, now known as the Catrina Hotel, consists of 
32,950 square feet of floor area, 57 guest rooms, a parking lot, lobby, common area lounge, small office, and private 
outdoor courtyard.
The property located 2175 S. El Camino Real (APN: 039-073-040) consists of a 0.6-acre parcel, situated on the east side of 
S. El Camino Real, just south of 21st Ave. (Attachment 2). The parcel has two General Plan land use designations: the front 
one-fourth of the property has a General Plan land use designation of Regional/Community Commercial/High Density 
Multi-Family, and the remainder has a land use designation of Service Commercial (Attachment 3). Similar to the 
previously mentioned property, 2175 S. El Camino Real was developed as a motel in 1961 and has been continuously 
operating as one since that time. The motel, now known as the Stone Villa Inn, consists of 23,508 square feet of floor area, 
44 guest rooms, a parking lot, lobby, common area lounge, small office, and coffee shop.
Project Description 
Section 65402(b) of the California Government Code (Attachment 4) requires a Planning Agency, in this case the City’s 
Planning Commission, to make a finding of General Plan conformance concerning the purpose and extent whenever a 
City or County proposes to acquire or dispose of property.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The County of San Mateo contacted City of San Mateo staff indicating its intent to acquire the two subject properties. 
The County of San Mateo intends to acquire the subject site(s) to repurpose the existing building(s) for housing for 
individuals or families experiencing homelessness or who are at risk of homelessness. The interim housing would 
include individualized wrap-around services designed to assist residents in transitioning to affordable rental housing 
and/or permanent supportive housing. The properties could be converted to permanent affordable housing in the 
future, depending on the County’s shelter and housing needs.
General Plan Conformance
The proposed acquisition of 2110 S. El Camino Real to be used as an emergency shelter and/or transitional housing 
conforms with the Regional/Community Commercial land use category defined in the Appendix B of the General Plan as 
follows:
“Larger shopping centers and districts providing goods and services usually not available in neighborhood shopping 
centers. These centers rely on large trade areas and may include department stores, banks, furniture stores, auto 
dealerships, appliance stores, toy stores, hotels and offices. Regional centers include Hillsdale and The Island 
Shopping centers and certain strip commercial areas, such as El Camino Real (SR 82). Characterized by medium to 
high FARs of 1.0 to 2.5 and heights of 35 feet to 55 feet. Homeless shelters and other forms of transitional housing 
are permitted uses in this land use category.”
The proposed acquisition of 2175 S. El Camino Real to be used as an emergency shelter and/or transitional housing in the 
rear three-fourths of the property would not conform with the Service Commercial land use category defined in Appendix 
B of the General Plan as follows:
“Facilities which provide city-wide and regional services including automobile and truck repair, building material yards 
and animal hospitals. These uses are generally located away from residential areas due to potential noise, air quality 
and parking conflicts. Residential uses are not permitted in service commercial areas. Characterized by a medium FAR 
of 1.0 and height up to 30 feet.”
The proposed acquisition of 2110 and 2175 S. El Camino Real to be used as emergency shelters and/or transitional 
housing conforms with the following Goal, Policy and Program of the Housing Element of the General Plan:
       Goal 2
       Provide a diversity of housing types, responsive to household size, income and age needs.
Policy H 2.14: The Homeless.
Continue existing support for organizations that seek to prevent homelessness. Assist Countywide efforts to address 
homelessness. The City must also comply with SB 2 which requires ensuring there are appropriate zones where 
emergency housing is located as a permitted use. Accordingly, transitional housing is currently permitted to be 
located in residential districts and commercial districts, while emergency shelters may be located in 
Regional/Community Commercial districts.
Program H 2.14: The Homeless.
1.
Continue existing support, where feasible, for programs and facilities seeking to prevent homelessness.
2.
Allow emergency shelters as a permitted use in Regional/Community Commercial land use categories consistent 
with the provisions of SB2, which requires emergency shelters as permitted uses without conditional use permits 
or other discretionary action. Emergency shelters shall be subject to the same development and management 
standards that apply to other allowed uses in the designated land use and zoning districts.
Next Steps
Upon Planning Commission adoption of the proposed resolution finding that the proposed purpose and extent of San 
Mateo County’s acquisition of the real property located at 2110 S. El Camino Real conforms to the General Plan,
the County can decide whether to move forward with acquiring 2110 S. El Camino Real for use as an emergency shelter 
and/or transitional housing.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
If the County of San Mateo wishes to use 2175 S. El Camino Real  as an emergency shelter and/or transitional housing, a 
Planning Application for a General Plan amendment would first need to be filed with the Planning Division for review 
and approval, which would require recommendation by the Planning Commission and final action by the City Council. If 
such an application were filed, the proposal would also be evaluated to assess zoning conformance and permit needs.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Although the proposed acquisition would be funded by the County of San Mateo, the City will be affected financially. By 
converting the hotel from guest accommodations, transient occupancy taxes (TOT) will no longer be collected by the City. 
Additionally, the City will lose property tax and sales revenues.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Per Section 15378(b)(5) of the CEQA Guidelines, the Planning Commission’s finding of General Plan conformance is not 
considered a project for the purposes of CEQA because it is an administrative activity of government that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 54950 (Brown Act), notice of this meeting was posted 72 hours in advance of 
the meeting. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Planning Commission Resolution 
Att 2 - Location Map
Att 3 - General Plan Land Use Maps
Att 4 - Section 65402 of the California Government Code
STAFF CONTACT
Somer Smith, Associate Planner
ssmith@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7214

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING COMMISSION
RESOLUTION NO.                    (2021)
FINDING THAT THE PROPOSED PURPOSE AND EXTENT OF SAN MATEO COUNTY’S ACQUISITION OF THE 
REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2110 S. EL CAMINO REAL CONFORMS TO THE GENERAL PLAN AND THAT 
THE PROPOSED PURPOSE AND EXTENT OF SAN MATEO COUNTY’S ACQUISITION OF THE REAL 
PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2175 S. EL CAMINO REAL DOES NOT CONFORM TO THE GENERAL PLAN
WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 65402(b) requires that if a general plan has 
been adopted, no real property shall be acquired or disposed of until the location, purpose and 
extent of such acquisition or disposal has been submitted to and reported upon by the planning agency 
as to conformity with said adopted general plan; and,
WHEREAS, the proposed acquisition of 2110 S. El Camino Real by the County of San Mateo to be 
used as an emergency shelter and/or transitional housing conforms to the Regional/Community 
Commercial land use category in the General Plan as defined below:
REGIONAL/COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL 
Larger shopping centers and districts providing goods and services usually not 
available in neighborhood shopping centers. These centers rely on large trade areas 
and may include department stores, banks, furniture stores, auto dealerships, 
appliance stores, toy stores, hotels and offices. Regional centers include Hillsdale 
and The Island Shopping centers and certain strip commercial areas, such as El 
Camino Real (SR 82). Characterized by medium to high FARs of 1.0 to 2.5 and heights 
of 35 feet to 55 feet. Homeless shelters and other forms of transitional housing are 
permitted uses in this land use category.
WHEREAS, the proposed acquisition of 2175 S. El Camino Real by the County of San Mateo to be 
used as an emergency shelter and/or transitional housing does not conform to the Service Commercial 
land use category in the General Plan as defined below:
SERVICE COMMERCIAL
Facilities which provide city-wide and regional services including automobile and truck repair, 
building material yards and animal hospitals. These uses are generally located away from 
residential areas due to potential noise, air quality and parking conflicts. Residential uses are 
not permitted in service commercial areas. Characterized by a medium FAR of 1.0 and height 
up to 30 feet.
WHEREAS, the proposed acquisition of 2110 and 2175 S. El Camino Real by the County of San 
Mateo to be used as emergency shelters and/or transitional housing conforms to the following Goal, 
Policy, and Program of the General Plan:
        
GOAL 2
       
Provide a diversity of housing types, responsive to household size, income and age needs.
POLICY H 2.14: THE HOMELESS.
Continue existing support for organizations that seek to prevent homelessness. Assist 
Countywide efforts to address homelessness. The City must also comply with SB 2 which

--- page 7 ---
requires ensuring there are appropriate zones where emergency housing is located as a 
permitted use. Accordingly, transitional housing is currently permitted to be located in 
residential districts and commercial districts, while emergency shelters may be located in 
Regional/Community Commercial districts.
PROGRAM H 2.14: THE HOMELESS.
1.
Continue existing support, where feasible, for programs and facilities seeking to prevent 
homelessness.
2.
Allow emergency shelters as a permitted use in Regional/Community Commercial land use 
categories consistent with the provisions of SB2, which requires emergency shelters as 
permitted uses without conditional use permits or other discretionary action. Emergency 
shelters shall be subject to the same development and management standards that apply 
to other allowed uses in the designated land use and zoning districts; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, in its capacity as the Planning Agency, reviewed the 
purpose and intent of the acquisition of the properties located at 2110 and 2175 S. El Camino Real for 
conformity with the City's General Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5), the Planning Commission’s 
finding of General Plan conformance is an administrative action that will not impact the environment 
and is therefore not a “project” for the purposes of CEQA; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO HEREBY FINDS 
AND RESOLVES that: 
1.   Based on the foregoing, and in accordance with Government Code Section 65402, the 
Planning Commission hereby finds that the extent and purpose of the acquisition of the 
real property located at 2110 S. El Camino Real is in conformity with the City's General 
Plan .
2.    Based on the foregoing, and in accordance with Government Code Section 65402, the 
Planning Commission hereby finds that the extent and purpose of the acquisition of the 
real property located at 2175 S. El Camino Real is not in conformity with the City's 
General Plan .

--- page 8 ---
LOCATION MAP
PA-2021-016
Address:
2110 and 2175 S. El Camino Real 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Parcel Number:
039-060-440/ 039-073-040

--- page 9 ---
GENERAL PLAN LAND USE MAP
PA-2021-016
Address:
2110 and 2175 S. El Camino Real 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Parcel Number:
039-060-440/ 039-073-040
 
Source: San Mateo General Plan Figure LU-3 (September 6, 2018)
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/66335/CDD-Planning---Land-Use?bidId=
2110
2175

--- page 10 ---
GOVERNMENT CODE ‐ GOV
TITLE 7. PLANNING AND LAND USE [65000 ‐ 66499.58]
( Heading of Title 7 amended by Stats. 1974, Ch. 1536. )
DIVISION 1. PLANNING AND ZONING [65000 ‐ 66210]
( Heading of Division 1 added by Stats. 1974, Ch. 1536. )
CHAPTER 3. Local Planning [65100 ‐ 65763]
( Chapter 3 repealed and added by Stats. 1965, Ch. 1880. )
ARTICLE 7. Administration of General Plan [65400 ‐ 65404]
( Article 7 added by Stats. 1965, Ch. 1880. )
65402.
(a) If a general plan or part thereof has been adopted, no real property shall be acquired by dedication
or otherwise for street, square, park or other public purposes, and no real property shall be disposed of,
no street shall be vacated or abandoned, and no public building or structure shall be constructed or 
authorized, if the adopted general plan or part thereof applies thereto, until the location, purpose and 
extent of such acquisition or disposition, such street vacation or abandonment, or such public building 
or structure have been submitted to and reported upon by the planning agency as to conformity with 
said adopted general plan or part thereof. The planning agency shall render its report as to conformity 
with said adopted general plan or part thereof within forty (40) days after the matter was submitted to 
it, or such longer period of time as may be designated by the legislative body.
If the legislative body so provides, by ordinance or resolution, the provisions of this subdivision shall not 
apply to: (1) the disposition of the remainder of a larger parcel which was acquired and used in part for 
street purposes; (2) acquisitions, dispositions, or abandonments for street widening; or (3) alignment 
projects, provided such dispositions for street purposes, acquisitions, dispositions, or abandonments for 
street widening, or alignment projects are of a minor nature.
(b) A county shall not acquire real property for any of the purposes specified in paragraph (a), nor 
dispose of any real property, nor construct or authorize a public building or structure, in another county 
or within the corporate limits of a city, if such city or other county has adopted a general plan or part 
thereof and such general plan or part thereof is applicable thereto, and a city shall not acquire real 
property for any of the purposes specified in paragraph (a), nor dispose of any real property, nor 
construct or authorize a public building or structure, in another city or in unincorporated territory, if such 
other city or the county in which such unincorporated territory is situated has adopted a general plan or 
part thereof and such general plan or part thereof is applicable thereto, until the location, purpose and 
extent of such acquisition, disposition, or such public building or structure have been submitted to and 
reported upon by the planning agency having jurisdiction, as to conformity with said adopted general 
plan or part thereof. Failure of the planning agency to report within forty (40) days after the matter has 
been submitted to it shall be conclusively deemed a finding that the proposed
acquisition, disposition, or public building or structure is in conformity with said adopted general plan or 
part thereof. The provisions of this paragraph (b) shall not apply to acquisition or abandonment for street 
widening or alignment projects of a minor nature if the legislative body having the real property within 
its boundaries so provides by ordinance or resolution.

--- page 11 ---
(c) A local agency shall not acquire real property for any of the purposes specified in paragraph (a) nor 
dispose of any real property, nor construct or authorize a public building or structure, in any county or 
city, if such county or city has adopted a general plan or part thereof and such general plan or part 
thereof is applicable thereto, until the location, purpose and extent of such acquisition, disposition, or 
such public building or structure have been submitted to and reported upon by the planning agency 
having jurisdiction, as to conformity with said adopted general plan or part thereof. Failure of the 
planning agency to report within forty (40) days after the matter has been submitted to it shall be 
conclusively deemed a finding that the proposed acquisition, disposition, or public building or structure 
is in conformity with said adopted general plan or part thereof. If the planning agency disapproves the 
location, purpose or extent of such acquisition, disposition, or the public building or structure, the 
disapproval may be overruled by the local agency.
Local agency as used in this paragraph (c) means an agency of the state for the local performance of 
governmental or proprietary functions within limited boundaries. Local agency does not include the 
state, or county, or a city.
(Amended by Stats. 1974, Ch. 700.)

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4456
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 23, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Archaeological Testing and Monitoring  - Informational Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the archaeological testing and monitoring associated with the 303 Baldwin Avenue 
development project. 
BACKGROUND:
At its March 9, 2021 meeting, the Planning Commission requested information regarding the archaeological testing and 
monitoring for the development project located at 303 Baldwin Avenue since it has commenced construction. The 
Planning Commission granted entitlements to this project in January 2019. The intent of this report is to provide the 
Commission with details of what has transpired with respect to archaeological testing after granting the project 
entitlements. 
The project site is located in downtown San Mateo and is bounded by North B Street to the east, Baldwin Avenue to the 
South, North Ellsworth to the West, and residential and commercial uses to the North. The development project consists 
of 5-story mixed used building including ground floor commercial and offices and residential uses on the upper levels, as 
well as an underground garage. 
The project was reviewed for potential impacts on the environment in compliance with the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA). As part of that, Holman & Associates Archaeological Consultants conducted a technical assessment of 
the site and sampling. Holman’s report describes the results of six geoprobe samples and concluded that, “there certainly 
are remnants, at least, of the prehistoric shell mound created next to San Mateo Creek by Native American…” and 
recommended development of an Archaeological Monitoring Agreement for archaeological monitoring and reporting 
(Attachment 1).  The recommendations were incorporated into the project approval as Conditions of Approval 
(Attachment 2). It should be noted that Holman’s report does not include sampling beneath the grocery store building and 
parking lot given that they had not been demolished and the soil beneath it was inaccessible.
The city entered into an agreement with Basin Research Associates (Basin) in August 2019 to provide: Worker Awareness 
Training (WAT), archaeological testing, and excavation monitoring and reporting. The project applicant is fully responsible 
for the cost of services and has provided payment to the city prior to execution of the agreement.
In December 2019, Basin submitted a Technical Memorandum summarizing the completion of Worker Awareness Training 
(Attachment 3), on-site monitoring and testing. Based on the testing result, the findings in the memorandum are that:  
“The review of the information obtained during the excavation of the eight BTUs confirms the previous 
archaeological conclusion that the varying depths and thickness of the cultural deposit are probably due to 
extensive disturbance associated with past mound leveling along San Mateo Creek; initial building construction

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
within the project site; the historic alignment of the creek and it’s covering adjacent to Baldwin Avenue and North 
B Street; and the construction of a grocery store and associated parking.  In addition, the current testing suggests 
a low to moderate potential for intact cultural deposits under the existing sidewalk and road right of way 
especially along Baldwin Avenue and North B Street.”
The consultant concluded that “no further testing appears necessary” and recommended  development of a modified 
archaeological monitoring and reporting program to “ensure that any archaeological resources exposed during ground 
disturbing construction are identified, evaluated and appropriately treated.”  More detailed information regarding the 
testing including map and photos are located in the attachment (Attachment 4). City staff reviewed the memo and 
concurred with the recommendations.
Basin developed an Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan (ARTP) based on the above mentioned testing results and 
finding that the construction associated with the project has low to moderate potential to expose archaeological material 
during ground disturbing construction. The ARTP includes: monitoring protocols, detailed procedures regarding post-
review discoveries made during project construction, description of field and artifact analysis methods, Native American 
consultation in the event of discovery of Native American burials and the treatment of human remains (consistent with 
state burial laws), laboratory methods including artifact cataloguing and project documentation and reporting (Attachment 
5). The ARTP was reviewed by city staff and accepted.   
In implementing the ARTP, Basin provided archaeological monitoring in December 2020 and February 2021 during ground 
disturbing work within the project’s property line. Based on the field observations by Basin, findings include bottles and 
brick and concrete from a previous building foundation; however, no significant prehistoric or historic cultural materials 
were discovered during this monitoring period. More detailed monitoring observations including photos are documented 
in the Monitoring Report Summary (Attachment 6).       
It should be noted that the builder (Build Group) and developer (Prometheus) have coordinated with city staff and Basin 
Research Associates to schedule and provide Worker Awareness Training for construction workers during different phases 
of ground disturbing work. The most recent one was completed on March 15, 2021 and was attended by the city’s 
inspection staff from Building Division and Public Works Department.     
During this next phase, the builder, developer, city staff and Basin will continue to coordinate to ensure archaeological 
monitoring during ground disturbing work in the public right of way as per the protocols in the ARTP. Basin will provide a 
written report following the conclusion of monitoring. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Archaeological Records Search, Archival Research, Subsurface Reconnaissance, Sensitivity Evaluation, and 
Management Plan for the 303 Baldwin Property by Holman & Associates dated July 2018
Att 2 – Excerpt of the Conditions of Approval
Att 3 – Construction Worker Cultural Sensitivity Training Alert Sheet 
Att 4 – Technical Memorandum by Basin Research Associates dated December 30, 2019
Att 5 – Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan by Basin Research Associates dated January 2020
Att 6 – Monitoring Report Summary for December 2020 – February 2021

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216

--- page 15 ---
ARCHAEOLOGICAL RECORDS SEARCH, ARCHIVAL RESEARCH,
SUBSURFACE RECONNAISSANCE, SENSITIVITY EVALUATION,
AND MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE 303 BALDWIN AVENUE PROPERTY,
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
by
Matthew R. Clark, RPA #10310
July 2018
Report Prepared For
City of San Mateo
Community Development Department
Planning Division; Roscoe Mata, Associate Planner
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
HOLMAN & ASSOCIATES
ARCHAEOLOGICAL CONSULTANTS
3615 Folsom Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
415-550-7286
Holman.assoc@comcast.net

--- page 16 ---
Introduction and Project Summary
The Planning Division of the City of San Mateo has taken the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) lead on a mixed office/ residential/commercial project located at 303 Baldwin Avenue in downtown
San Mateo, California.  This Project Area was noted as archaeologically sensitive by the City, probably based
on a 1983 report completed for City Planning (Chavez 1983).  The San Mateo City Planning Division
contracted with Holman & Associates (H&A) to research the potential for archaeological resources within the
Project Area.  The 0.94 acre project parcel is occupied by a grocery store, Trag’s Market, and that building
has been in this location more than 50 years; it is surrounded by paved parking lots on three sides, some
minimal planted areas to the south, and concrete sidewalks.  As plans call for two levels of parking underneath
the proposed development, it will be necessary to demolish existing surface features, existing underground
utilities, and excavate more than 25 feet deep across nearly the entire parcel for the construction project. 
These sorts of impacts would clearly disrupt if not completely destroy any archaeological resources within
the impact zone.  The existing surface features made surface survey or the presence of archaeological
resources impractical, so archival research and subsurface reconnaissance was required by the City.
A historical resources records search, historic maps research, and in-house archival research were
conducted.  The records search showed 12 archaeological studies had been reported within 100 meters of the
Project Area, one of which is mapped as covering a small portion of the property but probably did not as it
was a surface survey report and the Project Area was entirely covered by pavement at the time.  A portion of
a prehistoric Native American archaeological site, CA-SMA-309, is mapped as at the northwest and western
side of the property; other nearby projects and old reports have documented several other prehistoric sites
along both sides of San Mateo Creek near the Project Area.  Because meaningful surface survey of the fully
developed property, entirely covered by pavement and structures, was not possible and this location is highly
sensitive for archaeological resources, H&A recommended and was contracted by City Planning to conduct
subsurface reconnaissance using the geoprobe technique.
Nine geoprobe test locations were proposed and eight were completed to eight feet below current
surface.  Six of the eight found evidence of prehistoric archaeological resources at varying depths and in
various conditions.  Several of the positive probes found evidence of probably intact in situ prehistoric cultural
deposits as well as probably disturbed or displaced prehistoric strata.  All eight probes found strata and/or
materials indicating potential for historical archaeological resources on the property as well.
This Project Area is in a sensitive location, near the historic banks of San Mateo Creek, where evidence
of archaeological resources has been found by numerous previous studies and was found by this archival and
field research.  The prehistoric site within the Project Area would qualify as a “historical resource” under the
requirements of CEQA and be eligible for inclusion in the California Register of Historical Resources,
therefore adverse impacts would need to be mitigated.  As currently designed, the proposed redevelopment
project at 303 Baldwin Avenue will adversely impact archaeological resources, as excavations will be required
well deeper than the resources could be expected to extend.  Recommendations are made at the end of this
report for additional steps to mitigate adverse impacts by archaeological monitoring of construction, controlled
data recovery, and a report of findings to be completed to contemporary archaeological standards and
submitted to the California Historical Resources Information System.
-2-

--- page 17 ---
The Project Area and Proposed Project
The 303 Baldwin Avenue Project Area is located in downtown San Mateo, at the east end of Baldwin
where that street meets North B Street and extends westward to North Ellsworth Avenue; the fenced north
boundary of the Project Area is adjacent to a long-time residential area.  The property, nearly rectangular but
with the southeast corner reduced, is oriented northwest/southeast on the longer axis but may be described as
North B Street being the frontage to the east, Baldwin to the south, North Ellsworth to the west, and residential
to the north (Map 1).  The property is designed by San Mateo County Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 032-
322-120; the application for redevelopment is City of San Mateo Planning Division file PA17-085.  The 303
Baldwin Avenue Project Area (BAPA) is located on the USGS “San Mateo” 7.5 minute topographic
quadrangle, a portion of which is reproduced here as Map 1.  The KDPA is within the Mexican-era Rancho
San Mateo land grant, the southern boundary of which is San Mateo Creek adjacent to the property, and is
therefore not surveyed into the township and range system.  This area on the flood plain of San Mateo Creek
is basically flat and nearly level, being on the broad flats west San Francisco Bay but not within or next to the
historic marshlands that surrounded the Bay.  Elevation on the ~300 foot long property only ranges from about
27 feet at from the north to about 29 feet at the south end.  This area would have been oak tree studded
grasslands with perennial San Mateo Creek running from the westerly hills toward the marshland surrounding
the Bay during aboriginal times, the riparian corridor likely lined with mostly willow trees.
The BAPA has been occupied by Trag’s Market since 1972 and prior to that by Rakestraw’s Market
from 1956; it was previously developed by the late nineteenth century (see below).  The market building meets
the sidewalk on North B Street and is surrounded by paved parking/access areas on the other three sides.  The
proposed redevelopment project would build one large multi-modal building covering nearly the entire
property, with office, commercial, and residential uses; as noted two levels of below ground parking are
proposed.  Construction of the redevelopment project would leave none of the BAPA unaffected.
The San Mateo City Planning Division contracted with H&A to complete the CEQA requirements for
potential impacts to archaeological resources.  A H&A proposal was submitted in 28 March/revised 09 May
2018 and authorized by the City, detailing four initial steps needed to begin to meet those requirements: an
archaeological records search, archival research, and evaluation; preparation and approval of a plan to conduct
subsurface archaeological reconnaissance via the geoprobe technique; completion of the subsurface
reconnaissance, and; a report of findings to be submitted to the City with recommendations for following
compliance efforts if archaeological resources were discovered with a plan to mitigate adverse impacts.  The
records search and archival research and subsequent subsurface reconnaissance did find evidence of
archaeological resources within the Project impact zones. 
-3-

--- page 18 ---
MAP 1: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo Project Area Location.
(USGS “San Mateo” 7.5 minute topographic quadrangle, 2012)
-4-

--- page 19 ---
Records Search and Archival Research
Records Search
The archaeological records search was conducted for H&A by Charles Mikulik of CRP, LLC, on 11
April 2018 at the Northwest Information Center (NWIC) of the California Historical Resources Information
System (CHRIS) at Sonoma State University.  
The historical/archaeological resources records search was conducted at the Northwest Information
Center (NWIC) of the California Historical Resources Information System (CHRIS) and completed on 11
April 2018 for H&A by CRP LLC; the NWIC File Number for this search is 17-2440.  Twelve pertinent
reports within the search perimeter are on file at the NWIC.  One prehistoric archaeological site is recorded
as partially within the Project Area and several others are close by.  Most of the nearby reports comment on
the presence or former presence of numerous prehistoric sites along San Mateo Creek and several note that
the within the meandering curves of the creek prehistoric shell mounds once existed (Chavez 1983, 1986;
Archaeological Resource Management 1999; Carrico, Cooley, and Eckhardt 2000; Nelson et al. 2002; Byrd
and Buehring 2006; Waechter, Meyer, and Leach-Palm 2008; Wiberg 2009).  A report by Hamilton (1936)
maps and presents brief descriptions and details of sites along San Mateo Creek and spots those within (or
previously within) the search radius.
Another 10 reports were of a type the NWIC lists as “Other” reports that are not specific to the location
or the area within the search perimeter and indicate no fieldwork or other research in that same area, being
broad regional overviews, Master’s Theses, resource inventories, landscape studies, data and general impact
mitigation recovery plans, summaries of extant data, etc., that cover the entire “the Bay Area” or all of Santa
Clara County or even more, and provide no data relevant for this Project Area.  With the exception of the 1936
Hamilton report, included in “Other” because the author was not an archaeologist or anthropologist and his
very early work is questionable on some grounds, these “Other” reports are not further considered here nor
included in the references below.
Jerome Hamilton first visited the San Mateo area in 1895, when he aptly described the city as “... the
village of San Mateo...” (1936:2), walking the shore of the Bay and vicinity from San Francisco looking for
“ancient Indian Shell Mounds,” in which he was intensely interested, having first glimpsed one in San Mateo
County in 1889.  He later settled in San Mateo and went to work at the College of San Mateo, then in
downtown, and kept up his interest in and search for shell mounds for more than 40 years.  Hamilton’s 1936
compendium report on “Indian Shell Mounds of San Mateo Creek and Vicinity” details what he had
discovered, heard, and recorded about prehistoric sites along the creek and nearby to the north and west. 
During his 1895 visit, he “..even saw some of them [mounds] near the old wooden bridge that crossed San
Mateo Creek at B Street and Baldwin Avenue” (1936:3); that bridge was across from the southeast corner of
the current Project Area.  Hamilton “recorded” (mapped and described) ultimately 31 shell mounds in San
Mateo and several others in Burlingame, Hillsborough, and environs.  The prehistoric site recorded as partially
within the BAPA, mapped along North Ellsworth near Baldwin Avenue and into the northwest of the Project
Area, is very probably Hamilton’s Mound #10, described as in “San Mateo, Ellsworth Avenue near Baldwin
Avenue, west bank of San Mateo Creek.  Size, 3 feet high at crown and covered about 1½ acres. A few broken
stone mortars reported found.  Material all hauled away” (1936:7).  This is now recorded under CHRIS
Primary Number P-41-318 and archaeological site trinomial CA-SMA-309 (Bocek 1990), and described as
“The remains of a mid-size shell midden ... Shell-rich black midden soil is still visible in yards and along street
in central part of this block of Ellsworth with occasional dispersed midden patches farther southeast near
Baldwin” (1990:1).  Hamilton’s report of “Material all hauled away” is therefore not completely accurate.
-5-

--- page 20 ---
“Midden” is defined as “A deposit marking a former habitation site and containing such materials as
discarded artifacts, bone and shell, food refuse, charcoal, ash, rock, human remains, structural elements, and
other cultural leavings” (Moratto 1984:592).  “Prehistoric” in this context means prior to the arrival of
Europeans at this location, which means before 1769 on the San Francisco Peninsula, when the Spanish
invaders came up the ocean coast and discovered San Francisco Bay.  The purpose of this research was to find
out if prehistoric midden(s) still exist on the BAPA property and project impact zones.
Two other shell mound locations are mapped by the NWIC as within or partially within the 100 m
records search radius, P-41-231/CA-SMA-231 on the opposite side of North B Street (Jurich, Martinez, and
Zelazo 2009) and P-41-230/CA-SMA-232 on the north side of the creek spanning from the middle of North
B Street eastward across the railroad tracks (Chavez 1982; Martinez and Moore 2010).  Hamilton’s 1936
hand-drawn map was reasonably accurate for the time, but is somewhat difficult to interpret in places now
because Hamilton left out some streets so the mound locations and numbers could be shown (e.g., First
Avenue) and more streets have been added to the downtown grid (e.g., there was no North B Street in 1936,
although that map does show “South B Street;” the 1939 USGS map does show North B Street), and portions
of the creek have been moved and channelized underground.  This difficulty has led to some reports perhaps
misidentifying the locations of some of Hamilton’s mounds, but all reports in the vicinity that found surface
indications or did subsurface reconnaissance affirm the presence of remnants and perhaps partially intact shell
mounds along both sides of San Mateo Creek (Chavez 1986; Biosystems Analysis 1989; Archaeological
Resource Management 1999; Nelson et al. 2002; Byrd and Buehring 2006; Wiberg 2009; Beard 2015, Origer
2015).  However, based on Hamilton’s 1936 map and location description and the current mapping and
recording, there is little or no doubt the site recorded as partially within the BAPA is Hamilton’s Mound
#10/SMA-309.  It must be noted as well that Mounds #9, #11, and #12 were close by the Project Area and
described respectively as “Material all hauled away for sidewalks, etc.,” “The street was graded three years
ago leaving only a portion of the area exposed,” and “Material all used for sidewalks, etc.” much like Mound
#10 was described, but while all these mound locations have been recently re-identified, any of them could
also have contributed to the finds made by geoprobing for this project.
Also checked in the NWIC archives were lists of historic era resources, the State Office of Historic
Preservation (OHP) “Directory of Properties in the Historic Property Data File for San Mateo County” (2012)
and the OHP “Archaeological Determinations of Eligibility [for the NRHP and the CRHR] for San Mateo
County” (2012); the apparent prehistoric resource on the BAPA property is not listed in the former and has
not been studied for a determination of eligibility.  The “Historic Sites Master List for San Mateo County”
was also checked; none of the listed sites is within the records search radius.  Seven buildings recorded as
historical resources and one broader historic district of the San Mateo “Central Business District” (Wickert
1989) were found within or partially within the 100 m search area for recorded resources, all to the south of
the BAPA.  While these structures and district are close to the Project Area, the proposed project will not have
a direct impact on any of them; these potential resources are not commented upon further here and references
are not provided.
Archival Research
Historic maps were also examined to gauge potential for historical resources and provided some insights
for the BAPA location.  The 1896 USGS 15 minute “San Mateo” topographic quadrangle shows the growing
street grid of the City of San Mateo, the platting of which had begun in 1863 with the arrival of the San
Francisco-San Jose Railroad that same year (taken over by the Southern Pacific Railroad in 1868).  The City
incorporated in 1894 when the nascent downtown was already aligned along the railroad line and the Project
Area became prime commercial real estate.  The 1896 quadrangle shows Baldwin Avenue in the current
-6-

--- page 21 ---
alignment but ending at North Ellsworth as North B Street is not yet in place; a wooden bridge crosses the
creek southeasterly from the southeast corner of Baldwin and Ellsworth; a single building is spotted within
the Project Area right at the corner of Baldwin and Ellsworth.  The 1899 quadrangle shows the same street
plan and another building on the westerly portion of the Project Area, and numerous other buildings not shown
three years earlier as the downtown area grew rapidly.  
The Trag’s Market Historic Resource  Evaluation report by Architectural Resources Group, Inc. (ARG,
2017), available on the City’s website, provides historic maps and a construction chronology of the Project
Area beginning with:
According to Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps [1901], the parcel was developed as early as the turn of the twentieth
century with a series of one- to two-story commercial buildings facing Baldwin Avenue, and two one-story
stables at the rear facing San Mateo Creek. The creek meandered south for one block along present day N. B
Street and curved west along present day Baldwin Avenue. A bridge located at the southeast corner of the parcel
spanned the creek and provided access to the B Street commercial corridor extending south ... By 1946, the
property had been redeveloped with a series of slightly larger, one story commercial buildings facing Baldwin
Avenue and an automobile garage to the north ... The creek had been channeled underground due to the
construction of N. B Street and Baldwin Avenue [Architectural Resources Group 2017:5].
 The 1901 Sanborn Fire Insurance Company map of the location is provided by ARG (2017:7), showing five
one- to two-story commercial buildings on the south end of the Project Area, two conjoined ones at the
southeastern corner only partially so as they angle east into what became North B Street; the larger building
fronting onto Baldwin is labeled “French Laundry”and the line delineating the two buildings appears to now
be the southwesterly right-of-way line for modern North B Street, creating the angle that makes the Project
Area parcel not quite a rectangle.  The frontage of Baldwin between North Ellsworth and the B Street
alignment also has the other two easterly buildings angled such that they jut into what is now the Baldwin
right-of-way.  In the northwest of the parcel are the two stables facing the creek, also angled out into what is
now North B Street.  The bridge angled to the southeast across San Mateo Creek meets what is now South B
Street; the creek is labeled “Dry in Summer,” perhaps not accurate as every map depicts it as a perennial
stream, but of interest to a fire insurance company.  The 1915 15 minute topographic map shows the same
street pattern as in 1901, but only one building fronting onto North Ellsworth and B Street not yet extending
north of the creek.  
By the 1939 topographic quadrangle, downtown San Mateo is shown as a developed urban zone but
excepting the largest,  individual buildings are not spotted.  North B Street has been created, but oddly the
block containing the BAPA is shown as not a rectangle but the angled portion is at the west instead of the
southeast, and the route of the creek, presumably undergrounded, is not shown from El Camino Real at the
west to nearly the still-existing Bayside marshlands on the east.  ARG also provides a 1946 aerial photo
showing four commercial buildings now aligned at the south to the modern edge of Baldwin, with a smaller
building attached at the northwest and a parking lot from North Ellsworth to North B Street across the north
end of the parcel; this photo does not show the now realigned and covered creek and obviously the former
bridge from Baldwin to B Street is gone, but clearly shows the angled corner of the block at the southeast and
not on the west  (ARG 2017:7).   The 1950 Sanborn map confirms the 1946 configuration (ARG 2017:8). 
ARG 2017 details development of the parcel in the mid-1950s; the parcel was cleared on 1955 and the first
grocery store building constructed in 1956, Rakestraw’s Market, later to become Trag’s (ARG 2017:6, 8). 
With one major alteration/addition at the north side on 1962, the building has remained with the same
footprint as the present day.
-7-

--- page 22 ---
As the 1896 and 1899 maps show a building on the property, and by 1901 the Sanborn map shows a
total of seven buildings, and it appears other buildings and uses came and went between that date and clearing
of the property in 1955, there is a potential for historical archaeological resources under the existing paved
and built-over surface of the Project Area.  The property has contained the same features and been in the same
use, however, since 1956.  The 2017 ARG evaluation report concludes that the existing building does not meet
any of the criteria to be eligible for the California Register of Historical Resources (2017:21-22).
 
Initial Inspection and Subsurface Archaeological Reconnaissance
H&A did not expect surface examination of the Trag’s Market property at 303 Baldwin Avenue to be
fruitful, and indeed it was not, being entirely covered by the building and pavement, and the small planter
areas contained imported fill.  However, Chavez (1983, 1986), Bocek (1990), and Wiberg (2009) had reported
visible shell fragments and/or midden soil with fire-cracked rock visible on the surface in the immediate
vicinity so attempts were made to determine whether such indicators were still present.  However, this effort
also proved fruitless as neighboring commercial properties are entirely covered like the BAPA and permission
to enter residential private properties had not been obtained; peering through fences and into front yards
revealed little to no surface visibility.
Expecting the subject property to be unavailable for surface reconnaissance, as it proved to be, following
the records search and archival study, and previous experience in the San Mateo Creek corridor, indicating
the likelihood that prehistoric shell midden deposits would be present on the property, H&A recommended
to City Planning in our initial proposal that subsurface reconnaissance be conducted via the geoprobe
technique.  The “GeoProbe” is a proprietary mechanical coring technique conducted with a truck or ATV
mounted system.  The mechanical direct-push coring equipment brings up 2-inch diameter samples in three
or four foot lengths, encased in clear plastic sleeves for easy viewing, which can then be sliced open and/or
transported to the lab for closer examination as warranted.  Geoprobing has proved an effective method for
exploring soil strata and a cost-effective technique as well, particularly when searching for archaeological
resources rich in shellfish fragments, the type of sites known to have been along San Mateo Creek.  This
continuous visible core technique proves far superior to regular power augering or backhoeing, being much
more accurate and much less disruptive than other available techniques for paved streets and parking lots.  
Geoprobing has been shown to be quite effective for locating and mapping shell middens along the Bay side
of the Peninsula, which are readily obvious if still visible on the surface or found in probe samples (Clark
2000, 2000a, 2005, 2006, 2007), but a primary use of the geoprobe is also to discover native topsoil(s) and
old surfaces in archaeologically sensitive zones, such as along watercourses; results from such settings may
indicate clear archaeological sensitivity and warrant archaeological monitoring of construction.
After the City approved the scope of work and explained some constraints on geoprobing so as to not
disrupt the store’s business unduly, and maps showing proposed geoprobe locations were approved, nine
potential geoprobe locations were marked on the south, west, and north sides of the building.  The marked
locations were up to eight by eight to 10 feet rectangles so that if underground utilities were found in a portion
of the location a different section of the rectangle could be used.  An Underground Service Alert (USA)
notification was sent in and duplicated by the geoprobe firm (as required) on 22 June and geoprobing was
completed 28 June 2018.  Because the utilities notified by USA typically do not mark all the way into private
property, and utilities had been in place underground since at least 1956 (the locations of which were
unknown) so utility companies were unlikely to even have records of those locations, a private utility locating
company was recommended to be employed as well and arrangements were made  to have the probe locations
marked by the private locator before geoprobe testing.
-8-

--- page 23 ---
Eight of the nine proposed locations were sufficiently cleared for underground utilities and were
geoprobed; location #2, near the southeast corner of the building, was marked by both USA and the private
locator as containing several lines underground and could not be tested.  The other eight locations were all
probed to eight feet below current surface (see Map 2).  Two 4-foot sample tubes were used at each location
and all probes reached eight feet/244 cm below surface; the clear plastic sleeves were examined and  sliced
open as needed for examination, with strata and other pertinent information recorded.  Five entire 4-foot
plastic sample tubes contained apparent shell midden and were marked with provenience information, taped
back up and capped, and transported to the lab for further inspection: these were the 0-4 feet tubes from probe
locations #4, #5, #7, #8, and #9.  At probe location #6, a small portion of the 4-8 feet tube containing apparent
shell midden was also taken to the lab as a sample.  The 2¼-inch round holes at 303 Baldwin were refilled
with the materials removed as much as possible, then grouted with liquid cement dyed to mimic the pavement
to restore the previous contours and prevent breakdown of the pavement.
The six samples from the geoprobe testing transported were first reopened and re-measured for strata
and more detailed recovery recording, then the prehistoric archaeological deposit portions were sifted through
3.175 mm/c inch dry screen to help identify constituents and look for faunal remains, other bone, and
artifacts, and to discern whether evidence was present that the shell midden samples had been previously
disturbed (e.g., mixed with historic materials, appearing above clearly imported fill in the column, etc.) or
contained indications that the deposit was likely to be intact.
Results of Subsurface Reconnaissance
All six geoprobe samples transported to the lab (#4, #5, #6, #7, #8, and #9) and screened contained clear
evidence of prehistoric shell midden deposits; some appeared to be undisturbed, some disturbed, some
definitely mixed with historic or modern materials, and some disturbed by being artificially compacted.  These
probes containing prehistoric deposits were placed along the western side and north end of the Project Area.
The two probes in the south-center and southeast corner of the property did not encounter prehistoric
materials; no probes were placed along the eastern property boundary between #1 and #9, and obviously none
were under the store building, but “connecting the dots” between #4 and #9 would indicate there are likely
to be deposits under approximately the western half of the building.  Probe locations are shown on Map 2 and
records of each geoprobe are in the appended Geoprobe Record.
All the probes encountered modern to recent fill under pavement, which was modern asphaltic concrete
at all locations except probe #5, where the pavement appeared to be older style tarmac containing gravel and
some sand rather than more modern and common asphaltic concrete or AC pavement.  Probes #1 and #3,
which did not find prehistoric midden deposits (#1 did contain a thin, 5 cm/2 inch layer with scant tiny shell
fragments 240-244 cm/8 feet below surface, which might be an old surface once near the prehistoric site, but
was not classified as a midden deposit), were recent and modern fill all the way to the bottom of the samples
at 244 cm/8 feet.  Fills in those locations were various layers, some containing structural rubble, brickbats
(fragments of common red brick or yellow fire brick), glass, charcoal, chunks of pavement and concrete, what
appeared to be a continuous layer of concrete at almost four feet in #1, layers of differing types of imported
gravels, and layers of different rocky/clayey fills.  The two layers of disturbed/mixed midden in probe #5
contained some lumps of anthracite (“hard”) coal, which does not occur in California (Murdoch and Webb
1966), was and still is imported from the eastern US as a heat/energy source.  These fills and other historic-era
materials were also encountered above, and in some instance below prehistoric midden layers in the other six
probes.  Fill above prehistoric deposits (disturbed or apparently intact) ranged from 21 cm/8¼ inches in #5
to 82 cm/32a inches at #4, averaging about 35 cm/13½ inches; there was no apparent relationship between
-9-

--- page 24 ---
probe locations and depth of fill, but the deepest fill locations (#1 and #3) were closest to the original route
of San Mateo Creek.  
The BAPA property has been built on since the late nineteenth century and has been redeveloped several
times prior to construction of the existing grocery store building 62 years ago.  The fill and rubble layers seen
in probes #1 and #3, as well as in the other probes, attest to these building episodes and also indicate the
possibility that historical archaeological resources could be encountered when the property is excavated for
construction.  Structural remains, dumps, privy pits, and possibly water wells could contain significant
archaeological resources, which should be identified and treated as historic resources if found.
 
Typically the demarcation between the fill layering and the very dark grey, very dark greyish brown, or
black clay or silty clay containing conspicuous shell was quite distinct and obvious, with the midden right
below a fill layer, but in some instances (#5, $6, #8) apparently disturbed midden was mixed with fill or fill
containing historic materials.  The presence of pieces up to whole shells of species found in San Francisco Bay
is a clear indication these midden layers were created by people bringing food resources inland along the creek
and eventually creating mounds essentially of refuse upon which later people lived.  The most common
species in the screened samples was Mytilus trossulus or Bay Mussel, but also quite common were Ostrea
lurida, the Olympic Oyster (also called the California or Pacific Oyster), which are more durable shells and
some whole specimens of one side of the shell were seen.  Much less common were Macoma sp. clam shells
(probably M. nasuta, the bent-nosed clam, but also perhaps M. secta, the white-sand macoma), and quite rare
(two instances) barnacles (Balanus sp.).  Bay Mussel, Oysters, and clams inhabit different ecozones and so
would not occur together in a natural deposit (barnacles cohabit with mussel and oyster but not the clams),
so the species of shell definitively indicate a cultural source.  Also noted in the midden layers were occasional
fire-cracked or thermally altered rocks, which occurs when rocks are repeatedly exposed to high temperatures
such as in a hearth, pieces of oxidized sandstones also associated with fires, charcoal and carbon in small
lumps and flecks, and small bits of inadvertently “baked” clay in intact midden in probe #7.  No artifacts or
bone fragments were found in any of the samples, but there is no doubt the midden detected originated in
prehistoric habitation sites such as lined the creek before being decimated by modern development.
Under the black clayey/silty shell midden in three of six samples was a lighter colored clayey/silty soil
containing scant shell and/or other archaeological indicators, “submidden” of materials incorporated below
the midden mounds by natural and cultural means such as erosion, alluviation, rodent and other animal
activity, burial, pit excavations, trampling.  Including midden mixed with historic materials and fills,
compacted by development activities or overburden, apparently intact midden, and submidden, the six probe
locations where midden was recorded contained varying thicknesses of cultural deposits, ranging from 9
cm/3.5 inches in the #6 sample more than four feet from the surface, to 123 cm/48.4 inches in #5, the upper
portion (27 cm/10.6 inches) of which was disturbed and had fill and historic materials incorporated.  Including
submidden is important because during earlier use of the mound location burials were often interred into the
culturally sterile soil upon which the mound is being built and sometimes fire or house pits are also excavated
into the mound base as well.  The results of the probes positive for prehistoric cultural deposits are tabulated
below and the entire strata in each probe presented in the Geoprobe Record.
Probes #5 and #9, approximately 65 m/214 feet apart on opposite corners of the Project Area, contained
the greatest thicknesses of prehistoric midden deposit, but probes #7 and #8 also contained significance
amounts of midden deposit, albeit disturbed on top.  The central-east side of the property was not probed so
the subsurface of more than half the BAPA remains unknown.  The varying depths and thicknesses of cultural
deposit are very likely due to extensive disturbance when the mounds along San Mateo Creek were first
leveled, when the first structures were built on the property, then when the curve in the creek adjacent to
-10-

--- page 25 ---
Baldwin Avenue and North B Street was realigned and covered, and finally when the grocery store building
was constructed.  There appears to be intact midden, indicated by no intrusive historic materials or sterile soils
mixed in and the arrangement of the strata (e.g., the largest shell pieces or whole oyster shells laying flat
oriented parallel to the surface, as they would be originally deposited), at four locations: probes #5, #6, #7,
and #9.  However, there are also midden strata that were much more compacted, probably during historic
impacts, than the looser intact midden usually just below, which also did not have indications of previous
disturbance.  Combining the two types of midden, compacted and looser intact that looks intact in the small
samples obtained is thickest at probe #5 (61 cm/24.0 inches) with submidden below (35 cm/13.8 inches), but
combining those same strata at probe #4 shows 21 cm/8.3 inches of cultural deposit, 24 cm/9.4 inches at probe
#7, and 31 cm/12.2" at probe #9.  The probability that intact prehistoric cultural data, artifacts, features, and
possibly burials is highest at these locations, and again, half the property remains unknown below the surface. 
It must be noted that the disturbed midden, even that mixed with historic materials and fill, could still contain
disturbed human remains and permit conditions for construction should reflect that possibility.
Table 1: 303 Baldwin: Prehistoric Deposits Detected in Geoprobes.
Probe #   FBS     cm       Description                               Thickness (cm)       Total Thickness (cm)
4
0-4
82-92
compacted shell midden
10 cm/3.9"
92-103 submidden
11 cm/4.3"
21 cm/8.3"
5
0-4
21-30
compacted midden with historic
materials mixed in
9 cm/3.5"
30-48
fill with disturbed midden
18 cm/7.1"
48-103 compacted shell midden
55 cm/21.6"
103-109 intact shell midden
6 cm/2.4"
4-8
4-39
submidden
35 cm/13.8"
123 cm/48.4"
6
4-8
9-15
disturbed shell midden
6 cm/2.4"
15-18
intact midden
3 cm/1.2"
9 cm/3.5"
7
0-4
60-68
compacted disturbed midden
8 cm/3.1"
68-84
loose intact shell midden
16 cm/6.3"
24 cm/9.4"
8
0-4
58-67
disturbed midden with historic
materials mixed in
9 cm/3.5"
67-88
disturbed shell midden
21 cm/8.3"
30 cm/11.8"
9
0-4
33-61
disturbed? shell midden
28 cm/11.0"
61-67
intact shell midden
6 cm/2.4"
67-77
sandstone fire-cracked rock
10 cm/3.9"
77-92
submidden
15 cm/5.9"
59 cm/23.2"
FBS = feet below surface within sample tube; cm = depth within sample tubes.
-11-

--- page 26 ---
MAP 2: 303 Baldwin Avenue Project Archaeological Geoprobe Test Locations.
(Source: WRNS Studio/BKF Engineering 12/15/17)
-12-

--- page 27 ---
Depth of Archaeological Sensitivity
The locations geoprobe tested all went through pavement and then modern to recent base fill into either
historic fills or deposits containing historic materials or rubble, or directly into a stratum containing prehistoric
cultural materials below varying numbers and kinds of historic fill.  The depth below current surface to
potential historical or prehistoric archaeological resources was not more than 61 cm/24 inches at any tested
location, but was considerably less in most locations.  The shallowest location where prehistoric archaeological
materials were encountered was 21 cm/8.3 inches at probe #5, the deepest was 55 cm/21.6 inches to historic
strata potentially containing historical archaeological resources at probe #1.  However, only eight small sample
locations were tested on the nearly one-acre property, which make clear the top of the archaeologically
sensitive zone varies in depth by at least 34 cm/13.4 inches, but do not provide reliable predictions for where
the sensitive zone starts between the geoprobe locations or under the market building.
Conclusion and Recommendations
CEQA and other State law requirements regarding historical resources are found in Public Resources
Code (PRC) Sections 21002(b), 21083.2, and 21084.1, in PRC Section 5024.1, where the California Register
of Historical Resources (CRHR) is established, in California Code of Regulations at 14 CCR Section 4850
et seq, and 14 CCR Section 15064.5(3)).  CEQA lead agencies are required to complete a reasonable
inventory of potential historical resources and assess potential impacts to them by evaluating the resources for
CRHR eligibility.  Adverse impacts to resources determined or accepted as historical resources must be
mitigated under CEQA, which also provides several methods to do so.  However, resources that are not listed
or determined CRHR eligible can still be determined historical resources by a lead agency.  PRC Section
21084.1 reads, in part:
A project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an historical resource is a project
that may have a significant effect on the environment.  For purposes of this section, an historical resource is a
resource listed in, or determined to be eligible for listing in, the California Register of Historical Resources. 
Historical resources included in a local register of historical resources, as defined in subdivision (k) of Section
5020.1 , or deemed significant pursuant to criteria set forth in subdivision (g) of Section 5024.1 , are presumed
to be historically or culturally significant for purposes of this section, unless the preponderance of the evidence
demonstrates that the resource is not historically or culturally significant.  The fact that a resource is not listed
in, or determined to be eligible for listing in, the California Register of Historical Resources, not included in a
local register of historical resources, or not deemed significant pursuant to criteria set forth in subdivision (g)
of Section 5024.1 shall not preclude a lead agency from determining whether the resource may be an historical
resource for purposes of this section.
Archival research and subsurface reconnaissance have revealed that underneath the 303 Baldwin Avenue
Project Area there is certainly are remnants, at least, of the prehistoric shell mound created next to San Mateo
Creek by Native Americans, Hamilton’s Mound #10, now designated archaeological site SMA-309.  Intact
as well as disturbed strata of the shell midden appear to be present in the BAPA; if the presence of intact strata
that can yield scientific data can be confirmed, the site will assuredly qualify as a California historic resources
under the criteria of CEQA and be eligible for the CRHR (as well as the National Register of Historic Places
[NRHP], which would become relevant should any federal permitting or participation become part of the
redevelopment project).  Additionally, shell midden mounds around San Francisco Bay not utterly destroyed
or removed, all contain prehistoric Native American burials and/or fragmented human remains; the presence
of burials in practice automatically makes the resource of importance to California Native Americans and
therefore a historical resource under CEQA.
-13-

--- page 28 ---
The BAPA property also appears to have a relatively high potential for historical archaeological
resources to be present, representing the several episodes of development on the property prior to construction
of the grocery store building, and could perhaps also contain evidence of the contact period when the Spanish
and then Mexicans held sway over the Bay Area from the late 1700s to the beginning of the American era in
1846 or 1848, more than a century and a half.
The proposed redevelopment project on the Project Area calls for excavations virtually covering the
entire property much deeper than where the archaeological resources occur, which would completely destroy
those resources within the construction footprint.  The demonstrated presence of prehistoric cultural deposits
and likely presence of historical archaeological resources require mitigation of adverse impacts under CEQA. 
Even if all the prehistoric cultural deposit(s) were found to be disturbed, the potential for significant artifacts
and human remains will still be high.  While the current conditions prevail on the property, and the store is
still in use, specifically locating the most important resources to then implement mitigation measures is not
possible.  The following recommendations are designed to be implemented at the beginning of demolition on
the property and then through the construction period as necessary.  The potential for prehistoric Native
American burials, or disturbed and probably fragmented human remains on the property, is high, so if remains
are found, other requirements of State law become operative.
Recommendations
1.
Recognition that adverse impacts to prehistoric archaeological resources and potential historical
archaeological resources will occur should be built into the permitting, project conditions, and construction
planning for the 303 Baldwin project.  Provisions should be made to mitigate those adverse impacts to a
degree commensurate with the proposed impacts, which amount to total destruction of the resources.  With
this degree of adverse impacts, for the project to go forward archaeological data recovery is the only
alternative unless the project were very significantly redesigned, which must be assumed will not be the case.
2.
During demolition of the structures on the property, and removal of the surface features and pavement,
any excavation penetrating more than 15 cm/6 inches below current surface should be monitored by qualified
professional archaeologist(s), including removal of existing utilities and the foundation(s) of the existing
market building.  Archaeological monitoring should be guided by a written Archaeological Monitoring
Agreement (see below), and should continue into culturally sterile subsoil across the entire Project Area.
3.
Regarding CEQA requirements, lead agencies must determine whether potential historical resources
qualify for eligibility to the CRHR.  PRC Section 5024.1(a)(4) the “information criterion,” is usually applied
to archaeological sites to evaluate eligibility.  The question is, can it be shown that the resource “4) Has
yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history”?  Generally, if prehistoric
archaeological sites contain intact strata from which scientifically valid data and materials can be derived, or
contain other information or human remains even in disturbed state(s), eligibility Criterion 4 is met and the 
site is a CEQA “historical resource.”  Eligibility can be demonstrated by controlled data recovery prior to
continuing construction, or CRHR eligibility could be assumed and controlled data obtained during
monitoring of construction; the latter approach is recommended.
The normal method to determine whether scientifically valid information is present in a site,
archaeological data recovery by controlled hand excavations, could be used on the BAPA property following
demolition and removal of no more than ~15 cm/6 inches off the surface, including removal of the building
foundations.  At that point, another subsurface reconnaissance could be done, by hand augering if possible
or by mechanical means (trenching to the depth of potential resources), overburden could be removed, and
-14-

--- page 29 ---
controlled data recovery unit(s) could be excavated to sterile soil.  However, this would take longer, the
remaining overburden of fills and possible historical resources would have to be removed, and as monitoring
of construction should still be required during construction excavations, controlled data recovery will occur
during monitoring.  As per Recommendation 2, construction monitoring and controlled data recovery should
continue until culturally sterile subsoil is revealed in the entire construction site.
4.
Archaeological monitoring for the 303 Baldwin Avenue Project should be conducted under a written
Archaeological Monitoring Agreement.  Such an AMA should provide for, at a minimum:
a) 
timely notification prior to any excavations deeper than 15 cm/6 inches anywhere in the Project Area
or impacts zones off the property such as for utility connections;
b) 
monitoring during all earth-moving or soil disturbing activities in the Project impact zones, however
minor, until and unless the monitor determines that no impacts to potentially significant archaeological
materials will occur;
c) 
specific requirements that archaeological monitors be notified immediately if potentially significant
archaeological resources are encountered outside the specified monitoring zones or anywhere in the
absence of an onsite monitor;
d) 
authority of the onsite archaeological monitor to halt and/or relocate excavations if potentially significant
archaeological materials or human remains are encountered;
e) 
time and space to record, photograph and map, recover, retrieve, and/or remove any archaeological
materials and data during the construction process;
f) 
time and funding for laboratory cleaning, cataloging, analysis, and preparation for permanent curation
of any and all recovered data and materials after onsite monitoring ends;
g) 
time and funding for a Final Report of findings, to incorporate data developed for this report as
appropriate and data developed by monitoring and analysis; additional historical and/or archival research
may also be warranted.  In addition to reporting to the Project sponsors, copies of the Final Report must
be submitted to the permitting agency and the Northwest Information Center (NWIC) of the California
Historical Resources Information System (CHRIS) for inclusion in the permanent archives, and another
copy should accompany any curated archaeological materials and data.  Archaeological data and
recovered materials, with the exception of human remains and grave goods, are and will remain the
property of the property owners.
Archaeological identification, inventory, evaluation, research and mitigative actions under provisions
of CEQA should be completely reported in a comprehensive manner, incorporating all methods used and data
gained, thorough contemporary scientific analysis of all data, and interpretation of any archaeological
resources within a regional archaeological framework.  Qualified professional archaeologists should complete
the report to best contemporary standards, and the data should be made available to other qualified researchers
following completion of the Final Report through the NWIC.  Appropriate specialized, focused scientific
analytic techniques should be applied (e.g., radiocarbon dating, obsidian sourcing and hydration, typological
studies, geomorphological studies, faunal analysis, etc.).  Obtaining, analyzing, interpreting, and reporting
archaeological data from the Project Area would serve as mitigative compensation for any project-related
impacts to resources.
Description of Archaeological Monitoring
Archaeological monitoring safeguards legally protected cultural resources, prehistoric or historic, that
may exist and may be adversely effected by a specific construction project, and is a common component of
CEQA compliance for cultural resources.
-15-

--- page 30 ---
Monitoring involves active observation of earth-moving or other Project work that could adversely affect
cultural resources, and includes, as warranted by circumstances: observation, data recording, data recovery,
archaeological excavation, photography, laboratory analysis and cataloging, ancillary special studies, and
production of a report written to current professional archaeological standards.  Definition of "significant"
cultural resources, and of “impacts,” under State, federal, or local statute, regulation, guideline, or procedure,
is the responsibility of the archaeologist.  Such monitoring activities are conducted by qualified archaeologists.
Before construction, the archaeologist needs to assess the extent of monitoring required for the proposed
Project.  In this case, as per above, monitoring should commence when any construction would will penetrate
15 cm/6 inches or more from the existing surface, including for removal of foundations and utilities.  This
requires initial inspection of the project area after and possibly during initial demolition.  Detailed information
on proposed impacts in the form of plans and blueprints, etc., and construction schedule should be provided
to the archaeological monitor(s).  Onsite monitoring involves close inspection of excavations and other
activities, so the construction supervisors must be informed of the monitor's role.  The monitor will follow
work as closely as conditions require, making all reasonable efforts for safety and noninterference with
construction.  Monitors must have onsite authority to halt and/or relocate construction activities if indications
of cultural resources are discovered; this authority should be immediate, and reside in any and all monitors.
If potentially significant archaeological materials or human remains are discovered, and the archaeologist
halts or relocates construction work, mitigative measures should be implemented in the most timely manner
possible, allowing for recovery of materials and data by standard archaeological procedures.  Normal
procedure, subject to the discretion of the monitor, will be to stop or relocate construction activity within 10
meters/33 feet of the discovery site until the find is assessed.  Archaeological monitors should make efforts
to allow construction to continue during data recovery activities.
It is the responsibility of the Project Archaeologist and monitors to identify human remains and then to
initiate, with the property owner, the process required by State Law: notification of the County Coroner, a
determination the find is prehistoric Native American, notification of the Native American Heritage
Commission (NAHC), designation of a “Most Likely Descendent” (MLD), then receipt of written
recommendations for treatment of the remains from the MLD).  During this process, no work can take place
in the vicinity of the remains.  Should that occur, the property owners/project sponsors should become
familiarized with the procedures and possible outcomes in greater detail before any treatment plan is
completed or agreement made.  Typically, any remains recovered would be turned over to the MLD for
reburial, which they often prefer be as close as possible to the discovery location; any artifacts or other
materials associated with human remains (“grave goods”) would belong with the remains.  The MLD may opt
to have the remains and goods formally analyzed and perhaps cataloged, entailing lab work and inclusion of
that data in the final report.
Archaeologists are responsible to make data available both within the discipline and to the public.  At
minimum: the archaeological resource will need to be formally re-recorded with at the NWIC; a descriptive
report of findings should be completed, containing field notes or formal written descriptions of the project
area, cultural resources, monitoring procedures and results, impacts to the resources, data recovery, a catalog
or reference to a catalog of recovered data, and location of recovered materials.  The report would be sent to
the NWIC for archiving as well as submitted to the City if and as required.
It is assumed the City will require archaeological monitoring of earth-disturbing activities on the Project
property, but that the City will allow the Project proponents and H&A, with input from the MLD if one is
-16-

--- page 31 ---
involved, to determine specifically when onsite monitoring should begin, how it will be carried out, when it
may be curtailed, and measures and efforts necessary after monitoring to meet CEQA requirements. 
Preconstruction Training: a qualified professional archaeologist should conduct a preconstruction training
session for all construction supervisory personnel and workers prior to construction at the project  area.  The
preconstruction  training would cover archaeological and tribal cultural resources sensitivity and identification,
safety, and next steps if a resource  is identified in the absence of an archaeological monitor.  Such a training
typically takes about one hour to complete.
Monitors are not responsible for unmonitored impacts to cultural resources if prior notice has not been
given, nor any that take place during other than usual work hours unless specific arrangements are in place.
Prior to monitoring, due to evidence of archaeological resources having been found, the City could
require a plan for evaluation of the resource to be submitted to Planning for approval and upon approval,
implementation of the plan.  However, in this instance we recommend the archaeological potential in the
Project Area be assumed to be CRHR eligible, as per above, and mitigation of impacts include monitoring
and subsequent steps also outlined above.  Archaeological monitoring under City permit conditions also could
require the final report to be sent to the City.
-17-

--- page 32 ---
References
Archaeological Resource Management
1999
Archaeological Testing Program for the B Street Project in the City of San Mateo, California.  Report on file,
Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University;
File No. S-21399.
Architectural Resources Group, Inc.
2017
Trag’s Market Historic Resource Evaluation.  Prepared for City of San Mateo Planning Division.  Report on
file at the Planning Division, Community Development Department, City of San Mateo, California.
Beard, Vicki R.
2015
Extended Phase I Report: North Central Pedestrian Infrastructure Improvement Project, 04-SMA-0-CR, CML
5102 (042), San Mateo County, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical
Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-43523b.
Bocek, Barbara
1990
Primary and Archaeological Site Records for P-41-000318/CA-SMA-309.  Report on file, Northwest
Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
Biosystems Analysis, Inc.
1989
Technical Report of Cultural Resources Studies for the Proposed WTG-WEST, Inc., Los Angeles to San
Francisco and Sacramento, California: Fiber Optic Cable Project.  Report on file, Northwest Information
Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-11396.
Byrd, Brian F., and Aaron Buehring
2006
Extended Phase I Archaeological Investigations for Four Bridges, Caltrain Peninsular Corridor Line Bridge
Replacement/Reconstruction Project, San Mateo, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center,
California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-36369.
Carrico, Richard, Theodore Cooley, and William Eckhardt
2000
Cultural Resources Reconnaissance Survey and Inventory Report for the Metromedia Fiberoptic Cable Project,
San Francisco Bay Area and Los Angeles Basin Networks.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center,
California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-26045.
Chavez, David
1982
Archaeological Site Record for P-41-000230/CA-SMA-232.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center,
California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
1983
Citywide Archaeological Investigations, City of San Mateo, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information
Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-6425.
1986
Archaeological Resources Evaluation for Development Property (Taqueria La Cumbre) at 28 North B Street,
San Mateo (letter report).  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources
Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-7906.
Clark, Matthew R.
2000
Initial Subsurface Archaeological Reconnaissance of Two Redevelopment Parcels on Chestnut Avenue in the
City of South San Francisco, California with Preliminary Resource Evaluation and Management
Recommendations.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information
System, Sonoma State University.
2000
An Addendum To: Initial Subsurface Archaeological Reconnaissance of Two Redevelopment Parcels on
Chestnut Avenue in the City of South San Francisco, California with Preliminary Resource Evaluation and
Management Recommendations.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources
Information System, Sonoma State University.
2005
City of South San Francisco Wet Weather Program: Initial Historic Properties Research for Section 106
Compliance, Phase 4, Task 1: Pump Station 4 Improvements and Force Main.  Report on file at the Department
of Public Works, City of South San Francisco, and on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical
Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
-18-

--- page 33 ---
Clark, Matthew R.
2006
City of South San Francisco Wet Weather Program: Extended Phase 1 Historic Properties Inventory Research:
Subsurface Reconnaissance for Phase 4, Task 1: Pump Station 4 Improvements and Force Main.  Report on
file at the Department of Public Works, City of South San Francisco, and on file, Northwest Information Center,
California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
2007
City of South San Francisco Wet Weather Program: Historic Properties Inventory Research and Subsurface
Reconnaissance for Phase II Facilities, Report on file at the Department of Public Works, City of South San
Francisco, and on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System,
Sonoma State University.
Hamilton, Jerome
1936
Indian Shell Mounds of San Mateo Creek and Vicinity (Manual to Accompany Mr.  Hamilton’s Map).  Paper
and map privately published at College of San Mateo.  Originals and copies in the Archives of the San Mateo
County Historical Association, Redwood City, CA.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California
Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File Nos. E-182 SMA and S-3174.
Jurich, Denise, Jesse Martinez, Emilie Zelazo
2009
Primary and Supplemental Archaeological Site Records for P-41-000231/CA-SMA-231.  Report on file,
Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
Martinez, Jesse, and Steve Moore
2010
Supplemental Archaeological Site Records for P-41-000231/CA-SMA-231.  Report on file, Northwest
Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
Moratto, Michael J.
1984
California Archaeology.  Academic Press, New York.
Murdoch, Joseph, and Robert Wallace Webb
1966
Minerals of California Centennial Volume (1866-1966).   Bulletin 189.  California Division of Mines and
Geology, San Francisco.
Nelson, Wendy J., Tammara Norton, Larry Chiea, and Reinhard Pribish
2002
Archaeological Inventory for the Caltrain Electrification Program Alternative in San Francisco, San Mateo,
and Santa Clara Counties, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical
Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-29657.
Origer, Thomas M.
2015
Finding of No Adverse Effect for the North Central Pedestrian Infrastructure Improvement Project, San Mateo
County, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information
System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-46523c.
Waechter, Sharon A., Jack Meyer, and Laura Leach-Palm
2008
Cultural Resources Addendum for the Caltrain Electrification Program Alternative: San Francisco, San Mateo,
and Santa Clara Counties, California.  Report on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical
Resources Information System, Sonoma State University; File No. S-29657f.
Wiberg, Randy S.
2009
Extended Archaeological Survey, 15 N. Ellsworth Avenue, San Mateo, California (APN: 032-321-370).  Report
on file, Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State
University; File No. S-36444.
Wickert, L.
1989
Historic District Record for P-41-001097, Downtown San Mateo Historic Business District.  Report on file,
Northwest Information Center, California Historical Resources Information System, Sonoma State University.
-19-

--- page 34 ---
Appendix:
Geoprobe Record
303 Baldwin Avenue Project
San Mateo, CA

--- page 35 ---
GEOPROBE RECORD
Project/Site #: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo (Trag’s Market)          Date: 28 June 2018
Recorder(s): J.P Schlagheck and K.E. Dobinson                                   Sample Size: 2" ID
Location: see Plan Map of Existing Conditions                                     ** contains archaeological materials
Probe #
FBS*
Depth (cm)
Soil/Sediment Description
Cultural Materials
1
0-4
0-45
asphalt pavement
45-55
7.5YR 4/4 brown silty sand
none
55-61
subrounded/rounded granitic rock fill
fill
61-82
7.5YR 5/4 medium brown sand with rounded pebbles
fill
82-92
layer of concrete penetrated through
pad? old pipe?
4-8
0-25
slough from above
25-46
5YR 5/6 yellowish red clay
none
46-48
mottled black/red charcoal and brickbats
rubble
48-94
7.5YR 5/3 brown silty clay
fill–no structure
94-115
7.5YR 4/4 brown clay with brickbats
rubble/fill
115-120
same clay with trace tiny shell fragments
native soil, old surface?
3
0-4
0-35
asphalt pavement/fill/gravel
pavement and base fill
35-43
7.5 YR 4/4 brown sand
fill
43-80
broken asphalt pavement, gravel
fill/rubble
80-113
orangish brown clay with gravels, broken concrete
fill/rubble
4-8
0-13
slough from above
13-28
7.5YR 3/4 dark brown clayey fill with broken glass
fragments and charcoal lumps
fill/rubble
28-34
5YR 5/2 reddish grey silty gravelly sand
fill
34-40
broken concrete lumps in clayey matrix
fill
40-110
7.5YR 5/4 brown sandy subangular pea gravel
fill all the way
4**
0-4
0-36
broken asphalt pavement
36-52
10YR 5/4 yellowish brown gravelly sand
fill?
52-82
10YR 2/3 very dark brown rocky clayey fill
fill
82-92
10YR 2/1 hard, compacted black gravelly clay with shell
fragments; includes Mytilus trossulus, Ostrea lurida,
Macoma sp., Balanus sp., 1-3 cm fragments; rounded
Franciscan gravel and pebbles, oxidized sandstone/fire-
cracked rock, carbon flecks & lumps
intact but compacted shell
midden; entire sample
taken to and screened in lab
92-103
10YR 3/2 very dark greyish brown rocky submidden with
shell and carbon flecks and rounded pebbles
submidden/old surface;
screened in lab
Page 1 of  4

--- page 36 ---
Project/Site #: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo (Trag’s Market)          Date: 28 June 2018
Recorder(s): J.P Schlagheck and K.E. Dobinson                                   Sample Size: 2" ID
Location: see Plan Map of Existing Conditions                                     ** contains archaeological materials
Probe #
FBS*
Depth (cm)
Soil/Sediment Description
Cultural Materials
4**
0-4
103-122
10YR 3/2 very dark greyish brown unconsolidated clay
with rounded and subangular gravels and pebbles
none
4-8
0-14
slough from above
14-38
7.5 YR 3/4 dark brown silty sand with small gravel
none
38-52
10YR 5/4 brown coarse sand with traces of carbon
infiltrated charcoal?
52-73
10YR 5/3 brown silty clay
none
73-120
10YR 6/3 light brown sandy mixed sizes sub- and angular
gravels/pebbles
none
5**
0-4
0-7
very dark brown/black crushed gravelly tarmac/pavement
7-21
rocky medium brown clay with broken/angular light grey
rocks
fill
21-30
10YR 2/2 very dark brown compacted clayey shell midden
with broken clear bottle glass, concrete chunks, lump of
anthracite coal, some 10YR 5/6 strong brown sand pockets
disturbed shell midden
mixed with historic
materials
30-48
7.5YR 4/4 brown silty sandy clay with pockets & smears
of disturbed 10YR 2/2 very dark brown shell midden, shell
in smaller pieces than above
fill with disturbed midden; l
large lump anthracite,
brickbats, angular gravels
48-103
10YR 2/1 black clay shell midden, very compacted, hard,
some fire-cracked rock, same species as #4
compacted shell midden
103-109
same midden, higher shell content, smaller fire-cracked
rocks
undisturbed midden?
109-122
7.5YR 3/3 dark brown pure clay with smears of black shell
midden
submidden; entire sample
taken to and screened in lab
4-8
0-4
slough from above
4-39
7.5YR 3/3 dark brown pure clay with scant shell fragments
and small rounded gravel
submidden
39-56
10YR 4/3 brown silty clay
none
56-58
10YR 2/2 very dark brown silty clay
old surface layer
58-120
10YR 4/3 brown silty clay mottled with 7.5 YR 6/3 light
brown clay
none
6**
0-4
0-34
asphalt pavement
34-53
10YR 4/3 brown silty clay with gravel and sparse shell
fragments
disturbed scant midden?
53-65
10YR 5/3 brown silty clay with black mottling
disturbed midden or
topsoil?
65-69
layer of 10YR 6/4 light brown sandstone “crumbles”
fill layer
Page 2 of  4

--- page 37 ---
Project/Site #: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo (Trag’s Market)          Date: 28 June 2018
Recorder(s): J.P Schlagheck and K.E. Dobinson                                   Sample Size: 2" ID
Location: see Plan Map of Existing Conditions                                     ** contains archaeological materials
Probe #
FBS*
Depth (cm)
Soil/Sediment Description
Cultural Materials
6**
0-4
69-119
10YR 4/3 brown silty clay
none
4-8
0-9
slough from above
9-19
10YR 3/2 very dark greyish brown blending into 10YR 2/2
very dark brown compact clay, scant shell fragments
sample taken to and
screened in lab
<15-18>
darker layer with M. trossulus and O. lurida pieces to 3 cm
with smaller scant shell above and below
thin layer shell midden
19-122
10YR 4/3 brown silty clay with orangish mottling
none
7**
0-4
0-25
tube empty
25-31
asphalt pavement
31-41
dark brown rocky clayey fill
fill
41-60
10YR 7/2 light grey rocky fill, rocks shattered from large
pieces down to dust
fill
60-68
10YR 2/1 hard compacted black clay shell midden with
scant rounded pebbles; shell pieces to 2 cm but generally
smaller, scant small carbon lumps
compacted shell midden;
entire sample taken to and
screened in lab
68-84
same but siltier, looser shell midden, O. lurida pieces to
4x3.5 cm laying flat parallel to surface, more larger carbon
lumps and small pieces “baked” clay and fire-cracked rock
looks like intact shell
midden
84-122
10YR 3/1 pure black clay, no rocks, no sand
none; former topsoil layer
4-8
0-2
slough from above
2-120
10YR 3/3 dark brown silty clay
none
8**
0-4
0-33
tube empty
33-39
asphalt pavement
39-47
10YR 5/1 grey rocky fill, rocks broken in pieces
none
47-58
10YR 7/2 light grey rocky fill, rocks broken in pieces
none
58-67
10YR 2/2 disturbed shell midden, mixed with angular
gravel, brickbats, very small shell pieces
disturbed shell midden w/
historic materials
67-88
10YR 2/1-2/2 black clay shell midden with occasional
angular gravel; small shell pieces to 1 cm, no layering
apparent
probably disturbed midden
88-95
broken layer of concrete
concrete pad? broken pipe?
95-111
10YR 3/4 dark yellowish brown clayey silt mottled with
lighter brown clay
none
111-122
10YR 3/3 dark brown clayey silt mottled with lighter
brown clay
Page 3 of  4

--- page 38 ---
Project/Site #: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo (Trag’s Market)          Date: 28 June 2018
Recorder(s): J.P Schlagheck and K.E. Dobinson                                   Sample Size: 2" ID
Location: see Plan Map of Existing Conditions                                     ** contains archaeological materials
Probe #
FBS*
Depth (cm)
Soil/Sediment Description
Cultural Materials
8**
4-8
0-6
slough from above
6-88
10YR 3/4 brown silty clay
none
88-119
10YR 3/3 dark brown clayey silt, very dry, with pockets of
silty brown sand and sub- and angular small/medium gravel
none
9**
0-4
0-4
tube empty
4-13
asphalt pavement
13-33
10YR 7/2 light grey rocky fill, rocks broken in pieces
none
33-61
10YR 3/2 -3/3 very dark greyish brown to dark brown clay
with rounded and angular gravels, small pieces of shell
disturbed midden?
61-67
10YR 2/1 black clay shell midden with abundant rounded
pebbles, shell fragments to 2 cm but most smaller, larger
pieces laying flat parallel to surface
undisturbed midden
67-77
5YR 6/6 reddish yellow sandstone cobble cut through,
rounded edges on original surfaces
FCR?
77-92
10YR 3/2-3/3 very dark brown clay with scant shell pieces
to 0.5 cm laying flat and parallel to surface
probable submidden
92-108
10YR 3/3 pure dark brown clay, no rocks or sand
none
108-121
10YR 3/2 pure very dark brown clay
none
4-8
0-120
10YR 3/3 pure dark brown clay with some orangish
mottling
none
* Feet Below Surface
FCR = fire-cracked/burnt rock
Page 4 of  4

--- page 39 ---
Att 2 – Excerpt of Conditions of Approval 
 
Source: PA 2017-085, 303 Baldwin Ave Mixed Use

--- page 40 ---
73

45

108

110

* MM CULT-1.2 - Archaeological monitoring for the proposed project shall be
conducted under a written Archaeological Monitoring Agreement (AMA), The AMA
shall provide for, at a minimum:

a) Timely notification prior to any excavations deeper than 15 cm/6 inches
anywhere in the project area or impact zones off the property such as for utility
connections;

b) Monitoring during all earth-moving or soil-disturbing activities in the project
impact zones, however minor, until and unless the monitor determines that no
impacts to potentially significant archaeological materials will occur;

c) Specific requirements that archaeological monitors be notified immediately if
potentially significant archaeological resources are encountered outside the
specified monitoring zones or anywhere in the absence of an onsite monitor;

d) Authority of the onsite archaeological monitor to halt and/or relocate
excavations if potentially significant archaeological resources are encountered;

e} Time and space to record, photograph and map, recover, retrieve, and/or
remove any archaeological materials and data during the construction process;

f) Time and funding for laboratory cleaning, cataloging, analysis, and preparation
for permanent curation of any and all recovered data and materials after onsite
monitoring ends;

g) Time and funding for a Final Report of Findings, which will incorporate data
developed by monitoring and analysis. In addition to reporting to the project
sponsors, copies of the Final Report must be submitted to the permitting agency
(City of San Mateo) and the Northwest Information Center (NWIC) of the California
Historical Resources Information System (CHRIS) for inclusion in the permanent
archives, and another copy shall accompany any curated archaeological materials
and data. Archaeological data and recovered materials, with the exception of
human remains and grave goods, are and will remain the property of the property
owners. (PLANNING)

* MM CULT-1.5 - A qualified professional archaeologist shall conduct a
preconstruction training session for all construction supervisory personnel and
workers prior to construction at the project area. The preconstruction training
shall cover archaeological and tribal cultural resources sensitivity and
identification, safety, and next steps if a resource is identified in the absence of a
monitor. (PLANNING)

PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES - Should any potentially unique paleontological
resources (fossils) be encountered during development activities, work shall be
halted immediately within 50 feet of the discovery. The City of San Mateo
Planning Division shall be immediately notified, and the applicant shall be
responsible for retaining the services of a qualified paleontologist to determine
the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the
uniqueness of the find, and prepare a written report documenting the find and
recommending further courses of action. Based on the significance of the
discovery, the actions may include avoidance, preservation in place, excavation,
documentation, recovery, or other appropriate measures as determined by the
paleontologist. (PLANNING)

ARCHAEOLOGICAL FINDS - In the event of the discovery of archaeological
resources, the applicant shall be responsible for halting construction activities,
notifying the Chief of Planning, and retaining a qualified archaeologist. The
archaeologist will be required to evaluate the uniqueness of the find and to
contact local Native American and Historical organizations, and shall recommend
a further course of action. (PLANNING)


--- page 41 ---
2} (2020
PA |7-085

ALERT! =—-#8 Guin fre

This is to notify you that 303 Baldwin Avenue is located in an Archaeologically Sensitive Area in the City
of San Mateo. Archaeological resources include prehistoric Native American with a potential for Historic
Period artifacts. Both prehistoric and historic resources as well as paleontological resources (fossils) could
be exposed during project excavation.

The potential for Paleontological resources (e.g., fossilized bones, teeth, shells, leaves, wood, etc.) is low
within the project site. The team's Paleontologist will be consulted in the event of a potential fossil find.

Archaeological and paleontological resources are protected by law and the development conditions approved
by the City for the project. If you see a potential archaeological or paleontological resource within the
project: (a) STOP all work within 35 feet of the discovery; (b) CALL the Lead Archaeologist and notify him
of the potential discovery; (c) DO NOT RESUME CONSTRUCTION until the Archaeologist has
reviewed and evaluated the discovery; and, (d) NOTIFY Andrew Karcie, BUILDGROUP (415-215-2518,
andrew.karcie@buildge.com) and Michael Titsworth, City of San Mateo (650-522-7195,

mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org) immediately of the find and work stoppage.

Lead Archaeologist - Chris Canzonieri, M.A., RPA 925-548-1002 (cell) (canz@basinresearch.com)

Project Archaeologist - Colin I Busby, Ph.D., RPA (510) 430-8441 x 101 (office)
(colinbusby@basinresearch.com)

Project Paleontologist - James Walker, MS, PG (License No. 8432) 925 787-0348 (cell)
jwalker.paleo@gmail.com

Contractors must be on the lookout for both prehistoric and historic archaeological artifacts and sites as well
as fossils during excavation. The discovery of the following common items may indicate potential resources.

PREHISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGY

= Native American artifacts including arrowheads, shell beads, ground stone tools and bowl mortars,
boulders and rock formation with human use apparent

= Shellfish - concentrations rather than single shells

" Bone - either isolated animal bone hunted by Native Americans or human burials including skulls,
long bones

= Fire - hearths indicated by ashes, charcoal, burned earth, fire-affected rock

= Occupation evidence including rock rings/features, distinct ground depressions, differences in
compaction indicating house floors or other use areas

HISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGY

" Objects - isolated or in concentrations that may include tin cans of various sizes, bottles, broken
dishes, shoes, buttons, toys, cut animal bones, hardware and nails, household items, barrels, etc.

" Trash pits - with bottles, ceramics, metal, cut and sawed bone, etc.

" Building components - adobe unfired bricks and fired red brick; clay roof/floor tiles; wall remains
including concrete, dimensional lumber; lead, steel, copper pipes; nails and other fasteners;
decoration including statues and other embellishments
Building foundations - brick, concrete, wood, rebar or portions

* Floor remains - ceramic or other tiles, stone walls or footings, poured concrete, etc.

" Buildings and structures - standing or collapsed including residences, barns, sheds,
privies/outhouses and contents, windmills, pumps, irrigation features including ditches, canals, etc.

= Structures or associated objects - wells, gravestones, crypts



--- page 42 ---
W

W

PALEONTOLOGY

= Bones, Teeth, Shell and Plants - preserved remains or traces of a plant or animal from the far
past often exposed in rock formations or appearing "rock-like." Often isolated or in
concentrations.

What to do if you Expose Cultural or Paleontological Resources

STOP - If potential cultural and/or paleontological resources are identified in the project area, immediately STOP
all ground disturbing activities for a distance of 35-foot radius of the discovery and clearly mark the discovery to
prevent further disturbance by equipment or personnel.

CONTACT - the Lead Archaeologist (or Archaeological Monitor) immediately at one of his telephone numbers
and notify the Project Supervisor.
The Lead Archaeologist will identify and evaluate the discovery and determine what 1s to be done.

DO NOT RESUME ground disturbing activities within the 35-foot radius of the discovery until the Lead
Archaeologist and other regulatory authorities have evaluated the discovery and authorized work to resume.

Discovery of Suspected Human Remains

STOP - All work in the vicinity of the remains must stop immediately.

PROTECT - the find area must be protected with flagging or by posting an Archaeological Monitor or
construction worker to assure no additional disturbance occurs. If the find occurs at the end of the work day, the
area must be secured to prevent vandalism. —

NOTIFY - Notify the Lead Archaeologist or other responsible party immediately at one of the telephone numbers
listed below.

If the County Coroner determines that the remains are Native American, the Native American Heritage
Commission will be notified, a Most Likely Descendent will be named, and the treatment of the remains will be
agreed upon by all parties. This may result in construction delays within the 35-foot radius of the discovery.

REMEMBER

Cultural and Paleontological Resources are nonrenewable resources. Once destroyed, they are gone forever.
What is lost is not just a physical object, but a piece of the story of our past.

Cultural and Paleontological resources and human remains are protected under state and federal law. The
unauthorized removal or intentional disturbance of these resources can result in fines and imprisonment.

The City of San Mateo and contractors working on the 303 Baldwin Project are required under federal, state and
local law to ensure that cultural and paleontological resources accidentally exposed during the project are treated
appropriately.

All workers must comply with the above procedures in order to treat cultural and paleontological resources
appropriately and ensure that the City, Contractor and YOU are in compliance with all state and local laws.

In the event of the discovery of cultural or paleontological resources or human
remains, contact the Basin Research Associates LEAD Archaeologist (925 548-1002)
and/or Project Archaeologist at (510 430-8441 x101). In addition, NOTIFY Andrew
Karcie, BUILDGROUP (415-215-2518, andrew.karcie@buildge.com) and Michael
Titsworth, City of San Mateo (650-522-7195, mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org)
immediately of the find and work stoppage.


--- page 43 ---
Prehistoric — Groundstone (pestles and bowl mortar)

AF Gs

= z Tera

SHEA HOMES
C&=CCO= 647
NOV=29°2007

S FEATURES 10

Prehistoric - obsidian and chert projectile points (various types, stages of manufacture)


--- page 44 ---
Historic period — ceramic and brick fragments


--- page 45 ---
Historic period — glass, buttons, beads, pipes, and a horse shoe


--- page 46 ---
Privy 10-ctx 31-129

Historic period — nails and cut bone


--- page 47 ---
ysl |ISSO4 yasul |ISSO4

jueld |isso4 queld |isso4

Jeu: tinesnuiuyissos MMM
tineshiw jissod [enaiA Su.



--- page 48 ---
[]2Ys |Isso4 Ys |ISSO4

100} yAeYs |1SSO4



--- page 49 ---
Je|jop pues auog |Isso4

“ bees

yJOUWe |ISSO4



--- page 50 ---


--- page 51 ---
T E C H N I C A L  M E M O R A N D U M  
B a s i n  R e s e a r c h  A s s o c i a t e s  
Archaeological Testing Program Results – 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
PA-2017-0085 - Compliance with City of San Mateo Site Development Permit 
Conditions – Cultural (Archaeology) – Worker Awareness Training, Monitoring of 
Demolition and Archaeological Testing of Project Site 
TO: 
Lorraine Weiss, Planner 
City of San Mateo  
RE: 
Archaeological Testing Program Results – 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
PA-2017-0085 - Compliance with City of San Mateo Site Development Permit 
Conditions – Cultural (Archaeology) – Worker Awareness Training, 
Monitoring of Demolition and  Archaeological Testing of Project Site 
FROM: 
Colin I. Busby, Project Principal (510 430-8441 ext 101) 
DATE: 
30 December, 2019 
INTRODUCTION 
This Technical Memorandum presents the actions undertaken and completed by Basin Research 
Associates’ (BASIN) at the 303 Baldwin Avenue, Mixed Use Project in regard to the site 
development permit Conditions of Approval for archaeological resources which included: (1) 
Worker Awareness Training (WAT) and protocols to be followed in the event of an unexpected 
discovery of cultural materials; (2) archaeological monitoring during demolition and any 
subsequent construction including off-site utility connections; and, (3) archaeological subsurface 
testing prior to the issuance of a Site Development Permit or demolition building permit; and, (4) 
treatment of significant resources exposed during construction [see Figs. 1-3]. 
This memo focuses on the archaeological testing program completed after the demolition of the 
existing building and removal of any hardscape and other preparations necessary to initiate the 
planned ground disturbing construction.  
The project site (303 Baldwin Avenue) includes a portion of a prehistoric archaeological 
shellmound initially recorded in the 1930s and known as CA-SMA-309 [see Fig. 3 for recorded 
site boundary].  Sediment cores obtained in 2018 for archaeological inspection by the City’s 
archaeological consultant using a Geoprobe determined the presence of prehistoric shell midden 
(culturally affected soil) deposits within the project footprint although the subsurface deposits 
beneath the existing building and parking lot footprints could be not be tested.  The archaeological 
consultant noted that some of the shell midden appeared to be undisturbed, some disturbed and 
some definitely mixed with historic or modern materials (see Clark 2018). 
Depth to the cultural deposit below the existing surface ranged from 8 to 24 inches based on eight 
core samples with the deposit thickness varying from roughly 4 inches to 48 inches.  The 
archaeological consultant interpreted the varying depths and thicknesses of the cultural deposit as 
likely due to extensive disturbance associated with past mound leveling along San Mateo Creek; 
initial building construction; realignment of the creek and covering adjacent to Baldwin Avenue 
and North B Street; and, the construction of a grocery store.

--- page 52 ---
2 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
CA-SMA-309, in the opinion of the City’s consulting archaeologist, appeared to qualify as a 
historic resource or unique archaeological resource under the California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA) and therefore was eligible for listing on the California Register of Historic Resources 
(CRHR) (see Clark 2018). 
The project proponent plans to clear the project site and construct a new four story commercial, 
and a five story residential mixed-use building with parking in a four level underground garage.  
WORK PLAN 
BASIN developed a Work Plan, submitted on July 23, 2019 and approved by the City, to provide: 
(1) Worker Awareness Training (WAT) for archaeological resources; (2) archaeological monitoring 
to observe the proposed demolition of the former market and removal of hardscape with the 
objective of guiding the proposed archaeologist testing to follow demolition; and, (3) protocols to 
complete archaeological testing after demolition to determine the presence/absence and to evaluate 
the integrity of any subsurface cultural deposits exposed during the testing.  The results of the 
archaeological testing would be used to develop a formal Archaeological Monitoring Plan (AMP) 
to guide the focus and intensity of any monitoring as well as ensuring that archaeological resources 
exposed during site preparation and construction were identified, evaluated and appropriately 
treated (Basin Research Associates 2019). 
WAT and Archaeological Monitoring of Demolition 
WAT was completed for the construction crew on October 21, 2019 by Mr. Christopher 
Canzonieri (MA, RPA), Lead Archaeologist/Physical Anthropologist, prior to the start of 
demolition. 
Archaeological monitoring of demolition of the former building slab and removal of associated 
hardscape and utilities occurred November 5 to 13, 2019 under the observation of Mr. Stuart 
Guedon (MA), Monitoring Archaeologist, assisted by Mr. Canzonieri [see Figs. 25-27]  All 
ground disturbance deeper than 6 inches below existing grade including foundation and footing 
removal was monitored until the Monitoring Archaeologist, in consultation with the Lead 
Archaeologist, determined that no impacts to potentially significant archaeological materials 
would occur.  Several small pockets of possibly “intact” midden were observed in the northeast 
corner of the project site but no prehistoric artifacts or ecofacts were noted.  Small quantities of 
miscellaneous historic trash including wood, bottle and window glass fragments, small pieces of 
metal, etc. were also present. 
Archaeological Testing 
Mechanical presence/absence testing using a backhoe to test for intact subsurface prehistoric or 
historic cultural deposits was undertaken at eight locations within the project site with a focus on 
the northeast corner and within the footprint of the former building and associated parking lot [see 
Fig. 3]. 
In general, each backhoe trench unit (BTU) was approximately 10 feet long except for BTU 8 
which was 110 feet long and set on a diagonal to expose the subsurface sediments previously 
hidden by the footprint of demolished building [see Fig. 3].  BTU depths ranged from 54 inches to

--- page 53 ---
3 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
84 inches below the existing surface.  Excavation used a 24-inch wide toothed bucket with a 
smooth-blade bucket available for immediate deployment for use around any potential cultural 
find to minimize damage.  Each trench was continuous for ease of excavation including BTU 8.  
Observations from each trench were recorded and selected trench sidewalls were photographed 
[see Figs 4-24].  The excavated sediment was visually reviewed and hand inspected for the 
presence of any significant archaeological materials.  Several intuitively selected 5-gallon buckets 
of soil from the BTUs with midden were screened through ¼” or 1/8” mesh to check for the 
presence of identifiable artifacts and ecofacts.  All of the trenches were backfilled after review. 
Results 
The eight BTUs did not expose any significant subsurface prehistoric or historic cultural materials 
(see Fig. 3, Table 1).  Sediment identified as fill was present at varying depths from the existing 
surface to approximately 40 inches suggesting some level of disturbance within the parcel.  The 
fill often had occasional wood, ceramic and glass fragments present along with fragments of 
building debris including brick and concrete. 
Midden, culturally affected sediment, consisting of small shell flecks and fragments (probable 
Ostrea sp. and Mytilus sp.) and baked clay flecks and small nodules along with very minimal fire 
affected rock and charcoal flecks and small chunks, was present in two BTUs (2 and 6) at 4-24 
inches and 12-18 inches respectively below the existing surface,  No artifacts or ecofacts (e.g., 
faunal bone, plant remains, etc.) aside from the small shell fragments identified as oyster or mussel 
were present in the two BTUs. 
Redeposited (disturbed) midden was present in five BTUs (1, 3-4, 7-8) and was similar to the 
probably intact midden found in BTUs 2 and 6.  BTU 5 was culturally sterile although it yielded 
several gravel lenses at a depth between 45-84 inches probably associated with the former 
alignment of the stream course before relocation.  The redeposited midden was generally found 
associated with historic debris from the former historic use of the property.  BTU 1 had two 
“circular” pockets of redeposited midden (36 and 54 inches deep) suggestive of possible rodent 
burrow fill. 
None of the historic objects or foundation fragments were considered significant and were not 
subject to further review.  No prehistoric artifacts were exposed during the testing. 
TABLE 1 
Presence/Absence Backhoe Test Unit Sediment Review 
Stratum 
Depth (inches) 
Descriptions/Observations 
General Comments 
BTU 1 – Length 10 feet 
South Wall Description 
GPS: 10S 559556 mE 4158103 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-6 
Gray (10YR 5/1) loose surface sediments; 
sand and gravel; very compacted at lower 
boundary; clear, wavy boundary 
Fill 
2 
6-16 
Yellowish brown (10YR 5/6) sand; abrupt, 
irregular boundary 
Fill

--- page 54 ---
4 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
TABLE 1, con’t 
Presence/Absence Backhoe Test Unit Sediment Review 
Stratum 
Depth (inches) 
Descriptions/Observations 
General Comments 
BTU 1 – Length 10 feet 
South Wall Description 
GPS: 10S 559556 mE 4158103 mN WGS 84 
3 
16-72+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; occasional gravel 
No cultural materials noted 
4 
at 36 and 54 
Black (10YR 2/1) sandy loam; clear 
boundaries 
2 pockets of redeposited midden 6-9 
inches diameter; charcoal, shell 
flecks, occasional baked clay frag 
BTU 2 – Length 10 feet 
South Wall Description 
GPS: 10S 559574 mE 4158112 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-4 
Gray (10YR 5/1) loose surface sediments; 
yellowish mottles; gravel; very abrupt, 
straight boundary 
Fill 
2 
4-24 
Black (10YR 2/1) clay loam; sediments 
lighten in color with depth; gradual/diffuse, 
straight boundary 
Midden; diffuse; shell fragments 
(Ostrea sp. Mytilus sp.), baked clay, 
charcoal; all get smaller and sparser 
with depth; redwood beam and pipe 
visible in north wall 
3 
24-72+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; sparse gravel 
No cultural materials noted 
BTU 3 – Length 10 feet 
South Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559587 mE 4158103 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-12 
Brown (10YR 5/3) sand; small amount of 
gravel; very abrupt straight boundary 
Fill; occasional wood, ceramic, and 
glass fragments (building debris) 
2 
12-39 
Black (10YR 2/1) clay loam; no gravel 
except small pocket near top of layer; 
gradual straight boundary 
Redeposited midden; shell 
fragments (Ostrea sp. Mytilus sp.), 
baked clay, small faunal fragments 
(rare); glass, nails, wood, brick 
higher in strata 
3 
39-54 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) silty 
clay; no gravel or pebbles; diffuse boundary 
No cultural materials noted 
4 
54-72+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; no gravel or pebbles 
No cultural materials noted 
BTU 4 – Length 10 feet 
West Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559579 mE 4158065 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-6 
Brown (10YR 4/3) loose surface sediments; 
gravel; abrupt straight boundary 
Surface sediments with fragments of 
building debris 
2 
6-36 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; dark gray (2.5Y 4/1) and brown 
(10YR 4/3) mottling; some gravel; abrupt 
wavy boundary 
Redeposited midden; brick 
fragments (sparse), shell 
3 
36-48 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand lens 
Fill, plastic pipe in trench 
4 
36/48 to 84+ 
Dark brown (10YR 3/3) clay loam; 
uniform; rare gravels or pebbles 
No cultural materials noted 
BTU 5 – Length 10 feet 
North Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559598 mE 4158058 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-4/6 
Loose surface sediments; gravel; 
clear/gradual straight boundary 
Surface sediments with fragments of 
building debris 
2 
4/6-18 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) loam; 
no gravel; gradual straight boundary 
Poured concrete corner foundation 
fragment at SE end 
3 
18-39 
Dark yellowish brown (10YR 3/4) silt loam; 
no gravel; gradual/diffuse boundary 
Pocket of wood fragments below 
foundation fragment intrudes into 
layer

--- page 55 ---
5 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
TABLE 1, con’t 
Presence/Absence Test Unit Sediment Review 
Stratum 
Depth (inches) 
Descriptions/Observations 
General Comments 
BTU 5 – Length 10 feet 
North Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559598 mE 4158058 mN WGS 84 
4 
39-84+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam 
No cultural materials noted 
5 
45-57 
66-75 
75-84+ 
Gravel lenses intruding into Stratum 4 in the 
NE corner; rounded gravels and pebbles; 
clear boundary 
Gravels associated with former 
stream course  
BTU 6 – Length 10 feet 
West Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559598 mE 4158046 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-5 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sandy loam; loose 
surface sediments; gravel; clear 
straight/broken boundary 
Fill; fragments of building debris 
2 
5-12 
Yellowish brown (10YR 5/4) sand; no 
gravel; abrupt/clear straight  
Fill; large clump of tree roots at 
southern end of trench 
3 
12-18 
Very dark gray (10YR 3/1) sandy clay 
loam; clear wavy boundary 
Midden; dense shell/shell fragments 
(Ostrea sp. Mytilus sp.), charcoal, 
baked clay flecks, rare fire affected 
rock; no fauna or lithics noted 
4 
18-33 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; gradual/diffuse straight boundary 
Midden; lighter and less dense than 
Stratum 3, decreasing with depth 
5 
33-72+ 
Dark brown (10YR 3/3) to dark yellowish 
brown (10YR 3/4) clay loam; rare gravel 
No shell; color lightens with depth 
BTU 7 – Length 10 feet 
East Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559616 mE 4158070 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-7 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand with gravel; very 
abrupt straight boundary 
Fill; fragments of building debris 
2 
7-16 
Yellowish brown (10YR 5/4) sand; no 
gravel; very abrupt wavy boundary 
Fill 
3 
16-24 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand; some gravel; 
clear/diffuse broken boundary 
Fill; less distinct at south end of 
trench 
4 
24-40 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand; rubble; 
clear/gradual broken boundary 
Building rubble includes bricks and 
large concrete chunks, square rebar 
5 
40-50 
Very dark gray (10YR 3/1) clay loam; very 
hard, dry; abrupt/diffuse straight boundary 
Redeposited midden; shell flecks 
(probable Ostrea sp. Mytilus sp.), 
charcoal, baked clay mixed with 
glass fragments and other building 
debris; layer not visible in south end 
of trench 
6 
40-78+ 
Dark yellowish brown (10YR 3/6) clay 
loam; no gravel 
No building debris or midden 
present 
BTU 8 – Length 110 feet 
Divided into three sections for ease of reporting [see Fig. 3] 
BTU 8A – South End (3-13 feet) 
East Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559591 mE 4158065 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-11 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand; some gravel; 
clear/gradual straight boundary 
Fill; inside former building footprint 
2 
11-18 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; pebbles; clear straight boundary 
Redeposited midden; building 
debris, shell fragments 
2A 
9-18 
Dark yellowish brown (10YR 3/4) with 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) 
mottling; clay loam; hard, compacted; clear 
and straight boundary 
This stratum noted 9-16 feet from 
south end; possible trench for 
foundation; remnants of brick 
foundations present in both trench 
walls; parallel to B Street

--- page 56 ---
6 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
TABLE 1, con’t 
Presence/Absence Test Unit Sediment Review 
Stratum 
Depth (inches) 
Descriptions/Observations 
General Comments 
BTU 8 – Length 110 feet 
Divided into three sections for ease of reporting [see Fig. 3] 
BTU 8A – South End (3-13 feet) 
East Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559591 mE 4158065 mN WGS 84 
3 
18-36 
Very dark brown (10YR 2/2) clay loam; 
uniform; rare pebbles or gravel; diffuse 
boundary 
No shell or charcoal noted 
4 
36-72+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; uniform; rare pebbles or gravel 
No cultural materials noted 
BTU 8B – Middle (45-49 feet) 
East Wall Description  
GPS: 10S 559592 mE 4158076 mN WGS 84 
1 
1-17 
Brown (10YR 5/3) sand; clear/gradual 
straight boundary 
Fill; inside former building footprint 
2 
17-21 
Dark brown (10YR 3/3) clay loam; very 
abrupt straight boundary 
Occasional charcoal flecks 
3 
21-25 
Light brownish gray (10YR 6/2) sandy 
loam; ash; very abrupt straight boundary 
Ashy layer; shell fragments, historic 
button fragment 
4 
25-28 
Very dark brown (10YR 2/2) clay loam; dry 
and hard; abrupt straight boundary 
Possible redeposited midden; shell 
fragments (probable Ostrea sp. 
Mytilus sp.), charcoal, baked clay 
fragments 
5 
28-33 
Dark yellowish brown (10YR 3/4) with 
very dark grayish brown (10YR 2/2) 
mottling; sandy clay loam; pebbles; gradual 
straight boundary 
Occasional charcoal and shell 
fragments 
6 
33-66+ 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; uniform; rare pebbles or gravel 
No shell present 
BTU 8C – North End (96-101 feet) West Wall Description 
GPS: 10S 559592 mE 4158092 mN WGS 84 
1 
0-29 
Brown (10YR 4/3) sand; abrupt straight 
boundary 
Fill; inside former building footprint 
2 
29-38 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam with dark yellowish brown (10YR 
4/4) clay loam intrusions; clear wavy 
boundary 
No cultural materials noted 
3 
38-52 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; clear wavy boundary 
Redeposited midden; brick 
fragments, occasional shell flecks 
and fragments (probable Ostrea sp. 
Mytilus sp.), charcoal flecks, tar ? 
4 
52-56 
Black (10YR 2/1) clay loam; clear wavy 
boundary 
Midden; large amount of small shell 
fragments (probable Ostrea sp. 
Mytilus sp.), charcoal; no baked 
clay; no cultural deposit near 
concrete foundation 
5 
56-82 
Very dark grayish brown (10YR 3/2) clay 
loam; uniform; rare gravel 
No cultural materials 
Possibly intact/non-disturbed midden was present in BTUs 2 and 6 at 4-24 inches and 12-18 
inches respectively below the existing surface [see Figs. 6-8, 15-16] while redeposited (disturbed) 
midden was exposed in BTUs 1, 3-4, 7-8 [see Figs. 3-5, 9, 10-12, 17-24].  No prehistoric artifacts 
were exposed in any of the BTUs during the testing.  No ecofacts (e.g., faunal bone, plant remains, 
etc.) aside from the small shell fragments identified as oyster or mussel were present in association 
with the midden.

--- page 57 ---
7 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
No indications of historic privies and/or trash dumps were present either on the surface or visible 
in the trench sidewalls.  The few minor finds of isolated historic cultural objects (e.g., dimensional 
lumber fragments, bottle glass fragments, brick fragments, clear glass fragments from containers 
and windows, broken crockery, concrete chunks, sanitary clay sewer pipe fragments, iron and 
galvanized sewer and water pipes, etc.) were noted on or just below the surface and up to 48 
inches below the surface (e.g., pipe installations).  The historic objects probably represent informal 
discards or debris resulting from past historic use and recent building demolition.  All of the items 
were considered isolated finds and in accordance with the approved Work Plan, were not 
considered significant.  None of the historic objects had identifiable marks (e.g., crockery with 
maker’s marks, bottle bases with marker’s mark, etc.). 
FINDINGS 
The archaeological testing results strongly suggest a low potential for exposing significant cultural 
discoveries within the project site during future ground disturbing construction.  The review of the 
information obtained during the excavation of the eight BTUs confirms the previous 
archaeological conclusion that the varying depths and thicknesses of the cultural deposit are 
probably due to extensive disturbance associated with past mound leveling along San Mateo 
Creek; initial building construction within the project site; the historic realignment of the creek 
and it’s covering adjacent to Baldwin Avenue and North B Street; and, the construction of a 
grocery store and associated parking.  In addition, the current testing results suggests a low to 
moderate potential for intact cultural deposits under the existing sidewalk and road right of way 
especially along Baldwin Avenue and North B Street. 
The archaeological test program results indicate that the portion of CA-SMA-309 mapped within 
the project site does not qualify as a historic resource or unique archaeological resource under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) due to a lack of integrity.  The site is therefore not 
eligible for listing on the California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR) under any of the 
criteria and specifically Criterion 4. 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
No further archaeological testing appears necessary.  The development of a modified 
Archaeological Monitoring and Reporting Program (AMRP) (Task 2 – Conditions 71-75) is 
recommended to provide focused monitoring by a Professional Archaeologist and ensure that any 
archaeological resources exposed during ground disturbing construction are identified, evaluated 
and appropriately treated.  The modified AMRP should be developed and approved prior to the 
initiation of mass excavation and excavation within the existing sidewalks and roads.

--- page 58 ---
8 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
REFERENCES CITED OR CONSULTED 
Basin Research Associates 
2019 
Scope of Archaeological Services in Regard to PA‐2017‐0085, 303 Baldwin 
Avenue, Mixed Use Project City of San Mateo, San Mateo County.  On file, 
Basin Research Associates, San Leandro and City of San Mateo, Community 
Development Department (Planning Division), San Mateo.  Revised July 23, 
2019. 
Clark, Matthew R. (Holman & Associates) 
2018 
Archaeological Records Search, Archival Research, Subsurface Reconnaissance, 
Sensitivity Evaluation, and Management Plan for the 300 Baldwin Avenue 
Property, City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California.  On file, City of 
San Mateo, Community Development Department (Planning Division), San 
Mateo.  July.

--- page 59 ---
9 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
ATTACHMENTS 
FIGURES 
FIGURE 1 
General Project Location (ESRI World Street Map) 
FIGURE 2 
Project Location T4S R4W Unsectioned (USGS San Mateo, CA 
1997) 
FIGURE 3 
Backhoe Test Unit (BTU) and Geoprobe Locations (Clark 2018) 
FIGURE 4 
BTU 1, view north 
FIGURE 5 
BTU 1, south wall – note small pocket of redeposited midden 
(rodent burrow) 
FIGURE 6 
BTU 2, view northeast 
FIGURE 7 
BTU 2, south wall 
FIGURE 8 
BTU 2, north wall – note redwood beam and pipe 
FIGURE 9 
BTU 3, south wall – within former building, note sand deposit on 
surface 
FIGURE 10 
BTUs 4 and 5, view southeast 
FIGURE 11 
BTU 4, west wall 
FIGURE 12 
BTU 4, east wall 
FIGURE 13 
BTU 5 during excavation, view northwest 
FIGURE 14 
BTU 5, north wall 
FIGURE 15 
BTU 6 during excavation, view west 
FIGURE 16 
BTU 6, west wall  
FIGURE 17 
BTU 7, view south 
FIGURE 18 
BTU 7, east wall 
FIGURE 19 
BTU 8, view north 
FIGURE 20 
BTU 8, view south with foundation visible in the foreground 
FIGURE 21 
BTU 8, east wall at ca. 3-13 feet from south end 
FIGURE 22 
BTU 8, east wall at ca. 45-49 feet from south end 
FIGURE 23 
BTU 8, west wall at ca. 96-101 feet from south end 
FIGURE 24 
BTU 8, foundation at ca. 96 feet from south end 
FIGURE 25 
Demolition along North B Street, view to southeast 
FIGURE 26 
Demolition, view to southwest, towards North Ellsworth Avenue 
FIGURE 27 
Demolition along North Ellsworth Avenue, view to southeast

--- page 60 ---
Figure 1:  General Project Location (ESRI World Street Map)
Project Location

--- page 61 ---
0
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
Miles
±
Figure 2:  Project Location T4S R4W Unsectioned (USGS San Mateo, CA 1997)
Project Location

--- page 62 ---
Project Site
CA-SMA-309/
P-41-000318
Baldwin Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
North B Street
North B Street
North B Street
North Ellsworth Avenue
North Ellsworth Avenue
North Ellsworth Avenue
.
0
25
50
75
100
Feet
BTU - Midden
BTU - Redeposited Midden
BTU - No Midden
Geoprobe - Positive (Clark 2018)
Geoprobe - Negative (Clark 2018)
BTU 1
BTU 1
BTU 1
BTU 2
BTU 2
BTU 2
BTU 3
BTU 3
BTU 3
BTU 4
BTU 4
BTU 4
BTU 5
BTU 5
BTU 5
BTU 6
BTU 6
BTU 6
BTU 7
BTU 7
BTU 7
BTU 8A
BTU 8A
BTU 8A
BTU 8B
BTU 8B
BTU 8B
BTU 8C
BTU 8C
BTU 8C
Figure 3:  Backhoe Test Unit (BTU) and Geoprobe Locations (Clark 2018)

--- page 63 ---
Figure 4: 
BTU 1, view north 
 
Figure 5: 
BTU 1, south wall – note small pocket of redeposited midden (rodent burrow) 
midden

--- page 64 ---
Figure 6: 
BTU 2, view northeast  
 
Figure 7: 
BTU 2, south wall

--- page 65 ---
Figure 8: 
BTU 2, north wall – note redwood beam and pipe  
 
Figure 9: 
BTU 3, south wall – within former building, note sand deposit on surface

--- page 66 ---
Figure 10: 
BTUs 4 and 5, view southeast  
 
Figure 11: 
BTU 4, west wall  
BTU 4 
BTU 5

--- page 67 ---
Figure 12: 
BTU 4, east wall  
 
Figure 13: 
BTU 5 during excavation, view northwest

--- page 68 ---
Figure 14: 
BTU 5, north wall  
 
Figure 15: 
BTU 6 during excavation, view west

--- page 69 ---
Figure 16: 
BTU 6, west wall  
 
Figure 17: 
BTU 7, view south

--- page 70 ---
Figure 18: 
BTU 7, east wall  
 
Figure 19: 
BTU 8, view north

--- page 71 ---
Figure 20: 
BTU 8, view south with foundation visible in the foreground  
 
Figure 21: 
BTU 8, east wall at ca. 3-13 feet from south end

--- page 72 ---
Figure 22: 
BTU 8, east wall at ca. 45-49 feet from south end  
 
Figure 23: 
BTU 8, west wall at ca. 96-101 feet from south end

--- page 73 ---
Figure 24: 
BTU 8, foundation at ca. 96 feet from south end  
 
Figure 25: 
Demolition along North B Street, view to southeast

--- page 74 ---
Figure 26: 
Demolition, view to southwest, towards North Ellsworth Avenue 
 
Figure 27: 
Demolition along North Ellsworth Avenue, view to southeast

--- page 75 ---
ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES TREATMENT PLAN 
303 Baldwin Avenue 
San Mateo, San Mateo County 
 
 
FOR 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Community Development Department (Planning Division) 
To Meet Requirements of 
PA-2017-0085 
 
 
ATTN: Lorraine Weiss, Planner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BY 
 
 
BASIN RESEARCH ASSOCIATES 
1933 Davis Street, Suite 215 
San Leandro, CA 94577 
 
 
JANUARY 2020

--- page 76 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
1 
1.1 
PURPOSE OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTIES TREATMENT 
PLAN 
1 
 
2.0 
LOCATION 
2 
3.0 
REGULATORY 
2 
4.0 
SUMMARY PROJECT SITE HISTORY AND CONTEXT 
2 
4.1 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDIES 
3 
4.2 
HISTORIC CONTEXT 
4 
 
5.0 
RESEARCH DESIGN 
5 
5.1 
PREVIOUS PROJECT SITE IMPACTS 
6 
5.2 
PREHISTORIC/PROTOHISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES 
6 
5.3 
SITE FORMATION PROCESSES 
6 
5.4 
CULTURE CHRONOLOGY 
7 
5.5 
SUBSISTENCE, SETTLEMENT AND SPATIAL  
ORGANIZATION 
8 
5.6 
TRADE AND EXCHANGE 
9 
5.7 
SOCIAL COMPLEXITY 
10 
 
6.0 
TREATMENT OF CA-SMA-309 
11 
6.1 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL MONITORING 
12 
6.2 
MONITORING PROTOCOLS 
12 
6.3 
POST-REVIW ARCHAEOLOGICAL DISCOVERY -  
INVESTIGATION AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES 
15 
6.3A Field Methods 
15 
6.3B 
Field Records 
16 
6.3C 
Artifact and Sample Collection 
16 
6.3D Field Records Management 
17 
6.4 
LABORATORY METHODS 
17 
6.5 
NATIVE AMERICAN BURIAL DISCOVERY 
18 
6.6 
PERSONNEL 
20 
 
7.0 
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING 
20 
7.1 
PUBLIC OUTREACH 
20 
 
8.0 
CURATION 
20 
9.0 
REFERENCES CITED AND CONSULTED 
21

--- page 77 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS, con’t 
ATTACHMENTS 
FIGURES 
FIGURE 1 
General Project Location (ESRI World Street Map) 
FIGURE 2 
Project Location T4S R4W Unsectioned (USGS San Mateo, CA 
1997) 
FIGURE 3 
Backhoe Test Unit (BTU) and Geoprobe Locations (Clark 2018)

--- page 78 ---
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
This Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan (ARTP) for the development of 303 Baldwin 
Avenue, San Mateo was completed to comply with the mandates of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) and the site development permit’s Conditions of Approval for 
archaeological resources.  The Conditions include: (1) Worker Awareness Training (WAT) and 
protocols to be followed in the event of an unexpected discovery of cultural materials; (2) 
archaeological monitoring during construction including off-site utility connections; and; (3) 
treatment of significant cultural resources exposed during construction.  The project proponent 
plans to construct a new four story commercial, and a five story residential mixed-use building 
with parking in a four level underground garage [see Figs. 1-3]. 
The project site includes a portion of a prehistoric archaeological shellmound initially recorded 
in the 1930s and known as CA-SMA-309 [see Fig. 3 for recorded site boundary].  Initial 
archaeological testing in 2018 (see Clark 2018) exposed a subsurface cultural deposit with the 
thickness varying from roughly 4 inches to 48 inches.  The archaeological consultant interpreted 
the varying depths and thicknesses of the cultural deposit as likely due to extensive disturbance 
associated with past mound leveling along San Mateo Creek; initial building construction; 
realignment of the creek and covering adjacent to Baldwin Avenue and North B Street; and, the 
construction of a grocery store in the mid-1950s. 
CA-SMA-309 appeared to qualify as a historic resource or unique archaeological resource under 
CEQA based on the initial archaeological test results and appeared eligible for listing on the 
California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR) (see Clark 2018). 
Mechanically assisted backhoe testing in 2019 excavated eight test units (BTUs) to determine the 
presence of intact subsurface prehistoric or historic cultural deposits (Busby 2019).  The BTUs 
did not expose any significant subsurface prehistoric or historic cultural materials.  Two BTUs 
appeared to have potentially intact culturally affected sediment, consisting of small shell flecks 
and fragments, baked clay flecks and small nodules along with very minimal fire affected rock 
and charcoal flecks and small chunks.  Redeposited (disturbed) midden was present in five BTUs 
and one BTU was culturally sterile.   
No prehistoric artifacts were exposed during the testing.  None of the historic objects or 
foundation fragments were considered significant and were not subject to further review. 
The goal of this ARTP is to provide treatment protocols to identify, evaluate and mitigate any 
significant finds exposed during ground disturbing construction which may be potentially 
eligible for inclusion on the CRHR. 
1.1 
PURPOSE OF THE ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES TREATMENT PLAN 
This ARTP has been developed because construction associated with the project has low to low-
moderate potential to expose as yet unknown prehistoric and historical archaeological material, 
including Native American burials during ground disturbing construction. 
The ARTP includes provisions to be followed in the event of discovery of archaeological 
resources during construction.  A summary project site history has been compiled along with a

--- page 79 ---
2 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
prehistoric research design identifying pertinent archaeological research issues and questions, 
anticipated property types, and data requirements for addressing each research issue.  A historic 
research design was not developed due to the low potential for exposing Hispanic Period or early 
American Period archaeological resources. 
Included in the ARTP are: (1) monitoring protocols for both the project site and immediately 
adjacent areas that could be affected by construction; (2) Native American consultation; (3) 
detailed procedures regarding post-review discoveries made during project construction; (4) 
discussion of field and artifact analysis methods for assessing and evaluating archaeological 
deposits; (5) treatment of human remains (consistent with state burial law); and, (6) laboratory 
methods including artifact cataloging and special analyses.  The plan also outlines provisions for 
reporting, curation, and potential public outreach in the event of significant finds. 
2.0 
LOCATION 
The project site covering 0.94 acre, is located at 303 Baldwin Avenue, City of San Mateo (APN 
032-322-130 and 032-322-200).  It is bounded by North B Street on the east, Baldwin Avenue on 
the south, N. Ellsworth Avenue on the west and a building and parking lot on the north lot line.  
The property includes the former location of the Trag’s Market constructed in 1956 and 
associated parking (United States Geological Survey (USGS) San Mateo, CA 1997, Township 4 
South, Range 4 West, unsectioned) [Figs. 1-3]. 
Prior to the construction of the market in the mid-1950s, the project was occupied by a single 
home in 1891 with additional homes constructed by 1897 in the northern two-thirds of the parcel.  
Commercial buildings were present on the southeast portion of the project in 1901 and the 
southeast half remained in commercial use until the construction of the market in 1956.  The area 
is currently a mixed commercial and residential area. 
3.0 
REGULATORY 
Cultural resources include prehistoric and historic archaeological sites, districts, and objects; 
standing historic structures, buildings, districts, and objects; and locations of important historic 
events or sites of traditional and/or cultural importance to various groups.  The analysis of 
cultural resources can provide valuable information on the cultural heritage of both local and 
regional populations.  Cultural resources may be determined significant or potentially significant 
in terms of national, state, or local criteria either individually or in combination.  Resource 
evaluation criteria are determined by the compliance requirements of a specific project. 
The City of San Mateo Site Development Permit Conditions (PA-2017-0085) detail the 
requirements for archaeological resources identified within the project site as subsurface 
construction could expose both prehistoric and historic archaeological materials based on past 
research. 
4.0 
SUMMARY PROJECT SITE HISTORY AND CONTEXT 
The project site and immediate vicinity have a sensitivity for both prehistoric and historic 
archaeological resources based on archaeological studies conducted for the City of San Mateo.  
The project is included within CA-SMA-309, a prehistoric archaeological shellmound initially

--- page 80 ---
3 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
recorded in the 1930s as Hamilton Mound #10.  The project site was vacant until its development 
in the late 1880s-early 1890s when it was occupied by a single home in 1891 with additional 
homes constructed by 1897 in the northern two-thirds of the parcel.  Commercial buildings were 
present on the southeast portion of the project in 1901 and the southeast half remained in 
commercial use until the construction of the market in 1956 that was demolished in 2019 to clear 
the site for redevelopment.  The area is currently a mixed commercial and residential area. 
4.1 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDIES 
Cultural resources are traces of human occupation and activity.  Native American occupation and 
use of the general Bay Area appears to extend over 5000-7000 years and may much longer.  
Evidence for early occupation along the bayshores has been hidden by rising sea levels from 
about 15,000 to 7,000 years ago, or was buried under sediments caused by bay marshland 
infilling along estuary margins from about 7,000 years onward. 
The known cultural deposits in the general Bay Area are associated with the middle to late 
Holocene.  These sites are represented by partially inundated shellmounds around the perimeter 
of the bay, and by middens and human remains more deeply buried in the late Pleistocene and 
Holocene deposits making up the broad alluvial plain that rises away from the bayshore.  The 
locations of the shoreline, marshlands, and creeks within the project area have changed over the 
past 6,000 years due to either natural factors or urban development including flood control.  In 
general, the prehistoric archaeological sites associated with the bay and inland areas are located 
close to water (e.g., creeks, marshes, and the shoreline). 
Jerome Hamilton’s report, Indian Shell Mounds of San Mateo Creek and Vicinity, completed 
in 1936 reports on his observations of the “ancient Indian Shell Mounds” of San Mateo Creek and 
vicinity.  The document details his discoveries and observations along the creek and to the north 
and west including his note in 1895 of mounds near the old wooden bridge that crossed San Mateo 
Creek at B Street and Baldwin Avenue (Hamilton 1936:3) located across from the southeast corner 
of the project site. 
Hamilton mapped and described the site as Mound #10 and noted it as at “. . . Ellsworth Avenue 
near Baldwin Avenue, west bank of San Mateo Creek. Size, 3 feet high at crown and covered about 
1½ acres.  A few broken stone mortars reported found.  Material all hauled away” (Hamilton 
1936:7). 
The site, now recorded as CA-SMA-309 (P-41-00318), was revisited and re-recorded by Stanford 
University Archaeologist Barbara Bocek (1990) who described it as: “. . . remains of a mid-size 
shell midden ... Shell-rich black midden soil is still visible in yards and along street in central part 
of this block of Ellsworth with occasional dispersed midden patches farther southeast near 
Baldwin.”  
Archaeological testing in 2018 (see Clark 2018) noted the presence of prehistoric shell midden 
(culturally affected soil) deposits within the project footprint although the subsurface deposits 
beneath the existing building and parking lot footprints could be not be tested.  Clark (2018) 
noted that some of the shell midden appeared to be undisturbed, some disturbed and some 
definitely mixed with historic or modern materials.  The varying depths and thicknesses of the

--- page 81 ---
4 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
cultural deposit were interpreted as likely due to extensive disturbance associated with past 
mound leveling along San Mateo Creek; initial building construction; realignment of the creek 
and covering adjacent to Baldwin Avenue and North B Street; and, the construction of a grocery 
store. 
A mechanical presence/absence testing using a backhoe to test for intact subsurface prehistoric 
or historic cultural deposits was undertaken at eight locations within the project site (Basin 
Research Associates 2019).  In general, each backhoe trench unit (BTU) was approximately 10 
feet long except for BTU 8 which was 110 feet long and set on a diagonal to expose the 
subsurface sediments previously hidden by the footprint of demolished building [see Fig. 3].  
BTU depths ranged from 54 inches to 84 inches below the existing surface.  The excavated 
sediment was visually reviewed and hand inspected for the presence of any significant 
archaeological materials.  
The eight BTUs did not expose any significant subsurface prehistoric or historic cultural 
materials.  Sediment identified as fill was present at varying depths from the existing surface to 
approximately 40 inches suggesting some level of disturbance within the parcel.  The fill often 
had occasional wood, ceramic and glass fragments present along with fragments of building 
debris including brick and concrete. 
Midden, culturally affected sediment, consisting of small shell flecks and fragments (probable 
Ostrea sp. and Mytilus sp.) and baked clay flecks and small nodules along with very minimal fire 
affected rock and charcoal flecks and small chunks, was present in two BTUs,  No artifacts or 
ecofacts (e.g., faunal bone, plant remains, etc.) aside from the small shell fragments identified as 
oyster or mussel were present in the two BTUs. 
Redeposited (disturbed) midden was present in five BTUs and was similar to the probably intact 
midden found in the two positive BTUs.  One BTU was culturally sterile although it yielded 
several gravel lenses at a depth between 45-84 inches probably associated with the former 
alignment of the stream course before relocation.  The redeposited midden in the BTUs was 
generally found associated with historic debris from the former historic use of the property.. 
No prehistoric artifacts were exposed during the testing.  None of the historic objects or 
foundation fragments were considered significant and were not subject to further review. 
4.2 
HISTORIC CONTEXT 
During the Historic Period, the site and adjacent areas were within the Mexican-era Rancho San 
Mateo land grant, the southern boundary of which is San Mateo Creek adjacent to the property.  
No Hispanic Period (Spanish or Mexican) resources are known for the project site.  Historic 
maps show the project site occupied by a single home in 1891 at the corner of Baldwin and 
Ellsworth within the developing downtown area.  Additional homes are present by 1897 in the 
northern two-thirds of the parcel.  Several one and two-story commercial buildings facing 
Baldwin Avenue, and two one-story stables at the rear facing San Mateo Creek were present on 
the southeast portion of the project in 1901.  San Mateo Creek meandered south for one block 
along present day N. B Street and curved west along present day Baldwin Avenue.  A bridge 
located at the southeast corner of the project site spanned the creek and provided access to the B

--- page 82 ---
5 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
Street commercial corridor extending south.  By 1946, the property had been redeveloped with a 
series of slightly larger, one story commercial buildings facing Baldwin Avenue and an 
automobile garage to the north.  The creek had been channeled underground due to the 
construction of N. B Street and Baldwin Avenue.  The southeast half remained in commercial 
use until the construction of Rakestraws’ Market (later Trag’s Market) in 1956.  The area is 
currently a mixed commercial and residential area within the downtown area (Clark 2018 and 
references therein). 
5.0 
RESEARCH DESIGN1 
Archaeological research and interpretation requires a broad theoretical perspective and 
framework for posing questions about the archaeological and historical record.  The objective of 
a research design is to provide context to evaluate archaeological resources for inclusion on 
historical registers and to guide the acquisition of data sets that can provide important new 
information useful to both the culture historical and cultural adaption research paradigms.  These 
two interpretative approaches have been used in the majority of prehistoric archaeological 
studies in California. 
Culture-historical 
studies 
attempt 
to 
identify 
and 
explain 
the 
appearance 
and 
disappearance/replacement of groups defined by the presence of distinct archaeological artifact 
assemblages and ecofacts, subsistence strategies and man-land relationships with a focus on time 
sensitive artifacts and features.  The cultural-adaptive model utilizes archaeological and other 
cultural data to develop models to explain the adaptation of cultures to changing environmental 
and social conditions as they transition from simple to complex organizations.  Both require 
adequate temporally controlled samples and comparative data. 
Research over the past 50 years has demonstrated that the prehistoric San Francisco bay margin 
and adjacent inland resources can yield information that can address important scientific research 
questions of interest to professional archaeologists as well of cultural importance to the Native 
American community for the past 5,000-7,000 years.  Additional research findings may enhance 
the previous research conducted on the San Mateo peninsula as well as provide opportunities for 
public education in regard to Native American history. 
The project area is located within an environmentally advantageous area for Native Americans.  
Prehistoric use of the general area was heavily influenced by the presence of various seasonal 
creeks, the San Francisco Bay marshlands to the east, and the Santa Cruz Mountains to the west.  
Ocean resources and the foothills could have been easily accessed in the general study area and 
the creeks would have provided a year-round source of water and riparian resources.  In addition, 
travel would have been relatively easy between the shoreline and interior.  The foothills would 
have provided access to acorns, seed, game, tool stone, etc. while San Francisco Bay and its 
margins along with the many perennial and seasonal creeks and sloughs would have been 
sources of shellfish, fish, waterfowl, and riparian vegetation.  The known prehistoric 
archaeological sites appear to have been selected for relative accessibility, protection from 
seasonal flooding, and proximity to a diversified resource base.  The majority of the prehistoric 
                                                 
1. 
This Research Design is for prehistoric resources.  No Spanish, Mexican, or early American period resources 
have been identified within the Project Site due to prior demolition and removal.

--- page 83 ---
6 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
sites in the project area are located within the moist grassland or at the ecotone (boundary) 
between the tidal marsh and grasslands. 
5.1 
PREVIOUS PROJECT SITE IMPACTS 
Historically, the project site and surrounding areas were within the former floodplain of San 
Mateo Creek as it meandered to drain into the marshlands surrounding San Francisco Bay 
approximately one mile to the east.  Development did not occur until the early 1890s and was 
associated with the development of downtown San Mateo.  Residential and commercial 
buildings were constructed during the American Period (late 1880s-1950s/1960s) and later 
demolished during redevelopment of the area for a market in the later 1950s.  It is not known 
what effect past flooding of San Mateo Creek had on the general area. 
Impacts associated with the project site include leveling and fill for past development and 
redevelopment as well as overbank flooding of the creek.  Archaeological testing completed by 
BASIN in 2019 strongly suggests that these impacts appear to have impacted and removed the 
majority of the prehistoric and historic archaeological deposits.  However, it is possible that 
significant prehistoric deposits adjacent to the project site boundary or possibly at greater depths 
than the prior disturbance and archaeological testing could generate additional information on how 
CA-SMA-309 fits into the chronology and settlement patterns of local prehistory, in addition to 
more specific questions about site formation, subsistence patterns, and evidence of participation in 
regional trade or exchange systems.  The importance of any prehistoric archaeological cultural 
materials under Criterion d can only be measured in relation to the ability of those components to 
contribute data to the overall body of archaeological information that exists for a region.  
5.2 
PREHISTORIC/PROTOHISTORIC ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES 
Prehistoric site types known for the San Mateo peninsula include habitation sites ranging from 
villages to temporary campsites, stone tool and other manufacturing areas, quarries for tool 
stone procurement, cemeteries usually associated with large villages, isolated burial sites, rock 
art locations, and bedrock mortars or other milling feature sites and trails.  CA-SMA-309 was 
listed as “Material all hauled away” (Hamilton 1936:7) although a review in the 1990 described 
the resource as “. . . remains of a mid-size shell midden “ with culturally affect soil (midden) still 
visible around the site location (see Bocek 1990).  No other information is available. 
It is anticipated that this interpretation will not substantially change as a result of any unexpected 
discoveries during the proposed construction.  However, there is a low possibility of exposing as 
yet unknown cultural materials that could allow for additional interpretation of the site’s history 
and use. 
5.3 
SITE FORMATION PROCESSES 
In order to interpret archaeological data, it is critical to understand the processes by which 
natural and cultural strata are created (see Schiffer 1987).  It is particularly important to 
understand the natural and cultural events that created and affected an archaeological resource 
after its formation. 
Site formation is affected by both natural and/or cultural processes, and includes: (a) deposition,

--- page 84 ---
7 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
accumulation of an archaeological deposit, (b) reuse of the deposit after the initial deposition, 
and, (c) damage to the resource following its deposition by both cultural and natural actions.  A 
variety of post-depositional processes can lead to the destabilization of an archaeological site’s 
original structure. Cultural processes include deliberate discard and/or reuse/recycling, 
inadvertent loss, abandonment, trampling, scavenging, intentional burial and other prehistoric, 
and historic actions including looting and conflict damage.  Natural processes include 
bioturbation, cryoturbation, aeroturbation, aquaturbation and graviturbation that affect both the 
cultural objects and the natural setting.  An understanding of site formation processes in the 
geographic settings found along San Mateo Creek and near the bay margin will contribute to 
defining a site’s integrity and research potential and can help develop predictive models for 
defining geographic settings associated with high and low potential for archaeological deposits.  
Identifying and recording the geomorphic processes involved in site formation should be 
undertaken whenever the scale of excavation permits such an assessment. 
Potential Research Questions 
 What site formation processes have been active on the site?  
 Is the deposit in its primary context or has it been disturbed and redeposited (secondary 
context)?  
 How are superimposed deposits or features related chronologically?  
 Which objects are in their original deposition (in-situ) within the deposit, and which have 
been introduced after the deposit was established?  Can in-situ objects be distinguished 
from objects introduced by post site formation processes?  
 Are organic and inorganic stains and other soil anomalies present in the site matrix the 
result of cultural modification or do they represent natural features or processes?  
Data Requirements 
 Availability of information and site specific data including but not limited to the recent 
and historical activities in the immediate area; local soil data; the nature of local 
geomorphological processes (e.g., earthquakes, erosion) and weather; and a range of both 
micro- and macroscopic biological (flora and fauna) agents are likely to affect the 
deposits.   
 During hand excavation, focus will be on recording soil texture (relative compaction); 
soil color (Munsell system); inclusions such as roots or rocks; evidence of rodent burrows 
or worm casts; and, any associations between cultural objects.  
 An effort will also be made to record the presence of stratified deposits including 
different strata, inclusions, lenses and their associated artifacts and features; and details of 
intrusions such as pits or rodent burrows.  
5.4 
CULTURE CHRONOLOGY 
Establishing a firm temporal range for each archaeological site is one of the foundations of 
archaeological investigation and research.  Many of the research topics in prehistory, such as 
culture change and adaptation, focus on questions that rely, first and foremost, on the 
establishment of site chronology.  The period of use for a site can be derived from relative dating

--- page 85 ---
8 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
and/or absolute dating. A site’s relative date can be estimated by comparing its artifacts (e.g., 
projectile points, ground stone implements, beads) to established artifact typologies for the 
region. Absolute dating includes radiometric techniques such as Carbon-14 dating.  Obsidian 
hydration can be used as both a relative and absolute technique depending on conditions at a site.  
Potential Research Questions 
 What is the temporal range of deposits at the site? 
 Is there a single component or were there discrete periods of site use? 
 How does the site relate to prehistoric sites in the San Mateo Peninsula in terms of age?  
Does it support the local and regional chronology? 
Data Requirements 
 Intact deposits with features; multi-component sites with vertically and horizontally 
stratified deposits, or intact single-component deposits.  
 Diagnostic artifact assemblages and types and features that have an established temporal 
association (e.g., shell beads, projectile points, charmstones, burial position, and 
orientation, and application of the established local culture-history). 
 Organic materials for radiocarbon dating including bone, charcoal, and shell in primary 
context and/or in association with intact features, chronologically diagnostic artifact 
assemblages, and intact stratigraphic layers. 
 Use obsidian hydration for relative dating of formal objects in primary context; utilize 
hydration dates where possible for dating of sediment matrix; cross-check hydration dates 
with radiocarbon dates. 
 Identify individual obsidian sources using X-ray diffraction and apply to obsidian 
hydration results to allow calibration of sample for absolute dating. 
5.5 
SUBSISTENCE, SETTLEMENT AND SPATIAL ORGANIZATION 
Settlement and subsistence are complimentary concepts that focus on how people used natural 
resources and moved across the landscape to procure them.  The use of the term subsistence 
implies that gathering resources was the primary determinant of site location, however, the 
approach of this research into the shell midden sites will be more varied and yet more inclusive, 
considering other aspects of site function, such as ceremony, burial, habitation intensity, 
seasonality, environmental and symbolic significance of placement on the landscape as a means 
of explaining site location and the relationships between sites.  The project site is within the San 
Mateo Creek flood plain and provides an opportunity to conduct research at an occupation site 
that accessed resources across local biotic and geographic zones.  Prior to urban development the 
surrounding project area would have been within an open foothill oak woodland environment 
with grassy hills and plains interspersed with oaks and riparian vegetation along creek corridors 
with access to San Francisco Bay. 
Local occupants had access to imported materials and shared various regional cultural traits.  The 
level of involvement in the exchange of goods and ideas, however, has not been determined.  
Evidence of the various activities undertaken on-site, such as flaked-stone manufacture, food

--- page 86 ---
9 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
processing and cooking, hide working, storage, long- or short-term occupation, and burial, will 
contribute to the understanding of human adaptation to the prehistoric San Mateo peninsula. 
Potential Research Questions 
 Can seasonality be determined?  If so, are sites seasonal or year-round (permanent) 
camps or villages? 
 How does CA-SMA-309 compare with other known “shellmound” sites in similar locales 
in the region? 
 What were the relationships between individual sites, or groups of settlements in a much 
wider landscape? 
 Does the settlement pattern vary between sites over time?  Is there a shift in size, 
function, and location of sites over time? 
 What plants and animals were being exploited, as evidenced from site constituents, and in 
what quantities?  Are there changes in exploitation and choice over time? 
 Do the types and quantities of remains vary by site? 
 How was food prepared and consumed? 
Data Requirements 
 Recovery, identification, and statistical analyses of both floral and faunal remains in a 
datable context; such recovery may require flotation of column samples and identification 
of macrobotanical and faunal remains.  Radiocarbon dating to be employed on 
appropriate samples. 
 Recovery of artifacts relating to subsistence activities or seasonality (e.g., vegetal 
processing, fish procurement, and the like). 
 Intact deposits containing food remains. 
 Presence of human skeletal remains for forensic analysis if permitted by Most Likely 
Descendant consistent with state burial laws. 
 Analysis and classification of faunal bone and shell artifacts. 
 Excavation, documentation, dating, and analysis of features such as human burials, 
hearths, or house pits. 
 Mapping of features and activity areas. 
5.6 
TRADE AND EXCHANGE 
Contact for the purposes of trade and exchange during prehistory has been documented for much 
of California, especially between the coastal, interior and desert regions (see Moratto 1984 for 
various overviews).  Artifacts or raw materials that are not native to a particular region provide 
evidence of a trade or exchange system between groups, and often across territorial boundaries.  
Exotic items indicate the range of a group’s sphere of interaction.  For example, marine shell 
beads and blanks are not uncommon in inland prehistoric and ethnographic sites (see Bennyhoff 
and Hughes 1987).  Evidence for lithic raw material trade (especially for obsidian) is most

--- page 87 ---
10 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
common generally inferring movement of raw material or partially finished tools from Napa and 
the eastern Sierra Nevada to areas without sources of obsidian for tool stone (see Jackson and 
Ericson 1994).  It is assumed that plant and animal materials (e.g., wood, feathers, fur, animal 
parts, etc.) were also used by the Ohlone (see Levy 1978; Davis 1961) but organic materials are 
commonly not preserved in typical open environments outside of dry rockshelters, caves, 
waterlogged bogs, etc. 
Potential Research Questions 
 What non-local resources are present and in what quantities relative to local materials? 
 Can lithic resources be sourced (e.g., obsidian sourced to Napa, eastern Sierra Nevada, 
etc.)? 
 Can non-lithic materials be sourced (e.g., bone artifacts, ceramics, shell beads)? 
 Are there contextual and temporal associations between non-local and local materials on-
site? 
 How does evidence of trade or exchange compare with other sites in the region? 
 How did trade or exchange change over time?  What does this imply about the direction 
of and nature of trade or exchange at any given time? 
Data Requirements 
 Identification of raw material sources (e.g., X-ray fluorescence sourcing of obsidian).  
 Evidence for manufacture of artifacts on-site (e.g., all stages of manufacture present from 
raw material to finished product as well as potential tools used for manufacture) 
including evidence of artifacts in finished form and evidence of recycling of raw 
materials or finished artifacts.  
5.7 
SOCIAL COMPLEXITY 
The primary sociopolitical unit among Bay Area Native American groups was the tribelet, or 
village community, which was overseen by one or more chiefs.  The tribelet generally consisted 
of a defined territory with a core village and associated satellite settlements.  The chief, religious 
leaders and craft specialists generally resided within the core village where surplus goods were 
stored (Kroeber 1925; Levy 1978). 
Potential Research Questions 
 Do burials with grave goods suggest social differentiation of the site occupants? 
 Is there evidence of craft specialization?

--- page 88 ---
11 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
Data Requirements 
 Burials with associated grave goods suggestive of social status (e.g., quantities of shell 
beads and pendants; presence of other stone and shell artifacts; burial position). 2 
 Presence of tool kits, manufacture activity areas, raw material caches; etc. 
6.0 
TREATMENT OF CA-SMA-309 
The proposed project is within a portion of CA-SMA-309 a prehistoric site identified as a “shell 
mound” along San Mateo Creek that appears to have been leveled and destroyed along with 
many other associated resources in the early part of the 20th century.  Little information aside 
from early observations is available on the prehistoric occupation and use of riparian and inland 
resources along the creek.  Initial archaeological testing in 2018 suggested that CA-SMA-309 
could be eligible for inclusion on the CRHR.  Further testing in 2019 determined the presence of 
redeposited (disturbed) midden across the project site and several instances of small areas of 
probably intact midden.  No prehistoric artifacts were exposed during the testing and none of the 
American Period historic objects or foundation fragments were considered significant.  The 
review of the available archival and archaeological documentation suggests: 
 the cultural deposit within the project site has been extensively disturbed due to past 
mound leveling along San Mateo Creek in the early 20th century; building construction 
from the 1890s to the 1950s; the realignment of the creek and covering adjacent to 
Baldwin Avenue and North B Street; and, the construction of a grocery store in the mid-
1950s. 
 a minimal potential for the exposure of isolated Native American burials and other 
prehistoric features and artifacts within the project site during construction. 
 a minimal potential for the exposure of significant historic archaeological deposits 
associated with either the Spanish or American periods during ground disturbing 
construction.  Development of the project site did not occur until the early 1890s with 
development and redevelopment until the mid-1950s.  The majority of any significant 
subsurface deposits associated with the former built environment appear to have been 
removed during redevelopment in the 1950s. 
 a low to moderate potential for the exposure of prehistoric cultural materials associated 
with CA-SMA-309 at the edges of the project site which could not be tested during 
ground disturbing construction.  It is possible that intact cultural materials associated with 
the site may be present under the adjacent sidewalks and public streets and these deposits 
could be exposed during the preparation and installation of associated improvements 
including underground utilities and sewers; installation of street furnishings and public 
art; and, planting of street trees. 
                                                 
2. 
Special studies including isotopic analysis, DNA studies and other analyses on grave associated artifacts and 
human bone will be undertaken only with the written permission of the Native American Most Likely 
Descendant assigned by the Native American Heritage Commission if human remains are exposed during 
construction.

--- page 89 ---
12 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
The development and application of the following resource protections (treatment measures) will 
reduce project related cultural resources impacts to less-than-significant level. 
6.1 
ARCHAEOLOGICAL MONITORING 
A focused Archaeological Monitoring Program (AMP) will be implemented as the preferred 
treatment option during construction within the project site and adjacent areas.  The 
implementation of an AMP will minimize impacts to any cultural deposits associated with CA-
SMA-309 that could be exposed during subsurface construction. 
Further treatment of any unexpected discovered exposed during construction will be undertaken 
including testing and data recovery.  Any cultural deposits will be investigated to determine the 
extent, integrity and potential to answer questions posed in the Research Design.  
6.2 
MONITORING PROTOCOLS 
Archaeological monitoring3 will be undertaken for all ground disturbing operations with the 
potential to affect native soil that could contain a cultural deposit.  A Native American Tribal 
Monitor4 may be retained to monitor with the Professional Archaeologist after the exposure of 
potentially significant prehistoric cultural materials. 
 The archaeological testing results suggest that intermittent or spot check monitoring is 
appropriate for construction within the project site until there is minimal potential to 
expose prehistoric and/or historic archaeological resources.  Intermittent or spot-check 
inspections will be scheduled at the discretion of the Project Archaeologist based on the 
potential to yield subsurface archaeological resources.   
 It is anticipated that full time monitoring will be initiated for all ground disturbing 
construction associated with the project site for adjacent areas (e.g., sidewalk removal, 
utility excavation, tree plantings, etc.) until there is minimal potential to expose 
prehistoric and/or historic archaeological resources. 
The project’s Principal Archaeological Consultant will confer with the Tribal Monitor (if 
present) on the intensity of monitoring and will recommend to the Project Proponent and City of 
San Mateo when monitoring will stop or should be modified.  The Tribal Monitor will be 
notified of each inspection and invited to participate.  The Principal Archaeological Consultant 
will confer with the Project Proponent and City of San Mateo to make a final determination 
when to terminate all archaeological monitoring and transition to an on-call basis.  
                                                 
3. 
Archaeological monitoring refers to the controlled observation and regulation of construction operations on 
or in the vicinity of a known or potentially significant cultural resource in order to prevent or minimize 
impact to the resource. 
4. 
A Tribal Monitor with an affiliation with the local area will be retained to monitor during ground disturbing 
construction after the unexpected discovery of prehistoric archeological resources.

--- page 90 ---
13 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
The following protocols shall  apply to archaeological monitoring: 
 Prior to the start of ground disturbing construction, the Principal Archaeological 
Consultant or Project Archaeologist will conduct Worker Awareness Training (WAT) for 
cultural resources.  Training shall be required for all construction personnel participating 
in ground disturbing construction to alert them to the archaeological sensitivity of the 
project area and provide protocols to follow in the event of a discovery of archaeological 
materials.  The Principal Archaeological Consultant or Project Archaeologist will 
develop and distribute for job site posting an "ALERT SHEET" summarizing potential 
finds that could be exposed and the protocols to be followed as well as points of contact 
to alert in the event of a discovery.  Training will be scheduled at the discretion of the 
Project Proponent in consultation with the City of San Mateo. 
 The Construction Manager and/or his/her designee will regularly inform the Project 
Archaeologist/Archaeological Monitor in regard to schedule, work areas, environmental 
briefings, etc. so that the team can provide the required monitoring services or respond to 
any discoveries.  This information will be communicated to the Tribal Monitor by the 
Project Archaeologist and/or Archaeological Monitor (AM). 
 The Project Archaeologist will implement archaeological monitoring using one or more 
AM depending upon how many pieces of equipment are undertaking ground disturbing 
excavation at the site during excavation.  In general, it is expected that only a single AM 
will be needed. 
 The AM will be an archaeologist with local regional experience, a minimum of one year 
experience and knowledge of both prehistoric and historic archaeological resources with 
the ability to recognize cultural materials and features that may be exposed during 
construction.  The AM will be under the supervision of a Professional Archaeologist 
meeting the minimum requirements of the Secretary of the Interior’s qualification 
standards for Prehistoric Archaeology.  The Tribal Monitor will be affiliated with Native 
American individuals/tribes recognized by the NAHC. 
 The AM and Tribal Monitor will be available for monitoring in accordance with the 
project schedule and requirements as determined by the Project Archaeologist in 
consultation with the Project Proponent and the City of San Mateo. 
 The AM will have the authority to temporarily halt any ground disturbing construction to 
identify and evaluate any archaeological materials that may be exposed during 
construction.  The exposure of significant resources will result in the implementation of 
the post-review discovery program that may result in the scientific analysis, removal, and 
reporting of the discovery. 
o In the event of a discovery all work will temporarily stop within a 50-foot radius of 
the discovery, or another appropriate measure of distance determined by the AM 
and the Project Proponent given traffic, construction, and safety concerns.  The 
discovery shall be clearly flagged and secured, and the AM will immediately notify 
the Project Archaeologist and/or Principal Archaeological Consultant of the 
discovery.  In the event that a discovery is made without an AM present, the Project 
Superintendent and/or City of San Mateo Construction Inspector will immediately

--- page 91 ---
14 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
stop construction activities within a 100-foot radius, secure the discovery and 
immediately contact either the Project Archaeologist or designated AM for a review 
of the discovery. 
o Following notification, the AM will make a preliminary assessment of the 
discovery to determine if it is an intact deposit, isolated artifact, human remains, or 
is of recent origin.  The AM will immediately notify the Project Archaeologist 
and/or Principal Archaeological Consultant.  If the discovery is determined to be an 
isolated object or ecofact or of recent origin, construction will resume. 
o The Principal Archaeological Consultant and/or Project Archaeologist will conduct 
a preliminary evaluation of the discovery if it appears to be an intact deposit, human 
remains or other object of potential significance.  The evaluation will consist of a 
reasonable effort to identify, determine integrity, and significance of the 
archeological discovery in accordance with current professional practices and 
regulations and the project research design.  The Principal Archaeological 
Consultant in consultation with the City of San Mateo will determine what actions 
will be taken to resolve adverse effects if the discovery contributes to the eligibility 
of CA-SMA-309 and if the deposit has the potential to answer questions posed in 
the Research Design.  
o Operations will remain suspended within the 100-foot radius of the discovery until 
such time that the City of San Mateo, in consultation with the Principal 
Archaeological Consultant, has notified the Contractor to resume work.  The 
duration of work stoppage at the discovery site will be sufficient to allow the 
Principal Archaeological Consultant and the Tribal Monitor to provide a 
preliminary evaluation of the significance of the discovery and provide evaluation 
and proposed actions to the Project Proponent, the City of San Mateo and other 
parties that might attach religious and cultural significance to the property.  The 
Project Proponent, the City of San Mateo and other parties shall have 48 hours from 
the time of notification to comment on the assessment of the resources and 
proposed actions to resolve any adverse effects. 
o Native American burials will be handled in accordance with Section 6.5 (below). 
 The AM, Tribal Monitor and other cultural resources personnel will wear suitable safety 
equipment at all times appropriate for the project and follow all safety protocols for 
construction activities including those applicable during heavy equipment operation, 
adjacent traffic conditions, safety policy with respect to exposed cuts and trenches, and 
hazardous materials potential.  In particular, the AM and Native American Monitor when 
working around heavy equipment will maintain contact with the operator at all times and 
maintain a safe distance from operating equipment.  The monitoring team may take 
advantage of equipment downtime or breaks in construction activity to examine the 
ground surface but will ensure that the operator is aware that he/she is examining areas 
subject to further excavation.  The monitoring team will not impede the movement of 
machinery. 
 All safety and health regulations required by the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) will be observed.  It is assumed that the Project Superintendant

--- page 92 ---
15 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
will ensure workplace safety and efficiency and will be responsible for overseeing the 
activities of the AM and Tribal Monitor within the excavation, in accordance with the 
project’s safety plan.  
 AM will maintain a daily log documenting the construction activities that were 
monitored, descriptions and provenience of any archaeological discoveries and other 
pertinent information.   
 AM will photograph earth-disturbing construction and any archaeological indicators or 
resources discovered as needed, and as deemed appropriate by the tribal monitors to 
provide a complete record of significant construction activity and of archaeological 
resources affected.  Daily monitoring records will be submitted to the Project 
Archaeologist. 
 Tribal Monitor may also keep daily records, and will coordinate with the AM if 
temporary stops and/or redirection are required.  
 AM assigned to the project will perform monitoring until the Project Archaeologist 
and/or Principal Archaeological Consultant, has, in consultation with the Project 
Proponent and the City of San Mateo determined that project construction activities could 
have no effect on significant archeological deposits.  
6.3 
POST-REVIEW ARCHAEOLOGICAL DISCOVERY - INVESTIGATION AND 
EVALUATION PROCEDURES 
The following objectives will guide the exploration of unexpected discoveries exposed during 
construction: 
 Define the horizontal and vertical extent of the discovery within the Project Site; 
 Identify the types and quantities of cultural materials present;  
 Assess physical condition of the discovery;  
 Date any components of the discovery where possible; and, 
 Evaluate the discovery/resource to determine if the deposit has the potential to answer 
questions posed in the Research Design.  
6.3A Field Methods 
A combination of hand excavation testing using shovel test units (STU) and/or hand excavated 
units will be used to determine the horizontal and vertical extent of and characterize the 
subsurface prehistoric cultural materials at a discovery location.  Controlled mechanical 
excavation may be considered depending on the discovery and depth and will rely primarily on 
an excavator and/or standard backhoe to remove sterile soil and expose the archaeological 
deposit.  A flat-edge blade may be used for excavation to minimize damage to any cultural 
deposits. 
STUs and/or hand excavated units will be used for systematic excavation at the discretion of the 
Principal Investigator.  Each completed hand-excavated unit/feature will be auger tested (where

--- page 93 ---
16 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
possible) to determine if additional cultural materials are present below the last culturally sterile 
level(s).  A unit/feature will be presumed complete if the auger borings are culturally sterile. 
The STUs will range from 25 cm2 to 50 cm2 and will be excavated in arbitrary 10 cm levels to 
culturally sterile sediment (est. 1 meter or less).  Sediment will be dry screened through either ¼" 
or 1/8" mesh.  Hand excavated units will range from one meter square to two meters square 
depending on the discovery.  The units will be excavated using arbitrary 10 cm levels or 
stratigraphic levels depending on the nature of the cultural deposit.  Sediment will be dry 
screened through either ¼" or 1/8" mesh at the discretion of the Principal Investigator/Project 
Archaeologist.  Samples may be retained for wet-screening off-site.  A barrel auger will be used 
to core the base of each unit to determine if cultural materials are present below the final level. 
6.3B 
Field Records 
Standard field notes will be maintained: site, unit/core, possible unit subarea, level notes, 
stratigraphic context, feature number lists, burial/human remains lists, burial notes, feature notes, 
etc.).  Recordation will also include mapping of unit and feature locations and photography or 
drawing. 
Representative samples of ecofactual cultural materials will be collected and bagged by unit and 
strata/depth when encountered.  For each unit/strata/level, soil colors will be determined using 
Munsell Soil Color Charts while texture will be determined by hand use of the parameters 
provided by the USDA field flow chart.  Sediment grain size shall be recorded using a Sand-
Gauge. 
Upon completion of a unit or core, documentation will include a summary characterization of the 
unit and findings, a stratigraphic sediment profile (soil types, color), and digital photographic 
documentation, as appropriate. 
A comprehensive photographic record will be maintained for each excavated unit, feature, and 
other items of project interest. Selected representative and unique stratigraphic profiles will be 
photographed and drawn.  Feature documentation will include type, location, dimensions, 
attributes, and associations.  Cross section drawing and other documentation appropriate to the 
discovery will be recorded. 
All artifacts, screened level remains, soil samples, and storage boxes will be labeled with the site, 
unit, level/strata, burial or feature number, sample type/number, date, etc. and transported to the 
Basin Research Associates' laboratory.  
6.3C 
Artifact and Sample Collection 
Cultural materials recovered during the field phase will be collected and retained for laboratory 
analysis.  These materials may include: flaked and ground stone artifacts, faunal bone, shell 
(both modified and unmodified), etc., sediment and other samples.  Suitable samples for 
radiocarbon dating will be collected if available.

--- page 94 ---
17 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
Individual sediment and profile column samples may be collected during the field testing for 
laboratory examination at the discretion of the Principal Investigator.  Samples suitable for bulk 
and/or AMS radiocarbon dating will be collected if available. 
6.3D Field Records Management 
Field records will be scanned to a PDF format.  Digital photographs will be identified in their 
electronic headers.  Both the records and photographs will be archived on an archival quality CD 
or DVD and submitted with the final report. 
6.4 
LABORATORY METHODS 
All material collected during the testing phase will be cataloged by unit, depth, feature, 
type/class/material.  For example, formal tools not associated with a burial will be washed and 
individually cataloged, bagged/tagged by unit level.  Lithic debitage will be washed, sorted by 
material and batch cataloged.  Further analysis of lithic debitage will include flake types, use 
wear, etc.  Faunal, shell, fire-affected rock, and other rock will also be sorted by level/subarea 
and batch cataloged. 
Sediment samples shall be discarded at the completion of examination and any physical tests at 
the discretion of the Principal Investigator and the submission and approval of the final 
documentation.  Flotation and fine screening of sediment samples and subsequent 
archaeobotanical studies are not anticipated as the presence of small (< 1 mm), usually 
carbonized, paleobotanical elements, like seeds and other diagnostic plant parts was not noted in 
samples of sediments fine screened during the excavations at the three resources in the mid-
1980s.  However, the use of these methods will be completed if samples of native or culturally 
modified sediment are available from an intact deposit.5 
The cataloged cultural materials will be transferred to appropriate discipline specialists for 
review and interpretation as determined by the Principal Investigator.  Each category will be 
reviewed, identified and described in accordance with standard archaeological practices by 
discipline specialists (e.g., lithic analyst, shell bead specialist, faunal analyst, etc.).  Tentative 
analysis methods to be used for major artifact and ecofact categories include:  
Lithic Analysis: identifies the raw material type, records the category (e.g., some types of 
debitage include decortication flake, secondary flake [core reduction], tertiary flake [tool 
thinning]; tool types include utilized flake, projectile point, scraper, drill, etc.) and records 
                                                 
5. 
Flotation uses water and usually agitation to separate carbonized plant remains from the soil matrix and make 
them float to the surface of a tank where they are captured in a screen or cloth for further specialist analysis.  
Generally, fine screening either dry or using water, is used to systematically recover small items depending 
on the mesh size used with the screens (e.g., 1/8-inch, 1/16-inch mesh).  Under certain circumstances, fine 
screening is superior to flotation for recovering small seeds or other botanicals as well as micro-faunal and 
lithic debitage (e.g., pressure flakes).  Processing methods like flotation are complex and should be employed 
judiciously due to the complexity of the post-recovery analysis.  Flotation and similar methods should not be 
used indiscriminately, but only when there is a specific methodological purpose (see Pearsall 1989 for a 
discussion).  The sediments associated with any recovered cultural materials will be sampled and inspected to 
determine the application of these recovery processes.

--- page 95 ---
18 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
dimensions for each formal artifact.  Further analyses may include specific research problems 
dealing with particular categories of artifacts, such as projectile points or obsidian artifacts. 
Shell Analysis: identifies the shell species, records the category of modified shell (e.g., 
Haliotis and Olivella shell was used for beads and pendants) and attributes as appropriate to 
artifact type.  Further analyses may include specific research problems dealing with 
particular categories of artifacts, such as bead typology or evidence of trade.  
Faunal Analysis: identifies the species and the specific bone represented, records whether 
bone is burned, and other attributes.  Analyses could include specific research problems 
dealing with evidence of subsistence practices, environmental change, etc.  If modified bone 
is present, analysis will record the category of modification (e.g., fishing implements, awls, 
needles, or bird whistles) and discuss specific research problems such as subsistence, tool 
production, and other appropriate cultural behaviors represented.  
Groundstone Analysis: identifies the raw material type, records the category (e.g., milling 
and grinding tools such as mortars and pestles; tool production tools such as hammerstones 
and abraders; or ceremonial objects such as charmstones) and records dimensions for each 
complete artifact.  Further analyses may include specific research problems dealing with 
particular categories of artifacts, such as food production or other probable behaviors.  
6.5 
NATIVE AMERICAN BURIAL DISCOVERY 
All construction work must stop immediately within a 50-foot radius if suspected human remains 
are exposed.  The remains will be exposed sufficiently by the archaeological team to identify 
them as human and the San Mateo County Medical Examiner (SMCME) notified immediately of 
the discovery if they are human. 
State law shall be followed in regard to the discovery of Native American burials (Chapter 1492, 
Section 7050.5 to the Health and Safety Code, Sections 5097.94, 5097.98 and 5097.99 of the 
Public Resources Code).  If the remains are Native American, the SCCME has two working days 
to examine the remains and must notify the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC)6 
within 24 hours if it is determined that the remains are Native American.  The NAHC will 
immediately appoint a Most Likely Descendant7 who has 48 hours to provide recommendations 
to the land owner for the protection and treatment of the remains.8  It is not yet known what type 
of recovery or treatment action might be recommended by the MLD.  If the descendent does not 
make recommendations within 48 hours the owner shall reinter the remains in an area of the 
                                                 
6. 
The Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) is an executive agency of the State of California.  Its 
nine members are appointed by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate.  In regard to Native 
American human remains, upon notification of discovery of human remains, the NAHC, notifies those 
persons it believes to be most likely descended from the deceased Native American. 
7. 
California law uses the term "Most Likely Descendent" (MLD); that is, an individual recognized by the 
NAHC as most likely descended from the deceased Native American.  Under California law this individual 
can recommend appropriate treatment of Native American human remains (e.g., in situ preservation, 
exhumation, analyses, report, etc.) discovered during construction or other activities. 
8. 
Human Remains means the physical remains of a human body, including but not limited to bones, teeth, hair, 
ashes, or mummified or otherwise preserved soft tissues of a person of Native American ancestry.

--- page 96 ---
19 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
property secure from further disturbance, or if the owner does not accept the MLD's 
recommendations, the owner or the MLD may request mediation by the NAHC. 
Temporary protection measures will be completed by the Project Proponent prior to the 
development of recommendations by the MLD and may include but are not limited to (a) 
temporary avoidance by construction until the remains and any cultural items can be treated; (b) 
placement of a security fence around the area of concern for a distance not to exceed 50 feet 
depending on extent of project and potential to affect unknown human remains; (c) installation of 
a protective covering(s) including steel plates and/or temporary reburial of the remains; or, (d) 
some combination of these measures prior to the completion of recommendations by the MLD.  
The final protective measures will depend on the recommendations of the MLD and agreed to by 
the Project Proponent. 
Each discovery of Native American remains is unique and disposition will be developed in 
consultation with the MLD.  Recommendations may include: (1) preservation in place if there is 
no likelihood of future disturbance; (2) respectful removal and non-destructive field review of 
the human remains and associated artifacts prior to reburial by qualified archeologists and/or 
physical anthropologists;9 (3) additional detailed non-destructive examination of the remains 
prior to reburial; (4) storage in a secure facility accessible to the MLD and other Native 
American representatives prior to reburial if the remains are removed from the project site; and, 
(5) reburial in an appropriate location to be decided by the MLD and the City of San Mateo in 
association with the Project Proponent. 
The MLD may require, for security reasons, that no news releases, including but not limited to 
photographs, videotapes, written articles, or other such means that contains information about 
human remains or burial-related items of Native American origin be released by any party during 
the discovery, recovery and reburial unless approved by the MLD. 
Any disputes that arise among the MLD and representatives of affected Native American groups 
and/or between its representatives and the MLD concerning cultural affiliation or the ultimate 
disposition of Native American human remains and associated funerary objects and unassociated 
funerary objects shall be resolved according to the dispute resolution procedures in Section 
5097.94 of the California Public Resources Code.  
The location of the reburial will be documented in the Final Report and the information filed 
with the NAHC and the California Historical Resources File System, Northwest Information 
Center, Sonoma State University, Rohnert Park. 
                                                 
9. 
An archeologist with human burial excavation experience or qualified physical anthropologist shall expose 
and remove the remains and cultural items, perform non-destructive measurements, and tests (if allowed by 
the MLD) including metric and non-metric osteological analyses, determination of sex and age, and 
examination for injuries and pathologies.  The archeologist or physical anthropologist may handle, draw or 
photograph the remains as part of the analysis. 
 
Analyses that require the destruction of human bone or associated cultural items, such as radiocarbon dating 
of bone or hydration analysis of obsidian, shall be subject to approval on a case-by-case basis by the MLD.

--- page 97 ---
20 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
6.6 
PERSONNEL 
Senior level anthropologists and archaeologists participating in the project will meet the 
Secretary of the Interior’s Qualification Standards for Archaeology.  Support staff with 
appropriate training for their specialty will assist as required including field technicians, 
graphics, and so on.  Specialized analytical services will be completed using discipline 
specialists with appropriate experience. 
7.0 
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING 
A suitable technical report will be prepared by the archaeological team at the conclusion of 
archaeological monitoring and any associated testing, evaluation, and laboratory analyses.  The 
report will include, but not be limited to: project overview; summary context; relevant 
archeological research in the region and on-site; circumstances of discovery; Native American 
consultation; recovery procedures and techniques; artifact/feature analyses; faunal analysis; 
osteological analysis and interpretation; site evaluations, conclusions and interpretations.  The 
report will be issued within one year of the closure of archaeological monitoring at the project. 
The Project Proponent, the City of Mateo, interested Native American groups and individuals, 
and the Native American MLD (should one be appointed) will be provided an opportunity to 
review the draft report and submit comments within 30 days of receipt.  The Project 
Archaeologist will make any necessary corrections and additions and resubmit the final report 
within 30 days of the receipt of comments. 
Once approved by the City of San Mateo, copies of the report(s) will be distributed to the NWIC, 
and the Native American MLD.  Other interested parties identified by the City of San Mateo and 
Native American MLD may also receive copies.  The City of San Mateo or another party will 
distribute final copies of the report. 
7.1 
PUBLIC OUTREACH 
The Project Proponent and/or the City of San Mateo will be responsible for any public inquiries 
and outreach.  Archaeological and Native American burial information is considered highly 
sensitive and public outreach will be considered in consultation with the MLD and the 
archaeological team to prevent inadvertent vandalism. 
8.0 
CURATION 
All archaeological material, except human remains and associated grave items as determined by 
the MLD consistent with state law, will remain the property of the Project Proponent.  The 
Project Proponent in consultation with the City of San Mateo shall arrange for the curation of 
this material at a repository that accepts archaeological collections from San Mateo County and 
has the appropriate facilities for curation.  If non-burial associated artifacts requiring curation are 
recovered during monitoring and testing, they will be stored in labeled boxes in BASIN's 
laboratory until the Project Proponent and City of San Mateo initiate the transfer to the selected 
repository no later than one year from the completion of the final report.  The Project Proponent 
will be responsible for curation costs including preparation in accordance with facility 
requirements and transportation.  In addition to the cultural materials and ecofacts, the facility

--- page 98 ---
21 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
will also receive copies of field notes, drawings, photographs, special studies, and the final 
report. 
9.0 
REFERENCES CITED AND CONSULTED 
Basin Research Associates 
2019 
Archaeological Testing Program Results – 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo.  
PA-2017-0085 - Compliance with City of San Mateo Site Development Permit 
Conditions – Cultural (Archaeology) – Worker Awareness Training, 
Monitoring of Demolition and  Archaeological Testing of Project Site.  On file 
Basin Research Associates, San Leandro and City of San Mateo, Community 
Development Department (Planning Division), San Mateo.  December 30, 
2019. 
Bennyhoff, James A. and Richard E. Hughes 
1987 
Shell Bead and Ornament Exchange Networks between California and the 
Western Great Basin.  Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of 
Natural History Vol. 64 (Part 2). 
Bocek, Barbara 
1990 
P-41-000318/CA-SMA-309.  Form on file, California Historical Resources 
Information System, Northwest Information Center, Sonoma State University, 
Rohnert Park. 
Clark, Matthew R. (Holman & Associates) 
2018 
Archaeological Records Search, Archival Research, Subsurface 
Reconnaissance, Sensitivity Evaluation, and Management Plan for the 300 
Baldwin Avenue Property, City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California.  
On file, City of San Mateo, Community Development Department (Planning 
Division), San Mateo. 
Davis, James T. 
1961 
Trade Routes and Economic Exchange Among the Indians of California.  
University of California Archaeological Survey Reports 54.  
Hamilton, Jerome 
1936 
Indian Shell Mounds of San Mateo Creek and Vicinity (Manual to Accompany 
Mr. Hamilton’s Map).  MS on file, S-03174, California Historical Resources 
Information System, Northwest Information Center, Sonoma State University, 
Rohnert Park (Note: Original on file, San Mateo County Historical 
Association, Redwood City).  
Hendry, G.W. and J.N. Bowman 
1940 
The Spanish and Mexican Adobe and Other Buildings in the Nine San 
Francisco Bay Counties, 1776 to about 1850.  MS on file, Bancroft Library, 
University of California, Berkeley.

--- page 99 ---
22 
Archaeological Resources Treatment Plan 
303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo 
January 2020 
Jackson, T. L. and J. E. Ericson 
1994  
Prehistoric Exchange Systems in California.  In, Prehistoric Exchange Systems 
in North America (pp. 385-415).  Edited by Timothy G. Baugh and Jonathon 
E. Ericson. Plenum Press, New York.  
Kroeber, A.L. 
1925 
Handbook of the Indians of California.  Bureau of American Ethnology 
Bulletin 78.  Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C.  
Levy, R. 
1978 
Costanoan.  In California, edited by R.F. Heizer, Volume 8.  Handbook of 
North American Indians, W.G. Sturtevant, general editor, pp. 485-497.  
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.  
Milliken, R.T. 
1995 
A Time of Little Choice: The Disintegration of Tribal Culture in the San 
Francisco Bay Area 1769-1810.  Ballena Press Anthropological Papers No. 43.  
Moratto, Michael J. 
1984 
California Archaeology.  Academic Press, New York.  
Pearsall, Deborah M. 
1989 
Paleoethnobotany: A Handbook of Procedures.  Academic Press, New York.  
San Mateo, City of. 
2017 
Site Development Permit Conditions, PA-2017-0085 (03 Baldwin Avenue, San 
Mateo) for Cultural (Archaeology).  On file City of San Mateo, Community 
Development Department (Planning Division), San Mateo. 
Schiffer, Michael B. 
1987 
Formation Processes of the Archaeological Record.  University of New 
Mexico Press, Albuquerque. 
Abbreviations 
n.d. 
no date 
 
 
v.d. 
various dates 
N.P. 
no publisher noted n.p. 
no place of publisher noted 
CHRIS/NWIC, Sonoma State University, Rohnert Park is used to designated archival material on file at the 
California Historical Resources Information System, Northwest Information Center, Sonoma State University, 
Rohnert Park.

--- page 100 ---
ATTACHMENTS 
FIGURES 
FIGURE 1 
General Project Location (ESRI World Street Map) 
FIGURE 2 
Project Location T4S R4W Unsectioned (USGS San Mateo, CA 
1997) 
FIGURE 3 
Backhoe Test Unit (BTU) and Geoprobe Locations (Clark 2018)

--- page 101 ---
Figure 1:  General Project Location (ESRI World Street Map)
Project Location

--- page 102 ---
0
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
Miles
±
Figure 2:  Project Location T4S R4W Unsectioned (USGS San Mateo, CA 1997)
Project Location

--- page 103 ---
Project Site
CA-SMA-309/
P-41-000318
Baldwin Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
Baldwin Avenue
North B Street
North B Street
North B Street
North Ellsworth Avenue
North Ellsworth Avenue
North Ellsworth Avenue
.
0
25
50
75
100
Feet
BTU - Midden
BTU - Redeposited Midden
BTU - No Midden
Geoprobe - Positive (Clark 2018)
Geoprobe - Negative (Clark 2018)
BTU 1
BTU 1
BTU 1
BTU 2
BTU 2
BTU 2
BTU 3
BTU 3
BTU 3
BTU 4
BTU 4
BTU 4
BTU 5
BTU 5
BTU 5
BTU 6
BTU 6
BTU 6
BTU 7
BTU 7
BTU 7
BTU 8A
BTU 8A
BTU 8A
BTU 8B
BTU 8B
BTU 8B
BTU 8C
BTU 8C
BTU 8C
Figure 3:  Backhoe Test Unit (BTU) and Geoprobe Locations (Clark 2018)

--- page 104 ---
303 Baldwin – Archaeological Monitoring Summary 
December 2020 - February 2021 
December 11 – Construction crew sensitivity training session by Christopher Canzonieri (MA, 
RPA) and presentation of ALERT Sheet. 
December 14 – Electrical box/vault excavation monitoring to 9.5 foot DBS within North 
Ellsworth Avenue. 
December 15 – Shoring delivery late – work shut down. 
December 16 – Electrical box/vault excavation to 9.5 feet deep within North Ellsworth Avenue. 
December 17 – Electrical trenching – North Ellsworth Avenue to 4-5.5 feet deep. 
December 28 – Electrical joint trench excavation, northeast side of North Ellsworth Avenue, 
from 5.0-7.5 deep. 
February 3 – Monitoring started for mass excavation of Area DM8 (SE Corner, Baldwin Avenue 
at South B Street) and Area DM4 (portion of east side along South B Street.  Depths to 4 feet 
below existing grade.  Two isolated bottles recovered – a “clear” glass Coca Cola 6 fl oz with 
base marked Palo Alto, Calif.) and a clear glass bottle embossed with VINELAND, GRAPE 
JUICE – no maker’s mark on bottom).  Soil in Area DM8 has been previously disturbed with 
demo rubble and foundations.  Area DM4 soil was a bright yellow brown sand loam. 
February 4 - Mass-ex completed in Area DM 4 
February 5 – Mass-ex started in Area DM1 (north and central part of project area) to depth of 4 
feet.  Area DM6 (portion of east side along South B Street) completed to depth of 4 feet. 
February 9 – Mass-ex of Area DM2 (northeast corner of project) completed to depth of 4 feet.  
Removal of foundation in southeast corner (DM8) started.  Subsurface brick wall along South B 
Street and subsurface concrete wall along Baldwin Avenue with internal concrete footings.  Both 
appear to be linked to former buildings on location prior to the construction of the previous 
grocery store. 
February 10 – start mass-ex of Areas DM1, DM3 and DM5 (north and central portion of project 
areas) to depth of 4 feet.  Removal of foundations in DM8 continues. 
February 11 – Start mass-ex of Area DM7 (southwest corner of project area) and continue with 
removal of foundation in Area DM8. 
February 12 – Area DM7 mass-ex continues as does removal of Area DM8 area foundation. 
February 16 – Removal of Area DM8 foundations continues. 
February 17 – Finish mass-ex of Areas DM1, DM3 and DM5 to depth of 4 feet.  Area DM6 and 
DM8 foundation removal continues.

--- page 105 ---
February 18 – Sidewalk removal in Areas DM4, DM6 and DM 8 along South B Street to depth 
of 3.5 feet. 
February 19 – Continue mass-ex of Area DM7 to depth of 4 feet.  Two isolated artifacts found – 
metal horse shoe and a green glass wine bottle. 
February 20 – Continue mass-ex of Area DM8 and remove rubble to depth of 4 feet. 
February 21 
Continue mass-ex of Area DM8 and remove rubble to depth of 4 feet.  Review 
street tree removal. 
February 24 
Continue mass-ex of Area DM7 and removal of rubble to depth of 4 feet. 
Summary – No significant prehistoric and/or historic cultural materials exposed.  4 isolated non-
chronologically diagnostic historic artifacts exposed and collected (DM 8 [2 bottles] and DM7 [ 
1bottle and 1 metal artifact]).  Two historic foundation walls (brick and concrete) associated with 
previous building within project site exposed in Area DM8 and partially within Area DM7. 
Current Status - Soil wall under construction; mass-ex of interior of project site to continue 
after soil wall installation.  Area will be not monitored due to previous negative archaeological 
testing results.  Schedule information currently not available for utilities and sewer installation 
outside of project site.

--- page 106 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Mon. 
, December 
 14 , 2020 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
12:00 pm 
 
Time started: 
12:30 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Cloudy 
 
58°/47°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 3: Electrical Work 
 
3a. Electrical Box Excavation 
 
Length:   11'±, 
Width:       5'±, 
Depth:      -9.5'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
0 to -1'±: Disturbed soil with demolition rubble fragments. 
-1'± to -1.5'±: Brownish Black(10 YR 3/2) midden material with shell 
-1.5' to -9.5'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Clay loam 
 
Photos: 
8957 
to 
8966 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 107 ---
DAILY WORK REPORT MAP 
Monday to Thursday, December 14-17, 2020 
 
 
 
 
page 
2 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06 
 
Dec. 14-16 Vault Excavation 
Electrical Trench Excavation 
Thursday, December 17 
North Ellsworth Ave.

--- page 108 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Tue. 
, December 
 15 , 2020 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 am 
 
Time started: 
 am 
Time ended: 
11:00 am 
Total Hours: 4 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
58°/45°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 3: Electrical Work 
 
3a. Electrical Box Excavation 
 
The contractor was informed this morning  that they would not receive the needed 
shoring.  They sent their Operator to another job site.  No excavation took place today. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 109 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Wed. 
, December 
 16 , 2020 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 am 
 
Time started: 
 am 
Time ended: 
11:00 am 
Total Hours: 4 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Mostly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
63°38°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 3: Electrical Work 
 
3a. Electrical Box Excavation 
 
 
Electrical box excavation was completed today 
 
Length:   11'±, 
Width:       8'±, 
Depth:      -9.5'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
0 to -1'±: Disturbed soil with demolition rubble fragments. 
-1'± to -1.5'±: Brownish Black(10 YR 3/2) midden material with shell 
-1.5' to -9.5'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Clay loam 
 
Photos: 
8967 
to 
8978 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 110 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Thur. 
, December 
 17 , 2020 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
12:00 pm 
 
Time started: 
12:30 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Mostly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
58°53°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 3: Electrical Work 
 
3b. Electrical Trench Excavation 
 
 
Crossing North Ellsworth Avenue 
 
Length:   40'±, 
Width:       1.5'±, 
Depth:      -4 to -5.5'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
0 to -1'±: Disturbed soil with demolition rubble fragments. 
-1'± to -1.5'±: Brownish Black(10 YR 3/2) midden material with shell 
-1.5' to -5.5'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Clay loam 
 
Photos: 
8988 
to 
8997 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 111 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Mon. 
, December 
 28 , 2020 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
12:00 pm 
 
Time started: 
12:30 pm 
Time ended: 
3:00 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Mostly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Clear 
 
57°34°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 3: Electrical Work 
 
3c. Electrical Joint Trench Excavation 
 
 
Northeast side of North Ellsworth Avenue 
 
Length:   20'±, 
Width:       1.5'± to 3'±, 
Depth:      -5 to -7.5'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
0 to -1'±: Disturbed soil with demolition rubble fragments. 
-1'± to -1.5'±: Brownish Black(10 YR 3/2) midden material with shell 
-1.5' to -7.5'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Clay loam 
 
Photos: 
9013 
to 
9027 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 112 ---
DAILY WORK REPORT MAP 
Monday, December 28, 2020 
 
 
 
 
page 
2 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06 
 
 
Dec. 14-16 Vault Excavation 
Electrical Trench Excavation 
Thursday, December 17 
North Ellsworth Ave. 
December 28 
Joint Electrical Trench Excavation

--- page 113 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Wed. 
, 
February 
 
3 
, 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
12:00 pm 
 
Time started: 
12:30 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Cloudy 
 
59° 50°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4a. Begin and Complete Mass-Excavation of Area DM8 (Southeast corner, Baldwin Avenue at 
South B Street) 
 
Length:   60'±to 65.5'±, 
Width:       53.5'± to 58'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
Found 2 bottles: 
 
 
 
02-03-2021-1: “Clear” glass Coke Bottle (6 FL OZ, PALO ALTO, CALIF.) 
 
 
 
02-03-2021-2: Clear glass bottle (VINELAND, GRAPE JUICE) 
 
 
4b. Start Mas-Excavation, Area DM4 (Portion of east side along South B Street) 
 
Length:   99'± to 106'±, 
Width:       24'± to 75.5'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM8 
   0 to -4'±: Disturbed soil with demolition rubble and foundations. 
 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9028 
to 
9037 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
 
No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
X Historic cultural material encountered. 
2 historic bottles, see above 
 
page 
1 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 114 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
 
 
Coca Cola Bottle (6 oz, Palo Alto, Calif on base) 
 
Vineland Grape Juice Bottle (1920s?)

--- page 115 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Thur. 
, 
February 
 
4 
, 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 am 
 
Time started: 
 am 
Time ended: 
11:00 am 
Total Hours: 4 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Cloudy 
 
61°/ 51°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4b. Completed Mass-Excavation of Area DM4 (Portion of east side along South B Street) 
 
Length:   99'± to 106'±, 
Width:       24'± to 75.5'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9038 
to 
9039 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 116 ---
DAILY WORK REPORT MAP 
Wednesday and Thursday, February 3rd and 4th, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page 
2 
of 
2 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06 
 
February 3rd 
Excavation 
February 4th 
Excavation

--- page 117 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Mon. 
, 
February 
 
8 
, 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
9:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 6 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Mostly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Cloudy 
 
57°/ 45°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4c. Start Mass-Excavation, Area DM1, 3, &5 (North and central part of project area) 
 
Length:   70'± to 148'±, 
Width:       90.5'± to 205'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
4d. Completed Mass-Excavation of Area DM6 (Portion of east side along South B Street) 
 
Length:   56'± to 60'±, 
Width:       53.5'± to 114'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9040 
to 
9044 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 118 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Tue. 
, 
February 
 
9 
, 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Partly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Completed Mass-Excavation of Area DM2 (Northwest corner of project) 
 
Length:   78'±, 
Width:       108'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM8) 
 
Length:   20'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
Subsurface brick wall along B Street and subsurface concrete wall along Baldwin Avenue. 
Both appear to be linked to former building prior to grocery store in the parking lot south of the building. 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9045 
to 
9054 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
 
No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
X Historic cultural material encountered. 
7up bottle in area DM8 (02-09-2021-1) 
 
page 
1 
of 
3 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 119 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
 
2 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Former building foundation along B Street 
 
Former building foundation along B Street

--- page 120 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
 
3 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concrete Wall Foundation

--- page 121 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Foundation Walls 
 
 
 
Basin Research Associates 
Brick Foundation Wall 
(exterior wall) (8'± sub surface) 
Concrete Foundation Wall 
(exterior wall) (8'± sub surface) 
Internal Concrete Footings  
(4'± sub surface) 
Concrete Foundation Wall 
(exterior wall) (8'± sub surface)

--- page 122 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Wed. 
, 
February 
 10 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Mostly Cloudy 
 
end: mostly Cloudy 
 
63°/ 50°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Completed Mass-Excavation of Area DM1, 3 & 5 (North and central part of project area) 
 
Length:   70'± to 148'±, 
Width:       90.5'± to 205'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM8) 
 
Length:   20'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9055 
to 
9057 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
 
No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
X Historic cultural material encountered. 
Fire Bricks (02-10-2021-1&2) DM8 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 123 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Thur. 
, 
February 
 11 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Cloudy 
 
57°/ 48°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Begin Mass-Excavation of Area DM7 (Southwest corner of project area) 
 
Length:   65'±, 
Width:       90'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM8) 
 
Length:   25'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9058 
to 
9062 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 124 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Fri. 
, 
February 
 12 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 8 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Continue Mass-Excavation of Area DM7 (Southwest corner of project area) 
 
Length:   65'±, 
Width:       90'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM8) 
 
Length:   40'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
Area DM4 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9063 
to 
9073 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 125 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Tue. 
, 
February 
 16 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
1:30 pm 
Total Hours: 6 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM8) and breaking up concrete rubble from 
foundations 
 
Length:   40'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9074 
to 
9077 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 126 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Wed. 
, 
February 
 17 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
1:30 pm 
Total Hours: 6 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4c. Finish Mass-Excavation, Area DM1, 3, &5 (North end of the project area) 
 
Length:   70'±, 
Width:    15'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Foundation Removal 
 
Removal of old foundation in southeast corner (DM6 & 8) and breaking up concrete rubble from 
foundations 
 
Length:   40'±, 
Width:       4'±, 
Depth:      -8'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -4'±: Bright yellowish brown (10YR 6/6) Sand loam 
 
Photos: 
9082 
to 
9098 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 127 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Thur. 
, 
February 
 18 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
1:30 pm 
Total Hours: 6 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4h. Sidewalk removal Area DM4, 6, & 8 (Along South B Street) 
 
Length:   70'±, 
Width:       3'±, 
Depth:      -3'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -3'±: Concrete rubble 
 
Photos: 
9101 
to 
9109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 128 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Fri. 
, 
February 
 19 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 pm 
 
Time started: 
 pm 
Time ended: 
1:30 pm 
Total Hours: 6 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Mostly Cloudy 
 
59°/ 52°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Continue Mass-Excavation of Area DM7 (Southwest corner of project area) and removal of 
rubble. 
 
Length:   65'±, 
Width:       90'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
FINDS: 
 
# 
CAT. # 
ITEM 
LOC. 
DEPTH 
NOTES 
 
02-19-21-1 
Green glass wine bottle 
DM7 
0-4' 
Non-diagnostic 
 
02-19-21-2 
Horse Shoe 
DM7 
0-4' 
Non-diagnostic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -3'±: Concrete rubble 
 
Photos: 
9115 
to 
9118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
 
No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
X Historic cultural material encountered. 
See above 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 129 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Mon. 
, 
February 
 22 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
8:00 am 
 
Time started: 
11:00 am 
Time ended: 
3:30 pm 
Total Hours: 5 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Clear 
 
end: Clear 
 
72°/ 48°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Continue Mass-Excavation of Area DM8 (Southeast corner of project area) and removal of 
rubble. 
 
Length:   58'±, 
Width:       65.5'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -3'±: Concrete rubble 
 
Photos: 
9125 
to 
9126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 130 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Tue. 
, 
February 
 23 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 am 
 
Time started: 
 am 
Time ended: 
11:00 am 
Total Hours: 4 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Partly Cloudy 
 
end: Clear 
 
75°/ 50°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Continue Mass-Excavation of Area DM8 (Southeast corner of project area) and removal of 
rubble. 
 
Length:   58'±, 
Width:       65.5'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
Task 5: Tree Removal 
 
Street Tree Removal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -3'±: Concrete rubble 
 
Photos: 
9129 
to 
9134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06

--- page 131 ---
CITY of SAN MATEO–303 Baldwin Ave–  
Daily Work Report 
 
Date: 
Wed. 
, 
February 
 24 , 2021 
 
Project Name: 303 Baldwin Avenue 
Project: 5 story residential and 4 story office/commercial structure 
Location: 303 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California, CA 94401 
AAA: M2097, San Mateo – Redwood City (11-05), F-6; APN: 32-322-13and 32-322-20; Size: .94 acre; Elevation: 120'± 
Monitor: Stuart A. Guedon, M.A. (Historical Geographer and Archaeologist) 
Time started: 
7:00 am 
Time stopped: 
 am 
 
Time started: 
 am 
Time ended: 
9:00 am 
Total Hours: 2 
Other Monitors/Inspectors: 
 
Others On-Site:   
  
Weather: start: Clear 
 
end: Clear 
 
70°/ 48°/0.00 in 
 
Activities and Summary of Observations: 
Spot Check 
Inspect 
Monitor 
Admin. 
 
Task 4: Excavation 
 
4e. Continue Mass-Excavation of Area DM7 (Southwest corner of project area) and removal of 
rubble. 
 
Length:   120'±, 
Width:       90'±, 
Depth:      -4'± 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soil Description: 
 
   0 to -3'±: Concrete rubble 
 
Photos: 
9150 
to 
9152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  
 
 
X No cultural material was observed. 
Location: 
 
 
Pre-historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
 
Historic cultural material encountered. 
 
 
page 
1 
of 
1 
 
Basin Research Associates 
 
M19-06