source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2758e7c1196ff485d65047fba78fd1cc1854c8353f567fad2276d1118ab4d772
pages: 19
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
January 29, 2022
9:00 AM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Saturday, January 29, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 849 5033 1596
Passcode: 266882
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item. A total of 30 minutes will be allotted for public
comments.
1.
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year
2022-23.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 2 p.m. Friday, January 28th.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 19

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-5712
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 29, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year 2022-23. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan 
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The meeting on January 29, 2022, represents the first step in the process: a 
City Council workshop to determine strategic initiatives and objectives for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The 
meeting will include public comment period at the start of the meeting and will then be a facilitated discussion among the 
Council with the goal of revising and updating the Strategic Plan developed last fiscal year. 
The most current Strategic Plan, which includes all amendments and updates on the implementation status of the Council 
objectives from fiscal year 2021-22, is included as Attachment 1. The highlighted items represent Council objectives that 
staff completed, plans to complete prior to the end of the fiscal year, or have proposed modifications to the item. Staff 
recommends removing the items from the priority list that are completed or will be completed by the end of the fiscal 
year. 
Councilmembers provided their lists of potential new objectives for consideration to assist with the prioritization process 
(Attachment 2). The list also includes new objectives staff recommends the Council consider adding to the Strategic Plan. 
The Council will be asked to review this list and identify which items to include in the Strategic Plan and what priority level 
to assign them. To help further the conversation, staff color-coded the Council objectives to identify ones that are new, 
existing, modified, or that are part of the General Plan Update process. Additionally, staff identified objectives raised by 
more than one Councilmember. As part of the consideration process for new priorities to include in the Strategic Plan, 
staff is providing a list of major department initiatives identified for fiscal year 2022-23 (Attachment 3). This list highlights 
the significant new work plan items that each department plans to address next fiscal year that Council may not otherwise 
be aware of. 
The second step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 7, 2022, will be a study session where staff will propose a 
work plan to address each of the objectives in the Strategic Plan, provide feedback on resource requirements, and suggest 
modifications to the proposed objectives. The final step in the process, which will occur at the March 21, 2022 City Council 
meeting, will be a consent calendar item where City Council will approve the Strategic Plan with the proposed objectives 
for the 2022-23 fiscal year. Staff plans to hold another mid-cycle review of the Strategic Plan in September 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The objectives identified by the Council will be taken into consideration 
2 of 19

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
as part of the development of the fiscal year 2022-23 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council strategic plan meeting is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in direct or indirect changes to the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Strategic Plan FY 2021-22
Att 2 – Proposed Objectives for FY 2022-23
Att 3 – Major Department Initiatives for FY 2022-23
Att 4 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
3 of 19

--- page 4 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
1
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2024
A
Complete construction of Phase II contract and design of Phases III and IV contracts.
Phase II is currently in construction and Phase III is in design. Construction for 
Phase III is planned for FY22-23. The final design agreement for the last two 
phases (Phases IV and V) will be awarded in January. 
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: 
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo 
by 2026.
2
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve 
safety and reliability of the street light system
A
Start construction of Phase 3 circuits designed during the FY 2020-21 and complete 
design of circuits 8 (Dartmouth), 9 (Baywood Ave), and 10 (Garfield Street). 
Construction of the Baywood conversion will resume in 2022. The design for 
Phase 3 (includes circuits on 28th Ave, 27th Ave, Woodland Dr, Yew St, Palm 
Ave,  36th Ave, Downtown/4th Ave) is underway with construction spanning  
from FY22-23 through FY23-24. The design for Phase 4 (remaining circuits) 
will begin in spring of 2022. 
3
Evaluate funding options for storm system activities and 
improvements, including dredging the Marina Lagoon
A
Bring Funding Analysis and options to Council for direction; consider additional needs 
analysis (e.g., update 2004 Master Plan), opinion polling, community engagement, fee 
study and Proposition 218 process.
Stormwater fee opinion polling conducted. Findings will be presented to the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in February 2022. 
4
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Continue construction with focus on levee improvements and trash capture device 
installation, followed by pump station construction. Construction completion 
anticipated April 2023.
Levee upgrades are complete and the new Coyote Point Pump Station is 
operational. The construction at Poplar Pump Station is on-going.
5
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Continue construction of the WWTP Expansion Project, UFES, and other sewer 
collection system improvements. Finalize potential funding through the State 
Revolving Fund.
Construction of the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion and UFES projects are on-
going. Delaware Relief Sewer project was issued for bid and the sewer annual 
rehabilitation work is on-going. State Revolving Fund coordination is on-going. 
6
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Finalize approvals and begin design and construction on the Poplar Golf Course Trash 
Capture Device. Begin evaluation, selection, and installation of small trash capture 
devices. Begin conducting enhanced trash inspections of private parcels with high and 
medium trash generating rates. Evaluate the feasibility and potential effectiveness of 
enhanced street sweeping program for medium generating areas. Participate in review 
and commenting for the new C.10 Trash Provisions of the Municipal Regional 
Stormwater Permit 3.0. 
The City's trash loading analysis determined that for the 100% requirements 
to be met, a trash inspector would need to be hired to control trash/litter 
from private commercial / multi-family parcels or the City must require 
retrofitting of these parcels with trash capture devices. Implementation of 
trash capture devices in public right of way is ongoing. Poplar Golf Course 
Large Trash Capture Device is in design and will be constructed in spring 2022. 
Effort to evaluate enhanced street sweeping has not yet begun.
7
Develop an anti-littering trash and cigarette butt outreach 
campaign
A
Expand the Team Up to Clean Up Program to include an anti-littering campaign, work 
with businesses to take a signed pledge, and work with community and property 
managers on litter awareness and supporting litter cleanups. 
The general outreach plan, including the business pledge, are drafted and 
being reviewed internally and monthly team up to clean up events are 
continuing to take place. 
8
Evaluate the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030
A
Review past-due replacement vehicles and recommend replacement options; 
determine replacement strategies for vehicles due for replacement by 2030. Evaluate 
future CNG facility maintenance costs and potential for installation of additional EV 
Infrastructure at City facilities. 
Began planning for the decommissioning of the CNG facility, developing 
contract for the purchase of renewable diesel, and assessing the availability 
of electric vehicles. 
9
Analyze potential to produce potable drinking water from 
the Clean Water Program
B
Continue to study options for advanced wastewater treatment for reservoir water 
augmentation and direct potable reuse with the SFPUC, SVCW/Redwood City, 
BAWSCA, and Cal Water.
Developing options for direct potable reuse and evaluating water quality 
impacts for reservoir water augmentation. 
Stewardship of 
Infrastructure
Reliability
Resilience
Environmental 
Responsibility
1
4 of 19

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
10
Expedite traffic management improvements based on 
public input received from Neighborhood Traffic Forums, 
Neighborhood Traffic Management Program, and best 
practices and enhance transparency of outcomes and 
frequencies of Council status reports.
A
Finalize the Laurelwood Neighborhood Traffic Action Plan, finalize Neighborhood 
Traffic Management Program update, develop a Local Roadway Safety Plan (Caltrans 
requirement) and identify data-driven traffic improvement projects and seek funding 
for implementation. 
Laurelwood TAP is on-going but was deferred due to staff availability. RFP for 
Local Roadway Safety Plan is in development. 
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Implement 
traffic programs and improvements to 
enhance safety for all users by utilizing 
public input and data, such as the input that 
led to the Traffic Action Plans, to improve 
safety on neighborhood roadways and 
intersections.
11 Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City 
at-grade crossings
A
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (PCJPB)/Caltrain to complete design of railroad 
improvements at 4th & 5th Avenue grade crossings and advertise for construction.  
City to complete design of improvements within City Right-of-Way and coordinate 
construction schedule with Caltrain construction. 
Caltrain is developing draft design for improvements in railroad right of way 
while the City began the design of the improvements in the public right of 
way.
12 Minimize parking impacts throughout the City
A
Utilize Parking Management System to evaluate Downtown parking usage patterns 
and determine potential parking policy updates. Begin CPID Zoning Code revisions to 
appropriately allocate parking for Downtown projects.
The Downtown Parking Technology project is completed. Revisions to the 
CPID Zoning code are underway. 
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Proactively 
manage Citywide parking resources to 
optimize existing supply. 
13
Identify streets and intersections experiencing major 
congestion due to regional traffic and identify effective 
measures to mitigate the impact on traffic flow and the 
adjacent neighborhoods
A
Continue to work with C/CAG and SMCTA on the US 101/92 Short Term Area Plan and 
Direct Connector project. Begin design for Fashion Island/Norfolk intersection 
reconstruction to assist with alleviating congestion along the 19th Avenue-Fashion 
Island Blvd. corridor.
Efforts on US101/92 Short-Term Area Plan and Direct Connector are 
continuing. Fashion Island/Norfolk is currently in the final draft/adoption of 
plan phase. 
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Identify 
and implement measures to optimize 
vehicle traffic on major roadways, reduce 
green-house gas emissions, and improve 
safety for all modes of transportation.
14 Safe Streets neighborhood street closures
A
Reopen streets formerly closed under the Safe Streets program. Explore options to 
transition Safe Streets initiative to longer-term traffic safety program. 
The street closure element of the Safe Streets program has concluded. Other 
elements of the Safe Streets program related to ongoing communication 
regarding traffic safety and analysis of the roadway network continue.
Remove due to completion
15 Implement bicycle and pedestrian projects and programs 
that address safety and align with adopted City plans 
A
Design six high-priority bicycle facilities identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Evaluate speed reduction in school zones, prepare policy for Council approval, and 
implement in locations that meet applicable regulatory criteria. Continue to seek 
grants, funding for the design and construction of projects identified in the Master 
Plans and for a Complete Streets Plan to develop multimodal design standards and 
priority safety projects. 
Design for the six, high-priority facilities identified in the 2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan that are fully within San Mateo ROW have either been completed or 
have been funded. Conducted evaluation of speed reductions in school zones. 
Awarded funding to begin the Complete Streets plan. 
16 Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete site visit, design new information desk and layout of entrance, purchase new 
desk and other furniture. 
Project anticipated to be completed this fiscal year. Carpet installed at 
Hillsdale branch. New desks ordered for both branch locations. 
17 Create COVID-19 children's programming
A
Continue LEAP program through end of pandemic; program anticipated to be phased 
out by Fall 2021.  Other recreation programs will continue to be modified based on 
health guidelines. 
Activities continue to be modified based on health guidelines and public 
comfort levels.
18 Create a senior library outreach program with home 
delivery for homebound seniors
A
Piloted in early 2021, the program has been successful and sustainable at current 
levels without additional investments needed. If popularity of program substantially 
increases, there could be a need for additional investment to support dedicated staff 
time.
The current program seems to be comfortably meeting the level of 
community demand. We have 10 regularly users. This seems to be about the 
normal level based on a previous delivery program (led here by Donna Divodi) 
and from reports from Burligame and Palo Alto libraries. 
Remove due to completion.
Quality of Life
Neighborhoods
Community 
Services
2
5 of 19

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
19
Enhance police accountability, transparency, and efficiency 
and expand on coordinating police services with mental 
health and social services
A
Integrate mental health clinician services into operations and increase officer training 
related to de-escalation, crisis response, etc. Implement dashboard cameras on patrol 
vehicles to increase transparency. Implement stop data collection/reporting 
requirements of the Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA).
Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team Program is established and 
Mental Health Clinician started in November.  From Jul-Dec. officers attended 
1200+ hours of training incorporating de-escalation or bias.  RIPA 
implementation to be completed January 2022. Mindfulness training 
completed in October 2021. Training scheduled for May 2022 on response to 
persons/juveniles with autism. In-Car Camera program implementation was 
delayed due to supply chain issues but is now on track for completion in Q3.
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Continue to 
promote police accountability, 
transparency, and efficiency 
20 Strengthen implementation of existing red tag ordinance 
A
Bolster use of existing suite of enforcement tools, including financial and criminal 
penalties, to improve compliance for repeat violators of SMMC Chapter 7.50 and 
establish internal process for implementation.
City Council study session scheduled for March 21, 2022, to explore ideas for 
how to utilize the tools available to address repeat offenders, and evaluate 
the process currently in place for appeals.
21 Implement the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods Initiative
A
Look for opportunities to enhance technology to increase neighborhood safety, 
including ongoing deployment of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology 
at strategic fixed locations throughout the City.
22 Flock ALPRs deployed at strategic locations throughout the City resulting in 
123 cases where police action was initiated based on data.  Staff is evaluating 
the need for analytical assistance to maximize effective utilization of data to 
target hot spots. 
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Leverage 
technology in support of safe and secure 
neighborhoods 
22 Host a community conversation on policing in San Mateo
A
Host Real Talk Sessions (monthly); Coffee with a cop (quarterly); Virtual Ride Alongs (bi-
monthly); and other activities to promote communication. Launch new Community 
Policing Academy to enhance understanding of the Police Department.
Community Policing Academy launched in September 2021 with positive 
reviews. Staff conducted 5 "Real Talk" community conversations on policing 
in 2021 and is scheduling sessions for 2022. Public engagement strategies 
during the pandemic included virtual ride alongs, PAL programs (such as drive-
thru food events and holiday events), National Night Out, and Neighborhood 
Watch recruitment via community Zoom meetings.
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Maintain 
an ongoing community conversation on 
policing in San Mateo
23 Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
B
Implementation of this item will be deferred to a future fiscal year.
No action taken on this item.
24 Create a Diversity and Equity Task Force 
A
Form a task force to address equity and diversity on City Boards and Commissions and 
expand community forums and trainings.
Staff completed outreach to identify participants and to hire third party 
facilitator. Task Force to convene for first meeting on January 28, 2022. 
Community event hosted as part of United Against Hate Week in November 
2021.
25 Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions
A
Continue implementation of new measures from the 2020 CAP including commercial 
energy efficiency benchmarking, expansion of EV infrastructure, and explore reach 
codes for the 2022 Building Code update.
New EV Chargers in Main Street Garage to be installed in Feb. 2022. Electric 
leaf blower rebate program launched in August 2021. Staff is tracking 
proposed State Building Code updates for 2022 code cycle.
26 Create a racial equity community art project
A
Explore and plan a community art project to present to City Council.
Identified as one of the objectives for the community Diversity & Equity Task 
Force to share input for this project. B Street Pedestrian Malls identified as 
location for art project.
27 Pursue development of additional housing including 
affordable and workforce housing
A
Continue to look for opportunities to increase supply of affordable and workforce 
housing, including surplus City sites downtown and acquisition/rehab of existing 
housing. Continue to look for additional funding sources.
Kiku Crossing project started construction in January 2022. City Council 
selected development team for exclusive negotiations to develop affordable 
housing on City-owned Talbot's parking lot at 4th and Railroad. 
28 Transition San Mateo to District Elections
A
Complete the process to transition San Mateo to District Elections, including 
community outreach, public hearings, and adoption of the final district map.
The transition to 5 districts was adopted in November 2021. Staff will 
continue to outreach to the public about new district boundaries.
Remove due to completion
29 Campaign Finance Reforms
A
Analyze and adopt amendments to campaign ordinance addressing in-kind 
contributions and aggregation of contributions in time for the next election cycle.
An ordinance addressing in-kind and aggregated contributions was adopted 
on November 15, 2021. The ordinance went into effect on January 1, 2022.
Remove due to completion
Quality of Life
Public Health 
and Safety
Framing the 
Future
Social 
Leadership
3
6 of 19

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
30 Evaluate potential mandates regarding composting in multi-
family dwellings
B
Continue to work with the South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) and 
Recology to increase organic compost collection in multifamily dwellings per the 
requirements of State Senate Bill 1383. The SBWMA's Organic to Energy Pilot Program 
converting the organic debris in multi-family dwellings and the commercial sectors' 
garbage waste streams into clean energy is scheduled to begin in late spring early 
summer.
Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance adopted in 
December 2021, along with MOU with County of San Mateo and SBWMA to 
continue implementation of ongoing SB1383 requirements.  
Change to A due to active implementation.
31 Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Staff will continue to monitor the adoption and implementation of wage theft 
protections in other municipalities.
Staff is monitoring efforts in other municipalities. Information about wage 
theft was included in Minimum Wage mailing to business community in 
October 2021.
32 Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Preferred playground design selected and initiation of construction documents 
underway; fundraising for Fallen Heroes Memorial on-going. 
Preferred playground design presented to City Council in October 2021.  
Fallen Heroes Memorial fundraising is at 73% of $300,000 goal. Awaiting final 
design development package from consultants. 
33 Update the General Plan
A
Staff will update City Council on General Plan status at least quarterly and increase 
outreach efforts by completing a Citywide informational mailing, administering a 
statistically significant community survey on the General Plan, and conducting 
additional targeted outreach using Council and volunteer resources to the extent they 
are available. Conversion of existing land uses into housing will be an integral part of 
the GP update, particularly with respect to the Housing Element.
Staff and PlaceWorks to complete the Alternatives Evaluation Report in 
January. Following publication of the Report, staff will begin the next round of 
community engagement, which will include several workshops and public 
meetings from late January through May 2022. 
34 Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans
A
Develop known and potential funding sources for existing master plans and present 
identified alternatives to City Council.
Evaluation of a stormwater fee for the funding of stormwater improvements 
is on-going. Recreation Strategic Plan consultants have prepared an alternate 
scenario to original recommendations.  Next step review by P&R Commission 
and City Council. 
35 Evaluate appropriate frequency for standardized and 
routine statistically-valid community surveys
A
Hold a study session to discuss frequency for a community survey and integration of 
surveys into the General Plan process.
General Plan community input strategy presented in April 2021. Study Session 
on Citywide communications strategies held in June 2021. A combined 
general community and General Plan focused survey to be issued in January 
2022.
Remove due to completion
Framing the 
Future
Strategic 
Planning
4
7 of 19

--- page 8 ---
Fiscal Year 2021-22 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority
Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2021-22
Status Update as of January 2022
Recommend removal or change in priority? 
36 Review Municipal Code provisions related to development 
review process and identify opportunities for streamlining
A
CDD: Continue to revise known code errors/ambiguities, reevaluate 
application/implementation of existing codes, continue to work on major code 
changes already underway, plan for critical substantive code changes not already 
underway for FY 2022-23.
Public Works: Begin the update of engineering standard details, specifications, and 
Municipal Code sections, and develop guidelines and procedures to streamline 
development reviews for work in the public right-of-way.
CDD: Two batches of code revisions have been completed. Several 
amendments are currently in progress and are expected to go to City Council 
in early spring 2022.
PW:  Engineering standard details and specifications are being updated.  
37 Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-term 
train corridor improvements
B
Given the B priority, development of RFP/RFQ for Long-Term Grade Separation Plan to 
be deferred to FY 2022-23. 
Staff is continuing to explore funding options for future grade separations.
38 Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Obtain building permits and start construction of the new 5th Avenue Garage in 
Downtown San Mateo.
Construction of the new parking garage on 5th Avenue commenced in 
January 2022 and is estimated to be completed by April 2023.
39 Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other 
commercial districts
A
Adopt a long-term parklet program, evaluate possible Downtown festivals post COVID, 
and continue to monitor effectiveness of Downtown cleaning contract.
Long-term parklet program adopted in June 2021. Businesses allowed until 
May 2022 to transition their parklets from temporary program.
40 Assist small businesses with economic recovery, including 
formation of a Small Business Recovery Committee
A
Form a small business recovery committee, continue outreach to small businesses on 
available financial resources, and identify other opportunities to assist with economic 
recovery.
Small Business Recovery Committee formed in April 2021 and continues to 
meet to coordinate economic recovery efforts among partner organizations.
Get Council direction on new work plan 
tasks
41 Evaluate a street closure in the Downtown on B Street 
A
Conduct stakeholder outreach and bring forward policy considerations and potential 
capital infrastructure costs for a seasonal or year-round street closure.
City Council approved Ordinance creating pedestrian malls in October 2021. 
Staff working on design for short-term capital improvements.
PROPOSED REVISED OBJECTIVE: Design and 
implement capital improvements for 
permanent street closure.
42 Evaluate Downtown parking and transit incentive 
programs for employees 
A
Evaluate options to temporarily expand Downtown parking supply while new 5th 
Avenue parking garage is under construction, which is anticipated to start in late Fall 
2021.
City Council approved new parking policy amendments, including new low-
income permit program and adjustments in pricing. Staff will continue to 
evaluate parking demand.
43 Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies 
B
Monitor efforts in other municipalities.
Study session held in October 2021 on Downtown vacancies. Additional study 
session to be scheduled in Spring 2022 to discuss policy options to discourage 
vacancies.
44 Explore the establishment of Property-Based Improvement 
Districts (PBIDs)
B
Continue to gauge interest from Downtown property owners.
Staff has been meeting with Downtown property owners to provide 
information on PBID formation and to gauge interest.
45 Eliminate the City’s unfunded pension and Other Public 
Employee Benefits (OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
The City continues to pay the full annual required contribution (ARC) for pension and 
OPEB. Will revisit pension policy as the economy recovers.
Staff continues to monitor the City's unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities.
46 Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
Present revenue enhancement options to Council at a study session in Fall 2021.
At the October study session, Council directed staff to poll voters for a sales 
tax or a real property transfer tax ballot measure. Survey to be issued in 
February 2022.
Economic 
Vitality
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
Financial 
Sustainability
5
8 of 19

--- page 9 ---
City Council Proposed Objectives  
for Fiscal Year 2022-2023 
  
Legend 
  
Brand new priority 
  
Existing priority 
  
Modified existing priority 
 
Will be evaluated as part of the General Plan/Housing Element Update 
* 
A priority mentioned by more than one Council Member or Staff  
  
Mayor Bonilla 
* 1. Work with HEART to get funding for affordability in preservation housing. Create missing 
middle affordable units.  
* 2. Increase speed of effort to green the cities fleet. Complete green fleet by 2030. 
 
3. Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure. Eliminate methane gas 
use by 2030. 
* 4. Speed up efforts to improve the stormwater collection and storage system.  
 
5. Fully fund and further police transparency and accountability efforts with help of the DEI task 
force. 
* 6. Put in place a clear and user-friendly “Public Benefits for Development Projects” policy which 
brings certainty to both the city and the proposer at the outset of planning. 
 
7. Because of the serious need for housing (especially affordable housing) focus general plan 
update on expanding business and commercial areas where the 75-foot height is allowable 
under a new public benefits policy. (Initially thinking N. B St. and South B St from 5th to 9th, 
from Laurel to the railroad tracks. Make policy to allow larger numbers of residential uses in 
the overlays) 
 
8. Speed up the process of determining the best place to put our (cleaner) effluent (considering 
current predictions for saltwater intrusion I am currently favoring recharging the aquifer). We 
should consider aligning this work with completion date and activation of our new wastewater 
treatment process. 
* 9. Create stable housing by putting in place meaningful renter protections that provide for 
creation of a rent registry and other reasonable measures to halt displacement and unjust 
evictions. 
  
Deputy Mayor Papan 
 
1. Adopt an ordinance that creates a buffer zone during large protests around clinics, like 
planned parenthood, so that accessibility remains possible. 
 
 
 
 
9 of 19

--- page 10 ---
Council Member Lee 
* 
1. Establish sustainable funding sources for maintenance and upgrades to the storm 
      systems, including dredging the lagoon. (Marina-Lagoon Neighborhoods) 
  
2. Study fiscal impact of adopting an environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) 
provision for our City’s investment policy. (Sierra Club) 
  
3. Study policies that increase access and encourage development of urban agriculture in new 
construction, parks, streetscapes, empty lots, rooftops, and through school district 
partnerships, etc. (SMC Food System Alliance) 
  
4. Study landscaping water conservation policy that would tie renovations above $X for R1 & R2 
(e.g. top 20% of permitted renovation budgets) to sustainable landscaping requirements, 
similar to the City’s sewer lateral conversation policy. For example: a permitted renovation 
budgeted at $350,000 could trigger a required $5,000 sustainable landscaping improvement 
to convert to drought-resistant/native plants, rain capture systems, etc.) 
  
5. Study campaign finance reform policies (League of Women Voters Initiative) including: 
a. 
Creating a voluntary expenditure limit (VEL) program based on population with 
increases tied to CPI & build incentives for compliance such as waiving candidate 
filing fee and including special recognition for candidates who opt-in to the VEL in City-
sponsored candidate profile in the local newspaper. 
b. Creating a disclosure requirement for independent expenditures on digital and 
printed campaign materials modeled after Mountain View. 
c. 
Improve language access for voter education initiatives (e.g. provide translation 
services at candidate forums and multilingual Get Out the Vote outreach 
initiatives.)  
 
6. Increase the number of members on the Parks & Recreation Commission from 5 to 7 
members to create 2 designated youth seats for 18 to 25-year-old San Mateans. (Pursuant to 
the Charter, this action would require adoption of ordinance through a unanimous vote by 
council.) 
 
7. Study feasibility and process to remove Commission eligibility requirement to be a “qualified 
elector.” (This may require a charter amendment which could be timed with the clean-up 
ballot measure for district elections). 
* 
8. Encourage housing production through partnerships with faith-based organizations and 
commercial landowners, as follows:  
a. Set an affordable housing density bonus for land owned by faith-based organizations 
(e.g. a church with an adjacent lot) and similar properties and broaden the range of 
allowable zoning changes. (Rev. Ben Meyers, UUSM & Pastor Marlyn Bussey, St. James 
AME Zion) 
b. Establish a minimum housing density for commercial zoning to streamline mixed-use 
development to yield more housing supply in the commercial districts and transit 
corridor. 
* 
9. Strengthen AB1482 Tenant Protection Act by:  
a. 
Requiring permit approval for significant renovations to meet standard for just-cause 
eviction.  
b. Increase relocation fees from 1 month rent to 3 months to align with City’s current 
relocation fee policy for demolitions and condo conversions. 
c. 
 Requires first right to return at new rent price after renovation. (One San Mateo) 
 
10. Increase education and resources to small businesses on ADA compliance. (DSMA, Chamber 
of Commerce, SAMCEDA) 
  
11. Open public bathroom downtown near Caltrain. (DSMA) 
 
12. Increase revenue through Real Property Transfer Tax with tiered structure and affordable 
housing exemption 
10 of 19

--- page 11 ---
Council Member Goethals 
* 1. Green Fleet by 2030. 
* 2. Clean Water Program will produce Potable Water by 2030. 
* 3. Ban Gas Powered Leaf Blowers. 
 
4. Explore Adding Youth Commissioners. 
 
5. Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance with restrictions around schools and significant public 
benefits including license fees and safety standards. 
 
6. Provide no cost menstruation products at recreation centers. 
  
Council Member Rodriguez  
  
1. General Plan Update: Successfully completing the next phases of our General Plan Update 
with broad community input.  
  
2. Traffic Mitigation: Continuing local traffic mitigation efforts to ease traffic congestion—
especially as more cars return to our city streets this year. 
  
3. Pedestrian & Bicycle Safety: Prioritize the long-term goals outlined in both our Pedestrian and 
Bicycle Master Plans. Proactively explore more ways to further reduce automobile speed 
limits on our neighborhood streets (going beyond just reducing limits near schools). 
* 4. Housing Affordability: Continuing efforts to encourage and incentivize the construction of 
more affordable housing units. 
 
5. Pension Liability Management: Continuing to address our unfunded pension liability and 
prioritize new expense options that do not expand our liability. 
* 6. Restricting Gas-powered Leaf Blower Usage:  With more and more neighborhood residents 
working from home, the noise and environmental pollution emitted from gas-powered leaf 
blowers is impacting the quality of life of residents more than ever. The City should work 
towards restricting usage to one day per week as other neighboring cities have done. 
 
 
Staff Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2022-2023 
Staff 
 
1. Address structural issues at the Marina Library: It will require major repairs to the current 
building or replacing the building. 
  
2. Implement projects and programs to enhance Police Traffic Unit services. 
 
 
3. Explore whether the City should adopt an ordinance to zone parcels for up to 10 units of 
residential density per parcel if the parcel is located in a transit-rich area or an urban infill site 
(SB10).  
* 
4. Analyze density minimums for mixed-use projects and update the Density Bonus and 
Community Benefits policies per City Council direction at January 18th Study Session. 
  
 
11 of 19

--- page 12 ---
Major Department Initiatives for Fiscal Year 2022-2023
The following initiatives will be pursued by individual departments and do not require Council action. 
These initiatives have been identified as ones that will take a significant amount of staff resources to 
implement but are not recommended for inclusion in the City Council Strategic Plan. 
 
City Manager’s Office:

Produce a new print mailer to send to all residential households highlighting various city-related 
initiatives, projects and programs. 

Establish a City Style Guide that will set standards and guidelines for external communications in 
an effort to promote a more consistent and reputable brand.
Finance: 

Implementation of Eden Replacement Project
Community Development Department: 

Develop an ordinance implementing SB9, allowing two-lot subdivisions and duplexes in single-
family residential districts

Refine pre-application process

Create consultant bench for on-call support and peer review services
Library:

Expand the library’s outreach and marketing using “Mateo” the outreach van.
Public Works:

Emergency management response training and planning.  
Parks & Recreation:

Plan and commemorate the 100th Anniversary of Central Park (1922). 
12 of 19

--- page 13 ---
From: Brazie'r Jame'e < >  
Sent: Monday, January 10, 2022 5:39 AM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Ordinance on Noise and blowers to include Transit Neighborhoods 
 
We the Residents of Peninsula Station Apartments ask that the change in the ordinance 
be put on the agenda and changed to include not only regular neighborhood but also 
include transit neighborhoods. We have approached the city so many times about this 
issue. Please change the ordinance to include transit Neighborhoods.  
Peninsula Station Residents.  
 
 "Tao is precious and not to be passed on, unless the student is sincere 
and compassionate towards human suffering" 
by: Huang Di Nei Jing Su Wen, chapter 4 Truth from the Golden Chamber 
 
13 of 19

--- page 14 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < >  
Sent: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 8:07 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comments for the City Council Goal Setting Special Meeting on 1/29 
 
Dear City Council,  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments for the City Council Goal Setting Special Meeting on 
1/29.  
 
Thank you to you and city staff for your efforts on so many fronts during another challenging year. 
You’ve pushed forward on so many great issues, finding the right balance and bringing joy — from the 
winter festival to so many in person and virtual library events and so much more!  
 
Multi-Modal and Placemaking  
Thank you and Congratulations on these Public Works and city efforts, and please continue this great 
work: 
 
• 
#SafeStreetsSanMateo campaign. 
• 
Traffic Safety Map. 
• 
Working to create slower speed limits near schools and around the city. 
• 
Working to make the B Street closure permanent. 
• 
Continuing the outdoor dining program throughout the city. 
• 
Implementing slow/safe streets.  
• 
Working to create a Complete Streets plan that will consolidate all of the city's plans (Ped, Bike, 
Sustainable Streets) as part of the General Plan process. 
• 
Working with Caltrans to make signal adjustments along ECR from Tilton to 9th Aves. 
• 
Finding a compromise within the community to create bike lanes along Humboldt Ave. while 
addressing the parking concerns of low income and elderly residents.  
• 
Creating bike lanes as part of the repaving of 5th Ave.  
 
For the coming year, please prioritize these infrastructure policy solutions: 
 
• 
Slower speed around parks, senior facilities and medical facilities.  
• 
Pilot installations and Quick Build safety and multimodal solutions. 
• 
Finding synchronicity between paving, multimodal/safety improvements and green 
infrastructure.  
• 
Appropriately funding the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans to achieve the goals laid out in 
those plans. Creating synchronization with paving is one fiscally responsible way to achieve that. 
• 
Replacing the "Transportation Improvement Fee" with a "Sustainable Streets Fee" as laid out on 
p. 54/515 of the 2015 Sustainable Streets Plan.  
• 
Formally adopting a Vision Zero Policy to eliminate traffic deaths and injuries in San Mateo by 
2030.  
• 
Subsidizing/incentivizing employee multimodal transportation. 
14 of 19

--- page 15 ---
For the coming year, please prioritize these infrastructure projects: 
• 
Beginning process for road diet for Alameda de Las Pulgas as discussed at an October 2021 City 
Council meeting and as listed in the 2012 Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan (p.142/410, Ch. 5-50).  
• 
Ensuring wide sidewalks, safe cycling infrastructure, and community placemaking for the 
Draegers rebuild in downtown San Mateo.  
• 
Doing US 101/Peninsula Ave Interchange project so that housing would not be removed and it is 
based on reducing VMT not LOS.  
• 
Supporting Safe Routes to School efforts at Sunnyvale Elementary and Laurel Elementary and 
other locations throughout the community.  
• 
Making ECR pedestrian signals going North-South (with flow of ECR traffic) automatic and/or 
giving pedestrians lead time, working with Caltrans.  
• 
Making ECR pedestrian signal lead time longer going East West from Tilton to 9th Ave.  
• 
Planning for a road diet for ECR between 2nd and 9th Ave as laid out in the City’s Pedestrian, 
Bicycle and Sustainable Streets plans and in concert with Caltrans’ work with Burlingame up 
through Santa Inez Ave in San Mateo.  
Police Reforms 
• 
The San Mateo Police Department should implement the five remaining of the #8cantwait:  
1. require de-escalation 
2. require exhausting all alternatives before shooting 
3. ban shooting at moving vehicles 
4. have use of force continuum 
5. require comprehensive reporting 
• 
For immediate emergency situations such as a mental health crisis, drug use, and people 
experiencing homelessness, transition away from police interventions and create the 
infrastructure for more appropriate responses by a separate city entity or by community 
organizations as laid out in the CRISES Act.  
Recycling, Composting and Waste Management  
• 
Terracycle has a PPE Recycling program, providing on-site boxes for disposable gloves and for 
disposable masks. When full, the boxes can be returned to TerraCycle Regulated Waste for 
processing so collected materials can be cleaned, melted and remolded to make new products. 
This would help meet the 100% trash reduction mandate.  
• 
Please provide resources (like a flyer or website) that customers can present to their favorite 
businesses on how the restaurant can switch to compostable take out containers and how to 
“cut the cutlery”.  
Thank you  
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide comments and thank you for taking the time to read 
through them and consider them.   
 
Sincerely,   
 
Kristie Eglsaer 
15 of 19

--- page 16 ---
From: Penny Nixon <pnixon@ccsm-ucc.org>  
Sent: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 8:09 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Penny Nixon <pnixon@ccsm-ucc.org> 
Subject: Letter regarding blue skies agenda 
Importance: High 
 
 
Dear city council members, 
 
The attached joint letter is from One San Mateo and the Peninsula Solidarity Cohort.  
Please email me with any questions.  
We will have representatives attend the meeting on the 29th to make public comment as well. 
Thanks in advance of your consideration of these important matters. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Rev. Penny Nixon 
 
______________________________________________ 
Rev. Dr. G. Penny Nixon (she/her) 
Senior Minister  
 
Congregational Church of San Mateo  
  ...open, progressive, spiritual 
 
 
16 of 19

--- page 17 ---
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
In anticipation of the “blue skies” event at the end of the month, One San Mateo and the 
Peninsula Solidarity Cohort join in encouraging you to prioritize a pair of policies that would 
help to protect vulnerable members of our San Mateo community by preventing illegal evictions 
and gathering critical data needed to monitor compliance with current laws. 
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, public officials acted swiftly and decisively to 
forestall the impacts of the pandemic on those most susceptible to its injury.  Central to those 
efforts were measures adopted at the federal, state, and local levels to prevent families from 
being evicted.  However, the last of these protections are now falling away, and the implications 
of this—the vast increase in vulnerability to eviction for many San Mateo residents—gives rise 
to urgent concern. 
The injury caused by an eviction can be profound.  From a sheer financial standpoint, the costs 
can rise to many thousands of dollars.  With one in four San Mateo renters paying more than 50 
percent of their income on rent, many are obviously not in a position to absorb costs of this 
magnitude.  Furthermore, when a family is evicted, children are often forced to change schools, 
with their ties to existing support networks abruptly cut off.  Parents may be required to change 
jobs.  The family’s connections to civic, social and faith organizations can be severed, uprooting 
them from the dense tapestry of relationships that define, enrich and help stabilize lives that are 
often regrettably insecure. 
In the current environment, the ability of families to weather an eviction has been dramatically 
reduced.  Many lower-income renters have faced job loss or repeated interruption in their income 
streams.  At the same time, bills have relentlessly piled up.  As a result, many have seen their 
resources completely depleted, and they hang on by a thread.  The disruption caused by an 
eviction could easily snap the fragile thread and precipitate a fall into homelessness. 
In recognition of the extreme harm an eviction can bring, and in an effort to bring increased 
stability and security to the lives of San Mateo renters, One San Mateo and the Peninsula 
Solidarity Cohort support the adoption of the following two measures that can help to keep 
people in their homes, simply by realizing the intention of laws already in place: 
17 of 19

--- page 18 ---
1)  Ordinance to prevent illegal "renovictions."  With the passage of the statewide 
Tenant Protection Act in 2019, called AB 1482, limits were imposed on the reasons 
for which a tenant could be evicted.  One of the permissible reasons set forth in the 
law is the intent to “substantially remodel” the property.  A “substantial remodel” is 
defined as one that requires a permit, that cannot be reasonably accomplished with the 
tenant in place, and that requires the tenant to vacate the property for at least 30 
days.    
Unfortunately, some landlords have manipulated the substantial remodel clause to the 
obvious disadvantage of their tenants.  Shirley Gibson of the Legal Aid of San Mateo 
County wrote in an email that in the months before COVID, “substantial remodel” 
was the most frequently chosen reason for the issuance of 60-day termination 
notices.  She further said that when landlords were challenged about their intentions 
during the unlawful detainer process, it would often turn out that the plans were 
mostly cosmetic in nature or possibly could be done within 30 days.  
Thus, we are calling upon the city to follow in the steps of several other cities (Long 
Beach, Los Angeles and South Pasadena) that have closed this loophole by requiring 
landlords to obtain permits before serving tenants an eviction notice.  Further, we call 
upon the city to make two other enhancements to the requirements set forth in AB 
1482:  1) to increase the required relocation payout from one months’ rent to three 
months’ rent, bringing it into line with other San Mateo ordinances and better 
mirroring the true costs of an eviction, and 2) giving the tenant the opportunity to 
return to the unit at the new rent.    
2)  Rent registry.  The Tenant Protection Act (AB 1482) created a modest set of 
statewide tenant protections related to rent increases and evictions.  However, at the 
present time there is no way to track whether the requirements of the law are being 
adhered to.  A data registry would provide a mechanism for monitoring whether 
landlords were raising rents within the prescribed limits, evicting tenants only for just 
cause, and making the required relocation payouts to them.  In the event of landlord 
violation, this written record could serve as the basis for tenant efforts at reversal or 
recovery.  Additionally, the requirement that landlords record their behaviors on an 
annual basis could act as a powerful prompt for more compliant behavior, thus 
reducing the vulnerability of tenants to evictions not permitted under the provisions of 
the law. 
In the past couple of years, two Bay Area cities—Concord and El Cerrito—have 
established rent registries for the purpose of collecting this valuable data.  We call 
upon the City of San Mateo to harvest the experience of these cities and create a rent 
registry for the protection of renters here.  Research into the Concord registry 
suggests that the demands on city staff time, both for setup of the registry and for its 
ongoing administration, could be minimal as we know that staff time is of primary 
concern.  
18 of 19

--- page 19 ---
As stewards of the community, the council concerns itself with creating an environment in which 
community members can thrive.  Since stable housing is a precondition for healthy and 
sustainable lives, eviction clearly has the power to deprive them of that ability.  Thus, in 
anticipation of the “blue skies” event, we urge you to prioritize the above measures and promise 
to provide our support as you work to give them body and move them into law. 
Sincerely, 
Karyl Eldridge, OSM Vice Chair ONE SAN MATEO 
Revs. Penny Nixon & Marlyn Bussey, Co-Directors PENINSULA SOLIDARITY COHORT 
  
 
19 of 19