Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Marina CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Jun 16 2026

OVERVIEW

Marina CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Marina CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Marina CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Marina CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

35

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

266,336

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

124

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

2,272
ADDITIONAL INFO

To view Marina PD's full LPR Policy click here:

https://www.cityofmarina.org/DocumentCenter/View/16615/Automated_License_Plate_Readers__ALPRs_


Success Story

Sex offender arrested after alleged lewd act in public and flashing a fake firearm in Marina

MARINA, Calif. (KION-TV)- Marina Police said a man was arrested after allegedly committing a lewd act in public in front of a business along the 200 block of Reservation Road over the weekend. This all happened around 8:17 p.m. on Sunday. Police said the victim's boyfriend confronted the suspect and the suspect flashed what looked like a firearm. The boyfriend backed away and the police were called. The suspect, later identified as Joseph Connor, 61, of Fairfield, left the scene. Police said they obtained photos of the suspect and his vehicle. The vehicle was then spotted the following morning by a Salinas Police FLOCK camera. Salinas Police then found Connors on the 700 block of East Street at around 11:15 a.m.

Marina Police arrived after Connors was detained. A search of his vehicle revealed an imitation firearm, said police. The suspect was booked into Monterey County Jail for lewd acts in public and exhibiting an imitation firearm, said police.



Provided by Flock Safety