Santa Cruz votes to terminate its contract with Flock Safety – East Bay Times Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 55°F Tuesday, June 23rd 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page World Cup 2026 News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Health Environment Transportation SiliconValley.com Weather Local Bay Area Oakland Alameda County Contra Costa County East Contra Costa West Contra Costa Central Contra Costa Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports Athletics Golden State Warriors Raiders San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Sports Blogs Sports Columnists Golden State Valkyrie Things To Do Things To Do Readers Choice Entertainment Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews Real Estate Marketplace Branded Content BayArea.com Partner Content Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Advertise Subscribe Log in Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up California Politics | Santa Cruz votes to terminate its contract with… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 55°F Tuesday, June 23rd 2026 Today's e-Edition California Politics Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Transportation Health California Nation Trending: ‘Reckless’ e-bike ban ‘Pride Night’ hat kerfuffle Free summer concerts Death of Baby Jaxon BART train collision California sues Trump News Politics California Politics News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Santa Cruz votes to terminate its contract with Flock Safety Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel At Tuesday afternoon’s meeting, the Santa Cruz City Council Chambers were full of people in favor of terminating the city’s contract with Flock Safety for automated license plate readers. Many held signs proclaiming “Get the Flock Out” or “Vote no on ALPR” (automated license plate readers). (Caroline Hemphill – Santa Cruz Sentinel) By Caroline Hemphill, Correspondent | chemphill@santacruzsentinel.com | chemphill@santacruzsentinel.com PUBLISHED: January 15, 2026 at 6:02 AM PST | UPDATED: January 15, 2026 at 6:35 AM PST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... SANTA CRUZ – The Santa Cruz City Council voted 6-1 to terminate the city’s contract with Flock Safety, the company that provides automated license plate cameras to Santa Cruz, Capitola and Watsonville along with other jurisdictions across the country, at its meeting Tuesday afternoon. Santa Cruz first signed its contract with Flock in 2024. Over the past several months, controversy around and opposition to the company has spread as reports about the use of the cameras’ data has emerged. Demands to cease the use of Flock cameras grew when Santa Cruz police Chief Bernie Escalante confirmed that the city’s Flock data had been accessed by out-of-state agencies. Now, the City Council has voted to end the contract with Flock and directed city staff to seek out alternative options for automated license plate readers. RELATED: San Jose latest city to face questions whether federal authorities are accessing police license plate camera data Related Articles IBM research center in San Jose offers buyers opportunities, poses challenges Uber-backed electric bike firm Lime seeks $180.9 million in IPO Amazon Prime Day spending expected to rise 9% to $26.3 billion Nvidia seeks to make humanoid AI robots safer around humans SpaceX declines for a third day after announcing bond sale Councilmembers Shebreh Kalantari-Johnson, Gabriela Trigueiro, Scott Newsome, Susie O’Hara and Renee Golder, along with Mayor Fred Keeley, voted in favor of terminating the Flock contract. Councilmember Sonja Brunner was the sole vote against the motion. O’Hara, who prepared the motion with Kalantari-Johnson and Golder, presented the case for ending the Flock contract. O’Hara outlined the issues Santa Cruz has had with Flock, including reports that the chief executive officer of Flock had referred to anti-Flock groups as “terroristic.” She also discussed the community’s fears that the Trump administration would use data from Santa Cruz for immigration enforcement purposes and said that the Flock platform had repeatedly created opportunities for Santa Cruz’s data to be used in ways the city never intended. “The question isn’t whether we trust our own intent or even our own officers’ intent,” O’Hara said. “It’s whether we can guarantee our data won’t be used in ways that conflict with Santa Cruz values and create fear in our community. Right now, we do not believe we can, and that is why termination is necessary.” Brunner presented a substitute motion during deliberation that would maintain and renew the city’s contract with Flock, but would put more safety measures in place. Many of these were already being considered by the city and police department, including limiting data sharing to nearby jurisdictions and having those jurisdictions sign attestations that they would use data only in alignment with Santa Cruz’s values. The motion also included regular reviews of the system and ways to continue reviewing the use of the technology. Brunner said she felt a responsibility to maintain public safety, and that her motion was about creating a framework to use license plate cameras while addressing the community’s concerns. Brunner’s motion did not receive a second from any other member of the council, and died on the floor. O’Hara and Kalantari-Johnson did, however, thank Brunner for speaking her mind and agreed that regulations similar to those in the substitute motion would be necessary if the city were ever to consider an alternative to Flock. Several members of the council, including Golder and O’Hara, expressed that the decision to terminate was a difficult one. Both councilmembers acknowledged that the cameras had helped the Santa Cruz Police Department solve crimes, including recovering stolen vehicles and identifying suspects in some burglaries and violent crimes. They clarified that the motion to end the Flock contract was not a statement against the police department and expressed their gratitude to the Santa Cruz Police Department. Still, they said, the privacy concerns and lack of community trust in Flock outweighed the benefits to the police department. Over 20 people, both in person and over Zoom, spoke out against the use of Flock cameras during the meeting. Among them were Peter Gelblum, chair of the Santa Cruz County Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, and Jill Clifton from the Get the Flock Out group. Most of the people who spoke against Flock also opposed the use of any automated license plate reader technology in the future. Some expressed concerns that the technology was easy to hack, which could lead to stalking or escalation of domestic violence. A few other concerns included that the cameras capture people’s faces, and that Flock Safety has not proven itself to be a trustworthy company. One of the most prominent fears was that the cameras could be used to track down immigrants, despite Santa Cruz being a sanctuary city. “Continuing to use the Flock cameras is irreconcilably inconsistent with Santa Cruz being a sanctuary city,” Gelblum said. “If we really mean that, you can’t have these cameras here.” Sgt. Josh Trog, president of the Santa Cruz Police Officers’ Association, also spoke at the meeting. He discussed the ways in which the Flock system had helped the Santa Cruz Police Department solve crimes more efficiently, and asked the council not to terminate the contract. He added that the department faces staffing challenges, and that losing effective tools can cause issues with morale and retention. “We’re not asking for unchecked authority,” Trog said. “We’re asking to continue using a proven investigative tool within clear boundaries with accountability, transparency and oversight.” Escalante answered some of the council’s questions during the meeting. In his answers, he said that the Flock cameras only capture a photo of the back of each car that passes by them. This statement is contrary to many claims that the cameras constantly livestream an audio and video feed, capturing pedestrians’ and drivers’ faces. Last month, journalists from 404 Media used Flock cameras to track themselves in real time on livestream video on the internet. Escalante also said that Flock had never shared data from Santa Cruz without the city’s knowledge. Santa Cruz owns its own data collected by Flock cameras, Escalante said, and is in control of which other agencies to share it with. When data was searched by out-of-state agencies, it was because Santa Cruz — along with several other California communities, including Capitola — was “unwittingly” opted into a nationwide sharing portal, according to Escalante. This data sharing was against state law, and Flock disabled the setting in California on Feb. 11, 2025. In November, Santa Cruz opted out of the system’s statewide sharing portal, as well. This meant that any outside agencies would have to get express permission to access Santa Cruz data. The police department began work on an attestation form that agencies would be required to sign if they were to have access to the Santa Cruz database, stating that they would operate in alignment with the city’s values. Finally, Escalante discussed other measures that have recently been put in place to safeguard the Flock system. Flock prohibited searches in California that include terms such as “immigration,” “ICE” or “border patrol,” according to Escalante and Santa Cruz City Manager Matt Huffaker. Plus, agencies must now select a reason for the search from a drop-down menu of set options when they search Flock. Before, agencies could type anything into the box to justify their search, though Santa Cruz has always required a case number to be associated with each search, Escalante said. Keeley addressed Escalante and the rest of the police department right before the vote. “Frankly, this is not about you. This is about a company we can’t trust,” he said. “We trust you, we don’t trust them.” Keeley said that he had been against the Flock system since the beginning, citing the fact that he voted against the contract back in 2024. He directed that city staff could go ahead and search for a replacement for Flock’s automated license plate readers, but expressed doubt that any system would meet Santa Cruz’s standards. “I will probably vote against that, if that ever arrives here during my remaining time as mayor on the City Council,” Keeley said. The Santa Cruz Police Department has already discontinued its use of Flock cameras, said Erika Smart, communications manager for the city of Santa Cruz. The police department is coordinating with Flock to remove the city’s eight cameras, and expects them to be taken down within a few weeks. “This decision does not change the Police Department’s core mission, but it does remove a tool that had proven investigative value and could result in certain investigations requiring more time and resources, or going unsolved,” Smart wrote to the Sentinel in an email. Huffaker added that though the Flock system was useful, the city prioritizes transparency and community trust. “Public safety includes both effective investigations and protecting civil liberties,” Huffaker wrote in an email to the Sentinel. “While ALPRs (automated license plate readers) can be a useful tool, community trust and safety remain our top priority. That is why the City is ending the current contract and committing to only consider future use if a solution can be demonstrated to be truly safe, secure, and aligned with Santa Cruz values.” The vote was met with applause and cheers from the crowd, with many audience members shouting “Thank you!” as they filed out of the City Council chambers. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Left Bank, LB Steak restaurants shutting down Left Bank, LB Steak restaurants shutting down ABC7, aka KGO-TV, pleads for help in its battle to stay on the air ABC7, aka KGO-TV, pleads for help in its battle to stay on the air Dear Abby: My daughter, the bride, says I have to pay for my friends to attend the wedding Dear Abby: My daughter, the bride, says I have to pay for my friends to attend the wedding Daughter of famed movie director William Wyler and her husband found dead in hot car in Northern California Daughter of famed movie director William Wyler and her husband found dead in hot car in Northern California Restaurant company’s sudden shutdown erases 300-plus Bay Area jobs Restaurant company’s sudden shutdown erases 300-plus Bay Area jobs When is it time to stop driving? For aging loved ones and their families, the answer is rarely simple When is it time to stop driving? For aging loved ones and their families, the answer is rarely simple Danville takes stand against ‘reckless’ e-bike use with ban in parks Danville takes stand against ‘reckless’ e-bike use with ban in parks Apparent BART train collision with person shuts down Walnut Creek station Apparent BART train collision with person shuts down Walnut Creek station Motorcyclist fatally ejected in crash on state Highway 242 Motorcyclist fatally ejected in crash on state Highway 242 Library Lines: A Contra Costa branch closing soon for major renovations Library Lines: A Contra Costa branch closing soon for major renovations More in California Politics Single-payer health care in California is possible. An economic and political thicket stands in way. California sues Trump administration to preserve clean air rules How a Southern California couple may have helped swing a Northern California congressional primary After a loss at the California Supreme Court, why is access to a Santa Cruz County beach still blocked? 2026 January 15 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions East Bay Times Store Archive Search Reprints Sitemap Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Advertise With Us Special Sections Network Advertising Daily Ads Public Notices Place a Legal Notice Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 East Bay Times. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 sponsored sponsored sponsored