Alameda County extends Flock Safety contract amid worries over surveillance network – East Bay Times Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 56°F Thursday, July 2nd 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page World Cup 2026 News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Health Environment Transportation SiliconValley.com Weather Local Bay Area Oakland Alameda County Contra Costa County East Contra Costa West Contra Costa Central Contra Costa Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports Athletics Golden State Warriors Raiders San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Sports Blogs Sports Columnists Golden State Valkyrie Things To Do Things To Do Readers Choice Entertainment Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews Real Estate Marketplace Branded Content BayArea.com Partner Content Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Advertise Subscribe Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Crime and Public Safety | Alameda County extends Flock Safety contract… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 56°F Thursday, July 2nd 2026 Today's e-Edition Crime and Public Safety Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Transportation Health California Nation Trending: Triple-fatal crash Laura Owens case LeBron and Warriors? Sharks' 7-foot defenseman What's closed July 3? Danny Glover's diagnosis News Crime and Public Safety News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Alameda County extends Flock Safety contract amid worries over surveillance network The $2.4 million contract extension would allow the Sheriff's Office to operate cameras and drones through 2027 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Anti-camera activists set up a table outside during an Oakland City Council meeting at City Hall in Oakland, Calif., on Tuesday, Dec. 16, 2025. The Oakland City Council voted 7-1 to award Flock Safety a new contract to maintain an existing network of 300 cameras in the city. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group) By Chase Hunter | chunter@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: July 1, 2026 at 12:02 PM PDT | UPDATED: July 2, 2026 at 4:39 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Alameda County Board of Supervisors approved a one-year $2.4 million contract extension for Flock Safety surveillance technologies with the Sheriff’s Office in a 3-2 vote Tuesday, despite opponents’ warnings of contract loopholes that could put the region’s immigrant community at risk. Alameda County Sheriff Yesenia Sanchez defended the value of surveillance technologies for law enforcement in the county’s rural communities, arguing the new contract with Flock Safety addressed several privacy concerns – even as the contract limits liability and penalties for data breaches. “There’s just a lot here that warrants a lot more discussion for something of this magnitude under a Trump administration that is clearly not serving the best interest of our communities,” said Supervisor Nikki Fortunato Bas, who voted against the contract. The contract extends the use of Flock Safety’s automatic license plate readers, AeroDome drones, operating system, and data network at the Sheriff’s Office through June 30, 2027. The county has had a rolling contract with Flock Safety since July 2023 as the surveillance technology has been rapidly adopted by cities across the country. According to Sanchez, these technologies multiply the Sheriff Office’s law enforcement capability in the county’s unincorporated areas, allowing deputies to respond to incidents more quickly. In one incident on June 8, Flock automatic license plate readers tracked five stolen county vehicles and helped deputies locate them within 12 hours, the Sheriff’s Office said. Related Articles Three-month-old East Bay boy found after Amber Alert ‘Deeply disturbing’: Sheriff details mass graves, missing dogs in Miranda’s Rescue investigation East Bay school had teachers walk the red carpet. One of them was badly injured and is suing Wrong-way Highway 4 driver suspected of crashing into CHP car East Bay sports memorabilia dealer marketed fake Willie Mays items in million-dollar scheme “It’s critical for public safety operations. It’s critical for unincorporated areas that rely on Alameda County Sheriff’s Office to provide law enforcement services to them,” Sanchez said. “We are still short staffed.” Flock Safety has become a lightning rod for scrutiny by privacy advocates like the Electronic Freedom Foundation and Secure Justice. In February, the city of Mountain View canceled its Flock Safety contract after a police audit revealed the company had allowed unauthorized access to the city’s camera data by federal law enforcement agencies. As recently as June, Alameda County camera data has been accessed by out-of-state entities, a violation of Senate Bill 34, a state law restricting California law enforcement agencies from sharing data with out-of-state and federal agencies. Sanchez said the deputies who provided that access have been removed from control of Flock Safety data. “The fact it was only last week that the sheriff found the violation is a damning indictment,” said Tim MacKenzie, a member of the Democratic Socialists of America in the Bay Area. “It’s also no solace that there are more frequent audits. Even with the audit, we cannot be certain that our data is not being used for immigration enforcement.” The contract with the county stipulates that Flock Safety is liable for such breaches of personal identifiable information, but sets a maximum cap of liability as the total amount of money the county has paid within the last 12 months. During negotiations, Flock Safety refused to agree to a “liquidated damages” provision, which would specify an exact monetary penalty for privacy violations. Instead, the county demanded Flock Safety take out insurance policies in the event of data breaches. With the Flock Safety contract in place, the Alameda County Sheriff’s Office is putting together a competitive bidding process to find a new law enforcement surveillance company, but that may take 12 to 18 months to complete, according to Sanchez. In the meantime, the county will continue to operate with Flock Safety. While supervisors expressed apprehension at renewing an imperfect contract, Board President David Haubert and Supervisor Nate Miley said Flock Safety’s benefits to public safety, especially in the large unincorporated areas, was too important to abandon without a replacement. “If we don’t have this in the unincorporated area, it’s going to be left without these cameras. And for me, that will impact public safety and I can’t support anything that will affect public safety,” Miley said. “I would not be doing my job if I left folks without this technology.” Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Most Popular Most Popular Witness says Bay Area radio icon Ronn Owens warned about daughter years before pregnancy fraud case Witness says Bay Area radio icon Ronn Owens warned about daughter years before pregnancy fraud case Plea deals reached in notorious Oakland chop shop tied to homicide and unexplained disappearances Plea deals reached in notorious Oakland chop shop tied to homicide and unexplained disappearances Northern California girl suffers ‘significant’ injuries after being attacked by six dogs Northern California girl suffers ‘significant’ injuries after being attacked by six dogs Three-month-old East Bay boy found after Amber Alert Three-month-old East Bay boy found after Amber Alert Borenstein: A Bay Area mayor sexually harassed City Hall workers. For one, it triggered something even darker. Borenstein: A Bay Area mayor sexually harassed City Hall workers. For one, it triggered something even darker. World Cup chaos: Two stabbed, more than one arrested in downtown San Jose World Cup chaos: Two stabbed, more than one arrested in downtown San Jose Brentwood school had teachers walk the red carpet. One of them was badly injured and is suing Brentwood school had teachers walk the red carpet. One of them was badly injured and is suing Three people identified in deadly Highway 9 crash outside Saratoga Three people identified in deadly Highway 9 crash outside Saratoga ‘Deeply disturbing’: Sheriff details mass graves, missing dogs in Miranda’s Rescue investigation ‘Deeply disturbing’: Sheriff details mass graves, missing dogs in Miranda’s Rescue investigation Alameda County reparations report approved. Now the real work begins Alameda County reparations report approved. Now the real work begins More in Crime and Public Safety Motorcyclist dies following two-vehicle crash in San Jose A high-achieving Oakland cop posed as a sex worker when she was allegedly recruited by Vacaville man Just a handful of Bay Area cities will allow fireworks use on the Fourth Berkeley man charged with statutory rape of 17-year-old he allegedly paid 2026 July 1 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions East Bay Times Store Archive Search Reprints Sitemap Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Advertise With Us Special Sections Network Advertising Daily Ads Public Notices Place a Legal Notice Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 East Bay Times. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close