source: packet.pdf
sha256: 12f36fd3405e4971ba47ee6c45c4f8bb31e5bfda6b37f6eb7edbbe57738bc05c
pages: 39
ocr_pages: 15
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
November 24, 2020
7:00 PM
Remote
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 24, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 822 9964 4987 Passcode: 472739 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
2021 Planning Commission Calendar
Adopt the 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes for
the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The Commission
shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall refer such
matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the public
hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public hearings will be
automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.

--- page 2 ---
2.
Modification to Station Park Green SPAR – RE 4 (PA‐2020‐061)
Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review modifications for 420 Station Park Circle (Station Park Green –
RE4).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel‐San‐Mateo‐Live‐Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐ 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522‐7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  1 
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 20-3898 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Sailesh Mehra 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
November 24, 2020  
SUBJECT: 
2021 Planning Commission Calendar 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Adopt the 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 - 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule 
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant 
mway@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7213

--- page 4 ---
2021 Planning Commission 
 
Planning Commission Meetings: 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of the Month 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS: 
 
 
Tuesday, January 12, 2021  
Tuesday, January 26, 2021 
Tuesday, February 9, 2021 
Tuesday, February 23, 2021 
Tuesday, March 9, 2021  
Tuesday, March 23, 2021 
Tuesday, April 13, 2021  
Tuesday, April 27, 2021 
Tuesday, May 11, 2021  
Tuesday, May 25, 2021 
Tuesday, June 8, 2021 
Tuesday, June 22, 2021 
Tuesday, July 13, 2021 
Tuesday, July 27, 2021 
Tuesday, August 10, 2021  
Tuesday, August 24, 2021  
Thursday, September 14, 2021 
Tuesday, September 28, 2021  
Tuesday, October 12, 2021  
Tuesday, October 26, 2021 
Tuesday, November 9, 2021 
Tuesday, November 23, 2021 - (Thanksgiving Week) 
Tuesday, December 14, 2021 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Q:\CDD\Planning\Planning Secretary\Planning Commission Schedules\2020 Planning Commission and CC Schedule.docx

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-3891
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Sailesh Mehra
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 24, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Modification to Station Park Green SPAR – RE 4 (PA-2020-061)
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review modifications for 420 Station Park Circle (Station Park Green – RE4).
BACKGROUND:
The Station Park Green mixed-use development was originally approved by the City Council on January 18, 2011, and the 
project’s scope and technical parameters were established in the original Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
(PA-2007-030).  A modification of the project was subsequently approved by the City Council on February 2, 2015 which 
also relied upon the original certified Mitigated Negative Declaration (PA-2014-055).  As entitled, the project program 
provides for the phased development of the mixed-use project that includes up to 599 residential units, 10,000 to 15,000 
square feet of commercial office uses, 25,000 to 30,000 square feet of retail uses (including retail, services, restaurants, 
etc.) and open space.  The respective administrative reports are included as Attachments 1 and 2.   
Residential Block 4 (RE4) is the last phase of the Station Park Green project; and was approved to include five (5) levels of 
residential units with five (5) levels of concealed parking (“wrapped parking”) garage on the building interior.  Seven of the 
ground floor units, with frontage on South Delaware Street, are designed to include a patio with stoops.  The patios are 
accessible from the residential units’ living rooms, and the stoops connect the patios to the public sidewalk.  The stoops do 
not provide access to the main entrance for the units, instead the main entrance is accessed through an interior corridor.
The adopted Conditions of Approval requires that staff determine whether the proposed modifications substantially 
conform to the approved application or whether a planning application modification is required.  The applicant notified 
the City of current PG&E regulations that prohibit stoops and other structures within a PG&E easement (Attachment 3); 
and submitted an application on November 3, 2020 to modify the project by removing seven stoops from the site design, 
and plant new landscaping in its place. 
In evaluating the proposed project plans, the adopted Conditions of Approval, and relevant Municipal Code sections, the 
removal of the stoops will change the appearance of this portion of the project and therefore the proposed modification is 
before the Planning Commission.  If approved, the applicant would proceed with the building permit application process 
with the City’s Building Division to permit the changes to the site design and new landscaping.
Proposed Modification
The applicant proposes changes to the project site design for the removal of seven stoops, and addition of new 
landscaping.  The proposed plans were reviewed by staff in the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department, Building 
Division, Planning Division and Public Works Department.  Based upon staff’s review of the proposed changes, the 
previously approved plans and applicable code requirements, it was determined that the stoops would not be required for

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ingress/egress purposes and the removal of the stoops would not conflict with other life/safety requirements.  The project 
proposal includes the planting of new landscaping adjacent to the patio areas to visually enhance pedestrian experience 
along South Delaware Street.  The patio doors and other aspects of the building are not proposed to be changed; thereby 
providing the same opportunity for keeping “eyes on the street” as previously approved.  Additionally, no changes are 
proposed to the previously approved total floor area, density, or building height.  
The proposed changes in the subject SPAR Modification are consistent with applicable zoning code requirements, and the 
Station Park Green Design Guidelines since the proposed landscape improvements will add new plantings that enhance 
pedestrian experience at the project site.  The comparative site plans is included as Attachment 4.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared an Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND), certified by the City Council in January 18, 
2011, for the original Station Park Green mixed-use development project (PA-2007-030 - Station Park Green, 1700 and 
1790 S. Delaware Street).  An Addendum to the Mitigated Negative Declaration was approved by the City Council on 
February 2, 2015 for modifications to the Station Park Green project (PA-2014-055 - Station Park Green - Site Plan and 
Architectural Application, 1700 and 1790 S. Delaware Street).  Pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15162, the preparation of additional environmental documentation is not necessary unless substantial 
changes to the project are proposed.  The City has determined that none of the circumstances requiring preparation of an 
addendum to the MND are present for the subject SPAR modification.  
The Station Park Green project was originally approved on January 18, 2011 to include multiple blocks with varying 
building designs and site layouts.  Residential Block 4 (RE 4) was included in the 2015 project modification that set the 
parameters for the various buildings and open space to function well together; and was approved by the City Council on 
February 2, 2015.  The City relied on the certified MND for the original Station Park Green project in approving the 2015 
project modification.  The proposed modifications to the site design (to plant new landscaping, instead of constructing 
stoops) does not alter any of the information or conclusions of the previously certified MND and the approved Addendum; 
or implicate any of the factors in CEQA Guidelines Section 15162.  Therefore, no additional CEQA review is required.  
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this item was
noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Administrative Report (January 18, 2011)
Att 2 - Administrative Report (February 2, 2015)
Att 3 - Correspondence from Applicant 
Att 4 - Comparative Project Plans
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7216

--- page 7 ---
Date of meeting: 1/18/11

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT “#3* lm: ———le

TO: Honorable Mayor ; / ( VN
and City Council APPROVED BY: j

Ron Munekawa,
Chief of Planning

January 13, 2011 < oa

Lisa Grote,

SUBMITTED \_

BY: ‘
, @ Ring, Senior Planner
Phone: (650) 522-7213 Fax: 522-7201
Email: lring@cityofsanmateo.org
SUBJECT: PA 07-030 Station Park Green Project Specific Plan, Design Guidelines & Development
; Agreement 1700 and 1790 S. Delaware St.(APN 035-200-180, -060)
RECOMMENDATION

That the City Council approve the proposed project as recommended by the Pianning Commission by
adopting a Resolution to:

A. Adopt the Mitigated Negative Declaration as adequate to assess the environmental impacts of the
project, based on the findings attached as Exhibit A; and

B. Approve the Specific Plan, and Design Guidelines to allow the development of 599 residential
units, 10,000 to 45,000 square feet of office uses, and 25,000 to 60,000 square feet of retail uses
on the project site based upon the Findings for Approval in Exhibit A and Conditions of Approval
in Exhibit B:

C. And introduce an Ordinance to: Approve a Development Agreement to allow the development of -
599 residential units, 10,000 to 45,000 square feet of office uses, and 25,000 to 60,000 square feet
of retail uses on the project site based upon the Findings for Approval in Exhibit A and
Conditions of Approval in Exhibit B

BACKGROUND

On June 6, 2005 the City adopted the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
(Corridor Plan). The intent of the Corridor Plan is to allow, encourage and provide guidance for the
creation of world class Transit Oriented Development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale
and Hayward Park Caltrain station areas, while maintaining and improving the quality of life for those
who already live and work in the area. The TOD Policies of the Corridor Plan are designed to encourage
and facilitate transit use and reduce vehicle trips.


--- page 8 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 2

The project site is included in the Corridor Plan area and is identified as part of the Hayward Park Station
Area in the Corridor Plan. The Hayward Park TOD area allows predominantly residential uses, with some
office, retail and services. Civic uses including public open space areas, multi-modal transit facilities and
access ways and commuter parking facilities are also permitted in this area. .

The Corridor Plan specifically allows for the following on the project site:

Residential or office development on the project site with a maximum FAR of 3.0.
Residential density of SO dwelling units per acre

Retail uses with a maximum FAR of 0.3

Development of buildings at 35 to 55 feet in height. ©

PUBLIC MEETINGS

There have been numerous public meetings since 2006 held for this project. The most recent meetings
held for this project include the Special Meetings at the Planning Commission during the months of
September, October and November (refer to Attachment 6).. For information on all previous meetings
held on the project, please refer to the information on _ the City’s website.

http://www. cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=1877

PROJECT SITE DESCRIPTION

The project site consists of an approximately 12 acre parcel located at the northwest corner of South
Delaware Street and Concar Drive (refer to Attachment 1). The project site is the current location of the
K-Mart and Michael’s Arts and Crafts retail buildings. These buildings have a substantial amount of
adjacent surface parking and minimal landscaping. The project site also includes the Shell service station
located at the corner of Delaware Street and Concar Drive. The subject property is adjacent to a variety of
uses including commercial and office uses directly to the north; multi-family and single-family uses to the
north and east; retail uses to the south and southeast adjacent to State Route 92; and the Hayward Park
Caltrain Station and rail line directly to the west. The property has a land use designation and zoning of
Transit Oriented Development (TOD).

PROPOSED PROJECT

The Specific Plan proposes the demolition of the existing buildings on the project site and construction of
a mix of residential, office, retail and park uses (refer to Specific Plan). The project program includes
three potential development options of approximately 599 residential units, 10,000 to 45,000 square feet
of office uses, 25,000 to 60,000 square feet of retail uses including the incorporation of a new 22,000
square foot Michael’s retail store. The project will include up to 90 below-market rate units in
accordance with the 15 percent below market rate requirement for the City of San Mateo. The project also
proposes an approximately one-acre park and a network of parks and pedestrian pathways for a total of
approximately 2 acres of open space.

The project could ultimately be developed under either of the three options described above. It could also
be developed in a combination of the options by interchanging the square footage of retai] uses with
office uses under the ratio provided in the plan, however, the project cannot exceed the total commercial
square footages or number of residential units listed in Table 1 below. The environmental review


--- page 9 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 3 -

provided prepared for this project is intended to cover all three project options and allowable project
square footage combinations within the allowable square footage limits listed in the Specific Plan and in
the table below (refer to Attachment 4).

Table 1-Project Land Uses

Dwelling i Required In-line Restaurant
Units . Ft.  retail/Restaurant Sq. Ft .
Sq. Ft. (can be 15% of

5,000 with 1,500
max. per
| Option , retail/restaurant
5,000 with 1,500
| Onion 2 25,000* max. per. 3,750 45,000
retail/restaurant
5,000 with 1,500
2 max. per
Option 3 32,000** retail/restaurant 38,000 |
space

1,000 square feet of Retail/Service/Restaurant uses is interchangeable with 1, 000 sq feet of office uses. A minimum of 25,000 sq. ft. of
Retail/Service/Restaurant uses must be provided.
*Retail/restaurant uses are subject to a maximum of 15,000 square feet of floor area per establishment except for supermarkets and drug
stores. Retail uses are those defined as allowed per Chapter 27.30 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code-C1 Districts-Neighborhood
Commercial
* Option 2 would not include the development of a new Michael's Store-all new retail/restaurant uses
**Option 3 includes development of a new 22,000 Michael's Store (maximum square footage)

The plan proposes the division of the site into nine “blocks” divided by street and pedestrian ways
connecting to the existing street grid. The blocks would generally contain different lands uses, with all-
residential blocks proposed along the northwest portion of the site; mixed use, commercial and office uses
along Concar Drive; and higher density residential uses adjacent to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and
Concar Drive. A variety of housing types at varying building heights are proposed as part of the project.
The housing types include townhouses, flats and lofts (refer to Specific Plan). The project proposes
townhouse or townhouse type units along South Delaware Street in conformance with the 35 foot height
limit at this location. An approximately one-acre park is proposed at the center of the site and it is
anticipated portions of the blocks surrounding this park would contain neighborhood serving retail uses.
The project also proposes a network of pedestrian path and other smaller parks throughout the
development, for a total 2.0 acres of open space provided on the site.

The project includes a Specific Plan which outlines the potential development (land uses, density of land
uses, infrastructure and amenities that could be developed on the project site. The Design Guidelines
work to prescribe detailed design requirements to supplement the framework identified in the Specific
Plan. The Design Guidelines set the standards for the physical design of the residential, retail and office
buildings, as well as that of the open spaces, pedestrian and pedestrian ways. The Guidelines specify the
setbacks, floor area, entry location, building expression, materials, landscaping and open space locations


--- page 10 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Ptan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement _ Page 4

for each of the nine “blocks” identified in the Specific Plan. The Guidelines also specify design criteria
for the streetscape indicating street sections and widths, trees to be planted, sidewalk and paving
treatments and amenities incorporated into the streetscape.

Parking

The project proposes 1,150 parking spaces throughout the project site. The majority of the proposed
parking would be below-grade, with some surface parking to be constructed to serve the neighborhood
serving retail uses (refer to page 116-117 of -Specific Pian and also Parking Study in Mitigated Negative
Declaration). In accordance with the Corridor Plan, the project proposes shared parking between the
proposed land uses within the project. Shared parking therefore reduces the total number of parking
spaces required compared to what the same uses would require in stand-alone developments. Mixed-use
development creates opportunities for shared parking because of the staggered demand peaks for parking
associated with different uses. All land uses generate unique levels and patterns of parking demand,
varying by time of day and day of the week. Parking supplies at mixed-use locations accommodate these
demand fluctuations more efficiently than segregated supplies, by accommodating peaking uses with
spaces left vacant by other uses, thereby substantially reducing the overall number of parking spaces
needed by a project

Parking for the proposed residential units would be provided at ratios that are the same as parking
required for downtown residential uses. These ratios are the following: Studio Unit-1.0 spaces; 1
Bedroom Unit-1.3 spaces; 2 Bedroom Unit-1.5 spaces and 3 Bedroom Unit-1.8 spaces. A total of 839
parking spaces will dedicated exclusively for the residents of the units. A parking supply of 311 parking
spaces, including 127 residential visitor spaces, will be available to be shared between the residential
visitor, office and retail/restaurant uses. For a detailed description of the shared parking analysis refer to
Parking Study in the Mitigated Negative Declaration and to the Issues section below.

Site Circulation and Access

The project proposes access for the project site at various locations, including a driveway that provides
access from South Delaware Street directly opposite Charles Lane; a driveway that provides access from
Concar Drive directly opposite the State Route 92 ramps and a pedestrian alleyway providing access from
Concar Drive to the eastern portion of the site. The circulation for the proposed project is network of
streets and alleys that divide the proposed land use block as shown on Pages 98-100 of the Specific Plan.

Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvements

The project proposes a network of pedestrian and bicycle pathway within the project site. As stated
above, the project site is divided into blocks with a grid of internal street ways and paths providing access
to the blocks. The streets within the development are intended for high pedestrian use and are.designed in
variety of configurations with sidewalks, planting strip buffers and bikeways. The project also proposes a
plaza area at the corner of the South Delaware Street and Concar Drive intersection (refer to page 118 of
the Design Guidelines) and sidewalks and planting buffers at the perimeter of the project site in
accordance with the Corridor Plan. Please refer to pages 111 and 112 of the Specific Plan and Exhibit C). -

The project proposes a Class II bicycle path leading from South Delaware Street and Charles Lane
through the site toward the Hayward Park Train Station. A Class I bike lane is proposed at the eastern


--- page 11 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 5

boundary of the site directly adjacent to the park and ride lot. For a detailed description of the bicycle
facilities proposed along South Delaware Street and Concar Drive refer to the Development Agreement
section below.

LEED for Neighborhood Development.

The project is proposed to be developed at LEED for Neighborhood Development level and incorporates
many sustainable features including storm water management into the overall design of the of the project,
as well as Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Measures. For a detailed discussion of the
measures potentially included in the project to achieve a LEED for Neighborhood Development level
(refer to the Design Guidelines-Chapter 5-Sustainability).

Phasing

As stated above, the current project includes a Specific Plan and Design Guidelines which outlines the
potential development on the project site and the design requirements and standards for this potential
development. The implementation of the Specific Plan is likely to take places in phases, until each of the
components of the plan is developed and buildout of the Specific Plan is achieved. The individual
projects would require the approval of several permits including individual Site Plan and Architectural
(SPAR) permits that would evaluate the specific design (including the amount of parking provided) of
each phase of the project for consistency with the Specific Plan, Design Guidelines, Development
Agreement and the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines;
Tentative and Final Maps for the subdivision of the site; and Site Development Permits for grading and
removal of vegetation;. As such, additional, phase-specific studies may be required to determine
consistency with the applicable documents listed above (refer to Attachments 5 and 6).

Development Agreement

The project is requesting a Development Agreement (refer to Ordinance submitted under separate cover)
to extend the entitlements for the project to a length of ten years from the date of final City Council
approval. As part of the Development Agreement, the project would implement the following public
benefits:

¢ South Delaware Street-Provide funds for design and construction of a portion of the SMART Street
project along the South Delaware frontage of the project. The SMART street project is proposed to
implement the strategies in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan and calls for the narrowing of South
Delaware Street from four lanes to three lanes between Charles Street and Garvey Way and from four
lanes to two lanes between Garvey Way and 16” Avenue, to accommodate the addition of a Class II
bicycle lane that will extend from Charles lane to Guilford Avenue and establish a more bicycle
friendly and pedestrian environment. In addition, the sidewalks along South Delaware Street between
these streets shall be widened to provide a more extensive planting buffer to treat storm water runoff
generated from South Delaware Street (refer to Page 112 of the Specific Plan and Exhibit C).

e Concar Drive-Dedication of land for the development of a Class I multi-use shared path and
landscaping strip along the southern project frontage (Concar Dr). Concar Drive provides an
important connection for pedestrians, bicyclists, and vehicles to the Hayward Park Train Station. The
sidewalk of Concar Drive will be widened adjacent to the project frontage to accommodate a Class I


--- page 12 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 6

multi-use path and planting buffer (refer to page 111 of the Specific Plan and Exhibit C of
Development Agreement). The pathway will be narrower at the corner of South Delaware Street (8.
feet in width) and will become wider as it gets closer to the train station (10 feet). The multi-use path

and planting buffer will vary in total width from approximately 15 feet - 6 inches to 29 feet 3 inches.

The development of this multi-use path will require dedication of land from the project site and slight

realignment of the Concar Drive and South Delaware intersection as well as shifting of Concar Drive

between South Delaware Street and the State 92 ramps (by less than 2 feet to the south). The project

also proposes the undergrounding of all utilities along the Concar Drive frontage in order to

accommodate this improvement

e Flood Improvements-Provide funding for Residual flooding preliminary engineering study. This
funding would be provided for the preparation of a Hayward Park Train Station Area plan to improve
circulation and accessibility to the train station in the project area or to bicycle improvements in the
vicinity of the project, if the above study is determined not to be needed (refer to Development
Agreement).

e Tree Planting-Provide funds for planting and two year maintenance for trees in the 19th Avenue Park .
neighborhood (refer to Exhibit D of Development Agreement). This improvement is intended to both
enhance the streets within the 19" Avenue Park neighborhood, as well as improve design continuity
between two adjacent neighborhoods. The City’s Arborist and the Developer’s landscape architect
will select the range of trees offered as part of the benefit. Trees will be of the same size and species
as other trees planted at Station Park Green. Their boxes will be, at minimum, twenty-four inches
(24”). Trees will be planted on private property according to a design completed by the Developer’s
landscape architect. This benefit is intended to serve the residents of 19" Avenue Park. After planting
the trees, the Developer will be responsible for their maintenance (pruning as necessary, watering,
etc.) and care for 24 consecutive months. Thereafter, the trees will be the responsibility of each
private owner on whose property a tree has been planted. Participation in the program by
homeowners in the 19" Avenue Park neighborhood is entirely voluntarily.

e The project also includes several other public benefits, including an on-site community room that will
be available to residents of the project and also to residents of the adjacent neighborhoods.

The final list of public benefits that would be provided will be determined by the City Council and will be
included in the final Development Agreement for the project. The City council previously reviewed the
proposed public benefits for the project at a Study Session held on March 15, 2010.

PROJECT ISSUES & PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING COMMENTS

As stated above, the Planning Commission most recently met in September, October and November to
comment on the Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement for this development. In
their recent review of the project, the Planning Commission identified and discussed many issues
regarding the project. In response, the applicant made substantial revisions to the plans (refer to
Attachment 3). The following summarizes the most substantive issues identified and the applicable
revisions that have been made to the plans as a result of these recent meetings:


--- page 13 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 7

Below Market Rate (BMR) Residential Units

In accordance with the City’s Below Market Rate Housing Program, the project currently proposes to
provide for 15 percent of the residential units on the project site to be available at a below market rate as
specified in the Conditions of Approval (refer to Exhibit B-Condition #11). Since it is not known what
City’s Below Market Rate Housing Program will ultimately require at the time that the project is
developed, City staff have requested that this provision also be placed in the Development Agreement for
the project. This would guarantee the provision of BMR units on the project site regardless of the
program in place at the time it is developed. The applicant has indicated concerns with this requirement
since the applicant feels that this may affect financing for the project and therefore the future viability of
the project. The applicant would like choice to either comply with the current BMR program or to comply
with the City’s BMR program in place at the time that the applicant applies for a SPAR permit, if the
City’s BMR program is different at this time. The Planning Commission discussed this issue at the
Planning Commission meeting on December 16, 2010, and indicated support for inclusion of this 15%
requirement into the Development Agreement for the project.

Waiver of Density Bonus

The Planning Commission also recommended that the applicant waive his right to a density bonus
allowed under state law. This law allows for additional! residential units be built as part of a project if a
certain percentage of the project units are BMR units. The project does not include a proposal to
implement a density bonus, however, the applicant has not agreed to put the waiver of a density bonus
into the Development Agreement.

Hayward Park Train Station Engagement

The Specific Plan and Design Guidelines each include a section entitled Station Engagement. This section
was added to the original draft documents based on comments made by the Planning Commission. This
sections is included in these documents since it is the ultimate goal of the Specific Plan and Design
Guidelines to integrate the Plan Area seamlessly with the adjacent Joint Powers Board (JPB) property by
providing for direct adjacency of buildings and the connection of vehicular, bike and pedestrian ways.
Seamless integration and direct connection between these two properties will facilitate and improve the
circulation for the entire Hayward Park TOD Zone. Integration of the properties could include the
placement of buildings, as well as pedestrian and bikeway amenities fronting directly onto the JPB
property, or a new street that continues “E” Street through to Concar Drive. For more detailed policies
regarding this portion of the plan please refer to the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines. In addition, the
Planning Commission indicated support for inclusion of additional language in these sections of the plans
that discusses the provisions of through connections from the project site, the Hayward Park Train
Station, the railroad tracks and the Hayward Park neighborhood located to west of the site (refer to
Attachment 3).

Project Traffic Conditions
A Traffic Impact Analysis was prepared by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc., (refer to

Attachment 2) was conducted for the purpose of identifying the potential traffic impacts related to the
proposed mixed use project.


--- page 14 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 8

The estimated project trips were calculated for Options | and 2 of the proposed project (as described in
Table 1 above). Option 3 of the project would result in trip generation within the range of these two
options. The magnitude of traffic added to the roadway system by the project was estimated by applying
the applicable trip generation rates to the size of the development. The estimated peak-hour and daily trip
generation totals for the project and the replaced uses would generate 914 net new trips daily, with 94 net
new trips occurring during the AM peak hour and 91 less net new trips occurring during the PM peak
hour than occur under existing conditions for Option |. Option 2 is estimated to generate a total of 295
daily trips, with an increase of 99 trips during the AM peak hour and a decrease of 135 trips during the
PM peak hour. The analysis of potential project traffic impacts was conducted based on these estimates.
Traffic conditions at the study intersections were evaluated using level of service. The results show that
all of the study intersections would operate within the adopted level of service standard.

The Planning Commission found that the Traffic Impact Analysis adequately addressed the proposed
project’s potential traffic impacts.

Cumulative Traffic Conditions

The results of the traffic analysis show that all of the signalized intersections studied would operate at an
acceptable level of service under cumulative conditions. The EIR for the Corridor Plan evaluated the
potential traffic impacts resulting from the buildout (Corridor Z + Bay Meadows) of the Corridor Plan
(including all potential development in the Corridor Plan for the year 2020). Development plans for the
Hayward Park area, including the project site, were studied in the San Mateo Corridor Plan and Bay
Meadows Specific Plan Amendment EIR. Scenario Z of the EIR was the largest development scenario,
which consisted of 1,725 units of new housing, 762,000 square feet. of new office space, and 150,000
square feet of new retail. This office project consists of 325,000 square feet of office space. Therefore, the .
Planning Commission found that the impacts of the proposed project would be consistent with the
findings of the San Mateo Corridor Plan and Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment EIR (refer to
Attachment 2).

Trip Reduction & Transportation Demand Management (TDM)

The TOD Policies of the Corridor Plan are designed to encourage and facilitate transit use and reduce
vehicle trips. Therefore, the project includes TDM measures and will participate in the TMA in order to
ensure that trip reduction requirements are met. The TDM measures included in the project are the
following: First-Class Tele-Commuting Opportunities, Carsharing, Shuttle Service, Neighborhood
Serving Retail, Secure Bicycle Storage; Unbundled Parking, Shared Parking; TMA Participation;
Transportation Kiosk; Improved Transit Stop; Transportation Coordinator and an option to participate in
the Caltrain GO Pass Program. The Planning Commission reviewed and endorsed the proposed TDM
measures included as part of the project.

Based upon the project’s proximity to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and with the incorporation of
the TDM measures listed above, it is anticipated that the project would result in a 25 percent trip
reduction in the short-term and a 26 to 36 percent trip in the long-term depending on the mix of rental and
for-sale housing developed as part of the project, as well as the development option implemented (refer
to the Attachment 2).


--- page 15 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 9

CONFORMANCE WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO GENERAL PLAN & RAIL CORRIDOR
PLAN

For a detailed description of the project’s conformance with the objectives and policies of the Generali
Plan and Corridor Plan refer to Findings of Approval included as Exhibit A.

COMMENTS FROM THE PUBLIC

Staff has received many letters regarding the project since the project was reviewed at the first Planning
Commission study session for the project. These letters are included in Attachments 4 and 5.

EXHIBITS

A. Findings for Approval

B. Conditions of Approval/Mitigation Monitoring Program

ATTACHMENTS

1. Vicinity Map

2. Station Park Green Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (including Comments received

on the Negative Declaration and Responses)-Does not include appendices-A copy of the
Mitigated Negative Declaration including all appendices was sent previously to the City Council
under separate cover and can also be found at City Hall or the City’s Main Library and online at
hitp://www. cityofsanmateo. org/index. aspx? NID=1877

3. Planning Commission Revisions and Proposed Additional Language to Station Engagement
Sections of the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines.

4. Comment Letters Received from the Public .

5. Comments/Responses to Delaware Coalition for Responsible Development-September 10, 2010

6. Planning Commission Minutes — December 16, 2010 and November 23, 2010.

The documents in the bulleted list below were submitted previously to the City Council under separate
cover. The material below is’ also available to review on the City’s website.
http://www. cityofsanmateo. org/index. aspx? nid=2207

Station Park Green Specific Plan

Station Park Green Design Guidelines

Vicinity Map

Station Park Green Special Meeting Administrative Report — September 28, 2010

Station Park Green Special Meetings Approved Minutes — November 23, 2010, October 26, 2010,
October 19, 2010, October 12, 2010, and September 28, 2010

e Station Park Green Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (including Comments received on
the Negative Declaration and Responses)

Station Park Green Phasing Plan-August 9, 2010

Station Park Green Information Packet-August 31, 2010

Summary and Design Review Letter-Larry Cannon, dated September 22, 20210

Comment Letters Received from the Public

Comments/Responses to Delaware Coalition for Responsible Development-September 10, 2010


--- page 16 ---
City Council Administrative Report
PA 07-030, Station Park Green Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development Agreement Page 10

ce: Alan Talansky, EBL&S
Jared Eigerman, Gouiston & Storrs
Gabrielle Whelan, City Attorney’s Office
Larry Patterson, Public Works Department
DRB members
Interested parties


--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Administrative Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Larry A. Patterson, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
Monday, February 02, 2015
SUBJECT:
Station Park Green - 1700 and 1790 S. Delaware Street - Site Plan and Architectural Application
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Station Park Green development project to include the Addendum to the
Mitigated Negative Declaration; Site Plan and Architectural Review; Specific Plan amendment; vesting
tentative map and amendment to the Design Guidelines for construction of a mixed-use transit oriented
development with office, retail, residential and public use facilities based upon the Findings and Conditions of
Approval.
BACKGROUND
The original Station Park Green project including the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines were approved by
the City Council on January 28, 2011 in addition to the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration which was
adopted on the same date. On February 24, 2011, the City Council and the applicant entered into a
Development Agreement for the Station Park Green project.
Public Meetings
There have been numerous public meetings since the January 2011 approval of the original project. On May
13, 2014, the Planning Commission reviewed the pre-application submittal at a Study Session for Site Plan
and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Planning Application, a Tentative Subdivision Map, and
revisions to the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines. Subsequently, in June 2014, the applicant responded to
the direction provided by the Planning Commission, with Station Park Green SPAR Planning Applications. As
part of these applications, the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines were proposed to be amended to reflect
changes to the original project (refer to Attachments 1 and 2, respectively). Three Planning Commission Study
Sessions were held on August 26, 2014, October 14, 2014, and October 28, 2014 and the formal SPAR public
hearing on January 13, 2015 to review the site planning, landscape, and architectural details of the entire
project including Blocks MU-1 and RES-2, and RES-3 and RES-4.
Project Site Description
The project site is located within the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan’s Hayward Park Station TOD (Transit-
Oriented Development) Overlay Zone and consists of an approximately 12 acre parcel located at the
northwest comer of South Delaware Street and Concar Drive (refer to Location Map, Attachment 3 APN:  035-
200-60, 035-200-180). The project site is the location of the former K-Mart/office building (second floor) and
the former Michael's Arts and Crafts retail building. These buildings have a substantial amount of adjacent
surface parking and minimal landscaping. The Shell Service Station located at the corner of Delaware Street
and Concar Drive is also included in the project site. The subject property is adjacent to a variety of uses
including commercial and office uses directly to the north; multi-family and single-family uses to the north and
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 1 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 18 ---
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
east; retail uses to the south and southeast adjacent to State Route 92 (also, the sites of the approved Hines
92 and Delaware Office Buildings); and the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and rail line directly to the west.
The property has a land use designation and zoning classification of Transit Oriented Development (TOD).
PROPOSED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Plan Revisions
The Specific Plan proposes the demolition of the existing buildings on the project site and construction of a
mix of residential, office, retail, open space, pedestrian pathways, and park uses. Refer to the applicant’s Book
1: Project Description for specific background and details in Attachment 4 and project plans in Attachment 5.
The proposed architecture style for the Station Park Green project is ‘Contemporary’.
The project will include up to 90 below-market rate units in accordance with the 15 percent below market rate
requirement for the City of San Mateo. Since the original 2011 approval of the Specific Plan, Design
Guidelines, and Development Agreement, changes have been proposed to the project. Table 1 below shows
the original proposed Station Park Green Project compared to the proposed revised project.
Table 1 below compares the originally approved 2011 project with the current proposal submitted on
November 20, 2014.
Table 1:  Original Versus Current Proposed Station Park Green Project
Standard
Original Project - Approved
February  24, 2011
Proposed Project -
Submitted November 20,
2014
Block Pattern
12 blocks: · 8 developed · 4
open space
· 4 blocks · 8 open space
areas
Floor Plates
Floor plates vary based on the
block size. Footprints range
from 4,000 to 78,000 square
feet per building.
Larger floor plates as a result
of change to block pattern.
Footprints range in size -
approximately 48,000 to
72,000 square feet per
building
Parking
Underground
Enclosed above-ground/wrap
around parking
Retail use
6 ground floor locations within
site
Within a single block on
ground floor at northeast
corner at intersection of S.
Delaware Street & Concar
Drive
Dwelling Units
599 units maximum
599 units maximum
Retail (retail, services,
restaurant uses) sq. ft.
25,000 - 60,000 gsf
25,000 gsf - 30,000 gsf
maximum (27,784 sf shown on
plans)
Commercial Office sq. ft.
10,000 - 45,000 gsf
10,000 gsf - 15,000 gsf
maximum  (10,755 sf shown
on plans)
Public Open Space
2 acres
Approximately 2.3 acres
The Park
Approximately 1 acre
Approximately 1.1 acres
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 2 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 19 ---
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
Maximum Floor Area Ratio (all
uses)
3.0
2.3
Maximum Floor Area Ratio
(Retail)
0.3
< 0.1 gsf
Maximum Building Height
55 feet (35 feet along S.
Delaware Street)
55 feet (35 feet along S.
Delaware Street)
Minimum Setbacks
Consistent with the Corridor
Plan, buildings are not required
to be setback from every street.
Various based on Station Park
Green Specific Plan and Design
Guidelines
Various based on Station Park
Green Specific Plan and
Design Guidelines
LEED Certification
Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEED) -
Neighborhood Development
(ND)
LEED-Gold ND
Building Program
The project consists of four (4) individual buildings on an approximate 12 acre site. The four buildings contain
a total of 1,240,389 square feet of area. Building MU-1 contains mixed use retail and office space at the
ground level along S. Delaware Street and Concar Avenue, and residential units on levels 2 through 5 with
parking provided on the interior of the building for all levels 1 through 5. A total of 27,784 square feet is
proposed for retail services and 10,755 square feet of office in Building MU-1. The remaining three buildings,
Buildings RE-2, RE-3, and RE-4, each include five (5) levels of residential units with five levels of concealed
parking (“wrapped parking”) garage on the building interior. The roof top terrace of Building MU-1 includes
outdoor amenities including a pool, spa, cabanas, dining tables, and barbeque for the residents of the
development.
The residential component of the project consists of a total of 599 units including  119 studio units, 312 one-
bedroom units, 163 two-bedroom units, and 5 three-bedroom units. Of the total number of residential units, 60
units would be very low-income units to comply with the City’s Below Market Rate Ordinance.
Parking
Parking is stipulated in the approved Specific Plan and confirmed in the approved Development Agreement. A
total of 778 parking spaces are provided for residents and includes visitor parking. The proposed parking
ratios and numbers comply with the approved Specific Plan residential parking requirement and consist of 1.0
parking spaces per studio unit, 1.3 parking spaces per 1-bedroom unit, 1.5 parking spaces per 2-bedroom
unit, and 1.8 parking spaces per 3-bedroom unit.
Non-Residential Commercial Parking
The Specific Plan includes commercial parking standards that are based on the total amount of commercial
uses included in the proposed project. A total of 131 non-residential parking spaces has been provided
whereas 57 parking spaces is required. Of these 131 parking spaces, 20 will be reserved for the proposed
office space, 12 will be reserved for loading spaces (and can be used after business hours for residential
guests). The 131 of the non-residential parking spaces will be used by the residential tenants as part of a
shared parking program during non-business hours and will be made available for guest parking for residential
visitors. In addition, five (5) parking spaces (not part of the shared parking program) will be reserved for public
car-sharing services and will remain as such 24 hours a day all week.
Parks and Open Space
The project has been designed with 2.3 acres of extensive parks and open spaces including The Park, Park
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 3 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 20 ---
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
Corridor, Station Corridor, Gateway Park, Community Park, Green Pocket Parks, landscaped courtyards, and
a public plaza at the corner of Concar Drive and South Delaware Street with pedestrian pathways and
connections throughout the development.
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) for Neighborhood Development
The project is proposed to be developed at LEED-Gold for Neighborhood Development level and complies
with the San Mateo Municipal Code, Chapter 23.70, which incorporates by reference the State of California’s
Green Building Code (CALGreen) and incorporates many sustainable features including storm water
management into the overall design of the project, as well as Transportation Demand Management (TDM)
Measures. For details of the measures included in the project to achieve a LEED for Neighborhood
Development level, refer to Attachment 2, Book 3, Design Guidelines, Chapter 5, Sustainability.
PROJECT ISSUES AND PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING COMMENTS
As stated above, the Planning Commission met in August and twice in October of 2014, and lastly on January
13, 2015. A brief summary of each of these meetings is provided below.
August 26, 2014 Study Session:  At the August 26, 2014 Planning Commission Study Session, the
Commission expressed general support for the proposed project and stated that the developer, due to
economic constraints, changed the project by no longer providing underground parking, rather proposed
above ground wrapped parking which changed the block pattern to larger blocks. The larger blocks presented
a challenge in trying to make the four developable blocks appealing to the pedestrian architecturally in terms
of massing, articulation and variety of materials. The Commission also expressed a concern about the
entryway from the southern end of the development into the train station.
October 14, 2014 Study Session: At the October 14, 2014 Planning Commission Study Session, the
Commission expressed that overall they were pleased with the direction the project is moving. They noted to
be sure that the modern architectural style in urban design context has room for variety, embellishment, and
more consideration given to the pedestrian and how they will experience the space when travelling through the
development. A comment was stated that the project should include more retail for the transit commuter closer
to the train station.
October 28, 2014 Study Session:  The Planning Commission consensus at the last Study Session on October
28, 2014, was that the proposed project meets the Rail Corridor goals, though, three Commissioners are
looking for more vertical and horizontal articulation. Two Commissioners made a comment regarding visual
richness while another expressed an interest in more variety in materials.
Applicant Responses to Planning Commission Comments
Subsequent to the October 28, 2014 Study Session, the applicant made a number of modifications to the
project responding to the Commission’s interest in creating greater visual interest and breaking down the
massing of the buildings. The applicant has made various alterations to break-up the mass of the building
forms along Concar Drive.
The design of the ground floor spaces with the public realm has been enhanced to create a richer and
enjoyable pedestrian experience. Additionally, there is a wider buffer between the sidewalk and private living
space. The proposed ground floor throughout the development achieves a pedestrian environment supportive
of transit-oriented design. A list of the proposed changes proposed is detailed in the applicant’s Book 2:
Description of Modifications, provided as Attachment 6.
Retail Storefronts
The Design Guidelines encourages varied and visually interesting storefronts. Storefront Guidelines (refer to
Attachment 7, Storefront Guidelines) have been created to provide storefront prototypes with a variety of
materials, colors, rims, mullions, glazing, and sign locations. It is intended that this document be used for
tenant storefronts that can be for staff to determine substantial compliance and consistency with the document
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 4 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 21 ---
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
when storefront designs are submitted for Building Permit.
Revised plans and material and color boards were presented at the Planning Commission meeting.
CONFORMANCE WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO GENERAL PLAN & RAIL CORRIDOR PLAN
For a detailed description of the project’s conformance with the objectives and policies of the General Plan
and Rail Corridor Plan, refer to Findings of Approval included as Exhibit A. The project is fully consistent with
the General Plan and the Rail Corridor Plan.
PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION
The Planning Commission review of the Formal SPAR application for the project was held on January 13,
2015. Six (6) members of the public provided testimony regarding the project. A summary of the Planning
Commission review is provided below.  Refer to Planning Commission Meeting Minutes are attached as
Attachment 8.
The Planning Commission stated that it had extensive review of the project at four Study Sessions and that
the applicant made a number of changes in response to their comments. These modifications complied with
their requests which resulted in an improved project design to create a project that is in scale and harmonious
with the character of the neighborhood with buildings, materials, landscaping, park, open space, and
pedestrian amenities. All of this provides a mixture of uses, pedestrian and bicycle linkages and building
designs for this new transit-oriented neighborhood which is an upgrade of the property. The Commission
encouraged the applicant to design into the project electric vehicle charging stations, solar ready elements,
and use of reclaimed water.
The Commission approved the findings with a 4-1 vote. One Commissioner opposed the project and indicated
that while she agreed with reasons that fellow Commissioners that there were still concerns regarding the
amount of scaled down retail, desired greater residential unit mix, more parking, and not enough façade
variety and adjustments to buildings along South Delaware Street.
BUDGET IMPACT
There is no significant impact. Processing of private development projects is funded by the project applicant.
Should the Council choose to approve the project, there would be potential ongoing staff costs to monitor
compliance with the project and the conditions of approval, some of which will be paid by the project
proponents as outlined in the conditions of approval.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
The Findings for Approval (Exhibit A) include environmental findings for reliance on the previously certified
Mitigated Negative Declaration and approved by the City Council on January 28, 2011 which tiered off of the
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) Environmental Impact Report
(EIR) (August 23, 2010). The findings document that no additional environmental documentation is necessary
pursuant to California CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 since there are no substantial changes in the project;
new information of substantial importance, which was not known and could not have been known with the
exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration was
certified; or substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been substantial changes with respect
to the circumstances under which the project is undertaken. As such, an Addendum to the Mitigated Negative
Declaration has been prepared for the project in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA) (refer to Attachment 9, Addendum to the Station Park Green Initial Study/Mitigated Negative
Declaration).
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65090, notice of this hearing was published in the Examiner
newspaper 10 days before this Study Session. In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 5 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 22 ---
Agenda Number: 13., Status: Public Hearing
City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this hearing was noticed to the following parties ten days in
advance of the February 2, 2015 City Council meeting:
·
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
·
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations,
local utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
·
The City’s E-Notify Email list; and,
·
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested
to be added to the project notification list.
At the time this Administrative Report was published no new written comment was received on the project.
ATTACHMENTS
1.
Proposed Resolution
a.
Exhibit A - Findings for Approval
b.
Exhibit B - Conditions of Approval
2.
Specific Plan Amendment - dated July 31, 2014
3.
Design Guidelines Amendment - dated July 31, 2014
4.
Location Map
5.
Book 1:  Applicant’s Project Description - dated November 20, 2014
6.
Plans prepared by MVE + Partners Architects - dated November 20, 2014
7.
Book 2: Applicant’s Description of Modifications - dated November 20, 2014
8.
Storefront Guidelines - dated October 28, 2014
9.
Planning Commission Public Hearing Draft Meeting Minutes - dated January 13, 2015
10. Addendum to the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration
11. 2014 Update to the Station Park Green Traffic Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.,
dated October 3, 2014
12. Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Lorraine Weiss, Contract Senior Planner
lweiss@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205
cc:
Alan Talansky, EBL&S Development LLC, Property Owner & Applicant
Jared Eigerman, Dalton & Finegold, LLP
Darin Schoolmeester, MVE + Partners Architects
Robert Rauscher, MVE + Partners Architects
Gary Strang, GLS
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Printed on 1/28/2015
Page 6 of 6
powered by Legistar™

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2015)
APPROVING THE STATION PARK GREEN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR A
MIXED-USE, TRANSIT- ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT WITH OFFICE, RETAIL, 
RESIDENTIAL AND PUBLIC USE FACILITIES
(PA 14-055; 1700 - 1790 SOUTH DELAWARE STREET)
WHEREAS, in 2011, the City of San Mateo approved a Development Agreement, Specific Plan, 
and Design Guidelines for the Station Park Green project, a mixed-use, transit-oriented development 
consisting of office, retail, and residential uses at 1700 and 1790 South Delaware Street (the “Original 
Project”), all in consistency with the City’s General Plan and the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan (the “Corridor Plan”); and
WHEREAS, at that time, the City of San Mateo adopted an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative 
Declaration for the Original Project (the “Original Mitigated Negative Declaration”); and 
WHEREAS, to realize development of the project, the applicant has proposed changes to the 
approved Specific Plan and Design Guidelines, chiefly to accommodate above-ground parking and four 
buildings rather than eight buildings; and 
WHEREAS, the applicant has applied for site plan and architectural review, site development 
approval, a vesting tentative parcel map, a Specific Plan amendment, and amendments to the approved 
Design Guidelines; and 
WHEREAS, staff prepared an Addendum to the Original Mitigated Negative Declaration to 
analyze the impacts of the proposed changes to the Original Project (with the proposed changes, the 
“Revised Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has reviewed, and helped the applicant to refine, the 
Revised Project, through multiple study sessions reviews; and
WHEREAS, at a January 13, 2015, public hearing, the Planning Commission voted to 
recommend City Council approval of the Revised Project; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has reviewed the Addendum to the Original 
Mitigated Negative Declaration and found it meets all provisions of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, by not less than a majority of its members, has 
recommended approval of this planning application; and
WHEREAS, the City Council held a noticed public hearing to consider the Project on February 
2, 2015;

--- page 24 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND RESOLVES THAT:
1.
The City Council adopts the Addendum to the Original Mitigated Negative Declaration 
as adequate to assess the environmental impacts of the Revised Project, based on the Findings for 
Approval attached as Exhibit A to this Resolution.
2.
Based on the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit A to this Resolution, and the 
Conditions of Approval, attached as Exhibit B to this Resolution, the City Council approves PA 14-055, 
the Station Park Green Project which includes:
a.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review for construction of a mixed-use, transit-
oriented development with office, retail, residential and public use facilities;
b.
The Site Development Planning Application;
c.
The Vesting Tentative Parcel Map; and
d.
The amendments to the approved Station Park Green Specific Plan and Station 
Park Green Design Guidelines.

--- page 25 ---
Correspondence from the Applicant: 
 
From: Deanna Chalfant [mailto:Dchalfant@essex.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, June 30, 2020 12:53 PM 
To: Lorraine Weiss; Lorraine Weiss 
Subject: SPG RE4- Stoop Stairs 
 
Lorraine, 
 
As discussed we have run into a PG&E easement/conduit issue and we need to make an immediate 
modification to 7 patio/stoop stairs along the Delaware frontage at RE4. The RE4 building has a total of 
107 units. 
 
During the construction of MU1 PG&E was unable to place their high power line conduit within 
Delaware street due to various spacing issues and lack of room. PG&E was left with only 1 option and 
that was to bring the easement and underground conduit/power line onto the Station Park Green 
property. Essex granted the required PG&E easement through an easement deed (attached). We also 
have a recorded plat and legal outlining exactly where the easement and conduit are located. 
 
As laid out in the attached proposed modification package you will see that 7 ground floor unit patio 
staircases need to be eliminated. These stairs all face onto Delaware St.  PG&E will not allow any 
permanent structure to be built within the granted easement and unfortunately the patio/stoop stairs 
not only infringe on the easement but also go right over the conduit itself. Essex is able to keep the 
patios “as is” but is requesting that the City accept the elimination of the 7 patio/stoop stairs. 
Eliminating the stairs will have very little impact on the design feel and appearance of the project for a 
variety of reason: 1) There are no unit or retail space stairs fronting onto Delaware St from MU1, so the 
new proposed RE4 design will better match the façade of  MU1. 2) With the removal of the stairs we can 
increase the amount of available landscape space and thus more plants and vegetation can be planted. 
3) Being that Delaware is such a busy street with vehicles the removal of the stairs could potentially cut 
down on the number of potential pedestrian accidents or thefts.  
 
I will drop in the mail the hard copy of this proposal, per your request. I am available all week for any 
questions or comments. As always, thanks Lorraine for the partnership and help to get this project built 
and complete. 
 
Thanks, 
____________________________________________ 
Deanna Chalfant |Vice President, Development 
 
Essex Property Trust, Inc. 
1100 Park Place 
Suite 200 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Office: (650) 655-7897 
Cell: (925)413-4178

--- page 26 ---
STATION PARK GREEN 
RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE UPDATE
11.17.20

--- page 27 ---
STREET TREES. GATEWAY AND COMMUNITY PARK TREES.

S Zelkova setrata / Sawleaf Zelkova: 40 & Eucalyptus nicholi/ Peppermint Gum: 48
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
oy Tistania conferta/ Brisbane Box: 42 ambusa oldhamil/ Timber Bamboo: 28 , —s ”s 2 , ae ie
= _ ‘
Ginko tba Saratoga / Maidens Saratoga’ 19 a Populsremont / Fremont Cottonwood: 20 —— Fi

Platanus acerifolla ‘Columbia’ Sycamore Columbia’ 27 won
472) Prunus yedoensis/ Yoshino Flowering Cherry: 10

THE PARK TREES. 2 Cedrus deodors / Deodar Cedar: 18.

w ‘Quercus agrifolla/ Coast Live Oak: 7 TOTAL TREES: 303

PLANTING

FI Native Turf Grass Mx
Olea europaea ‘Swan Hill'/ Olive: 12

= Populus fremonti/ Fremont’ Cottonwood: 20 Drought tolerant omamental plantings

P Fraxinus americana’Empire’/ Empire Ash: 5 & Serra mianagerient plaaitnp

ip Magnolia soulangeana Rustica Rubra’ Saucer Magnolia: 7

* Plants listed above are GLS recommended species that were previously reviewed by an arborist. Depending on soil
‘end groundwater conditions, these species may be substituted with those listed as “encouraged species" on L3,1 oF
‘others as deemed appropriate by arborist review, Final selections will be reviewed by an arborist,

er at Ree eo eS ee ler ae

ENTRY COURT GARDEN

CONCAR DRIVE

PLANTING & IRRIGATION NOTE

1, Softscape Calculation
Total Softscape Area: 122,231.9181 SQ FEET
Total Lawn Area: 11,999.32 SQFEET
Total Lawn Area / Total Softscape Area=9.8%

2.The Above Plants have been selected as being representative ofthe overall planting design intent. This plant
palette is being suggested for use, but should not preclude use of other appropriate plant material. The plans are to
be in conformance with the city ordinance { Section 27.21 of Municipal Code) regarding Drought Tolerant
Landscaping. Plantings must nat include any toxic or invasive species as commonly defined by the City's Arborist.
3.All planting areas, with the exception of those shown with stone mulch, are to recieve 3* of organic bark mulch,

4,Theirigation system shall be installed in conformance with ll applicable state and local codes and ordinances by
licensed contractors and experienced workmen, Contractor shail obtain and pay for all required permits and fee

relating to his work, : \ GREENWAY AND POCKET PARK ~

STATION PARK

GREEN cons



--- page 28 ---
CONCRETE PATIO
36” BOX GINGKO BILOBA
ON GRADE 
CONCRETE 
RAISED FLOW 
THROUGH PLANTER 
WITH 1 GAL CHON-
DROPETALUM 
TECTORUM
CONCRETE 
PATHWAY
LEUCADENDRON
SPP. 15GAL
AGAPANTHUS 
1GAL @ 18” O.C.
PLANTING COUNT
PLANTING COUNT
36” BOX GINGKO BILOBA (Quantity :6)
15 GAL LEUCADENDRON SPP (Quantity :11)
1 GAL CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM ( Quantity: 
10)
1 GAL AGAPANTHUS  ( Quantity: 1245)

--- page 29 ---
MU-1
RE-4
RE-2
RE-3
APPROVED RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE ELEVATION PER  SITE DEVELOPMENT SUBMISSION

--- page 30 ---
56 sf
FF 105.75
FF 105.75
FF 105.75
FF 105.75
FF 105.75
FF 105.75
STATION PARK GREEN
SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE STUDY
8/25/20
FLOW THROUGH
PLANTER
CONCRETE PATIO
LEGEND
4" EXISTING PG&E LINE 
1' OFFSET FROM PG&E LINE
12" SD PIPE 
36 " BOX TREE
REMOVE STAIR. NO STOOP STAIRS
CAN EXIST OVER PG&E LINE
56 sf
RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE EXISTING AND PROPOSED UTILITIES ANALYSIS

--- page 31 ---
CONCRETE PA-
50 % AGAPAN-
THUS PETER 
PAN WHITE AND 
50 % BEACH 
STRAWBERRY 4” 
POT AT 18” 0.C.
LOW WATER USE
PITTOSPORUM 
TENUIFOLIUM
“SILVER SHEEN”
15 GAL
MEDIUM WATER 
USE
RAISED FLOW 
THROUGH PLANTER 
WITH
DIETES VEGETA 
VARIEGATA & LOMAN-
DRA BREEZE 1 GAL
LOMANDRA 
PLATINUM 
BEAUTY
1GAL
LOW WATER USE
OLEA 
EUROPAEA
“MONTRA”
1 GAL
LOW WATER USE
TIBOUCHINA 
URVILLEANA
15 GAL
MEDIUM 
WATER USE
36” BOX GINGKO BILOBA
LOW WATER USE
PLANTING COUNT
PLANTING COUNT
       36” BOX GINGKO BILOBA (Quantity :6)
(N) 15 GAL PITTOSPORUM TENUIFOLIUM SILVER SHEEN ( Quantity: 7)
(N) 15 GAL TIBOUCHINA URVILLEANA (Quantity :5)
(N)  5 GAL PHORMIUM TENAX (Quantity :16)
       1 GAL CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM ( Quantity: 10)
VARIGATED PHORMIUM TENAX
5 GAL
(N) 1 GAL LOMANDRA BREEZE ( Quantity: 8)
(N) 1 GAL LOMANDRA PLATINUM BEAUTY  ( Quantity: 50)
(N) 1 GAL OLEA EUROPAEA “MONTRA”  ( Quantity: 48)
       4” POT AGAPANTHUS  ( Quantity: 622)
(N) 4” POT BEANCH STRAWBERRY ( Quantity: 622)
PRECENTAGE OF TURF: 0%
PRECENTAGE OF TURF: 0%
PERCENTAGE OF LOW WATER USE PLANTING: 96%
PERCENTAGE OF LOW WATER USE PLANTING: 96%
PROPOSED RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE SITE PLAN

--- page 32 ---
MU-1
RE-4
RE-2
RE-3
PROPOSED RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE REVISED ELEVATION

--- page 33 ---
APPENDIX
APPROVED RE-4 SOUTH DELAWARE FRONTAGE LANDSCAPE PLANS
(FOR REFERENCE ONLY)

--- page 34 ---
Ke)
—
+
oO
N
—

wil
E|e
Li G5
AS

COEVE VO ‘Ol Oled ‘SAG MOpes|\ SEF GZ

¢/ QNITLSAWL ALWAA Od

Street, No. 200
CA 94110-3105

415.285.3614 | glsarch.com

STATION PARK
REVISED PERMIT SET
REVISED PERMIT SET
GLS LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2677 Mission

DESCRIPTION

San Francisco,

LAYOUT &
MATERIAL

REVISIONS

nn 7 _ | qj 3
SS SS RP .
RRRRRRRR REE RRR RRRRARRRRRRRRMBRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRBR ~ I;
RR PE NY, «Cd a
RRR RES REE RE RRA REE RERR ERB RRR RRR RRR RRR : :
| | | mmm sdf
: eaeen tee CRRRRRRRRRRRAR RRP RRRRRARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRBR, TS
SIRS BM ADS Sy OHS PDS SSS» pow EL .
Cee ,
SEG an en Pry CORR LR CLM LR 2 a ah nin Haun” cL Ps > 20
DS LS a bea eS ET CL
mip PLR ARRMRRRRRRRRRRRIERRR ios ARRRAA. a anees |e -
rare very BER RNs Roy Paha aaa
CO aN aM LR RR RRR RELL R RRR RR RA eta 7 JERS
SS SSD SS SSSSSNANN NSN ee NT ee ee so Wek
RRR aaa ae Ce) aa a re ; ii==
@— ' : |
| |
LL}
07
Dy |
qs |
Qe | 7 sa ly.
> Jas i :
fA | S g e y



--- page 35 ---
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
FF
104.00
FF
105.75
FF
105.75
101.8
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SS
SS
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
JT
c
c
c
c
c
c
c
c
c
c
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
SD
SD
SD
SD
RE-4
N
REVISED PERMIT SET
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTION
DATE
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
INC.  AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
EVALUATION, BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT
BE USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR
DISCLOSED TO OTHERS WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE &
PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DRAWN BY
DESIGNED BY
CHECKED BY
925 East Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94303
MU1
RE2
RE3
RE4
9/16/2015
REVISED PERMIT SET
09.16.15
1
REVISED PERMIT SET
GRADING PLAN

--- page 36 ---
N
IRRIGATION
PLAN
fax 925.932.5671
tel 925.939.3985
www.rmairrigation.com
2760 Camino Diablo
Walnut Creek, CA 94597

Russell D. Mitchell Associates, Inc.
Irrigation Consultant:
REVISED PERMIT SET
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
DESCRIPTION
DATE
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
INC.  AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
EVALUATION, BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT
BE USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR
DISCLOSED TO OTHERS WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE &
PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
REVISED PERMIT SET
DRAWN BY
DESIGNED BY
CHECKED BY
925 East Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94303
MU1
RE2
RE3
RE4
9/16/2015
REVISED PERMIT SET
09.16.15
1

--- page 37 ---
SOUTH

DELAWARE

ST REE T

a

m

\\

ip
|

|

\
\\
WAY

NIN

XOX

sy

a
oa

=

L

MATCH LINE — AREA

|
ll
i
MATCH LINE — AREA 4A

©
See
ere

ee
Es

a

TO

STATION PARK

GREEN

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

INC.

925 East Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94303

PROPER OY TRUST,

|
|
|
\ au —
; oA a
= _
ce :
N eA | L
ce / _
7 ~ | 4
EE om
e234 Z Oo
/\ . aa | Z
i im O
‘ L
| |
¥ a == x
BE = ~
iE | =
| : pl ,
— = QO. O
— A | CTUUEE MZ PURER EERO RP RCA MCGRMM SASSO ROORCHCAHEAEOR EO CCORPACCE VERN SNEREOSCOPCICORISRPO REED |
i — ‘ c - | | .
 — % |, 1% Z
fE=== 1 - = LL — O oe
== . | _ A
— A = = CS UUUERNGUUCRTAP OREN OREN AGREED GROG s
LT apes — = 4 L_| = y
1 e— = was = y = a
tee ofo 7 = = <— eo
: = | en = L (bar =
o2 ] = ; | = | W pt —
= ; “4+—
B® | — = AKU ME MEL REMEUS COCR ON CTERNDASCRNNA ER CUES NRG DARE EOS
Ze 1 F |
L rE a |
AO KR Z|] = L
a YNIF = :
= =
Fa | : :
: = RE-4 O
og — : --------------- = SPUEUELTUPELEOEL ELE ROMER TEESE RESET <
oA oo E ine
ea > =| rudd | 1,
i : _—<—<—— ————— es sansseeses! !
: Ls = = | RTE
. a E ¢ ae
4 — = = bb bode... =
NA + = Doe 4
I KN = =
; = = i
) iT - : ae! gle
| : E _ Ss
= g [0 a oO
BZ liom E : a sols & EE
| = TTT fii iti ao | |
= = Le rennet — LJ Li
= aaa ———s --“v\> & ggg 3
= Pa — = 1 ONES. PANN PE =
= = oe JK os< < <
AE : = | aie AS it = 42
= = 4 \C < ~ D Y
=}MATCH LINE — AREA 4A = = HN MTCH E - AREAPAA | vy
ee =| 5 | IT OS azz
ema) = CA — _ oy i
MATCH LIN’ — AREA 4B ae TTT MATCH LINE — ARBA 48 |
= ace : : —+ \ |
=e a = | al
== ZZ = = | S {A
a ca NA = = | |
—— . KN = = | = rea
| “ oe cz = = _ ———_ CE |S] MATCHO TINE ~—) ARFA 40 |
SOIL LEGEND DRAINAGE LEGEND
NOTES: FOR ALL SUBDRAINS PROVIDE A CLEANOUT AT
EACH END AND EVERY 200 LF. FOR SUBDRAIN LINES
BIORETENSION AREA PARK AREA SIDEWALK AND PLAZA AREA UNDER PAVEMENT USE SOLID PIPE FOR EXTENT OF

— === | TYPE 1A

=~==~==-=-—-j IMPORT SANDY LOAM BIORETENTION SOIL 24” DEPTH
/} a = == -4 PER SPECIFICATIONS

TYPE 1B
IMPORT SANDY LOAM BIORETENTION SOIL 36” DEPTH
PER SPECIFICATIONS

TRANSITION TO BIOSWALE
SLOPING SUBGRADE TRANSITION FOR BIOSWALE MIX
SEE SECTIONS FOR FURTHER INFORMATION

EVAE
pose / TYPE 1C
a, cy ; a, / IMPORT LOAMY SAND 12” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS
/ /
in rr

nn a TYPE 2A

he 47 +, t yt IMPORT SANDY

TYPE 2B
IMPORT SANDY

TYPE 2C
IMPORT SANDY

TYPE 2C
IMPORT SANDY

SPECIFICATIONS

” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS

” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS

” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS

PAVEMENT SUB _ BASE.

PERFORATED SUBDRAIN — PARK TREES

TYPE 3A =< 48” DEEP
IMPORT STRUCTURAL SOIL 48” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS = BH BMP AREA. SEE CIVIL PLAN
PERFORATED SUBDRAIN — STREET TREES

= = —< 36” DEEP

aaa TYPE 3B
Lice ioe IMPORT STRUCTURAL SOIL 36” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS. 2 LAYERS OF SILVA CELL UNITS PERFORATED SUBDRAIN — PLANTING BED
a < < BRB BRBRBRERREeeee 24” DEEP
OHO OOO TEE SC ; PERORATED SUBDRAIN — LAWN
Sooo IMPORT STRUCTURAL SOIL 24” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS. suum 12” DEEP

2

CSESEN IYPE 3D
: : IMPORT STRUCTURAL SOIL 12” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATIONS. meme SOLID SUBDRAIN

Seem §=PLANTING AREA DRAIN

TYPE 3E
SILVA CELL SOIL 36” DEPTH PER SPECIFICATION.

SLOT DRAIN

/\ 0 4. 8 16’ 32’

4

REVISIONS
DESCRIPTION

REVISED PERMIT SET 09.16.15

REVISED PERMIT SET 12.04.15

>>

SHEET TITLE

SOIL PROFILE
PLAN

REVISED PERMIT SET

SHEETNUMBER| 7"

9/16/2015
L6-4A

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
INC. AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
EVALUATION, BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NO
BE USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR
DISCLOSED TO OTHERS WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE &
PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.

GLS LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2677 Mission Street, No. 200
San Francisco, CA 94110-3105
415.285.3614 | glsarch.com

DRAWN BY

DESIGNED BY

CHECKED BY

REVISED PERMIT SET


--- page 38 ---
LYONOTHAMNUS _FLORIBUNDUS/ CEDRUS DEODORA/ ARN LEUCOPHYLLUM FRUTESCENS/ Vv CLYTOSTOMA CALLISTEGIOIDES/ TKK |) MUHLENBERGIA.LINDHEIMERI/ U
CATALINA IRONWOOD (QTY:39) DEODAR CEDAR (QTY:30) aan TEXAS RANGER (QTY:21) LAVANDER TRUMPET VINE (QTY:58) >> <-> <> AY | LINDHEIMER MUHLY (QTY: 2,442) Z
INSTALLATION SIZE: 36” BOX INSTALLATION SIZE: 8” CALIPER TRUNK ¥ INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 24”0.C. INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL@ 4’0.C. MVS MVS IWS MA INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 18” 0.C.
MATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY MATURE SIZE: 5’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD MATURE SIZE: 10’ TALL WEN WKS WKS K\.| MATURE SIZE: 2” TALL X 2? SPREAD —
WATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM > AL A) <~—) =| WATER USE RANKING: LOW o
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES MNS AVS AVS \LA) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT - 8
x S z Zo - <
<
WY O
A > §
- <x
QUERCUS SUBER/ Nae HARDENBERGIA VIOLACEA/ DBOKRASY AGAPANTHUS _INAPERTUS/ ad ©
CORK OAK (QTY:11) LILAC VINE (QTY:39) BROOKSDON DROOPING AGAPANTHUS (QTY: 2,594) oS
INSTALLATION SIZE: 48” BOX INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 4°0.C. SANSA INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 18”0.C. — ~
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY MATURE SIZE: 5’ TALL T <p MATURE SIZE: 2’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD g
WATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM WATER USE RANKING: LOW 5
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT > >
GINKGO BILOBA ’SARATOGA’/ SHRUBS = 8
MAIDENHAIR ’SARATOGA’ ©
INSTALLATION SIZE: lad S
36”BOX AT DELEWARE STREET ri 3
FRONTAGE (QTY:18) AEONIUM *’SUNBURST’/ o
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY LYONOTHAMNUS FLORIBUNDUS/ OE SUNBURST AEONIUM (64) VITIS CALIFORNICA/ - >= 5-5-5 = -5=5-5-5-]  MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS/ oO a
WATER USE RANKING: LOW CATALINA IRONWOOD (QTY:9) INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 12”0.C. Vv CALIFORNIA WILDE GRAPE (QTY:39) etme een natant enna DEER GRASS (QTY: 1,279) N
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 24” BOX MATURE SIZE: 1-2’ TALL X 12° SPREAD INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL@ 4’0.C. ~ 5-5 -5-5-5-5-5-5-=-]  |NSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 2’ 0.C. O o
MATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY WATER USE RANKING: LOW MATURE SIZE: 15’ TALL o> 2555552 -2- = === 4 MATURE SIZE: 2’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD
WATER USE RANKING: LOW CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT WATER USE RANKING: LOW SETS S Ee ae Sea LaLa Ly WATER USE RANKING: LOW ad
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT 25 52525 2- 2-2-2 = 5-24 CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
PLATANUS ACERIFOLIA ’COLUMBIA’/ SS CW.
SYCAMORE ’COLUMBIA’ (QTY:27)
INSTALLATION SIZE: 36” BOX
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY
WATER USE RANKING: LOW AGAVE ATTENUATA
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT SIN OAK (OTe) S2 FOX TAIL AGAVE Yary:97) a4e4a4aaaeaaaaaaaaaa4ed  DYMONDIA MARGARETAE/
PIN OAK (QTY:6 a a2aaeeaseeaaae2aae22224  DYMONDIA (QTY: 9,634)
. INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ AS SHOWN rere errr rere r rrr re ,
INSTALLATION SIZE: 36” BOX MATURE SIZE: 3° TALL X 3° SPREAD ceeeesssccasacesazeeeeq |NSTALLATION SIZE: FROM FLATS @870.C.
O MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY WATER USE RANKING: LOW a434saaseaasaeaasaeaaa4 MATURE SIZE: <1’ TALL
I WATER USE RANKING: LOW CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT oeo22o52225222252224 WATER USE RANKING: LOW
\\ \\ H/// CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT a easesesaaeaaeease2244 CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
\ Z EUCALYPTUS NICHOLIL/ aaa 4 ee eee eee eee
SS aA WILLOW PEPPERMINT (QTY:42) BMP PLANTING
> & INSTALLATION SIZE: 36” BOX
— — ATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY
Wz 5 — WATER Use RANKING: Low ° ALOE ARBORESCENS/
= —— CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT TORCH ALEO (QTY:102) TAI] CAREX TUMULICOLA/ TTT! TTT! l NASSELLA TENUISSIMA/
= = INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ 3°0.C. OR LKKRRRKEKERY MEXICAN FEATHER GRASS (QTY:15,165)
SH : .C. FOOTHILL SEDGE (QTY: 3,708) "
SE S AS. SHOWN % % XK XX ** HK KK! WCTALATION SIZE: 1GAL@ 10°0.C INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 12” 0.C.
Ly S SMALL TREES / LARGE SHRUBS MATURE SIZE: 3° TALL X 3’ SPREAD KKK KKK HK KKK] ee sizes a? TALL X 1? SPREAD MATURE SIZE: 1’ TALL X 1’ SPREAD
~ WATER USE RANKING: LOW *** ¥***¥*****!  WaTeER USE RANKING: MEDIUM WATER USE RANKING: LOW
KKKK KKK KK KK XK
CERATONIA SILIQUA/
CAROB TREE (QTY:11)
INSTALLATION SIZE: 24” BOX
THE PARK TREES MATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY <P CORDYLINE INDIVISA/ SEE SEDUM CAUTUMN: FIRE”
WATER USE RANKING: LOW (S 4) BLUE DRACAENA PALM (QTY:30) F ELYMUS GLAUCUS/ ; /
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT NUN INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ AS SHOWN Fee ee eS + | Bue WILDRYE (QTY: 22,044) STONECROP (QTY: 789) .
MATURE SIZE: 3° TALL X 3° SPREAD . . . INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 12”0.C. verte aighe op TALL we 5? GORERD
ACER FREEMANI| "AUTUMN BLAZE’ / WATER USE RANKING: LOW ' ‘| MATURE SIZE: 1’ TALL X 1° SPREAD MATURE SIZE: 2 TALL X 2 SPREAD
FREEMAN MAPLE (QTY:20) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT tot + to + + + + ATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: LOW
INSTALLATION SIZE. 36” BOX 7 ! | ! | Tne CATION. DRGUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY Pee, 6 rot ot + Ft + Ft + FT
WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM s o, PRUNUS YEDOENSIS/
CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES — oo YOSHINO FLOWERING CHERRY (QTY:24)
od i) o ”
e & INSTALLATION SIZE: 24” BOX
g 3S MATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY DIETES BICOLOR/ pe
, » 2 o%ego WATER USE RANKING: LOW (5 FORTNIGHT LILY (QTY:88) CALYCANTHUS OCCIDENTALIS / SENECIO MANDRALISCAE/
/ Pa eras CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 5 GAL @ 24” 0.C. SPICE BUSH (QTY:12) KLEINIA (QTY: 13,459) »
\ \ [/ MATURE SIZE: 2’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD INSTALLATION SIZE: 15 GAL @ 5’ O.C. Y| WORE sive: ee , soREaD
NN CEDRUS DEODARA/ WATER USE RANKING: LOW OR AS SHOWN . ;
— a DEODAR CEDAR (QTY: 29) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT MATURE SIZE: 5° TALL X 5° SPREAD CEC FICATIGAY DRGUGHT TOLERANT
—— _ INSTALLATION SIZE: 8” CALIPER TRUNK WATER USE RANKING: LOW .
—— —_ MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
— — WATER USE RANKING: LOW
a ">_> __ CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT ARO Neer ee tees
: STRAWBERRY TREE (QTY:47)
v4 Nee INSTALLATION SIZE: 24”BOX
= / \ SPACING: AS SHOWN HESPERALOE PARVIFLORA/ cas antnus INAPERTUS
| \ \ MATURE SIZE: 15’ TALL X 8’ CANOPY RED YUCCA (QTY:119) CARPENTERIA CALIFORNICA/ AAAAALALAAAAS / ;
\ WATER USE RANKING: LOW INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ AS SHOWN BUSH ANEMONE (QTY:15) hak aaa daa 2 a 2 2 a} DROOPING AGAPANTHUS (60%) (QTY: 1,254)
/| CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT MATURE. SIZE: 3” TALL X 3° SPREAD INSTALLATION SIZE: 15 GAL @ AS SHOWN CoA AA AAA AAA MUHLENBERGIA LINDHEIMERI/ REVISIONS
EUCALYPTUS CITRIODORA/ WATER USE RANKING: VERY LOW MATURE SIZE: 5° TALL X 3° SPREAD CeO AAA AA ATA LINDHEIMER MUHLY — (40%) (QTY: 836)
LEMON SCENTED GUM (QTY:54) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT WATER USE RANKING: LOW hk kkk a a a a 4 a 4 a) INSTALLATION SIZE: 1 GAL @ 18” O.C. DESCRIPTION DATE
INSTALLATION SIZE: 48” BOX CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CAA At Ass ss | MATURE SIZE: 2° TALL X 2° SPREAD /\| REVISED PERMIT SET | 09.16.1
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY ~~ WATER USE RANKING: LOW
@ WATER USE RANKING: LOW ( >) CERCIS CANADENSIS / CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT > REVISED PERMIT SET 12.04.15
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT ( » EASTERN REDBUD (QTY:23) /\
a ) SPACING: AS SHOWN a OLEA EUROPAEA ’LITTLE OLLIE’ / DIETES BICOLOR
Na MATURE SIZE: 15° TALL X 8’ CANOPY LITTLE OLLIE DWARF OLIVE (QTY:736) CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM/ LULLLLLLLLIULS FORTNIGHT r OR oss, TY: 3.730
WATER USE RANKING: VERY LOW INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 270.C. MAX CAPE REED (QTY:247) LL Pb bY (75%) (QTY: 3,730)
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT OR AS SHOWN. INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 3’ O.C 400404 44 4 4% 7) \NSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 18° 0.C.
GINKGO BILOBA *SARATOGA’/ MATURE SIZE: 3’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD MATURE SIZE: 2’-3° TALL X 3’—4’ SPREAD “U7 777 7 7 SENECIO. MANDRALISCAE /
MAIDENHAIR ’SARATOGA’ WATER USE RANKING: VERY LOW WATER USE RANKING: HIGH C0077 EEE 7 7) KLEINIA (25%) (QTY: 4,027) A
INSTALLATION SIZE: CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES “LUA bh hhh tt % %|  \NSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 10” 0.C.
48” BOX AT EASTERN PLAZA (QTY:4) LULL LL L424 £2 4) MATURE SIZE: 2 TALL X 2’ SPREAD
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY Se CUPRESSUS SEMPERVIRENS ‘DWARF WATER USE RANKING: LOW
WATER USE RANKING: LOW COMPACTA’/ DWARF ITALIAN CYPRESS CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT ALS
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT (QTY:8)
INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL PHORMIUM TENAX ’VARIEGATUM’ / WIS NTN] ~~ MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
SPACING: AS SHOWN NEW ZEALAND FLAX (QTY:136) CORNUS STOLONIFERA/ PSII NARITA DEER GRASS (75% i. 447
MATURE SIZE: 30 TALL X 5S CANOPY INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 3’0.C. RED OSIER DOGWOOD (QTY:40) EAI INN RAZ NerALretiog 70%) (a @ , 0.c
. \ ANA ~ VEIN ~ : C.
WATER USE RANKING: LOW OR AS SHOWN INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 5’ O.C. IRIN NTMI TNT AZ RA
OLEA EUROPAEA ’SWAN HILL’ / CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT MATURE SIZE: 3’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD RLV ALVANU ALAN ea NAN AGAPANTHUS INAPERTUS/
OR AS SHOWN Mach RAIA DROOPING AGAPANTHUS (25%) (QTY:265)
COMMON OLIVE (QTY:3) WATER USE RANKING: LOW MATURE SIZE: 5’ TALL X 5’ SPREAD VAM NEN ZZ RAIA ; 6) ‘, .
INSTALLATION SIZE: 48” BOX CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT WATER USE RANKING: HIGH WANN ZZ RA RAS INSTALLATION SIZE: 1 GAL @ 18” 0.C.
MATURE SIZE: 25’ TALL X 18’ CANOPY CLASSIFICATION: CALIFORNIA NATIVE Naa NES 1c} MATURE SIZE: 2’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD
WATER USE RANKING: VERY LOW DODONAEA VISCOSA/ CL ASSIFICATIGN. DROUGHT. PLANTING
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT HOPSEED BUSH (QYT:58) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 3’ O.C.
MATURE SIZE: 8’ TALL X 3’ CANOPY PHORMIUM TENAX ’BRONZE BABY’/ a a  Z LAWN SCHEDU LE &
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ 370.C. TOYON (QTY:13) vo yy Ye 5 tes LEGEND
OR AS SHOWN , ee
INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 4’0.C.
QUERCUS VIRGINIANA/ MATURE SIZE: 3’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD MATURE SIZE: 5’ TALL X 4° SPREAD ne
VIRGINIA OAK (QTY:6) WATER USE RANKING: LOW WATER USE RANKING: VERY LOW CN
INSTALLATION SIZE: 48” BOX CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT Coy eee
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY REVISED PERMIT SET
WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM LAURUS NOBILIS/
CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES SWEET BAY (QTY:16)
INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 3’0.C.
MATURE SIZE: 8’ TALL X 3’ CANOPY RHAMNUS. CALIFORNICA/ JOB NO.
WATER USE RANKING: LOW eB CALIFORNIA COFFEEBERRY (QTY:257) SALVIA CLEVELANDII OY. 1602. SF SHEET NUMBER; “* |
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ 2’-6”0.C. SALVIA CLEVELAND (QTY:128) 7
MATURE SIZE: 3’ TALL X 3’ SPREAD INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ AS SHOWN L7-00
WATER USE RANKING: LOW MATURE SIZE: 4’ TALL X 3’ SPREAD
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT WATER USE RANKING: LOW
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
INC. AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
a OR SALVIA ULIGINOSA/ BE USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR
THE GATEWAY PARK AND COMMUNITY PARK TREES A ) LEPTOSPERMUM LAEVIGATUM/ BOB SAGE (QTY:128) DISCLOSED TO OTHERS WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE &
\ a y AUSTRALIAN TEA TREE (QTY:70) INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ AS SHOWN PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
ae, INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ AS SHOWN MATURE SIZE: 4’ TALL X 3’ SPREAD
MATURE SIZE: 15’ TALL X 10’ CANOPY YUCCA FILAMENTOSA / WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM
ACER RUBRUM/ WATER USE RANKING: LOW ADAM’S NEEDLE (QTY:41) CLASSIFICATION: MEDITERRANEAN SPECIES
RED MAPLE (QYT:11) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 5GAL @ AS SHOWN
INSTALLATION SIZE: 36” BOX MATURE SIZE: 3’ TALL X 3’ SPREAD
MATURE SIZE: 35’ TALL X 20’ CANOPY WATER USE RANKING: LOW
WATER USE RANKING: MEDIUM CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT
CLASSIFICATION: ADAPTIVE SPECIES BS a,
LEUCADENDRON SPP. /
CONEBUSH (QTY:28)
INSTALLATION SIZE: 15GAL @ 18”0.C.
MATURE SIZE: 5’ TALL X 18” SPREAD STIPA GIGANTEA/ ———
BAMBUSA OLDHAMII/ WATER USE RANKING: LOW GIANT FEATHER GRASS (QTY:62)
TIMBER BAMBOO (QTY:105) CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT INSTALLATION SIZE: 1GAL @ AS SHOWN GLS LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
INSTALLATION SIZE: 24” BOX MATURE SIZE: 2’ TALL X 2’ SPREAD 2677 Mission Street, No. 200
WATER. Use SF ING LOW CLASSIFICATION: MEDITERRANEAN SPECIES San Francisco, CA 94110-3105
CLASSIFICATION: DROUGHT TOLERANT 415.285.3614 | glsarch.com
DRAWN BY

DESIGNED BY

/\ CHECKED BY

REVISED PERMIT SET



--- page 39 ---
am ELEC

SOUTH

DELAWARE
JT ST >

ST E
JF

E T
5

STATION PARK

Q
JT JT JT JT ST IT JT JT JT ST ST ST ®
. aA
3 +O+
x 4
. ‘ t t t } Dy ; Pe) as as SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
| 4 | Oi a,
- < | | | \ oS U
\ b k st
\ f ]
¥ ZA KX a 2 Gar Sa SP Se SEP S xt . ™* a a A_AVSA_A_ A x x A[JK_ ANA x x IX zx A_R_ Ay AAA A TK, ——— 5 —_ oe Zz
Jn A A A ZA) AT A-A A A AA A ANA A ALAAKA A A A A\A A A A A A A A A A AJA A A A A A AK A A a Ak A A A A A A A ANA A A ATA A A A A AYA A A AAA AK A A A LH A [ < sD — an
A A K [AKA A A A KA KK A A AP fA A A A A AVA A A A A \A A A RK A A A a AA He aA Ay fac A A Bra Ay Aa A A A ALA if | | —
Wk A ALA A A A A AYA A A A A VA A a Ss Al 4 A AA A AV ASA A AULA AL A Al A A \ARA AA A \4 A A A x A gS (A, A A A A py | j Lu feo)
: z : r-)
UN} A A A A A i A A Ay A AK Af A A A 4, A A AA ANJA A\A A A A A A AY | A A JA, A AL A A A A Af A A A A Al» A A — aa . = a oO
hA A A AYA AM A AAPA A A x A A A AJA A A x AJA OK ALA A A A A A x a wK A A Asa A A AL A 4X A A AA AW A A ALA A AA = | ] = i DZ — o
A A A A A A ANAT KA KA AK A JA A ANAFA Al AoA A Xx Ak AFA ALA A A A A A aN A Xx A A AA A A A xX oN A A AK A KA A A AKA A A A A A \ " ~ <x
Ce) A A A A AK [KR LA A A A A KL A A A A A _ A \AYKA A AA KM A KA A KA A A A Ala x A A ALA IL A A A AA A A A KR Lh KSAT KR AA Kh AA MA KH A —L W O
AOL ss AUX Ho SD a xa ATA AV A ee aS eae ae eae S CES AVA a aSD 1 x A kL XK AK AA AKA A LAA AKA ASA ALAA A =" n
A AA A A A A A AK AaA A A A A A A A A A A A -£ A A A Kh MX Vo. Att 4k A A A aA A A A A AA AA A A AAA AAA AKA A A LE _ | _) oa
e AAA A KA A KA A kK Aa $A AA A A A A A A AZ Th A A A GF A A A A A AAA AA A A AA A HA A A ee a xt
KA A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A AAA] A A A A A A LL LL KR KR LK pe ee ae See aes A A
en an 2
RS a aan Y an at —a- ag ae whet 6 Me) a = ©
¢ AA A A A A A A A AA A A ALA A A A MK del Se es Ak 4 a AWA A A LE SE Ee jt ted — |— — — — — — +— — A A A A A n
| AVA A A A A AA A KAA A AA A KA KA KAA A KA A A A five ak how ALA A A A A A xy ®
A A A A A AAA A A A A A KA KA KA AVR A A AVA A A AA A A A AHA c
| A A A A A A AWA A A A A A A A hA A A A AAA ATA aA AA KOA — Q
ci
za
Py é = == = 7 ZS
= -~ 7 4 -— TF - — 4 ~~] l lad S
r— ~
- — LL) ©
roo roo a a, nt
—=—_ => Ke)
| D 5 | bo ro 4 a
L — _| — LL (o)|
a i i Ch 4
al ——_ U | | RK ZARAN 71 5 ak | i - goo
RK =H po, | + le ae
a K NPWZ N KN a
° J LCL °
IE 2 iS Li >
F TI - c —
| — : F = 4
All. TT KA Pd |
7 r 7 7 r= 5
= | I |i ten WA v7
—_ = =—-= == <
| = ~ — sl T ] oO
a FS i <
x = NA | »
n KN Ga “se ae
ae CPURPOA COME YORCO ROM AOMNC CECE SCS SR OP COCUCAREG EOS EOCGUONOCTE VERA SADEAETCRUOIDORICT PUTED x |
—_- — — | J \
x a = a | ke Zz
[" —\- 7s = ry ly .
riety ~ = = — ERE BD
Es {|| J JIT [Ay
UW = SUVERNAOUCU NCO ORANDORERACREER GRITS | )
rH = Perr = 1
= bbrrrenred \ — ina rea |)
= PETE edd = 2
L oS = ey ! = is “t
mm eT ee 7
—_ ~— —--—-—-—H | a —_ =
= / THI I ; _ — / = |
| ,
! | | = bit ....4 = : — "f D
= 1 GK PPR EEL CERPUSEESNONESEORUANORTOREROSS CPPS RN GORGE | D
™ |
= Lo PX
gl. rt LJ |
- JR = J Ly |
= \ | 2
= \ .
= SC r
ele ~ ~
= ” ae an
RA = : it
_ rs ~
ZNIF = = al i)
h =| ”
io
weds = @)
r | = w)
| =
1 I = RE-4 < 8S rh. ss Ss
| =|
= |
r ‘oo = ] a) Cr PPP URL UEC UOCMERPOR ONC OG OCR a ke
v \ ——— = = rd
; = .” = = \\ REVISIONS
J = [= rrtit TT pW
p Led 3 = it ot NG DESCRIPTION
ro : ; = HL ae ka /A\| REVISED PERMIT SET [09.16.1
Cy , = faefeifemtemmey |
Ir 4 = 7 = i \ /\| REVISED PERMIT SET
—_ = 4 1 >
= = Tse rrT tr |
| 2 =H Tit | “Al R
= : | VN
. LJ| | : ; 5 petreyel NG
— = i = eS = | |
* RK = = =< A | PTW ts
MW ie & > Ng = [ | AN a
Woe 4 x * RA = | = bo. 4 | ll VN
Miley tft pre = = i |! x Ae VN
* * x ai _ = = — ; J O
exaxdp tot Pf : _ . || Pe
* Bx i q \ = } ce , tL < <
i =
i * Ss * : y te = 4 = " = j | ves) Pe
(HL = = |
= J - It |
? | 7 : A : Tee Pe
Mi | fas 5 " = NA QO 5
I cs = = —--aVvN = !
Lee} : us 3 PLANTING
F = [— = Ee
tt = = ° = <=
+ + 4 pat ' = | \"\W= =
La + | + = Q = |
MATCH: LINET-FJ AREA 4A my ee re ee ee = | T i
tah “Fi Iv vy =|, 0° rr cr rn CS = I I
(_| VV ml aa e oe ab ari 6 = We
a = : an ; FIRE WALL tee ;
MATCH LINE © AREA 4B | a TTT ty H. LINE. — AREA 1 |
= | \ vy = : =| . Calas

REVISED PERMIT SET

JOB NO.

SHEET NUMBER

L7-4A

DATE
9/16/2015

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
INC. AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF
EVALUATION, BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NO
BE USED FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR
DISCLOSED TO OTHERS WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE &
PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.

I

GLS LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2677 Mission Street, No. 200
San Francisco, CA 94110-3105
415.285.3614 | glsarch.com

DRAWN BY

DESIGNED BY

CHECKED BY

REVISED PERMIT SET

