Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Hoke County NC SO
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Sep 11 2026

Overview

Hoke County NC SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Hoke County NC SO utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Hoke County NC SO utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Flock Success Story: Alert Leads to Arrest of Wanted Suspect

On August 29, 2026, Flock Safety technology enabled law enforcement to quickly locate a white Chrysler 300 associated with a wanted individual who had outstanding felony warrants for a previous flee-to-elude incident.

Deputies from the Hoke County Sheriff’s Office located the vehicle soon after receiving the alert. When they attempted a traffic stop, the driver fled, leading to a pursuit. The driver was apprehended after the pursuit concluded.

As a result of the investigation, a firearm, suspected marijuana, drug-packaging materials, a digital scale, and U.S. currency were recovered. The driver was charged with multiple offenses, including felony flee to elude, drug-related charges, and carrying a concealed firearm.

This case shows the value of Flock Safety as a force multiplier for law enforcement, as it supplied real-time information about vehicles linked to wanted persons, enabling the deputies to quickly identify, locate, and arrest the wanted suspect, as well as discover further criminal activity.

One alert led to a coordinated response and the removal of a wanted suspect from the street.
In the North Carolina News
LINCOLNTON, NC
5/17/2026

RETAIL THEFT / SHOPLIFTING

Flock LPR Helps Identify Two Larceny Suspects in Lincolnton, NC
VIDEO
Read full story
ROCKINGHAM, NC
5/15/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Stolen Motorcycle Recovery in Rockingham, NC
LPR
Read full story
GASTONIA, NC
5/10/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Two Arrests After Stolen Motorcycle Chase in Gastonia
LPR
Read full story
HUNTERSVILLE, NC
5/1/2026

HIT-AND-RUN

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Arrest After Stolen Vehicle Pursuit in Huntersville
LPR
Read full story
BURLINGTON, NC
4/22/2026

MISSING PERSON

Flock LPR Helps Locate Missing Person Across State Lines in NC
LPR
Read full story
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

7

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

126,423

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

56
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Hoke County NC SO and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety