--- page 1 ---
Sedona City Council tells staff to get Flock out of town
7 min read
The Sedona City Council made the unanimous decision to cancel its
contract with Flock Safety and to remove the currently installed 11
automated license plate readers during its meeting Tuesday, Sept. 9.
“This underscores the importance of independent media in a democracy.
As much as I infrequently agree with [Sedona] Red Rock News, and I think
the language that they used in this was hyperbolic, they are the ones that
brought it up and forced it to the forefront and made sure the public was
aware of it,” Councilman Derek Pfaff said from the dais following the vote.
“[This] illustrates the importance that we have media that’s independent
and is not subject to the political pressure. So that these kinds of things
can come out.”
The majority consensus of the council during its Aug. 13 work session to
direct the Sedona Police Department to indefinitely turn off ALPRs and
By Joseph K Giddens  - September 10, 2025
Councilwoman Kathy Kinsella speaks during the Sedona City Council Meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 9 during which council decided to
remove all Flock cameras from the city of Sedona. David Jolkovski/Larson Newspapers

--- page 2 ---
pause the program. Council also directed staff to provide a timeline of the
city’s internal discussions on the installation of ALPRs, which had been
implemented without council direction, and to develop a plan for forming
a citizen work group that would recommend policies for the pilot ALPR
program proposed by SPD.
The council was scheduled to discuss the possible formation of a citizen
work group, but staff first asked whether they wanted to continue using
the ALPRs before moving forward.
Council Comments
“At this point in our history, the only way for us to make sure that data is
not broadly shared or abused is to not have any,” Councilwoman Melissa
Dunn said. “So therefore, I agree. We need to cancel the contract. We
need to remove the cameras.”
Speaking last, Sedona Mayor Scott Jablow reversed his position from the
Aug. 13 meeting when he was the lone dissenting voice wanting to move
forward with ALPRs.
“I have since learned more about the overwhelming behind the scenes
data sharing that was not disclosed to [SPD] or the council during the last
meeting,” Jablow said from the dais, reading a written statement. “I now
have very serious concerns. We’ve seen how data from these cameras can
be accessed by federal agencies in ways I wasn’t aware of and ways that
our community is strongly opposed to … I have listened to your concerns, I
read many of the emails — actually every single email — and reflected on
the broader implications. Because of that, I am totally opposed to moving
forward with the [ALPR] program in Sedona. I believe it is in our
community’s best interest to remove these cameras totally and to ensure
that both our values and our residents’ privacy are respected.”
Jablow cited his law enforcement career — he worked for the Port
Authority of New York & New Jersey — as to why ALPRs could be a benefit
to the community. He added the he “had researched many positive

--- page 3 ---
examples where these tools were used responsibly to address the serious
public safety concerns.”
However, Jablow had directed SPD Patrol Cmdr. Chris Dowell, while he was
acting chief while Police Chief Stephanie Foley was out of town, “to find
positive news stories to help support the public narrative,” immediately
following the NEWS breaking the story June 20 that Sedona’s ALPRs were
installed in June without direction from the council.
Jablow’s request was cited in Foley’s July 27, 157-page complaint filed to
human resources in which she alleges Jablow has fostered a hostile work
environment in part through micromanaging SPD in an effort to replace
her as chief because of her gender.
City Manager Anette Spickard also cited Jablow’s direction to Dowell in
her own Aug. 17 30-page memo to council in which she alleged she was
“being manipulated” by Jablow into being a “fall guy” for public outcry over
Sedona’s ALPRs.
Both Spickard and Foley have cited Jablow as providing the sole direction
to staff for the ALPR installation.
“This whole topic did [begin] for us by a handful of people who viewed
these license plate readers as a modern policing tool, and I think sadly,
they missed the public policy implications that normally require
community engagement and a more deeper council conversation about
it,” Councilman Pete Furman said. “For me to be specific, that policy issue
at hand is the shift from traditional policing tools, where we focus on the
bad guys, to starting to gather and store data on innocent people who
were never suspected of anything.”
However, Furman added that he views ALPR as not falling under the
definition of mass surveillance.
“I feel for our city manager, who actually took a lot of heat on this that was
completely inappropriate,” Councilwoman Kathy Kinsella said.

--- page 4 ---
“[Spickard] took a lot of heat, absolutely inappropriate,” Jablow concurred.
“Again, I apologize. I apologized two weeks ago, and I apologize again.”
Jablow’s Aug. 26 apology was for what he admitted was his failure to
control the vocal crowd of about 50 residents at the work session, who
were almost unanimously opposed to ALPRs. Despite that, the mayor has
never acknowledged Spickard or Foley’s letters during any meeting.
Other Jurisdictions
Council cited recent issues Flock has had elsewhere with the data it
collects from the cameras it leases. Illinois Secretary of State Alexi
Giannoulias [D] announced on Aug. 25 Flock “allowed U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to access Illinois license plate cameras on Illinois roads
and surveil drivers,” in violation of his state’s laws.
“While it is true that Flock does not presently have a contractual
relationship with any U.S. Department of Homeland Security agencies, we
have engaged in limited pilots with the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection and Homeland Security Investigations to assist those agencies
in combating human trafficking and fentanyl distribution,” Flock CEO
Garrett Langley wrote in an Aug. 25 statement. “We clearly
communicated poorly. We also didn’t create distinct permissions and
protocols in the Flock system to ensure local compliance for federal
agency users.”
Langley announced Flock was pausing its federal pilot programs.
Flock Not ‘Honorable’
“Flock will never make a decision to share your data with anyone else,”
Flock Director of Public Affairs Trevor Chandler assured Sedona City
Council on Aug. 13. “[SPD] is the only one that can choose if they want to
share with another agency.”

--- page 5 ---
Kinsella said the federal government using ALPR data to combat
trafficking and the drug trade are “fine goals, [but] that was completely
contrary to information that was provided to us in questions [from
Chandler] … I am very disappointed in this company as a potential vendor
to the city of Sedona. I am not supportive of continuing with going down
the road to look into this. … The time is right at all with the data security
issues.”
“I’m in 100% agreement,” Vice Mayor Holli Ploog said. “A company that tells
us on Aug. 13 that there’s no data-sharing going on, I swear, and [later]
admits that it’s been going on, is not a company that we can do business
with, and they’re not, in my opinion, an honorable company.
“So I would like to cancel the contract [and] remove all the cameras.”
Ploog also said the $1.2 million contract with Axon Enterprise council
approved during its Aug. 26 meeting included among its purchases patrol
car cameras. While those new pieces of equipment have ALPR capability,
that functionally will not be turned on.
“Those [patrol car] cameras are not additional surveillance cameras,”
Ploog said. “Those cameras are a law enforcement tool to provide a record
of what happens at a stop, and they will not be connected to anything
other than used for our own purposes.”
“Certainly, since the meeting that we had here, the Flock representative,
as it would seem, was not as forthcoming, informed whatever it may be
about what was really going on between the company, federal
government,” Councilman Brian Fultz said. “I’m not comfortable with
proceeding any further. I echo what my colleagues have already said, we
should shut this thing down, cancel the contract and get the cameras out.”

--- page 6 ---
“I received better data, better information, and I’m man enough to say I
made a mistake. I’m not going to sit on principle, just because this is what I
said in August,” Jablow said about his position update. “My intention is to
protect our community, and that’s a tool that I was under the impression
was protecting our community. Unfortunately, the data that I had was
wrong.”
Spickard said staff hasn’t had any discussion about seeking legal means for
the city to be compensated for the purchase and installation of the
existing Flock cameras, considering council’s position they were given
inaccurate information.
City Attorney Kurt Christianson following the meeting said he was going
to give Flock notification of the cancellation of the contract the following
day. He did not have a timeline for the removal of the cameras.
*Editor’s note: this story has been updated to properly attribute a quote.
Joseph K Giddens
Joseph K. Giddens grew up in southern Arizona and
studied natural resources at the University of Arizona.
He later joined the National Park Service in many
different roles focusing on geoscience education
throughout the West. Drawn to deep time and ancient
landscapes he’s worked at: Dinosaur National
Monument, Petrified Forest National Park, Badlands
National Park and Saguaro National Park among several
other public land sites. Prior to joining Sedona Red
Rock News, he worked for several Tucson outlets as
well as the Williams-Grand Canyon News and the
Navajo-Hopi Observer. He frequently is reading
historic issues of the Tombstone Epitaph newspaper
and daydreaming about rockhounding. Contact him at

--- page 7 ---
jgiddens@larsonnewspapers.com or (928) 282-7795 ext.
122.
