Coconino County Sheriff’s Office installs Flock Cameras - Sedona Red Rock News Facebook Instagram RSS X HOME STORIES City News County News Human Interest In Other News Top News Village of Oak Creek SPORTS OPINION CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES PHOTOS BLOGS SUBSCRIPTIONS VACATION STOP SUBSCRIBE STR MAP Search Facebook Instagram RSS X 80.3 F Sedona Saturday, May 9, 2026 Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Get help Password recovery Recover your password your email A password will be e-mailed to you. Sedona Red Rock News HOME STORIES All City News County News Human Interest In Other News Top News Village of Oak Creek City News 48 Sedona city staffers now earn over $100K Human Interest Performers dance through Tlaquepaque on Mother’s Day City News Red Dirt Turns 10 with free Friday concerts In Other News Sedona Heritage Museum honored for preserving Schuerman Homestead SPORTS Sedona News Scorpions win 2026 Verde Valley League Championship Sedona Sports Amira McCullough makes a splash at State Championship Sedona Sports Sedona’s two teams merge to swim in the same lane Sedona Sports Scorpions softball hits the bases for new season Sedona Sports Scorpion Golf team tees off the 2026 season OPINION Editorials & Opinions Board Chairwoman Deb McCasland’s latest stunt puts Yavapai College in legal… Editorials & Opinions Journalists adhere to a code of ethics to be fair &… Editorials & Opinions Yavapai Community College takes step to replace inability with competence Editorials & Opinions Our guidelines for political letters in election season Editorials & Opinions Hoping all goes well as Artemis II preps for launch CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES PHOTOS BLOGS SUBSCRIPTIONS VACATION STOP SUBSCRIBE STR MAP Sedona News County News Coconino County Sheriff’s Office installs Flock Cameras 5 min read By Joseph K Giddens - September 8, 2025 Share Facebook X Linkedin Pinterest Coconino County Sheriff’s Office was approved to lease 20 Flock Automatic License Plate Readers by the board of supervisors in April, among those was one that was installed at Grasshopper Point off of 89A in Oak Creek Canyon. Christopher Fox Graham/Larson Newspapers Eagle-eyed NEWS readers pointed out a Flock Safety Inc. Automatic License Plate Reader was installed at Grasshopper Point at 89A and Forest Service Road 640. The Coconino County Sheriff’ Office subsequently confirmed they are leasing the camera from the Atlanta, Georgia based company and another was installed on the north entrance of Oak Creek Canyon. The Coconino County Board of Supervisors as a consent item voted 4-0 with District 5 Supervisor Lena Fowler absent on April 22 to approve 20 new stationary license plate reader cameras, including the two in Oak Creek Canyon. The purchase CCSO Spokesman Jon Paxton said is the first his department has installed. There are 18 cameras installed under CCSO’s lease in Coconino County: Grasshopper Point, Fairgrounds Road and 89A, two at Townsend-Winona Road and Fire Road 775, Townsend-Winona and Highway 89, Leupp Road and Wrangler Road, Perkinsville Road [North] from Williams and Forest Service 140 the Dogtown Lake area, Perkinsville Road [North] from Williams and Forest Service 9073 located east of Drake, Forest Highway 3 and Forest Service 132, Two at Forest Highway 3 and Stoneman, One at Double A Ranch Road and Forest Service 1242C, one at Double A Ranch Road and Cumberland Road, two near the Tusayan Airport and three at the roundabout in Cameron. All ALPRS outside of the one on Leupp Road “were installed and became operational between July 30 and Aug. 8,” Paxton wrote and did not have an anticipated day that one will be collecting data. CCSO data retention policy is to collect the data and store it for 30 days. “I haven’t been at this that long, and one of the things that I have learned during this about three and a half month period is the valuable tool that this is,” District 3 Supervisor Tammy Ontiveros [R] who represents Uptown and the Chapel area said during the April meeting. “So I just want you to know that I am very supportive of this.” Advertisement Prior to the vote District 4 Supervisor Judy Begay [D] cited her concerns of motorists speeding on U.S. Route 89 entering Flagstaff and on U.S. 180 and she hoped CCSO identified locations based on those concerns. “[ALPR do] not take video. There is no video portion of this. It’s a still image. It does not record traffic violations. It does not check speed. It does not check your registration,” Sedona Police Cmdr. Chris Dowell remind Sedona City Council during its Flock work session on Aug. 13. “There have been reports that there’s acci­dents there,” Begay said during the meeting. “So, and if we can get more [in] place out there, somehow [and] get more funding, and I think we’ll get, we can take control of a lot of these things that’s happening.” The only public outreach cited by CCSO with regards to the cameras was the April board of supervisors meeting and the agency’s website transparency.flocksafety.com/coconino-az-so The funding source is the Coconino County IT Digital Transformation Funding that covered the $64,627.20 agree­ment with Flock Group covering installation, soft­ware, access to nearby law enforcement cameras and maintenance for the first year and began once the first camera was installed and validated. Their installation is not in response to any specific crime trend “not that I’m aware of,” Paxton said whereas Ontiveros cited the county’s and “compared to the large geographic area, there are relatively a small number of deputies,” she said. “It is just something that we felt is a great enhance­ment for public safety,” Paxton said. “A great example of that would be just the other night Flagstaff PD was able to locate a suspect in a fatality hit and run because of these cameras.” CCSO does not have data sharing agreements with Immigration and Customs Enforcement or federal agencies. However, it does have in total 95 data sharing agreements including the Arizona Department of Public Safety, seven county sheriff’s offices in Arizona including Yavapai County, sheriffs in Colorado, New Mexico and California. As well as numerous agreements with local law enforcement agencies including Cottonwood Police Department across Arizona as well as California, New Mexico, Colorado and Utah. “I’ve heard the talk of tracking people, gathering information,” Paxton said. “This is for public safety, storing random informa­tion is obviously expen­sive. That’s not something that we’re doing. This is, for a major crime, Amber Alert, Silver Alert, stuff like that.” “Essentially how it works is [ALPRs] photo­graph the back of cars as they drive by,” CCSO Chief Deputy Gerrit Boeck said. “It not only captures the license plate, but any unique identifiers, like, if we have we’re looking for a white vehicle with a bumper sticker on the back or anything we can search the database for that particular informa­tion. That’s extremely helpful, because a lot of times we have crimes that occur in the county, where we just have a vague vehicle description. So this will pick up any infor­mation with that vehicle description, and we can tie that back to the license plate number. [It] provides our investigators leads to follow up on.” In order to generate that list of vehicles based on “a vague vehicle descrip­tion,” ALPRs scan and document every single vehicle that enters its field of view, leading to privacy advocates to cite ALPR programs as mass surveillance. “I do understand the concerns,” Ontiveros said to the NEWS about ALPRs. “I do believe that the way [CCSO] intends to use these cameras [that] it should not be a violation of [people’s] privacy or civil liberties.” There are currently no plans for additional Flock cameras in Coconino County and “CCSO has no mobile ALPR’s at this time,” Paxton wrote. The city of Sedona indefinitely paused its own ALPR program by majority consensus 5-1 with Mayor Scott Jablow dissenting during its Wednesday, Aug. 13 work session and is anticipated to have the citizen ALPR work group as an agenda item during its meeting Tuesday, Sept. 9. Joseph K Giddens Joseph K. Giddens grew up in southern Arizona and studied natural resources at the University of Arizona. He later joined the National Park Service in many different roles focusing on geoscience education throughout the West. Drawn to deep time and ancient landscapes he’s worked at: Dinosaur National Monument, Petrified Forest National Park, Badlands National Park and Saguaro National Park among several other public land sites. Prior to joining Sedona Red Rock News, he worked for several Tucson outlets as well as the Williams-Grand Canyon News and the Navajo-Hopi Observer. He frequently is reading historic issues of the Tombstone Epitaph newspaper and daydreaming about rockhounding. Contact him at jgiddens@larsonnewspapers.com or (928) 282-7795 ext. 122. - Advertisement - TAGS alpr Coconino County Sheriff’ Office Flock Jon Paxton Tammy Ontiveros Share Facebook X Linkedin Pinterest Joseph K Giddens RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR City News City of Sedona talks parking & garage City News Sedona City Council tells staff to get Flock out of town Editorials & Opinions Sedona City Council was right to shut down Flock spy cameras Reader Poll What should be top concerns for City Council candidates? Improving traffic, reducing congestion Championing specific projects and tangible goals More housing, improving quality of life Future of Sedona Cultural Park/Western Gateway Other Vote POPULAR TODAY City News 48 Sedona city staffers now earn over $100K Joseph K Giddens - May 9, 2026 Human Interest Performers dance through Tlaquepaque on Mother’s Day James T Kling - May 8, 2026 City News Red Dirt Turns 10 with free Friday concerts Joseph K Giddens - May 8, 2026 We are proud to be Sedona's newspaper of record and the largest travel, sports and source of Sedona business information for 60 years. Facebook Instagram RSS X CONTACT US SUBSCRIBE TO THE NEWS SUBSCRIPTION HOLD PLACE CLASSIFIED SUBMIT A PRESS RELEASE SUBMIT AN OBITUARY © Larson Newspapers, LLC 2026 Will you support us? Community news is of the upmost importance. Our reporters, photojournalists, editors, production staffers, salespeople and delivery drivers are hard at work providing you with the news coverage you need most. We ask for your support during these trying time to keep producing the best local news available. Start out for as little as $3. Click to Support Our Work × Go to mobile version Notifications