Sedona City Council tells SPD and city staff to turn off Flock cameras - Sedona Red Rock News Facebook Instagram RSS X HOME STORIES City News County News Human Interest In Other News Top News Village of Oak Creek SPORTS OPINION CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES PHOTOS BLOGS SUBSCRIPTIONS VACATION STOP SUBSCRIBE STR MAP Search Facebook Instagram RSS X 88.5 F Sedona Saturday, May 9, 2026 Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Get help Password recovery Recover your password your email A password will be e-mailed to you. Sedona Red Rock News HOME STORIES All City News County News Human Interest In Other News Top News Village of Oak Creek City News 48 Sedona city staffers now earn over $100K Human Interest Performers dance through Tlaquepaque on Mother’s Day City News Red Dirt Turns 10 with free Friday concerts In Other News Sedona Heritage Museum honored for preserving Schuerman Homestead SPORTS Sedona News Scorpions win 2026 Verde Valley League Championship Sedona Sports Amira McCullough makes a splash at State Championship Sedona Sports Sedona’s two teams merge to swim in the same lane Sedona Sports Scorpions softball hits the bases for new season Sedona Sports Scorpion Golf team tees off the 2026 season OPINION Editorials & Opinions Board Chairwoman Deb McCasland’s latest stunt puts Yavapai College in legal… Editorials & Opinions Journalists adhere to a code of ethics to be fair &… Editorials & Opinions Yavapai Community College takes step to replace inability with competence Editorials & Opinions Our guidelines for political letters in election season Editorials & Opinions Hoping all goes well as Artemis II preps for launch CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES PHOTOS BLOGS SUBSCRIPTIONS VACATION STOP SUBSCRIBE STR MAP Sedona News City News Sedona City Council tells SPD and city staff to turn off Flock cameras 2 min read By Joseph K Giddens - August 14, 2025 Share Facebook X Linkedin Pinterest An automated license plate reader on State Route 89A west of Airport Road is one of 11 of a planned 12 erected in Sedona limits since the beginning on June. The cameras were not active and only one city staffer, Sedona Police Department Patrol Cmdr. Chris Dowell, had access. After a work session on Wednesday, Aug. 13. a majority of Sedona City Council -- Councilwomen Melissa Dunn and Kathy Kinsella and Councilmen Brian Fultz and Derek J. Pfaff -- directed staff and police to shut off the ALPRs cameras indefinitely. Christopher Fox Graham/Larson Newspapers The Sedona Police Department’s Automated License Plate Reader program with Flock Group, Inc. has been indefinitely shut off following a majority consensus of Sedona City Council members at a special meeting on Wednesday, Aug. 13, with about 50, sometimes clamorous, attendees in the audience. The majority consensus was reached through Councilwomen Melissa Dunn and Kathy Kinsella and Councilmen Brian Fultz, Pete Furman and Derek J. Pfaff in support of direction to turn off the ALPRS, with only Mayor Scott Jablow leaning against the decision. Vice Mayor Holli Ploog was absent and out of the country. The council additionally directed city staff to provide a timeline of past discussions by the city leading up to the installation of its current 11 Flock cameras with an additional one awaiting installation, form a citizen work group and return with a pilot program proposal. The Flock cameras “are not mass surveillance” was repeatedly stated by Flock Director of Public Affairs Trevor Chandler and SPD Patrol Cmdr. Chris Dowell, who was the only person in the department with access to the Sedona ALPRs prior to their shutdown. “ALPR is not a mass surveillance tool; it is a focused, objective investigative asset governed by strict data retention policies and transparency protocols. It enhances public safety without compromising community privacy,” Dowell said. “Under Supreme Court precedent, you do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in movement on public roadways. … Privacy on roadways and civil liberties are valid concerns … and that’s why we have the protocols in place. … In fact, we went a step above … in our policy Hot List entries cannot be made without a supervisor’s approval.” “Hot lists” are license plates that have been flagged by law enforcement and are often associated with wanted persons or stolen vehicles. While those flagged plates have a narrow focus in order to record those vehicles an ALPR scans and records every single vehicle that passes through its field of vision. That data is then stored in the cloud and is typically held for 30 days. Advertisement “Mass surveillance is indiscriminate surveillance,” as defined by United Kingdom-based Privacy International. “Mass surveillance uses systems or technologies that collect, analyse, and/or generate data on indefinite or large numbers of people instead of limiting surveillance to individuals about which there is reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing. Under currently available forms of mass surveillance, governments [and companies] can capture virtually all aspects of our lives.” “It can pick up unique [vehicle] features, you don’t necessarily have to have a license plate,” Dowell said. “I can just put in ‘silver, Ford Explorer with [a] bumper sticker in the back window,’ and it will search that instead of just needing a license plate.” have noted that while data like that can appear innocuous, capturing details like bumper stickers can potentially record an individual’s political beliefs. The full story will be in the Wednesday, Aug. 20, issue. Joseph K Giddens Joseph K. Giddens grew up in southern Arizona and studied natural resources at the University of Arizona. He later joined the National Park Service in many different roles focusing on geoscience education throughout the West. Drawn to deep time and ancient landscapes he’s worked at: Dinosaur National Monument, Petrified Forest National Park, Badlands National Park and Saguaro National Park among several other public land sites. Prior to joining Sedona Red Rock News, he worked for several Tucson outlets as well as the Williams-Grand Canyon News and the Navajo-Hopi Observer. He frequently is reading historic issues of the Tombstone Epitaph newspaper and daydreaming about rockhounding. Contact him at jgiddens@larsonnewspapers.com or (928) 282-7795 ext. 122. - Advertisement - TAGS sedona police department Share Facebook X Linkedin Pinterest Joseph K Giddens RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR City News Sedona City Council eyes $96M budget City News Public talks Sedona Police Department’s future City News Sedona eyes $94.7M in its FY27 budget, down 8% Reader Poll What should be top concerns for City Council candidates? Improving traffic, reducing congestion Championing specific projects and tangible goals More housing, improving quality of life Future of Sedona Cultural Park/Western Gateway Other Vote POPULAR TODAY City News 48 Sedona city staffers now earn over $100K Joseph K Giddens - May 9, 2026 Human Interest Performers dance through Tlaquepaque on Mother’s Day James T Kling - May 8, 2026 City News Red Dirt Turns 10 with free Friday concerts Joseph K Giddens - May 8, 2026 We are proud to be Sedona's newspaper of record and the largest travel, sports and source of Sedona business information for 60 years. Facebook Instagram RSS X CONTACT US SUBSCRIBE TO THE NEWS SUBSCRIPTION HOLD PLACE CLASSIFIED SUBMIT A PRESS RELEASE SUBMIT AN OBITUARY © Larson Newspapers, LLC 2026 Will you support us? Community news is of the upmost importance. Our reporters, photojournalists, editors, production staffers, salespeople and delivery drivers are hard at work providing you with the news coverage you need most. We ask for your support during these trying time to keep producing the best local news available. Start out for as little as $3. Click to Support Our Work × Go to mobile version Notifications