--- page 1 ---
Watchdog eyes Sedona’s ALPR cameras
5 min read
Concerns about the city of Sedona’s installation of 12 automatic license plate
readers throughout the city has caught the attention of Judicial Watch, a
nationwide conservative nonpartisan nonprofit that files Freedom of
Information Act and public records lawsuits to investigate claims of
misconduct by governments and officials.
Judicial Watch Southwest Projects Coordinator Mark Spencer said his
organization was independently contacted by numerous Sedona residents
after the NEWS published the article “Sedona to residents: We’re tracking
you” and the editorial “City of Sedona’s spy cameras are a threat to our
privacy and rights” on June 20.
“It’s a very Big Brother-oriented move by the city of Sedona,” Spencer said of
the city’s cameras, which are manufactured and maintained by Flock Safety,
a for-profit surveillance company that is building an integrated nationwide
mass surveillance system with ALPR data in more than 5,000 communities
By Christopher Fox Graham  - July 20, 2025
File photo

--- page 2 ---
across the country, according to the American Civil Liberties Union. As a
private corporation, Flock Safety is not subject to public records laws.
Judicial Watch’s public records request to the city on July 14 specifically
mentioned the NEWS editorial, included a screenshot and quoted from the
editorial that the city installed ALPR cameras “without any public discussion
other than brief comments made during budget meetings this spring and
then installed the [ALPR] cameras without any warning or public notice.
There were no public meetings. No mailers sent out to residents. No public
debates. No notices sent to or published ….”
“There seems to be a real aversion in Sedona for public accountability and
transparency, almost as if the last thing we want to do is let the public get
involved and let them tell us how they want their tax money spent,” Spencer
said July 15. “That’s a consistent concern that Judicial Watch is hearing, not
only from citizens in Sedona, but from around the country. It’s almost as if
taxpayers should pay the bill, but we’re going to spend the money and do
what we want without your input and/or permission.”
The interactive 
The interactive deflock.me 
deflock.me website maps 11 of the 12 known locations of Flock Safety cameras used by the
website maps 11 of the 12 known locations of Flock Safety cameras used by the
city of Sedona.
city of Sedona.

--- page 3 ---
“The city will respond to the records request we received from Judicial
Watch in a timely manner,” Sedona City Manager Anette Spickard said on
July 15.
Judicial Watch is requesting:
City documents regarding the ALPR cameras, including private vendor
purchase, service, installation, and/or monitoring contracts,
memorandum of understanding or agreements
Procurement methods like requests for proposal and invitations to bid
Line-item budget amounts
Notices to the public regarding Sedona City Council, public discussions or
voting processes prior to and pertaining to the installation and purchasing
of ALPRs
City policies, rules, charters or ordinances that mandate public notice,
presentation or discussion of law enforcement or traffic control
enforcement systems, equipment and enforcement actions
Sedona Police Department and municipal court policies, orders and
procedures
Documents addressing conflict of interest
Sedona City Attorney documents, legal counsel and communications to
council and SPD regarding the lawfulness of ALPRs camera systems in
compliance with Arizona Revised Statute §28-1593
Various documents regarding the use of ALPRs for traffic violations
“I think there needs to be public input, because as a former police officer, I
can see this license plate reader issue cutting both ways,” Spencer said. “It is
a very useful tool for law enforcement, but useful tools can be misused, and
when I say misused, it can be misused abusively or in violation of the public’s
rights. There needs to be real caution and accountability.”
Spencer was a board member of Phoenix Law Enforcement Association and
its president from 2007 until 2011 before he retired in 2012. He has been an

--- page 4 ---
adjunct faculty member at five Phoenix area community colleges and serves
as the chaplain of the National Border Patrol Council.
Residents “have every right to be upset,” Spencer said. “As a former city of
Phoenix police officer for 25 years and the president of PLEA, I despised
photo enforcement,” Spencer said. “It’s all about the money for the city on
the backs of the taxpayers.”
Spickard said Sedona City Council will hold a work session on ALPRs on
Wednesday, Aug. 13, but did not know yet if the meeting would have a call to
the public. The system will not be utilized until after the council work
session.
The city’s Facebook post on June 12 stated that camera “locations will not be
disclosed due to operational and security considerations.”
However, thanks to readers, the NEWS has located 11 of the 12 known ALPRs:

--- page 5 ---
Dry Creek Road and Garnet Hill Drive
Dry Creek Road and Thunder Mountain Road
Sanborn Drive and Rodeo Drive
Jordan roundabout on State Route 89A
North of Owenby Way entering Sedona from Oak Creek Canyon with the
reader facing southbound traffic
Just west of Airport Road, with the reader facing westbound traffic
Immediately north of Natural Grocers with the reader facing eastbound
traffic
On State Route 179, outside Sedona United Methodist Church, facing
northbound traffic
On State Route 179 south of Arrow Drive, facing southbound traffic
On State Route 89A north of Sedona Red Rock High School, facing
eastbound traffic
On State Route 89A at the bus stop west of Dry Creek Road, facing
westbound traffic
A map of the known cameras in Sedona can be found at the deflock.me
website.
Christopher Fox Graham
Christopher Fox Graham is the managing editor of the
Sedona Rock Rock News, The Camp Verde Journal and
the Cottonwood Journal Extra. Hired by Larson
Newspapers as a copy editor in 2004, he became
assistant manager editor in October 2009 and managing
editor in August 2013. Graham has won awards for
editorials, investigative news reporting, headline writing,
page design and community service from the Arizona
Newspapers Association. Graham has also been a guest
contributor in Editor & Publisher magazine and featured
in the LA Times, New York Post and San Francisco

--- page 6 ---
Chronicle. He lectures on journalism, media law and the
First Amendment and is a nationally recognized
performance aka slam poet. In January 2025, the
International Astronomical Union formally named
asteroid 29722 Chrisgraham (1999 AQ23) in his honor at
the behest of Lowell Observatory, citing him as "an
American journalist and longtime managing editor of
Sedona Red Rock News. He is a nationally-recognized
slam poet who has written and performed multiple
poems about Pluto and other space themes."
