--- page 1 ---
City Manager memo to council accuses Sedona Mayor
Jablow of manipulation over Flock cameras
13 min read
Sedona Mayor Scott Jablow has been accused by City Manager Anette
Spickard of being manipu­lative in the city’s process of installing Flock Safety
automatic license plate readers, leading to her being “the fall guy for the
public outcry,” in the city’s instal­lation of the cameras that occurred without
public outreach and no majority consensus direction from City Council to
the Sedona Police Department.
“I would rather not make it public because it’s police related,” Jablow emailed
to Spickard about the ALPRs on Wednesday, Nov. 13, after she suggested to
the mayor that they “touch on the project” during the council’s December
council priorities session.
During the meeting, the topic was given brief attention with Sedona Police
Department Chief Stephanie Foley having a PowerPoint slide with “body
worn cameras/[ALPR] Integration,” but no broader direction from the
council as a body has ever been given.
By Joseph K Giddens  - August 30, 2025
Photo illustration/Larson Newspapers

--- page 2 ---
Spickard’s 30-page memo to the council, dated Aug. 17, came in response to
council’s 5-1 direction on Aug. 13 to indefinitely turned off ALPR network and
provide a timeline of how the city came to install the cameras.
In the memo, Spickard included a summary letter, pages of emails between
her and Jablow discussing the progress on the instal­lation of ALPRs and a
two-page statement from Foley.
‘Pursue This Unilaterally’
Former City Manager Karen Osburn, who retired in April 2024, admonished
Jablow on March 28, 2024, after he requested she or city staff pursue grant
funding for ALPRs. “You continue to pursue this unilater­ally without ever
having discussed it with council and after I have repeatedly told you that
[SPD] is in no position right now to conduct the research neces­sary to
explore how this technology might integrate into their systems, let alone
acquire and implement,” Osburn emailed Jablow, cc’ing Vice Mayor Holli
Ploog.
Osburn added urgent projects, such as body-worn cameras, take
precedence.
“I suggested it could be brought up at this year’s budget work session for
direction to pursue in FY26 should council have interest,” Osburn wrote. “Yet
you continue to send me information and ask me about it continually as if I
Sedona Mayor Scott Jablow
Sedona Mayor Scott Jablow
Sedona Police Chief
Sedona Police Chief
Stephanie Foley
Stephanie Foley
Karen Osburn was Sedona
Karen Osburn was Sedona
deputy cIty manager from
deputy cIty manager from
2012 to 2021 and city
2012 to 2021 and city
manager from 2021 until her
manager from 2021 until her
retirement in April 2024.
retirement in April 2024.

--- page 3 ---
should be pursuing this now simply because you’ve heard about it and want
it in Sedona. You know that’s not how the process works.”
‘Not Make it Public’
When asked by the NEWS why he wrote to Spickard, “I would rather not
make it public” — considering Obsburn’s admonishment and that Spickard
appeared to be in exclusive commu­nication with him about ALPR installation
instead of all of council — Jablow had no direct answer.
“I don’t know how to answer that, and I don’t want to skirt the issue, so I
don’t know how to answer that question,” Jablow said to the NEWS on
Monday, April 25. “LPRS should have gone before the council. But it did
actually go. It was brought up in the [April 18, 2024] budget session, as [Foley]
said she was brought back the next day to discuss LPRs, and there was no
issue at all from council.”
Foley wrote in a Aug. 14, 2025, memo she was told the day of that 2024
budget meeting Jablow was requesting her to come to council to discuss
ALPRs.
“I was advised by either Osburn or Spickard that Jablow wanted it to be said
publicly during the meeting, something close to the effect; ‘I should have
presented LPRs yesterday but didn’t,’” Foley wrote; after Spickard became
city manager, Osburn remained a temporary consultant. “She stated she
wasn’t going to say I failed to discuss this because I wasn’t informed, I was
supposed to and this was the first time I heard about it.”
‘On Council’s Radar’
As Foley started her brief discussion about ALPRs on April 18, 2024, Jablow
said. “I was under the impres­sion you’re going to touch on something
yesterday related to LPRs.”
No direction was actu­ally given by the council as a whole about ALPRs
during the April 2024 budget meeting and Jablow framed Foley’s presenta­tion
as “just putting this on council’s radar.”

--- page 4 ---
“I never gave any indi­cation to anyone to install [the ALPRs],” Jablow said to
the NEWS. “I realize that that is beyond my scope. I was just wanting it to be
researched.”
Foley cited her April 2024 presentation as when ALPRs were prioritized —
and that it was priori­tized by Jablow during that meeting.
Under Title 2 of Sedona City Code, the city manager appoints the SPD chief,
who conducts the department’s business. Council gives direction to the city
manager through a majority of its members at public meetings. Individual
council members do not give direction to the chief nor any officer or staffer.
The NEWS asked Foley if she had concerns about direction on ALPRs coming
only from Jablow, how she came to the conclusion that direction was given
in April 2024 considering Jablow’s framing of ‘just to put it on council’s
radar.’”
“As you know I can’t comment on any of my interactions with [Jablow],” Foley
responded to the NEWS, citing her recent harassment complaint filed
against Jablow on July 27. “Please refer to [Spickard’s] memorandum for
details regarding this project.”
“My understanding was that it was more of a priori­tization from [Jablow]
that then was discussed with prior city manager Osburn, and then to
[Spickard], and the direction was given to me to move this forward based on
her ability to sign off,” Foley said to council on Aug. 13, 2025. Foley’s
harassment compliant, filed before this meeting, cites Osburn’s email saying
the mayor was acting “unilaterally.”
“It just wasn’t going to be prioritized in last year’s budget, it was going to be
in this year’s budget and discussed,” Foley wrote.
“The reason I didn’t present [ALPRs] for this year’s budget was based on
Jablow’s direction to [Spickard] mid-year to obtain LPRs,” Foley wrote in her
Aug. 14, 2025, memo.

--- page 5 ---
SPD appears to have been planning the trial use of ALPRs before Foley’s
stated April 2024 direction from Jablow. Also, prior to council’s direction to
suspend the ALPRs, Foley was advocating during the August work session to
have a six-month pilot program of the cameras.
In September 2024, SPD did a “temporary/demo” ALPR near the Y round­-
about. “We are also looking into Flock LPRs,” Foley emailed Spickard on Sept.
23, 2024.
‘They Showed Up One Day’
In her memo, Spickard said from April to December 2024, Jablow repeatedly
asked about the status of the ALPRs at nearly every one of their one-on-one
meetings.
“[Jablow] made it clear from our first meeting that he would be pushing
[Foley] and me on these projects because it was important for [SPD] to have
the same tools as neighboring agencies,” Spickard wrote.
On Jan. 13, 2025, Jablow wrote to Spickard he would like to know by their
meeting on Tuesday if the ALPRs would be at the city’s entry points. Noting
SPD Acting Deputy Chief Chris Dowell — previously interim Cottonwood
police chief — “was a part of the Cottonwood LPR program, I would expect
nothing less then [sic] their program.”
On Jan. 14, 2025, Spickard informed Jablow she is going “go ahead and sign
off” on the purchase of six sets of ALPR cameras within her spending
authority to do so, which she confirmed after being questioned by Jablow, to
which he responded via email, “this is very exciting, thank you.”
Spickard’s memo she wrote was keeping Jablow up to date on ALPRs, “and [I]
did not know that [Jablow] was not” sharing that information of the status of
the ALPRs over the last year with his fellow council members. “Instead, I
recently came to learn from [Ploog] that [Jablow] claims to not remember
any of this.”

--- page 6 ---
On June 4, 2025, Dowell wrote a memo to Foley and Spickard titled “City
Councils LPR Briefing” announcing internally SPD had installed ALPRs.
“This was a capital project approved for the FY 25 budget,” Spickard wrote
when forwarding the brief to Jablow and council on June 9.
“I never gave any direc­tion to anyone to install them, that’s a question I have,”
Jablow said to the NEWS . “I never had a discussion with anyone who said
that they were going to have them installed, because I don’t know who that
direction came from. I don’t recall ever having that discus­sion with anybody.
They showed up one day. The only way I found that they were showing up, I
saw on Facebook that there was one installed. I knew they were going to be
installed, but I didn’t know that they were actually being installed.”
Find ‘Positive News Stories’
On June 20. The NEWS published its first story discussing the installa­tion of
Sedona’s ALPR network [“Sedona to residents: We’re tracking you”] and an
editorial [“City of Sedona’s spy cameras are a threat to our privacy and
rights”].
On June 21, Jablow asked Dowell, who was acting chief while Foley was out of
town, to “find some positive news stories [about ALPRs] to help support the
public narra­tive,” in response to public outcry from the NEWS story. Dowell
said he found positive articles but did not want to send them to Jablow
without informing senior city staff first. In her harassment complaint against
Jablow, Foley cites this as an example of Jablow seeking an end run around
her and under­mining SPD’s chain of command.
Spickard Made ‘Fall Guy’
“During our regular one-on-one [meeting] the morning of the Aug. 13 work
session I suggested to [Jablow] he step forward as the champion of the
[ALPR] project and he stated he would deflect,” Spickard wrote. “When
[Jablow] did not come forward and take responsibility for the direc­tion on
this project during the work session, I came to the realization that I had been

--- page 7 ---
set up by [Jablow] as the fall guy for the public outcry, which is exactly what
happened.”
Council held its work session on Aug. 13 about the Flock cameras in response
to the public outcry and the lack of outreach. Through a 5-1 council
consensus, with Jablow dissenting, council directed staff to indefinitely
pause the ALPR program, create a timeline of events leading up to their
instal­lation, to create a citizen work group and for staff to return to council
with a proposal for a ALPR pilot program.
During the meeting, when Spickard discussed why she signed off on the
purchase of ALPRs, Jablow remained silent.
“The silence of [Jablow] at the work session resulted in the public assuming I
acted in bad faith and resulted in my staff thinking that I had made a huge
mistake,” Spickard wrote.
“That’s again, my fault. I should have stepped in more,” Jablow said, when
asked about his silence by the NEWS. “I thought I had, and I obviously had
not. I did comment about … showing my interest in [ALPRs]. But as far as the
purchase order [Spickard] signed it, but that’s within her [ability] to do. I
certainly never gave her any indication to sign it, because I would have gone
through council first. But if I gave her any signals that, if she misinterpreted
my intent, it’s on me, because I was obviously not clear in what I was sharing
with her, so it really turned out to be a mess.”
“This has damaged my credibility and professional reputation,” Spickard
wrote. “For this reason, I do not think it is a good idea for me to appoint
people to a citizen working group on the LPR topic. The public won’t trust
anything that comes from a group I hand select as it has now become a
political issue, not a tech­nical issue. The council should appoint the group
and give clear direction on what they want [it] to come up with.”

--- page 8 ---
‘A Political Issue’
“I worked with [Foley] to implement a valid, legal policing tool as part of a
larger technology upgrade that was generally known to the council,”
Spickard wrote. “I did not violate any city policies. I regret being manipulated
by the mayor and not recognizing that was happening. As they say, hindsight
is 20/20. It wouldn’t happen again.”
“I did comment [during the work session] about wanting the interest or
showing my interest in the project,” Jablow said to the NEWS. “But as far as
the purchase order, [Spickard] signed it.”
During the Tuesday, Aug. 26, City Council approved a $1.2 million contract
with Axon Enterprise, Inc., for the purchase of tasers, patrol and body-worn
cameras. Jablow gave a public apology about decorum.
“I want to step out and make a personal apology to Annette, the public and
this council, by the way I ran the [Flock] meeting on Aug. 13,” Jablow said. “I
feel I did not calm the public the way I should have from attacking staff, and I
feel I let everybody down, especially Anette and others, in several ways, and I
promise my best to do better to ensure our meet­ings run more smoothly and
move forward without personal attacks.”
“[Spickard’s] memo raises a number of concerns, and a majority of council
has asked for a [executive] session to review the memo and take possible
action,” Councilman Brian Fultz said to the NEWS on Aug. 26 and declined to
elabo­rate on what that action could entail.
Councilman Derek Pfaff said he didn’t think Jablow was intentionally circum­-
venting the council.
“Ultimately, it didn’t go the way I would have liked to have seen it gone, … I
think just with the change­over and city manager, we went from [Osburn] to
[Spickard] in the middle of all this, I think [the ALPRs] slipped through the
crack,” Pfaff said to the NEWS.

--- page 9 ---
“I was disappointed in myself for having [Spickard] feel the way she felt in
that memo,” Jablow said to the NEWS. “I feel that she’s justified by a lot of the
concerns.”
The Sedona City Council is scheduled to have the citizen ALPR work group
as an agenda item during its meeting Tuesday, Sept. 9.
Joseph K Giddens
Joseph K. Giddens grew up in southern Arizona and
studied natural resources at the University of Arizona. He
later joined the National Park Service in many different
roles focusing on geoscience education throughout the
West. Drawn to deep time and ancient landscapes he’s
worked at: Dinosaur National Monument, Petrified Forest
National Park, Badlands National Park and Saguaro
National Park among several other public land sites. Prior
to joining Sedona Red Rock News, he worked for several
Tucson outlets as well as the Williams-Grand Canyon
News and the Navajo-Hopi Observer. He frequently is
reading historic issues of the Tombstone Epitaph
newspaper and daydreaming about rockhounding.
Contact him at jgiddens@larsonnewspapers.com or (928)
282-7795 ext. 122.
