Kent City Council rejects video surveillance contract with Flock - Kent City Council rejects video surveillance contract with Flock - Open main menu The Portager Close panel Events Advertise About Business Opinion Obituaries Shop Account Subscribe Events Advertise About Forum The Portager Shop Account Subscribe Communities Kent Suffield Brimfield Atwater Franklin Ravenna All communities Local Government Documenters County commission Sheriff's Office Business Opinion Obituaries Search Image via Flock Safety Kent / Local government Kent City Council rejects video surveillance contract with Flock November 10, 2025 - Margaret Lennox , Kent City Council voted against permitting the Kent Police Department to enter into a contract with Flock Safety at its regular committee meeting Nov. 5. Flock Safety is a surveillance company that has partnered with more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies across the country and uses cameras to record vehicle license plate data. Join our community of supporters to access this article Articles older than 30 days are available to Portager subscribers with a Plus or Premium plan. Subscriptions start at just $1/month. Already a paid subscriber? Log in here Plus Get more from your email newsletter. $1+ /month Subscribe — choose your price Email newsletter delivered Monday, Wednesday and Friday Full access to The Portager website Participate in the community forum Access articles older than 30 days Read the publisher's comments in the email newsletter List of real estate transactions Local comic strip, Headwater Tales Donate one free ad per year to a local business or charity Print newspaper home delivery via USPS Sudokus and crosswords 20% off everything in The Portager shop Premium Monthly Annually Get our print newspaper delivered. $17 /month $180 /year Subscribe monthly Subscribe yearly Email newsletter delivered Monday, Wednesday and Friday Full access to The Portager website Participate in the community forum Access articles older than 30 days Read the publisher's comments in the email newsletter List of real estate transactions Local comic strip, Headwater Tales Donate one free ad per year to a local business or charity Print newspaper home delivery via USPS Sudokus and crosswords 20% off everything in The Portager shop The Portager is a locally owned news source serving Portage County, Ohio. Our mission is to be a catalyst for ideas and action that help our community thrive. We believe everyone should have access to accurate local news, regardless of your ability to pay. Our subscribers make this possible. Sections Communities Local Government Business Opinion Events Company About Advertise Subscribe The Portager Shop Social justice in Portage County Sponsored posts on The Portager Events Calendar Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Refund and Return Policy © 2026 The Portager. All rights reserved. ×