source: packet.pdf
sha256: da575707096d744b723e03a2433092698b4f4fce078da056ec91225d2525f8b6
pages: 32
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
February 9, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 9, 2021
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 871 8949 5032 Passcode: 191386
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of November 24, 2020 and December 8,
2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Ordinance Introduction – Municipal Code Amendment to Update Current Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Definition

--- page 2 ---
Introduce an ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law Government Code §
65852.2 and § 65852.22, and 27.04.165 (c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” definition.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4287
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 09, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of November 24, 2020 and December 8, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes 11.24.2020
Att 2 - Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes 12.8.2020
STAFF CONTACT
Sailesh Mehra, Planning Manager
smehra@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227203

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/24/20 
1 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Ellen Mallory, Chair 
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair 
Mike Etheridge 
John Ebneter 
Margaret Williams 
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, November 24, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance at 7:05 p.m. 
 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:   Ellen Mallory, Ramiro Maldonado, John Ebneter, Margaret Williams 
 
Excused:  Mike Etheridge 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1. 2021 Planning Commission Calendar 
Adopt the 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule 
 
Vice Chair Maldonado made a motion to approve as proposed. 
 
Moved: 
Maldonado, Seconded: Williams 
Ayes: 
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Williams 
Noes: 
None  
Excused: 
Etheridge 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
No speakers 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
1. Modification to Station Park Green SPAR – RE 4 (PA‐2020‐061) 
Approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review modifications for 420 Station Park Circle (Station Park Green – 
RE4). 
 
Principal Planner Julia Klein presented the Modification to Station Park Green SPAR (Site Plan and Architectural 
Review) – RE4 focusing on residential building No. 4. 
She gave an overview of the history of the project when it was originally approved by City Council in January 
2011 to the current stage where the applicant is requesting design modifications. Depending if the modifications 
are approved this evening, the applicant would need to submit a building permit for revision to provide and 
show the work.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/24/20 
2 
 
 
 
 
Modifications include: 
1. Create an easement for PG&E to locate electrical lines.  These will also be servicing other existing 
residents in the neighborhood.  
2. The removal of 7 stoop stairs and replace these with landscaping - patios will remain as designed. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff and Ms. Deanna Chalfant, VP of Development, Essex Properties and Commission 
Chair Mallory opened the Public Hearing. 
 
Speakers:  None 
 
Commissioner Williams made a motion to approve the modifications 
 
Moved: 
Williams, Seconded: Maldonado 
Ayes: 
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Williams 
Excused: 
Etheridge 
Noes: 
None  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS:  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:03 p.m. 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Ellen Mallory 
Chair 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Sailesh Mehra

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/08/20 
1 
 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Ellen Mallory, Chair 
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair 
Mike Etheridge 
John Ebneter 
Margaret Williams 
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
 
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:   Ellen Mallory, Ramiro Maldonado, John Ebneter, Mike Etheridge, Margaret Williams 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1. Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meetings of October 27, 2020 and November 10, 2020 
 
Motion passed: 5-0 
 
Moved: 
Etheridge, Seconded: Ebneter 
Ayes: 
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Etheridge, Williams 
Noes: 
None  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Maxine Terner – she would like to know who else is in attendance and if this information is available. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
1. Peninsula Heights Multi-Family Residential Project - Project Approvals (PA-2020-012). 
 
Senior Planner Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the project, presenting a timeline of the project, 
description of the project site, the required approvals, local/state codes and policies applicable to the project.  
Design Review was reviewed by City staff as well as Larry Cannon from Cannon Design Group.  Revisions to the 
design since the 2019 Planning Commission meeting include:  unit types and sizes; site plan; materials and 
massing; and open space. 
 
Staff received several public comments in support of the project during the project review period.  Some issues 
that came up during the study session last year were the noise and view impacts; traffic and parking; and 
Emergency Vehicle Access (EVA) lane.   The EVA lane is currently closed to the public and will remain closed.  No 
warrants found in traffic study or by SMC Fire. 
 
CEQA (California Environmental Quality Act) - No public comments were received during the analysis period.  
There were no significant effects with the implementation of the Mitigation Measures: biological resources; 
hazardous materials or noise.  CEQA analysis was conducted by David J. Powers & Associates.

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/08/20 
2 
 
 
Transportation Analysis – VTM (Vehicle Miles Travelled); LOS (Level of Service) and TDM (Transportation 
Demand Management were conducted.  
 
The applicant, Preston O’Conner from Peninsula Properties, gave a project overview and went over the 
comments from the community and address issues. 
 
Commission Chair opened the Public Hearing. 
 
Public Comment in support:  Corey Smith from Bay Area Advocacy Coalition; Dan (last name unclear); Adam 
Loraine; Cameron Palmer, Larisa Ocañada, Phillip Lesser; Patrick Lough; Kelsey Banes, Pro Housing Advocacy 
Group; Alex Melendez; Zoe Siegel, Greenbelt Alliance; Jordan Grimes, Peninsula for Everyone; Robert Whitehair, 
Vice Chair of Sustainable San Mateo County; Michelle Kwok; Kathryn Collins. 
 
Public Comment with concerns: 
 
Paul Linquist had concerns about footprint of building, public access, tails and trash accumulated trash and 
debris. Juan Espinoza, Carpenter’s Union in San Mateo expressed his communication with Harvest Properties 
and inability to come to agreeable terms over the construction of the project. Lura Duncan and Jill McHale 
expressed concerns and on the impact on parking and the continued closure of the EVA into the existing 
neighborhood due to the number of people moving into the development. Jill also commented that the 
proposed buildings are too tall for the neighborhood and the rooftop decks will cause excessive noise to existing 
neighborhood. 
Chair Mallory closed the public hearing. 
 
Commissioners Comments:  
 
Commissioners all felt project is well thought out project with consideration to open space, green space 
(including 670 new trees), unit sizes variation and design and will benefit the community. Also felt that the 
developer’s attention to study session comments and community input was all addressed in the plans presented 
and appreciate that. 
 
Commissioners Ebneter and Maldonado would have liked to see denser unit count in this project. 
Commissioners Ebneter and Etheridge made note that a union/labor agreement has not been made and would 
like to see that resolved.  
 
Commissioner Ebneter discussed the removal of heritage trees and the effect on the environment and green 
house gases and requested the use of electric leaf blowers.  
 
Commissioner Maldonado had concerns on this development and future traffic congestion on Hillsdale Ave and 
Campus drive post COVID and the single entrance and exit from the project by vehicle. 
 
Commissioner Etheridge had concerns about the walkability and bike accessibility of this project as it relates to 
other neighborhoods and amenities. Discussion of EVA changes for accessibility for walking and biking which 
Planning Manager Sailesh Mehra said can be discussed with SMC fire.  Also has concerns about the ravine 
adjacent to the property which was determined owned privately  
 
Commissioner Ebneter made motion to approve Recommendation:  Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special 
Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, Site Development Planning Application, Vesting Tentative Map 
for property located at 2655, 2755, 2800, and 2988 Campus Drive for 290 multifamily residential units and adopt

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/08/20 
3 
 
the Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the project based on the Findings for 
Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval. 
 
Moved: 
Ebneter, Seconded: Etheridge 
Ayes: 
Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Etheridge, Williams 
Noes: 
None  
 
Motion passed 5-0 
 
 
STUDY SESSION 
 
2. 44 E. 3rd Ave. Draper University Pre-Application (PA-2018-054) 
Preliminary review for proposed project change of use and building and site design elements for 44 E. 3rd 
Avenue; direction was sought, and no formal action was taken. 
 
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner gave a presentation of the project for the study session.  She gave an overview of 
the project site, the project description and provided details that the building is a Historic Resource.  She 
presented the Codes and Policies listing.  There was a neighborhood meeting on November 12, 2019, where 27 
members of the public attended.  Concerns from the public included:  preserving the building’s historic 
significance; and the trash bins being visible. 
 
Discussion Items include: 1) Proposed change of use: 2) site design and beautification; 3) Secretary of Interior 
Standards for Rehabilitation which includes building material and decorative elements. 
 
Because this was a Study Session, no decision was made at the meeting, but the next steps include:  Revise 
based on Planning Commission, staff and public input; formal Planning Application; Historic and Design Review; 
and Planning Commission Public Hearing. 
 
Mr. Tim Draper, Draper University spoke about the intentions of the change of use and allow flexibility to the 
building.  Michael J. Castro, Project Architect gave a presentation of the design aspects of the project including 
the floor plans of the subject floors.  Matthew Davis, ARG historic consultant gave a presentation on the 
standards of the historic analysis.  
 
Commissioner Chair opened the Public Hearing 
 
Keith Weber – his concerns are related to impacts to the architectural integrity and the loss of housing. 
 
Maxine Terner – her concerns are focused on the walkway and that it’s been cluttered with garbage containers. 
 
Dianne Whitaker– She is concerned about the functionality and aesthetics of the proposed addition. 
 
Commissioner Chair closed the public hearing.  Commissioners asked questions of staff and consultants 
representing Draper University. 
 
Commissioners Comments: 
 
Commissioners were in favor of the change of use from residential to commercial use with the exception of 
Commissioner Etheridge.

--- page 9 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/08/20 
4 
 
Commissioners felt the building would need substantial exterior changes to support an outside elevator and 
penthouse suite to this historic building and that the exterior elevator design does not fit the building. 
Commissioners support looking at other options for the elevator. No vote as this is a study session. All 
Commissioners support a meeting set up for a design charrette.  
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
There will be a City Council meeting on January 4, 2021 where the appeal to the Water’s Park is scheduled. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 11:50 p.m. 
 
APPROVED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Ellen Mallory 
Chair 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
___________________________________ 
Sailesh Mehra

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-4027
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Sailesh Mehra, Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 9, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Municipal Code Amendment to Update Current Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory 
Dwelling Unit Ordinance and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Definition
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior 
Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law Government Code § 65852.2 and § 
65852.22, and 27.04.165 (c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” definition. 
BACKGROUND:
On January 1, 2020, six accessory dwelling unit (ADU) and junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU) related housing bills signed 
into law by Governor Newsom became effective. Three of the six Assembly and Senate Bills (AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13) 
took direct aim at easing local zoning controls, reducing associated development fees, and expediting permit processing 
associated with ADU and JADU development. Some of the primary changes resulting from these bills are provided below:
AB 68 & AB 881 (Overlapping bills):

Ensures by-right an ADU of at least 800 square feet, 16 feet in height with 4-foot side and rear setbacks can be 
created;

Limits local agencies ability to utilize floor area ratio, lot coverage, and other zoning requirements as impediments 
to ADU development; 

Allows a new or converted ADU in the same location and footprint as an existing accessory structure;

Multi-family buildings may add ADUs up to 25% of the existing units (or at least one) and up to two detached; and

Single-family zoned lots can be developed with a JADU and ADU in addition to the primary residence (effectively 
allowing three (3) separate living units on each parcel zoned for single-family residential use).
SB 13:

Removes the ability for local agencies the ability to require owner-occupancy of the primary dwelling or the ADU 
(provision sunsets January 1, 2025; remains requirement for JADUs);

No impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square feet; otherwise, fees are proportional to the size of primary dwelling; 

Cannot require correction of non-conforming zoning conditions as condition of approval; and

Allows owner to request a delay enforcement of certain building standards up to five years if determined by the 
Building Official that correcting the violation is not necessary to protect health and safety.
See Attachment 1 for a comprehensive summary of the ADU and JADU state legislation which became effective January 1, 
2020, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD).

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On March 2, 2020, staff presented to City Council an outline of the changes to ADU and JADU state legislation and areas of 
regulation which remain under local agency discretion for the purpose of informing an update to our local ADU and JADU 
ordinance in San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 27.19. The Council provided feedback on specific questions 
posed by staff regarding those limited areas of discretion and directed staff to conduct community outreach to solicit 
feedback to better understand how residents want future ADU and JADU development in San Mateo to look. The 
administrative report is provided as Attachment 2. 
Shortly thereafter, the County of San Mateo issued a shelter-in-place order due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic 
which disrupted planned outreach efforts, resulting in a delay of the update to the local ordinance. In the absence of 
having an updated ordinance in place, staff has defaulted to the state regulations in practice regarding those areas where 
our current local ordinance conflicts with state law or is silent regarding new regulations. Existing provisions in the local 
ordinance which do not conflict with state law remain enforced. 
During this time staff has also been developing virtual outreach strategies to move forward with the process of collecting 
community input and an ordinance development and review schedule comprised of two phases. Phase 1 is currently being 
undertaken with formal review of the initially proposed ADU and JADU ordinance update to formally conform with the 
changes to state regulations; the anticipated adoption of this initial ordinance update will likely occur in February or March 
2021. Phase 2 would involve community outreach efforts to help inform the development of a second ordinance update 
reflective of the community’s input. Staff intends to return to both the Planning Commission and City Council to present 
the second proposed ordinance update and have it adopted before the end of Q4 2021. 
Proposed Code Amendments
SMMC 27.19 – Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
While the new state legislation has expressly limited the ability of local agencies to regulate the creation of ADUs and 
JADUs, local agencies may still apply development and design standards, including but not limited to, parking, building 
height, setback, landscape, architectural review, and maximum unit size standards, provided the requirements do not 
conflict with the minimum provisions established by Gov. Code § 65852.2 and § 65852.22. Due to the comprehensive 
changes to the state legislation the proposed local ordinance update to SMMC 27.19 incorporates the state provisions 
primarily as-is, however, staff proposes the following development standards as the most pragmatic approach to 
expediate the local ordinance update and proactively address any potential issues that might occur between now and 
when Phase 2 is completed:
Exempted Floor Area
The new state legislation establishes that a property owner may construct either an attached or detached ADU of at least 
800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear setbacks “by-right” regardless of any 
development standard based on the percentage of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area 
ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude its construction. This provision effectively results in 
exempted floor area (i.e. up to 800 sq. ft.) that would not be included when calculating for the purposes of determining 
the total floor area for a given parcel. As such, the proposed update to the local ordinance clarifies that floor area of any 
new ADU which exceeds 800 square feet would then be applied to the overall maximum floor area allowance of the 
subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
Maximum Unit Size
The City has defaulted to the maximum unit sizes (i.e. floor area) specified in the state ordinance for both detached and 
attached ADUs. Detached ADUs are permitted to be up to 1,200 square feet (sq. ft.) while attached ADUs are permitted to 
be up to 50 percent of the floor area of the primary dwelling. It should be noted that staff provided the Housing and 
Community Development Department (HCD) a draft of the proposed ordinance for preliminary review. HCD’s 
interpretation of the state ordinance specifies that notwithstanding the noted 50 percent threshold, local agencies must 
allow an attached ADU to be of at least 850 sq. ft. for a studio or one-bedroom unit, or at least 1,000 sq. ft. for an ADU of 
two bedrooms or more.

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Architectural Standards for Detached Units
HCD found issue with an architectural standard specified in SMMC 27.19.050 (I)(2)(b) that requires detached ADUs “Be 
designed to minimize the visibility of the accessory dwelling unit from the street(s), with the exception that corner lots are 
excluded from this requirement.” The concern related to the whether the requirement could be objectively enforced, as 
well as serve as a potential encumbrance (i.e. impacts to site planning and size of ADU) for property owners developing 
ADUs on their lots. Staff agrees with HCD’s contention that the requirement leaves room for subjectivity and no longer 
feasible given the provisions of the new legislation. As such, staff proposes to remove the requirement from the list of 
architectural standards for detached ADUs.
ADU Building Height
As previously noted, a local agency must allow a minimum building height of at least 16-feet for both attached and 
detached ADUs. Building height as defined in the municipal code is measured from existing grade to top of the building 
plate, rather than to the tallest roof ridge. Given that ADUs can be created from conversions of existing accessory 
structures or on top of these structures which are commonly built within setback areas close to or on shared property 
lines, staff proposes a modified definition for ADU building height to not to exceed 16-feet as measured from existing or 
finished grade (whichever is lower) from any point along the building’s perimeter to the highest roof peak. The restricted 
detached ADU building height would mitigate some of the potential privacy and view impacts of ADU development to 
adjacent properties while still allowing for design flexibility. Attached ADUs would be permitted to build up to the plate 
height of the primary residence or 16 feet, whichever is higher, in accordance with the standards of the underlying zoning 
district.
Detached ADU Building Height in Multi-Family Zoning Districts
State law now limits building height for detached ADUs to a maximum of 16 feet in instances where a parcel has an 
existing multi-family development. Maximum building heights in these multi-family districts range from 35-55 feet and 
were developed with the intent of accommodating higher density development. Staff believes it is prudent to also extend 
the state’s 16-foot building height restriction for detached ADUs in multi-family zoning districts (i.e. R3, R4, R5, R4D, R5D, 
R6D and BMSP) to parcels that have either been previously developed with, or are proposed to be developed with a single-
family residential use. The proposed added height restriction would close the “existing multi-family development” 
loophole created by the state law, preventing unusually tall detached ADU structures that would otherwise be permitted 
by the underlying zoning districts discussed, as well as would be consistent with intent of the state legislation. 
SMMC 27.04.165 (c) – “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit”
Consistent with the changes to state law, SMMC 27.04.165 (c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” definition has been 
amended to indicate that JADUs can now be constructed within the walls of an existing or proposed single-family 
residence and no longer require the inclusion of an existing bedroom. It should be noted that attached garages are 
considered part of the residence and can therefore be converted into a JADU. 
The proposed draft ordinance amendments are included in Attachment 3. 
Discussion Items
Staff is requesting the Planning Commission discuss the following item:
ADUs in the Front Yard
The state ordinance is silent regarding whether ADUs can be located in the front yard of a parcel, specifying only that new 
ADU construction provide for four-foot side and rear setbacks, and allowing local agencies to impose setback standards in 
conformance with state law per Gov. Code Section 65852.2 (a)(1)(B). HCD has interpreted the exclusion of a front yard 
setback standard to mean that ADUs are permitted within front yard areas without restriction. Staff does not agree with 
this interpretation and proposes prohibiting the location of ADUs within required front yard setbacks and have drafted 
findings outlining health and safety concerns per the provisions of Gov. Code Section 65852.2 (h)(2)(B)(ii) which are 
provided below.
Legislative Findings.  The City Council of the City of San Mateo finds:

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(a) Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose parking and setback standards in 
conformance with state law.
(b) Government Code Section 65852.2(e) limits side and rear setbacks for accessory dwelling units to four feet, but 
does not address front setbacks.
(c) The City wishes to limit the location of accessory dwelling units to locations outside of the required front 
setback to address the following health and safety concerns:
(1) The City’s required front setback areas range from 15 feet to 25 feet.
(2) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to preserve visibility to the street 
from driveways and parking spaces for vehicles exiting the property in order to protect both pedestrians and 
passing vehicles.
(3) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to locate accessory dwelling units 
far enough from the street to reduce traffic noise for residents of accessory dwelling units.
Staff is requesting the Planning Commission provide a recommendation to the City Council whether to allow ADUs in 
required front yards, or restrict the location of ADUs to outside of the required front yard setbacks based on the proposed 
draft findings. 
Required State Review
Upon adoption of the ADU/JADU ordinance, the City will be required to submit a copy of the adopted ordinance to the 
state Housing and Community Development Department  (HCD) within 60 days after the adoption per Government Code § 
65852.2 (h)(1). After the adoption of the ordinance, HCD may review and submit written findings to the local agency as to 
whether the ordinance complies with state regulations. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with necessary Code amendments, including staff time are covered under the Community Development 
Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines because it is an 
accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of Government Code § 65852.2 and 65852.22.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
One public comment has been formally submitted since the March 2, 2020, City Council meeting, which has been included 
as Attachment 4. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Summary of State ADU/JADU Legislation Effective January 1, 2020
Att 2 – Administrative Report to City Council (March 2, 2020) 
Att 3 – Proposed Ordinance Amendments 
Att 4 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Phillip Brennan, AICP, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218

--- page 15 ---
4 
Summary of Recent Changes to Accessory 
Dwelling Unit Laws 
In Government Code Section 65852.150, the 
California Legislature found and declared that, among 
other things, allowing accessory dwelling units 
(ADUs) in zones that allow single-family and 
multifamily uses provides additional rental housing, 
and is an essential component in addressing 
California’s housing needs. Over the years, ADU law 
has been revised to improve its effectiveness at 
creating more housing units. Changes to ADU laws 
effective January 1, 2020, further reduce barriers, 
better streamline approval processes, and expand 
capacity to accommodate the development of ADUs 
and junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).  
ADUs are a unique opportunity to address a variety of 
housing needs and provide affordable housing 
options for family members, friends, students, the elderly, in-home health care providers, people with disabilities, 
and others. Further, ADUs offer an opportunity to maximize and integrate housing choices within existing 
neighborhoods.  
Within this context, the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) has prepared this 
guidance to assist local governments, homeowners, architects, and the general public in encouraging the 
development of ADUs. Please see Attachment 1 for the complete statutory changes. The following is a summary of 
legislation since 2019 that amended ADU law and became effective as of January 1, 2020. 
AB 68 (Ting), AB 881 (Bloom), and SB 13 (Wieckowski) 
Chapter 653, Statutes of 2019 (Senate Bill 13, Section 3), Chapter 655, Statutes of 2019 (Assembly Bill 68, 
Section 2) and Chapter 659 (Assembly Bill 881, Section 1.5 and 2.5) build upon recent changes to ADU and JADU 
law (Government Code Sections 65852.2, 65852.22 and further address barriers to the development of ADUs and 
JADUs) (Attachment A includes the combined ADU statute updates from SB 13, AB 68 and AB 881.) 
This recent legislation, among other changes, addresses the following: 
• 
Prohibits local agencies from including in development standards for ADUs requirements on minimum lot 
size (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(B)(i)). 
• 
Clarifies areas designated by local agencies for ADUs may be based on the adequacy of water and sewer 
services as well as impacts on traffic flow and public safety (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(A)). 
• 
Eliminates all owner-occupancy requirements by local agencies for ADUs approved between January 1, 
2020 and January 1, 2025 ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(6)). 
• 
Prohibits a local agency from establishing a maximum size of an ADU of less than 850 square feet, or 
1,000 square feet if the ADU contains more than one bedroom and requires approval of a permit to build 
an ADU of up to 800 square feet ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (c)(2)(B) & (C)).

--- page 16 ---
5 
• 
Clarifies that when ADUs are created through the conversion of a garage, carport or covered parking 
structure, replacement off-street parking spaces cannot be required by the local agency (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(D)(xi)). 
• 
Reduces the maximum ADU and JADU application review time from 120 days to 60 days (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(3) and (b)). 
• 
Clarifies that “public transit” includes various means of transportation that charge set fees, run on fixed 
routes and are available to the public (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(10)). 
• 
Establishes impact fee exemptions and limitations based on the size of the ADU. ADUs up to 750 square 
feet are exempt from impact fees (Government Code Section 65852.2, Subdivision (f)(3)); ADUs that are 
750 square feet or larger may be charged impact fees but only such fees that are proportional in size (by 
square foot) to those for the primary dwelling unit (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (f)(3)). 
• 
Defines an “accessory structure” to mean a structure that is accessory or incidental to a dwelling on the 
same lot as the ADU (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(2)). 
• 
Authorizes HCD to notify the local agency if HCD finds that their ADU ordinance is not in compliance with 
state law (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (h)(2)). 
• 
Clarifies that a local agency may identify an ADU or JADU as an adequate site to satisfy RHNA housing 
needs (Gov. Code § 65583.1, subd. (a), and § 65852.2, subd. (m)). 
• 
Permits JADUs even where a local agency has not adopted an ordinance expressly authorizing them 
(Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(3), (b), and (e)). 
• 
Allows a permitted JADU to be constructed within the walls of the proposed or existing single-family 
residence and eliminates the required inclusion of an existing bedroom or an interior entry into the single-
family residence (Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(4); Former Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(5)). 
• 
Requires, upon application and approval, a local agency to delay enforcement against a qualifying 
substandard ADU for five (5) years to allow the owner to correct the violation, so long as the violation is not 
a health and safety issue, as determined by the enforcement agency (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (n); 
Health and Safety Code § 17980.12). 
 
AB 587 (Friedman), AB 670 (Friedman), and AB 671 (Friedman) 
In addition to the legislation listed above, AB 587 (Chapter 657, Statutes of 2019), AB 670 (Chapter 178, Statutes 
of 2019), and AB 671 (Chapter 658, Statutes of 2019) also have an impact on state ADU law, particularly through 
Health and Safety Code Section 17980.12. These recent pieces of legislation, among other changes, address the 
following: 
• 
AB 587 creates a narrow exemption to the prohibition for ADUs to be sold or otherwise conveyed 
separately from the primary dwelling by allowing deed-restricted sales to occur if the local agency adopts 
an ordinance. To qualify, the primary dwelling and the ADU are to be built by a qualified nonprofit 
corporation whose mission is to provide units to low-income households (Gov. Code § 65852.26). 
• 
AB 670 provides that covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) that either effectively prohibit or 
unreasonably restrict the construction or use of an ADU or JADU on a lot zoned for single-family 
residential use are void and unenforceable (Civil Code Section 4751).

--- page 17 ---
6 
• 
AB 671 requires local agencies’ housing elements to include a plan that incentivizes and promotes the 
creation of ADUs that can offer affordable rents for very low, low-, or moderate-income households and 
requires HCD to develop a list of state grants and financial incentives in connection with the planning, 
construction and operation of affordable ADUs. (Gov. Code § 65583; Health and Safety Code § 50504.5)

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 10
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-4027
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 2, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)/Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) Ordinance Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss changes to State law associated with ADU and JADU development and consider areas of regulation which remain 
under local agency discretion.  
BACKGROUND:
In recent years (2016 and 2017), the California legislature passed several reforms (AB 2299, SB 1069, and AB 2406) 
intended to reduce regulations related to ADUs and JADUs to spur construction of these types of dwellings, with the 
broader goal of helping address the state housing crisis. ADU’s are also known as second units, guest houses, casitas, 
“granny” units or in-law units.  
In the spring of 2019, the City did extensive outreach aimed at helping the San Mateo community talk more constructively 
about the shared challenge of housing.  The City hosted two events in conjunction with Home for All, a San Mateo County 
collaborative, aimed at creating an inclusive environment for community members to discuss and build a shared 
understanding of how housing challenges affect the entire community and to broaden participation in the discussion.  The 
City held two events, the first on April 27, 2019 and the second on May 18, 2019. The second conversation was built upon 
the feedback and input that was received from the first gathering. The need for more information and feasibility of ADUs 
and JADUs were voiced by the community during these community conversations, as well as during the City’s General Plan 
community workshops. Please see Attachment 1 and Attachment 2 for summaries of these community conversation 
events.
Additionally, the City Council, at its annual 2019-20 goal setting meeting, directed staff to study ADUs and JADUs with 
regard to the City’s current regulations and opportunities to streamline the permitting process. 
New ADU/JADU State Legislation
On January 1, 2020, six ADU and JADU related housing bills signed into law by Governor Newsom became effective. Three 
of the six Assembly and Senate Bills (AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13) took direct aim at easing local zoning controls, reducing 
associated development fees, and expediting permit processing associated with ADU and JADU development. The primary 
changes resulting from these bills are summarized below:
AB 68 & AB 881 (Overlapping bills):

Prohibits minimum lot size requirements for ADUs;

Prohibits the imposition of side and rear setbacks greater than 4-feet for an ADU;

Ensures by-right an ADU of at least 800 square feet, 16 feet in height with 4-foot side and rear setbacks;

Limits floor area ratio, lot coverage, and other zoning requirements as impediments to ADU development;

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Local agencies must ministerially approve a permit within 60 days of deeming application complete;

Prohibits requiring replacement parking for demolished or converted garages or parking structures (i.e. carports);

Allows a new or converted ADU in the same location and footprint as the existing accessory structure;

Multi-family buildings may add ADUs up to 25% of the existing unit count (or at least one) and up to two detached; 
and

Single-family zoned lots can be developed with a JADU and ADU in addition to the primary residence (effectively 
allowing three (3) separate living units on each parcel zoned for single-family).
SB 13:

Property owner no longer must occupy the primary dwelling or the ADU (remains requirement for JADUs);

No impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square feet; otherwise fees are proportional to the size of primary dwelling; 

Cannot require correction of non-conforming zoning conditions as condition of approval; and

Allows owner to delay enforcement of certain building standards up to five years for building requirements that do 
not violate the Health and Safety Code.
Remaining Areas of Discretion for Local Agencies
The new state legislation has expressly limited the ability of local agencies to regulate ADUs and JADUs. Local agencies that 
haven’t already adopted an ordinance compliant with Government Code Section 65852.2 are required to default to the 
standards specified in state law for permitting ADUs. As of January 1, 2020, any local ordinance that conflicts with the 
existing and updated requirements specified in state law is rendered null and void. Local agencies can simply default to the 
state regulations or elect to adopt by local ordinance more permissive requirements than specified by the state.
Given the sweeping changes the new legislation brings, San Mateo is left with only a few remaining areas of discretion. 
Staff describes those areas of discretion and provides recommendations for City Council consideration and direction to 
staff in the seven discussion points below:
Building Size Limitations
State law provides a property owner the right to construct an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square feet in size, 
and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear yard setbacks regardless of any local ordinance related to: 
minimum or maximum ADU size, proportionality to the proposed or existing primary dwelling, limits on lot coverage, floor 
area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size. This means a small 5,000 square-foot lot with a floor area ratio (FAR) of .50 
could have a maximum build-out of 3,300 square feet (2,500 square-foot house plus an 800 square-foot ADU), or .66 FAR 
as a result of this “by-right” provision. 
A local agency can establish by ordinance a maximum building size for attached or detached ADUs provided it is not less 
than 850 square feet for a studio or one bedroom, or 1,000 square feet for an ADU with two or more bedrooms. ADUs 
attached to an existing primary residence cannot exceed more than 50 percent of the existing primary dwelling’s floor 
area. Detached ADUs are permitted to be up to 1,200 square feet provided there is adequate floor area allowance on the 
lot. In specific scenarios when an existing or proposed single-family residence is being developed with both a JADU and a 
detached ADU, state regulations specify a local agency “may impose” conditions that limit that detached ADU to no more 
than 800 square feet in size and 16 feet in height. Should the aforementioned provisional conditions not be adopted, it 
would mean that a 5,000 square foot R1-C (single-family) lot has the potential to be developed with a 1,200 square-foot 
primary residence, of which 500 square-feet can be converted into a JADU, and up to a 1,200 square-foot detached ADU. 
Presuming the primary residence and ADU in this scenario are occupied by at least two to three adults in each dwelling, 
and one to two adults in the JADU, there is a realistic possibility of having at least five to eight adults with accompanying 
vehicles living on the same lot. 
Building Height
The new state law establishes that a local agency must allow a minimum building height of at least 16 feet for either an 
attached or detached ADU. It should be noted building height as defined in the municipal code is measured from existing 
grade to top of the building plate, rather than to the tallest roof ridge. Since ADUs can be created from conversions of

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
existing accessory structures that sometimes may be built close to shared property lines (including no setbacks), the City 
may want to consider establishing ADU height restrictions or other objective standards to limit potential view and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties given the new reduced side and rear yard setback requirements of four feet. 
Additionally, the City can consider whether to allow two-story detached ADUs as long as we allow a minimum height of 16 
feet.  
Parking Requirements
State requirements for off-street parking associated with ADU development has become increasingly lax with each update. 
State law specifies required off-street parking shall not exceed one parking space per ADU or per bedroom, whichever is 
less. However, a local agency can elect to reduce or eliminate parking requirements for any ADU located within its 
jurisdiction. It should be noted that state law now eliminates replacement parking when a garage or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, or conversion of that parking structure into an 
ADU as was previously required. Additionally, Government Code Section 65852.2 (d)(1) exempts ADUs located within one-
half mile walking distance of any fixed-route bus stop or other transit stop from any imposed parking requirement. Given 
this exemption, the vast majority of residential zoned parcels in San Mateo would be exempt from providing the required 
off-street parking space due to the availability of public transit across the city. There is no parking requirement for JADUs. 
See Attachment 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map. 
Development/Impact Fees
SB 13 reduces impact fees associated with ADU development, and eliminates impact fees associated with JADU 
development, by creating a more equitable tiered fee structure that eliminates impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square 
feet and requires fees on larger ADUs to be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary 
dwelling. In order to charge proportional impact fees, the City would need to conduct a nexus fee study to determine the 
appropriate impact fee to charge for the ADU. In the absence of a fee nexus study, San Mateo does not currently apply 
traffic impact fees (TIF), park in-lieu fees, or water or sewer hook-up fees associated with ADU/JADU development.  The 
state Mitigation Fee Act requires that all new development pay its fair share so that the impacts of these ADUs on the 
need for public facilities (if any) will need to be studied.  If there are any unfunded impacts, other developments cannot be 
required to subsidize them and the City will need to make up the difference out of its General Fund. 
However, the City does charge a flat building permit fee of $2,819 for each ADU $1,275 for each JADU based on the actual 
cost of plan review and inspections. Should the City want to further incentivize ADU development, state law does not limit 
the authority of local agencies to adopt less restrictive requirements related to impact fees or project review fees. 
Objective Standards
Local agencies still have the limited ability to adopt objective standards as part of the ADU/JADU development 
requirements provided it does not conflict with state law. Examples of such objective development standards would be 
requiring matching exterior architectural materials and color patterns between the main house and the ADU, obscured 
glazing for windows along the side and rear facing elevations of two-story ADUs which are located within 20 feet of a 
neighboring dwelling on an abutting lot to ensure privacy, or requiring address markers for each ADU and JADU to be 
located along a street facing frontage for fire and safety purposes.
Prohibit Short-Term Rentals 
SB 13 prohibits short-term rentals (i.e. rental terms less than 30 days) of ADUs in the following scenarios: when an ADU is 
located within an existing or proposed single-family dwelling; when a city has adopted a condition that limits a detached 
ADU to 800 square feet when a JADU exists; or for ADUs in multi-family developments. However, state law does provide 
local agencies discretion to prohibit short-term rentals for all other ADU types (i.e. new or converted detached ADUs). The 
City may want to consider continuing the prohibition of short-term rentals for all ADUs, requiring the rental of an ADU be 
for a term longer than 30 days, as currently required in our local ordinance.  
Enforcement delay of existing unpermitted ADUs/JADUs
In addition to the waiver of impact fees, SB 13 also provides a provision where the property owner can request a five-year 
enforcement delay for unpermitted ADUs as long as the ADU meets health and safety standards. This statute is being

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
interpreted as only applicable to violations of the building code (Title 23) and not to violations of the zoning code (Title 27). 
As of February 14, 2020, there are a total of 19 active cases for unpermitted ADUs in San Mateo. Fourteen (14) of these 
cases do not have health and safety concerns nor nonconforming zoning conditions, and therefore can be permitted or are 
eligible for the five-year deferral to bring the structure into building code compliance. Three (3) of the cases appear to 
have nonconforming zoning conditions such as setback or FAR violations but are otherwise also eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral. Two (2) of the cases have health and safety violations (e.g. no heat), but are eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral once the health and safety violations are resolved.  The City may want to consider provisions for 
permanent amnesty to allow the existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and 
building code standards provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations. 
Staff Efforts 
Staff recognizes informing and educating the public are fundamental components of encouraging ADU/JADU development.  
This was also provided as feedback from the Home for All Community Conversations.  Staff has been examining 
opportunities to incorporate new technology and refine processes to help make information and permitting more 
accessible and easier for homeowners. These efforts are classified into three general categories described below:
Technology
Staff has been working with Symbium, a company that develops software that makes it easier to visualize land use and 
zoning regulations. Staff is currently testing a beta version of Symbium’s BUILD for ADUs software specific to San Mateo. 
This is a highly intuitive web platform that provides interactive mapping and simplifies complicated regulations, including 
the state’s new ADU/JADU housing laws that will help citizens navigate the permitting process.  Once a new Ordinance is 
adopted, Symbium will update the application to meet San Mateo’s updated requirements. 
Information
Staff assessed existing ADU/JADU handout materials and related web pages to determine how the information could be 
more accessible and intuitively presented to the public. As a result, the previously separate ADU and JADU submittal 
checklists have been consolidated and combined with the standard building permit guide to provide an easy to read 
format of all the information necessary to submit a complete Building Permit application for an ADU or JADU in one 
document. 
Additionally, staff has refreshed its ADU/JADU one-stop webpage, which is now featured on the City’s homepage. The 
webpage summarizes key Planning, Building, Fire, and Public Works requirements associated with ADU/JADU 
development, as well as a property zoning look-up tool, development fees, and handout materials. 
Programs
Staff is looking into the possibility of developing innovative programs intended to provide homeowners a range of benefits, 
including expediting design and permitting timelines, and financial assistance for qualifying projects. The City may explore 
the possibility of working with architects and home builders on developing pre-approved ADU designs that meet general 
development standards and building code requirements. The pre-approved designs provide the homeowner with savings 
of both time and money by avoiding the sometimes lengthy plan review process and costs associated with architectural 
design and engineering drawings. 
The City may also study the feasibility of offering financial/funding assistance programs that would make building an ADU 
or JADU a more accessible option for homeowners, as well as a tool to add affordable housing stock in San Mateo. The City 
may study offering a fee waiver incentive whereby building permit and plan check fees (and other development impact 
fees) would be completely waived for units offering qualifying low-income households. The City may also investigate 
developing a loan program to qualifying residents that would help provide homeowners with necessary funding.
Upcoming 2020 State Law Changes
There are two bills that attempt to clean up some of the 2019 legislation (AB 953 and SB 773). As of February 6, 2020, the 
changes clarify that 1) if a jurisdiction has not acted on a completed application in 60 days, it is deemed approved; and 2) a 
homeowner can have both an ADU and a JADU under a wider range of special provisions. It also fixes a typo that said

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
jurisdictions "may shall" approve multifamily ADUs, clarifying that jurisdictions shall approve them. Finally, it clarifies that 
the ADU rules are of state-wide concern. All of the other rules are unchanged.
Staff Recommendations for City Council
Staff will be preparing amendments to the Zoning Code consistent with the mandatory requirements of state law.  
However, as noted above, there remain some limited areas in which the City may exercise discretion in determining these 
requirements. Staff requests City Council direction on the following questions and options for Council’s consideration: 
1.
Should the City increase the exempted minimum “by-right” ADU square footage provision from 800 square feet 
up to 1,200 square feet? Staff recommends defaulting to the state specified “by-right” exemption of 800 square 
feet, or studying a tiered increase up to 1,200 square feet and limiting all ADUs to a maximum of two bedrooms. 
2.
Should the City limit the size of an ADU to 800 square feet when both an ADU and JADU would exist on the same 
lot? Staff recommends the City Council adopt this provisional condition to limit the size of ADUs on any single 
parcel that also has a JADU. 
3.
Should the City refer to the State statute for maximum building height of 16 feet, or study alternative building 
height restrictions or other objective standards? Staff recommends developing ADU building height maximums 
and objective standards compliant with the State requirements to help mitigate potential view, shade, and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties. 
4.
Should the City consider amending the Zoning Code to accommodate more flexible off-street parking standards 
(i.e. wider driveways) for lots with an ADU or JADU? Staff recommends considering exemptions to parking 
requirements and front yard paving to account for additional parking needs associated with ADU/JADU 
development. 
5.
Should the City consider impact fees for ADU/JADU’s and conduct a nexus study? Given the limited scope of 
charging impact fees and the goal to further incentivize ADU/JADU construction, staff recommends codifying that 
no impact fees be charged for ADU’s, regardless of size, and continue to charge the flat fee building permit to 
cover the cost of plan review and inspections. 
6.
Should the City develop objective design standards for ADU/JADUs? Staff recommends that objective design 
standards related to architectural materials, reducing privacy impacts, and addressing fire and safety concerns be 
incorporated into the ADU/JADU Ordinance. 
7.
Does the City Council want to continue prohibiting short-term rentals for all ADU’s? Staff recommends continuing 
to prohibit short-term rentals by requiring the rental terms for all new or converted detached ADUs to be no less 
than 30 days as already required by local ordinance.
8.
Does the City Council want to consider provisions for permanent amnesty to allow existing illegal non-conforming 
ADU’s to remain in perpetuity? Staff recommends preparing provisions for permanent amnesty to allow the 
existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and building code standards 
provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with necessary Code amendments, including staff time and Symbium’s BUILD, are covered under the 
Community Development Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – April 27, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 2 – May 18, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map
Att 4 – Public Comments Received
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director
kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Click or tap here to enter text.
WHEREAS, An existing ordinance addressing accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units 
is codified at Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 govern accessory dwelling units and junior 
accessory dwelling units and were recently amended; and
WHEREAS, These changes in state law necessitate amendments to Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose parking and setback 
standards in conformance with state law; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(A) provides that the state Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) is to make findings regarding local agency ordinance compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, HCD has reviewed the City’s proposed ordinance and believes that Government Code Section 
65852.2 authorizes the location of accessory dwelling units in required front setback areas and that the City is 
required to permit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(B)(ii) provides that, in the event that the City disagrees 
with an HCD finding, the City may adopt findings explaining why the ordinance is in compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to prohibit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas 
based on health and safety concerns;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.  The City Council of the City of San Mateo finds:
(a) Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose parking and setback standards 
in conformance with state law.
(b) Government Code Section 65852.2(e) limits side and rear setbacks for accessory dwelling units to 
four feet, but does not address front setbacks.
(c) The City wishes to limit the location of accessory dwelling units to locations outside of the required 
front setback to address the following health and safety concerns:
(1) The City’s required front setback areas range from 15 feet to 25 feet.

--- page 25 ---
(2) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to preserve visibility to 
the street from driveways and parking spaces for vehicles exiting the property in order to protect both 
pedestrians and passing vehicles.
(3) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to locate accessory 
dwelling units far enough from the street to reduce traffic noise for residents of accessory dwelling 
units.
Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.04.165 “Dwelling” is amended to read:
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit constructed within the 
walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including attached garages
Section 3. Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones,” is 
amended to read as follows:
Chapter 27.19 
Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
Article I Accessory Dwelling Unit
27.19.010 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in 
accordance with state law.
27.19.020 Prohibition on Subdivision
Properties with approved ADUs may not be subdivided at the time the units are approved or thereafter.
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Required
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADU is required in order to demonstrate 
that a unit is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions 
of this Article, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.
27.19.050 Development Standards
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development standards:

--- page 26 ---
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on property zoned to allow residential 
use.
(b) Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be constructed on 
any site. 
(c) “By Right” ADUs. A property may construct either an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 
square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear setbacks regardless of any 
development standard based on the percentage of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor 
area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude its construction. The floor area of any 
new ADU which exceeds 800 square feet shall be applied to the maximum floor area allowance of the subject lot 
as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
(d) Maximum Unit Size.
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. A new attached ADU may be up to a maximum of 50 
percent of the floor area of the existing or proposed primary residence, but in no event shall the 
maximum size be less than 850 square feet for a one-bedroom ADU and 1000 square feet for an ADU 
with two or more bedrooms provided that maximum overall FAR for the parcel is not exceeded.
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.  The floor area of a detached ADU shall not exceed 1,200 
square feet. Existing accessory structures larger than 1,200 square-feet that are being converted into an 
ADU are exempt from the 1,200 square-foot maximum.
(3) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. One new detached  
ADU may be constructed on a lot with a junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU), however, in such 
instances the ADU will be restricted to 800 square feet in floor area and a height limit of 16 feet.
(e) Setbacks. An ADU must provide a setback of at least four feet from both the side and rear yard 
setbacks and outside of any required front setback except that:
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure 
that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as 
the existing structure.
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing legally permitted garage.
(f) The ADU, whether attached or detached, shall provide a separate exterior entrance, cooking 
facility/kitchen, and bathroom/shower facility.
(g) Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached from the 
primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted in the same locations 
on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning district provided that only a four 
foot side and rear setback will be required for an ADU.

--- page 27 ---
(h) Number and Type of Required Parking Spaces.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space for each ADU or bedroom, whichever is less. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 
feet wide by 18 feet long without any obstructions. The required ADU parking may be located in a 
garage, carport, uncovered, or in a tandem orientation. The required parking for the primary residential 
dwelling unit must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying zoning district.
(2) Location of Required Parking for Accessory Dwelling Unit. The required parking for the ADU 
may be located in the same locations permitted for the primary residence as specified in the underlying 
zoning district.  
(3) Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU. 
(4) Parking Exemptions.  No additional parking shall be required for an ADU in the following 
instances:
(A) The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public transit; or
(B) The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic 
district; or
(C) The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or 
an existing legally permitted accessory structure; or
(D) In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not offered to the 
occupant of the ADU; or
(E) When the ADU is located within one block of a car sharing pick-up/drop-off location.
(i) Architectural Standards. New ADUs and conversions of an existing legally permitted structure shall be 
designed to comply with the following standards:
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Locate the primary entrance to the ADU no closer to the street than the primary 
residential dwelling unit;
(B) Be of the same architectural style as the primary structure;
(C) Be constructed of the similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of colors as the 
primary residential dwelling unit; and
(D) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy.

--- page 28 ---
(E) Be permitted to build an attached ADU of at least 16-feet in height, or up to the plate 
height of the primary residence provided the building height conforms to the standards of the 
underlying zoning district, whichever is higher.
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Comply with the architectural standards listed above for attached ADUs;
(B) Not exceed 16 feet measured from grade to highest roof peak; and
(C) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy.
(j) Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for an ADU.
(k) Utility Fees. ADUs shall not be considered new residential uses for the purposes of calculating City 
connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer service. For an ADU located within an 
existing structure, neither the installation of a new or separate utility connection nor the payment of a 
connection fee or capacity charge is required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City 
will require a new or separate utility connection directly between the accessory dwelling and the utility.
(l) Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized 
variance is approved.
27.19.060 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(2) Sale of the ADU separately from the sale of the single-family residence is prohibited.
(3) The approved size and attributes of the ADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Article II Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
27.19.070 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).

--- page 29 ---
27.19.080 Prohibition on Subdivision
Properties with approved JADUs may not be subdivided at the time the JADU is approved or thereafter.
27.19.090 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
27.19.100 Ministerial Permit Required
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the 
provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, a ministerial, non-
discretionary permit shall be issued.
27.19.110 Development Standards
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the following 
development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on properties zoned to allow single-
family residential use, and for which a single-family residence exists, or is proposed to be built. The residential 
property shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other multi-family development.
(b) Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. The number of JADUs is limited to one per 
residential lot with a single-family residence. Lots with multi-family housing or more than one detached single-
family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs.
(c) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(d) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district, provided that the total floor 
area for the parcel or lot does not exceed the maximum allowable floor area.
(e) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed 
or legally existing single-family dwelling unit, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into JADUs.
(f) Unit Access.  A JADU must include:
(1) A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the one-family dwelling, which shall be 
provided to serve the JADU only; and

--- page 30 ---
(2) An interior entry access between the JADU and the one-family dwelling. This interior entry 
access may be a door equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior door 
for sound attenuation.
(g) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components:
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU.
(h) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities, or may share 
sanitation facilities with the primary dwelling unit.
(i) Building and Fire Requirements.
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated improvements 
meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to the main living area 
for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke 
alarm in the main residence.
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector.
(j) Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for a JADU.
(k) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU.
27.19.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1)  The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the junior accessory 
unit.
(2) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the JADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.

--- page 31 ---
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21080.17 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), the portion of this ordinance 
addressing accessory dwelling units is statutorily exempt from CEQA, because it relates to second units in a 
single family or multifamily residential zone.  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), the 
portion of this ordinance addressing junior accessory dwelling units is exempt from CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that amending the City’s Zoning Code to comply with state law 
requirements pertaining to junior accessory dwelling units within existing residences will have a significant effect 
on the environment.
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 32 ---
From:
T T
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ADU Ordinance - community input
Date:
Monday, August 03, 2020 3:40:21 PM
Attachments:
image009.png
Hi Philip -
Thank you for your work spearheading the ADU ordinance update. You mentioned that you were seeking community input on
the direction of the ordinance so I wanted to provide you with our input. 
The addition of ADU units should benefit San Mateo City and its' residents in multiple ways:
1) Increase in housing stock = greater supply, lower overall rental pricing = more affordable units across the City / Bay Area
2) Increase in property values for homeowners
3) Increase in property tax revenue for the City
The state of California has clearly identified ADUs as a positive opportunity, if San Mateo deems it so as well, then the goal
should be to remove unnecessary challenges to the completion of ADUs. 
In our conversations thus far, there have been 2 issues that have come to my attention as potential stumbling blocks and that I
would like to see modified in the new ordinance.
1) Architectural style requirements - the current code requires the ADU to be of the same architectural style of the main house.
I have no issue with a desire to have the ADU complement the design of the main house, but I do think it would allow for
better design to at least loosen this requirement so that the design is complementary and not necessarily exactly the same.
Having buildings that speak to each other and play off design concepts is architecturally intriguing and can lead to better
design.  
However, my main issue with the architectural style requirement is one of timing. We were looking to build an ADU and live
in it while we remodel the main house. Per the current code, we need to design the ADU to look like our existing 60's house.
This doesn't make sense since we would then remodel the main house and then it would not match with the ADU? Or we then
have to spend tens of thousands extra on renting out a house during construction even though building the ADU first would
solve that? We have been told that we can not apply for both the ADU and main house remodel concurrently to solve this
requirement. This seems like an unnecessary barrier when the end result would be a remodeled main house and ADU that are
of the same architectural style.
I would propose that this requirement be removed completely or, at least, modified to allow for construction of an ADU and a
subsequent house remodel.  
2) Location of the ADU: the current code requirement says that the entrance to the ADU cannot be located closer to the street
than the primary residence. For houses that wish to convert a garage to a J-ADU (where some garages may be in front of the
front door) and for atypical lots, this may prohibit ADUs / J-ADUs that would otherwise fit the parcel and neighborhood well.
I believe that the location of the main house front door and ADU front door is not a factor in whether the design is
aesthetically appealing or appropriate for a parcel or neighborhood. An ADU door could be designed to be unobtrusive even if
it were in front of the main door. On a deep lot with a house set far back, an ADU could be located in front of a house but be
placed to minimize visibility from the street and not impact a neighborhood at all. As such, I would like to see this requirement
removed. 
Thanks again for your time and stay safe!
Cheers,
Tracy
On Wed, Jul 8, 2020 at 5:13 PM Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: