--- page 1 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 1 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
City of San Mateo 
AGREEMENT WITH______________________ [insert vendor name] 
FOR 
MASTER TECHNOLOGY-RELATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  
 
This Professional Services Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”), made as of this day of 
____________________, is entered into by and between ____________________, (hereinafter referred to as 
“VENDOR”), a ___________________, and the City of San Mateo (hereinafter referred to as 
“CUSTOMER”), a municipal corporation in the State of California. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
A. 
CUSTOMER desires certain equipment, software, maintenance and support services hereinafter 
described. 
 
B. 
CUSTOMER desires to engage VENDOR to provide these professional services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and VENDOR has offered to provide the 
required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 – DEFINITIONS 
 
1.1 
“Acceptance” means that CUSTOMER has accepted in writing that the Professional Services, 
Deliverables or other goods and services as agreed to as part of this Agreement were performed 
and delivered in accordance with the Statement of Work or Change Order.  CUSTOMER will create 
a list of non-conforming elements which must be corrected before Acceptance, except for minor or 
inconsequential errors, and such Acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld. If Professional 
Services are for the implementation of a software or a system, then within sixty (60) days of the Go 
Live Date (as defined below) CUSTOMER will create a list of Defects (as defined below) which must 
be corrected before Acceptance, except for minor or inconsequential errors. 
 
1.2 
“Applicable Specifications” means the functional, operational and other characteristics of the 
Services or deliverables, timeline, milestones, assumptions, testing and validation criteria, and 
other specifications as described in the Statement of Work or Change Order.  
 
1.3 
Authorized Users" means all Persons authorized by CUSTOMER [or any of its Affiliates] to access 
and use the Services through CUSTOMER's account under this Agreement[, each of which shall be 
identified by CUSTOMER's written notice to Provider as set forth in the applicable Service Order as 
the same may be amended by CUSTOMER from time to time].

--- page 2 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 2 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
 
1.4 
”Change Order” is a mutual agreement in writing by both Parties changing the scope of the 
project. The Change Order will include information such as but not limited to the date executed, 
due date, scope of work, assumptions, agreed upon cost, hours and rates, job responsibilities, 
deliverables, verification and acceptance testing, payment terms, requestor, and approving 
parties).  
 
1.5 
"Confidential Information" means information in any form or medium (whether oral, written, 
electronic, or other) that the Disclosing Party considers confidential or proprietary, including 
information consisting of or relating to the Disclosing Party's technology, trade secrets, know-how, 
business operations, plans, strategies, customers, and pricing, and information with respect to 
which the Disclosing Party has contractual or other confidentiality obligations, all CUSTOMER Data 
(including all Personal Information including Personally Identifiable Information (PII) ) is and will 
remain the Confidential Information of CUSTOMER. 
 
1.6 
"Customer Data" means any and all information, data, materials, works, expressions, or other 
content, including any that are (a) uploaded, submitted, posted, transferred, transmitted, or 
otherwise provided or made available by or on behalf of CUSTOMER or any Authorized User for 
Processing by or through the Subscription Services, or (b) collected, downloaded, or otherwise 
received by Provider or the Subscription Services for CUSTOMER or any Authorized User pursuant 
to this Agreement or any Service Order or at the written request or instruction of CUSTOMER or 
such Authorized User. All output, copies, reproductions, improvements, modifications, 
adaptations, translations, and other derivative works of, based on, derived from, or otherwise using 
any Customer Data are themselves also Customer Data. For the avoidance of doubt, Customer 
Data includes all User Data and Personal Information including PII. 
 
1.7 
“Customization” means but is not limited to all code, software modifications or computer 
programming to the licensed Software developed or modified under the terms of this Agreement or 
related Change Order or Statement of Work. 
 
1.8 
"Documentation" means all generally available documentation relating to the Services, including 
all user manuals, operating manuals, and other instructions, specifications, documents, and 
materials, in any form or media, that describe any component, feature, requirement, or other 
aspect of the Services, including any functionality, testing, operation, or use thereof. 
 
1.9 
“Defect” means (i) an omission in software code causing the software or integration links to 
operate such that it is not in compliance with the Applicable Specifications or (ii) the media on 
which the product(s) is delivered is damaged or corrupted such that the software does not load 
properly, (iii) the documentation contains gaps and/or erroneous information with regard to the 
deliverables, (iv) the services delivered did not meet the Applicable Specifications or were not 
performed in a professional manner consistent with experts and professionals in the industry, or (v) 
errors, problems or other irregularities in the deliverables. 
 
1.10 
“Effective Date” means the date that this Agreement takes effect, which unless otherwise stated, 
will be the date set forth on Page One of this Agreement upon being signed by duly authorized 
representatives of VENDOR and CUSTOMER.

--- page 3 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 3 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
1.11 
"Highly Sensitive Personal Information" means an (i) individual's government-issued 
identification number (including Social Security number, driver's license number, or state-issued 
identification number); (ii) financial account number, credit card number, debit card number, or 
credit report information, with or without any required security code, access code, personal 
identification number, or password that would permit access to an individual’s financial account; 
or (iii) biometric, genetic, health, medical, or medical insurance data. 
 
1.12 
“Information Security Incident” means any authorized, attempted, or actual threat to the 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an organization’s information systems and data. 
Examples include malware infections, ransomware, phishing, unauthorized access, and data 
breaches. These incidents disrupt operations and require immediate incident response protocols 
 
1.13 
"Intellectual Property Rights" means any and all registered and unregistered rights granted, 
applied for, or otherwise now or hereafter in existence under or related to any patent, copyright, 
trademark, trade secret, database protection, or other intellectual property rights laws, and all 
similar or equivalent rights or forms of protection, in any part of the world. 
 
1.14 
“Go Live Date” is the date of the first production use of the licensed Software or deliverables from 
this Agreement by CUSTOMER where the CUSTOMER is using the Software or deliverable to 
manage its normal business operations. Prototype development and testing, data conversion and 
testing, initial system training, and conference room pilot operations and testing take place before 
the Go Live Date. 
 
1.15 
“Personal Information” means information provided to Service Provider by or at the direction of 
CUSTOMER, information which is created or obtained by Service Provider on behalf of CUSTOMER, 
or information to which access was provided to Service Provider by or at the direction of 
CUSTOMER, in the course of Service Provider's performance under this Agreement that: (i) 
identifies or can be used to identify an individual (including, without limitation, names, signatures, 
addresses, telephone numbers, email addresses, and other unique identifiers); or (ii) can be used 
to authenticate an individual (including, without limitation, employee identification numbers, 
government-issued identification numbers, passwords or PINs, user identification and account 
access credentials or passwords, financial account numbers, credit report information, student 
information, biometric, health, genetic, medical, or medical insurance data, answers to security 
questions, and other personal identifiers), in case of both subclauses (i) and (ii), including, without 
limitation, all Highly Sensitive Personal Information. CUSTOMER's business contact information is 
not by itself deemed to be Personal Information. 
1.16 
“Personally Identifiable Information” means Information that, if disclosed, could cause harm, 
such as social security numbers, passport numbers, driver's license numbers, or financial account 
numbers, and; Data that can be combined with other sources to identify someone, such as birth 
date, place of birth, zip code, or race.

--- page 4 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 4 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
 
1.17 
“Professional Services” means all services provided by VENDOR which are primarily intellectual 
and mental, and performed by qualified personnel. Such services may include without limitation 
project planning, consulting, project management, data conversion, training, programming, and 
development of Customizations. 
 
1.18 
“Security Breach” means an incident where an unauthorized individual bypasses security 
mechanisms to gain access to a device, network, application, or data. 
 
1.19 
“Software” means the Vendor’s computer software program(s) licensed by CUSTOMER and 
identified in the software license agreement. 
 
1.20 
”Statement of Work” means a document mutually developed and agreed upon by both parties 
which describes in detail the services to be provided by Vendor, implementation schedule and 
phases, responsibilities of CUSTOMER and Vendor, description and schedule of training, detailed 
list of professional services fees and expenses by major work task, acceptance plans, 
assumptions, risks, training schedule and description, etc. 
 
1.21 
"User Data" means any and all information reflecting the access or use of the Subscription 
Services by or on behalf of CUSTOMER or any Authorized User, including any end user profile-, visit-
, session-, impression-, click through-, or click stream-data, and any statistical or other analysis, 
information, or data based on or derived from any of the foregoing. 
 
SECTION 2 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The Services, such as but not limited to training, software implementation, software development and 
customization, consulting, and interface development, will be performed pursuant to and in accordance 
with the Statement of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A of this Agreement. 
 
2.1 
Access and Use. VENDOR hereby grants to CUSTOMER exercisable by and through its Authorized 
Users, a non-exclusive non-transferable right to access and use the Subscription Services, 
including in operation with other software, hardware, systems, networks, and services, for 
CUSTOMER’S business purposes. The total number of Authorized Users will not exceed the 
number set forth in the applicable Service Order, except as expressly agreed to in writing by the 
parties and subject to any appropriate adjustment of the Fees payable hereunder; 
 
2.2 
CUSTOMER’s Rights to Engage Other Consultants.  CUSTOMER reserves the right to engage 
other consultants in connection with this Agreement.  Any third party receiving confidential 
information or trade secrets under this paragraph must agree to the same prohibition against 
disclosure as CUSTOMER and VENDOR may require that any such third party execute a non-
disclosure agreement which includes widely accepted and reasonable non-disclosure terms. 
 
2.3 
Progress.  VENDOR shall keep the Project Manager and/or his/her duly authorized designee 
informed on a regular basis regarding the status and progress of the Services, activities performed 
and planned hereunder, and any meetings that have been scheduled or are desired relative to the 
Professional Services or relative to this Agreement.

--- page 5 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 5 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
2.4 
Scheduling.  VENDOR shall generally have no obligation to work any particular schedule, unless 
otherwise provided in this Agreement or in the Statement of Work. VENDOR shall coordinate the 
provision of the Professional Services with CUSTOMER in such a fashion and schedule so as to 
achieve the results sought under the terms of this Agreement. 
 
2.5 
Change Orders.  Change Orders applicable to the Statement of Work shall be negotiated and 
implemented as described in the Statement of Work or as otherwise agreed to by the duly 
authorized representatives of both parties. VENDOR shall use its best efforts to provide all costs, 
Third Party Software, additional platform and infrastructure requirements, additional training 
requirements, and any other additional component or services within fifteen (15) business days of 
receipt of a Change Order. 
 
2.6 
Compliance with Laws. Provider shall comply with all applicable Laws as they concern this 
Agreement or the subject matter hereof, including by securing and maintaining all required and 
appropriate visas, work permits, business licenses, and other documentation and clearances 
necessary for performance of the Services.  
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF VENDOR 
 
3.1 
Vendor Responsibilities.  VENDOR warrants that it has all requisite power and authority to 
conduct its business and to execute and deliver, and to perform all of its obligations under this 
Agreement.  
 
VENDOR warrants that the individual who has signed this Agreement representing VENDOR has the 
legal power, right and authority to enter into this Agreement so as to bind VENDOR to perform the 
conditions contemplated herein. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of 
all work furnished by VENDOR under this Agreement.  VENDOR shall, without additional 
compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
VENDOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the 
services of VENDOR. 
 
VENDOR agrees to comply with the CUSTOMER’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a 
Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
3.2 
Vendor’s Responsibilities for Costs and Expenses.  VENDOR shall be responsible for all costs 
and expenses incurred by VENDOR, personnel of VENDOR, and subcontractors of VENDOR, in 
connection with this Agreement and performance of the Professional Services, including, without 
limitation, payment of salaries, fringe benefit contributions, payroll taxes, withholding taxes and 
other taxes or levies and all other amounts due to its personnel and subcontractors, office 
overhead expenses, travel expenses except as otherwise agreed, telephone and other 
telecommunications expenses, and document reproduction expenses.

--- page 6 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 6 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
3.3 
Travel Expenses.  Travel and related expenses shall be necessary, reasonable and consistent with 
CUSTOMER’s travel policies, and shall be mutually agreed upon in advance. CUSTOMER shall not 
be responsible for any VENDOR travel time 
 
3.4 
Vendor Personnel and Professional Services Warranty.  The Services shall be performed by 
VENDOR or under its supervision, and VENDOR shall be responsible for all actions and work 
product(s) of the personnel working on behalf of VENDOR in the performance of this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR represents that it possesses the professional and technical personnel required to 
perform the Professional Services for this Agreement and as defined in the Statement of Work. 
VENDOR warrants that all Services will be performed diligently and in a timely, professional and 
workmanlike manner by experienced and competent personnel with the care and skill ordinarily 
exercised by members of the profession practicing under similar conditions using all common and 
widely accepted practices and professional standards for Services such as but not limited to 
installing, implementing, deploying, and maintaining the Product. 
 
VENDOR represents and warrants that (i) none of the Services or any part of this  Agreement is or 
will be inconsistent with any obligation VENDOR may have to others; (ii) the Services, deliverables 
or work products as they are delivered to CUSTOMER will not infringe, misappropriate or violate any 
intellectual property or other right of any person or entity; and (iii) VENDOR has the full right to 
provide CUSTOMER with the assignments and rights provided herein (including without limitation, 
through execution of appropriate written agreements with its employees, agents and 
subcontractors). 
 
3.5 
Remedies for Non-Performance of Services.  If any element of the Services does not conform to 
the warranty on Professional Services, then CUSTOMER shall notify VENDOR in writing of such 
nonconformance. VENDOR shall timely re-perform such element in a manner that does conform, 
provided, however, that if such re-performance is impracticable, VENDOR shall timely refund the 
fees allocable to such nonconforming element. At its sole discretion, CUSTOMER may withhold 
payment for non-conformance to professional standards, excessive or unauthorized costs, or 
defects in deliverables until remedied, and no interest, penalties or late fees shall apply to such 
withholdings.  
 
3.6 
Cooperation with CUSTOMER’s Project Manager.  As required herein or in the Statement of 
Work, CUSTOMER shall designate a Project Manager for the project effort to implement the 
Product. VENDOR shall work closely and cooperate fully with CUSTOMER’s designated Project 
Manager, and any other agencies which may have jurisdiction over or interest in the Software and 
related Professional Services. The Project Manager will administer this Agreement on behalf of 
CUSTOMER. The Project Manager, or his/her designee, shall be the principal officer of CUSTOMER 
for liaison with VENDOR, and shall review and give approval to the details of the Scope of Work and 
Services as described in the Statement of Work and any Change Orders or Amendments to this 
Agreement. The Project Manager shall be specified in the Statement of Work which is mutually 
agreed to between CUSTOMER and VENDOR. CUSTOMER reserves the right to change its Project 
Manager.

--- page 7 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 7 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
3.7 
Vendor Marketing.  No news releases, including photographs, public announcements, or 
confirmations of the same, relating to any part of the subject matter of this Agreement or any phase 
of providing the Professional Services shall be made without prior written consent of CUSTOMER. 
The information which VENDOR acquires related to its performance of the Professional Services 
shall be kept confidential unless the release of information is authorized in writing by CUSTOMER. 
 
3.8 
Support and Maintenance. VENDOR shall provide maintenance and support services for the 
Subscription Services in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3. The Support Services are 
included in the Services, and VENDOR shall not assess any additional fees, costs, or charges for 
such Support Services. 
 
3.8.1 Support Service Responsibilities. 
 
VENDOR shall provide support service as agreed upon by each party, including:  
 
3.8.1.1 Provide unlimited telephone support during the hours of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Business Days; 
 
3.8.1.2 Provide online access to technical support bulletins and other user support information 
and forums, to the full extent VENDOR makes such resources available to its other 
CUSTOMERs; and 
 
3.8.1.3 Respond to and Resolve Support Requests as specified in this Section 3. 
 
3.9 
Electronic Format for Supporting Documentation.  All VENDOR and Third Party Supporting 
Documentation provided electronically shall be provided in a form and format that does not require 
CUSTOMER to purchase additional Third Party Software to view and print the Supporting 
Documentation. 
 
3.10 
Virus Free.  VENDOR warrants that to the best of its knowledge there are no viruses, backdoor 
entries, time bombs, unauthorized programming, lockout devices or other disruptive technologies 
being shipped with deliverables, products or software in this Agreement. CUSTOMER will notify 
VENDOR in writing if it detects such disruptive technologies and will provide any information that it 
may have regarding the nature of such non-conformance. VENDOR will correct such non-
conformance in a timely manner and at no cost to CUSTOMER. 
 
3.11 
Security. VENDOR must undertake cybersecurity measures to protect CUSTOMER data at all times 
as shown in Exhibit C.  
 
SECTION 4 - DUTIES OF CUSTOMER 
 
CUSTOMER shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
CUSTOMER shall examine documents submitted by VENDOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of VENDOR'S work. 
 
CUSTOMER shall use the Services solely for CUSTOMER’s business purposes and shall not: (a) 
reverse engineer or otherwise attempt to discover the source code of or trade secrets embodied in 
the Services; (b) distribute, transfer, lease, grant sublicenses, or otherwise make available the 
Services to third parties (including as an application service provider, service bureau, or rental 
source); (c) embed or incorporate in any manner the Services into websites other than the Website;

--- page 8 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 8 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
(d) except as enabled by an application programming interface released by VENDOR, create add-
ons, plug-ins, extensions, modifications to or derivative works of the Services; (e) remove the 
copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary rights or notices included within the Services and on 
and in the documentation and training materials; (f) use the Services in a manner not authorized 
under the documentation on the Website or in violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation, 
including any applicable export/import laws, such as the Export Administration Regulations 
administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the laws and regulations administered by the 
U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the International Traffic in 
Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State; or (g) in any way access or use the 
Services to directly or indirectly develop, promote, distribute, sell or support any product or service 
that is competitive with the Services.  
 
CUSTOMER will ensure that all Users (a) provide accurate, current and complete information as 
may be prompted by any registration forms on the Site ("Registration Data"), (b) maintain the 
security of any passwords and identification, and (c) maintain and promptly update the 
Registration Data and any other information provided to VENDOR. 
 
CUSTOMER is responsible for the timely communication of any vendor set-up and invoice 
submission requirements for vendor payments (e.g. purchase orders, vendor registration forms, 
use of an independent portal for invoice submission, etc.). Any fees associated with the 
submission of an invoice and/or receipt of payment will be the responsibility of the CUSTOMER.  
 
CUSTOMER retains ownership of all right, title, and interest in the CUSTOMER Data. CUSTOMER 
agrees that it will only provide Customer Data to VENDOR via VENDOR’s secure channels with 
encryption. CUSTOMER grants VENDOR (with a right to sublicense to a subcontractor that is 
hosting theVENDOR Service (each a “Hosting Provider”)) a nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, 
license to reproduce, display, adapt, modify, transmit, distribute, and otherwise use such 
Customer Data as necessary or reasonable to provide the Services and to use the Customer Data 
in anonymized and aggregated form for generating “Benchmarking Statistics” relating to industry 
trends provided that the anonymized data does not include information that identifies or provides a 
reasonable basis to identify a company or an individual, where, without limitation, the following 
identifiers have been removed: company names and the names of individuals, addresses, account 
numbers, social security numbers, phone numbers, e-mail address(es) and any other information 
which could reasonably be anticipated to identify, when taken in the aggregate, a specific 
company, organization or individual.  
 
SECTION 5 - TERM 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on ___________ and be completed on 
________. 
 
SECTION 6 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by CUSTOMER only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CUSTOMER approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CUSTOMER agrees to pay VENDOR a fee in an amount of 
$____________, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.

--- page 9 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 9 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
SECTION 7 – TERMINATION 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CUSTOMER shall otherwise have by law, CUSTOMER shall 
have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) 
days' written notice to VENDOR.  VENDOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon receipt of 
said written notice. 
 
SECTION 8 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
All documents prepared by VENDOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall be the property of 
CUSTOMER, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 9 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
All reports and documents prepared by VENDOR in connection with the performance of this Agreement are 
confidential until released by CUSTOMER to the public.  VENDOR shall not make any such documents or 
information available to any individual or organization not employed by VENDOR or CUSTOMER without 
the written consent of CUSTOMER before any such release. 
 
The following shall not be considered Confidential or Proprietary Information:  (i) any information in the 
public domain at the time of its communication thereof to either party by the other party; (ii) any 
information which enters the public domain, through no fault of the receiving party subsequent to the time 
of its communication to the receiving party; (iii)  any information which is obtained in good faith by either 
party from a third party, provided such third party is not bound by a confidentiality agreement with Vendor 
or CUSTOMER, as applicable; (iv) information that was already known to that party prior to the date of 
disclosure to that party; (v) information which the receiving party establishes was developed 
independently of confidential or proprietary information furnished to it; and (vi) information that is required 
to be disclosed to any court, government authority or regulatory authority or pursuant to requirement of 
any state or federal law. 
 
SECTION 10 - INTEREST OF VENDOR 
 
VENDOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, 
financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services 
under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - VENDOR'S STATUS 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, VENDOR shall 
at all times be considered an independent Vendor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of 
the CUSTOMER as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is accomplished.  
Nothing herein shall be construed to make VENDOR an agent or employee of CUSTOMER while providing 
services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 – PERSONNEL REVIEW AND APPROVAL 
 
VENDOR shall have the right to assign personnel to this Agreement, but CUSTOMER shall have the right of 
review of VENDOR’s personnel assigned to the project, including all subcontractors. This includes but is 
not limited to CUSTOMER’s ability to require a timely replacement.

--- page 10 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 10 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
VENDOR warrants that each person assigned to this Agreement will be for the duration of the project with 
full-time efforts except as specified or agreed to by CUSTOMER, or due to the following exceptions: illness, 
death, termination or resignation from VENDOR. No subcontractors shall be used on the project without 
the express written approval of CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 13 - INDEMNITY 
 
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CUSTOMER, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, volunteers, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, breach of 
confidentiality, security obligations, and expense arising out of VENDOR’s performance of this Agreement, 
except those claims arising out of CUSTOMER’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. VENDOR agrees to 
defend CUSTOMER, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and agents against any 
such claims. The VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement. If a Security Breach may cause irreparable harm, the CUSTOMER is entitled to equitable relief. 
 
SECTION 14 - INSURANCE 
 
VENDOR shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in Exhibit D of 
this agreement. 
 
SECTION 15 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of VENDOR and cannot be 
transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by VENDOR without the prior written consent of CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 16 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF VENDOR 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that VENDOR is skilled in the 
performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CUSTOMER relies upon the skill 
of VENDOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and VENDOR agrees to thus perform 
the work.  The acceptance of VENDOR's work by CUSTOMER does not operate as a release of VENDOR 
from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 17 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either Party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, 
condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other 
term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either Party of any fee or other money 
which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation 
by the other Party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or 
ordinance.

--- page 11 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 11 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
SECTION 18 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) 
by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above 
$5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, 
and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that 
neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or 
actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.   
 
SECTION 19 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
VENDOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable regulations 
governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither VENDOR nor any of its sub-Vendors shall discriminate 
in the employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, 
medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification 
pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 20 – MEDIATION 
 
20.1 
Dispute Resolution.  In the event of any dispute between the parties hereunder, the parties shall 
first attempt to resolve the dispute at the Project Manager level representing CUSTOMER and 
his/her equivalent representing VENDOR. If the dispute is not resolved at this level within ten (10) 
business days of the date the other party is first informed of the dispute in writing, the parties shall 
attempt to resolve the dispute at the CUSTOMER Manager level and his/her equivalent representing 
VENDOR. The use of the foregoing procedure is a condition precedent to the commencement of 
any mediation or other legal proceedings hereunder. 
 
20.2 
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any Party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The Parties shall meet in mediation within thirty (30) days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the Parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the 
California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator 
shall be selected by a “blindfold” process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the Parties. Neither Party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No Party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than sixty (60) days, unless the parties extend the maximum time. 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit 
one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California State 
Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected 
by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once

--- page 12 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 12 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 21 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CUSTOMER'S request if litigation is brought against CUSTOMER in connection with 
VENDOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon 
VENDOR'S wrongdoing, CUSTOMER shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, 
and travel at VENDOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
SECTION 22 - NOTICES 
 
All notices, requests, consents, including notification in the event of an information security incident, and 
approvals hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered with proof of receipt where official proof of 
receipt can be validated, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows: 
 
To CUSTOMER: 
<insert City Contact Name> 
City of San Mateo 
<address> 
<City, State, Zip> 
To VENDOR: 
<insert Vendor Business Name> 
Attn:  _____________________ 
<address> 
<City, State, Zip> 
 
Either party may change its address or addressee for the purposes of this paragraph by notice. Notice 
given in accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed given when received. 
 
SECTION 24 – TAXES 
 
CUSTOMER shall be liable for all federal, state, municipal or other governmental taxes, duties charges or 
costs, however designated, now or hereinafter imposed, upon the Services and deliverables of this 
Agreement exclusive, however, of taxes based upon net income, gross income or net worth of VENDOR; 
taxes based upon the franchise of VENDOR; taxes based upon any equipment or software, other than that 
which is licensed in this Agreement, which are owned by the VENDOR; or taxes paid by or for any employee 
of the VENDOR. CUSTOMER reserves the right to review the tax charges and, in no event, will be 
responsible to pay more than is appropriate or actually paid under applicable law. VENDOR will pass on to 
CUSTOMER any tax refunds received with respect to the CUSTOMER’s previous payment or 
reimbursement of applicable taxes hereunder.  
 
SECTION 25 – COOPERATION/FURTHER ACTS 
 
The parties shall fully cooperate with one another in attaining the purposes of this Agreement and, in 
connection therewith, shall take any such additional further acts and steps and sign any such additional 
documents as may be necessary, appropriate and convenient as related thereto.

--- page 13 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 13 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
SECTION 26 – TRANSITION COOPERATION 
 
Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, VENDOR agrees to, upon CUSTOMER’s written 
request: 
 
26.1 
Provide sufficient efforts and cooperation to ensure an orderly and efficient transition of services to 
CUSTOMER or its VENDOR without degradation of the quality and level of VENDOR’s performance 
of its services to CUSTOMER. 
 
26.2 
Return to CUSTOMER all data records, logs and documentation in a mutually agreeable format, 
including full disclosure of the custom software code and system design, third party suppliers and 
other pertinent information about the services required to perform the Services for CUSTOMER. 
 
26.3 
Furnish phase-in training, and phase-in/phase-out services for up to ninety (90) calendar days after 
termination of this Agreement.  
 
26.4 
Negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-
in/phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a date for transferring responsibilities and 
shall be subject to CUSTOMER’s approval. 
 
SECTION 27 – FORCE MAJEURE 
 
Neither Party will incur any liability to the other on account of any loss or damage resulting from any delay 
or failure to perform all or any part of this Agreement if such delay or failure is caused, in whole or in part, 
by events, occurrences, or causes beyond its reasonable control and without negligence of the Parties. 
Such events, occurrences, or causes will include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes, lockouts, riots, 
acts of war, acts of terrorism, floods, and earthquakes. 
 
SECTION 28 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CUSTOMER and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. Unless set forth 
herein, neither Party shall be liable for any representations made whether orally or in writing.  
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by duly authorized representatives of 
both CUSTOMER and VENDOR. 
 
The documents constituting the Agreement between both Parties are intended to be complementary so 
that what is required by any one of them shall be as binding as if called for by all of them. The Exhibits 
shown below constitute a material part hereof, and are hereby incorporated by reference herein as part of 
this Agreement. 
 
1. 
Exhibit A - Statement of Work 
2. 
Exhibit B - Fee Schedule 
3. 
Exhibit C - Data Security Requirements 
4. 
Exhibit D - Insurance Requirements 
 
In the event of a disagreement between the various documents relating to this Agreement, the order of 
precedence shall be as follows (in order from most controlling to least controlling):

--- page 14 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 14 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
1. 
This Agreement, including the related Maintenance and Support Agreement and the 
Software License Agreement 
2. 
Statement of Work 
3. 
City of San Mateo RFQ 
 
SECTION 29 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of litigation, venue 
will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

--- page 15 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 15 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and ________________________ [insert name of vendor] have 
caused this Agreement to be executed as of the Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives, 
and hereto have accepted the terms, conditions, and provisions set forth above.  
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
VENDOR 
 
 
 
 
<Insert Name> 
<Insert Title> 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
<Insert Vendor Name>  
<Insert Name> 
<Insert Title> 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<Insert Name> 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
1. 
Exhibit A - Statement of Work 
2. 
Exhibit B - Fee Schedule 
3. 
Exhibit C - Data Security Requirements 
4. 
Exhibit D - Insurance Requirements

--- page 16 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 16 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
STATEMENT OF WORK

--- page 17 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 17 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE SCHEDULE

--- page 18 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 18 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
 
EXHIBIT C 
DATA SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 
 
Essential Privacy and Security Terms 
 
1. 
Confidentiality 
 
Vendors must encrypt Highly-Sensitive Personal Information and PII, both at rest (storage) and in 
transit (network transfer), using strong standards to protect against data security breaches, 
regulatory penalties (GDPR, CCPA, HIPAA), and identity theft. 
 
2. 
Data Protection Provisions 
 
Vendor shall employ standard security practices to provide data protection provisions, including 
provisions for vendor personnel, contractors and subcontractors with access to data. 
 
3. 
Standard of Care 
 
Vendor shall be expected to use the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of 
care, to prevent the unauthorized use, dissemination, or publication of the City of San Mateo’s 
(City) information as it uses to protects its own, including standard anti-virus/malware deployment.  
 
4. 
Information Security Program 
 
a. 
Vendor shall have a written information security program in place and are required to 
implement reasonable security to safeguard information in their care. 
 
b. 
Vendors may be required by the City to conduct periodic penetration testing and/or risk 
assessments and shall fully cooperate with the Entity’s investigation, providing access to 
personnel, systems, logs, and reports, and preserving evidence. 
 
c. 
The City will retain the right to determine the content, timing, and recipients of any external 
notifications except where disclosure is legally required. 
 
5. 
Notification of an Information Security Incident 
 
a. 
Vendor shall promptly notify the City in the event of an information security incident 
involving City data and will notify the City of actual, alleged, or suspected use, disclosure, 
or acquisition of City data by an unauthorized actor. 
 
b. 
Vendor shall reimburse City for reasonable costs of response and remediation, including 
notifications, call center, credit monitoring, and regulator communications if an 
Information Security Incident event occurs as a result of the willful or negligent misconduct 
of Vendor. 
 
6. 
Compliance with Privacy Laws 
 
Vendors must comply with California privacy laws by contractually agreeing to restrict data usage 
to specified business purposes, forbidding the sale/sharing of personal information, and enabling

--- page 19 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 19 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
consumer rights, such as deletion or opting out. 
 
7. 
Access to Systems 
 
a. 
Vendor shall take due precautions to prevent any such data security incidents, including: 
 
b. 
No access or transfer of data to/from outside of the United States (domestic operations); 
international operations should be subject to the appropriate legal instrument(s) governing 
access or transfer. 
 
c. 
No modifications to company data.  
 
d. 
No unauthorized access. 
 
e. 
Restrict access to those who “need to know” in order to perform services under the 
agreement. 
 
f. 
Require vendors to terminate credentials of an employee who no longer needs access to 
your systems to perform their duties. Credential management is a best practice to help 
limit activity by disgruntled individuals or malicious actors. 
 
8. 
Data Storage and Data Destruction 
 
Vendor shall limit the data stored outside of City’s environment except for what is necessary for 
vendor to perform services and authorized by the City. Any legally retained backups remain subject 
to this Agreement and may not be used for any other purpose. Upon termination or upon request, 
Vendor shall promptly return all Entity data or securely destroy it and shall certify destruction in 
writing. 
 
9. 
Audit Rights  
 
a. 
City may request information security audits or questionnaires to ensure compliance with 
the agreement, which may include: 
 
ii. 
Penetration testing 
 
iii. 
Risk Assessments 
 
iv. 
Full SOC 2, Type II, or ISO 27001 certification 
 
10. 
Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity. 
 
Vendor shall maintain a Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plan (Plan) and provide 
CUSTOMER with copies of all reports and summaries resulting from any testing of or pursuant to 
the Plan.

--- page 20 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 20 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
EXHIBIT D 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VENDORS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an 
“occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and 
personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 
25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 0001 covering, Code 1 (any auto), 
or if Consultant has no owned autos, Code 8 (hired) and 9 (non- owned), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(Not required if consultant provides written verification it has no employees) 
4. Cyber Liability Insurance, with limits not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 
aggregate. Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is 
undertaken by Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims involving 
security breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, social 
engineering, infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to infringement of copyright, 
trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information theft, damage to or destruction of 
electronic information, release of private information, and alteration of electronic information. The 
policy shall provide coverage for breach response costs, regulatory fines and penalties as well as credit 
monitoring expenses. 
Technology Professional Liability Errors and Omissions Insurance appropriate to 
the Consultant’s profession and work hereunder, with limits not less than $2,000,000 per 
occurrence. Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is 
undertaken by the Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims 
involving security breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, 
social engineering, infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to infringement of 
copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information theft, damage to or 
destruction of electronic information, release of private information, and alteration of electronic 
information. The policy shall provide coverage for breach response costs, regulatory fines and 
penalties as well as credit monitoring expenses. 
a. The Policy shall include, or be endorsed to include, property damage liability 
coverage for damage to, alteration of, loss of, or destruction of electronic data and/or 
information “property” of the Agency in the care, custody, or control of the Vendor. If not 
covered under the Vendor’s liability policy, such “property” coverage of the Agency may 
be endorsed onto the Vendor’s Cyber Liability Policy as covered property as follows: 
If the Vendor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the Entity 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by the VENDOR. 
Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage 
shall be available to the Entity.

--- page 21 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 21 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, volunteers, and agents are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the Vendor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Consultant’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 
20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Vendor’s insurance coverage shall be primary and non-
contributory. Coverage for commercial liability shall be at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as 
respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, volunteers, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, volunteers, and agents shall be 
excess of the Vendor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. This requirement shall also apply to 
any Excess policies. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall state that coverage shall not be canceled, except with 
notice to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Vendor hereby grants to Entity a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Vendor may 
acquire against the Entity by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. Vendor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision 
applies regardless of whether or not the Entity has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from 
the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CUSTOMER. The 
CUSTOMER may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention 
or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention.    
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A-:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Verification of Coverage 
Vendor shall furnish the Entity with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause and a copy of the Declarations 
and Endorsements Pages of the CGL and any Excess policies listing all policy endorsements. All 
certificates and endorsements and copies of the Declarations & Endorsements pages are to be received 
and approved by the Entity before work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents 
prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Vendor’s obligation to provide them. The Entity reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements 
required by these specifications, at any time. Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements,

--- page 22 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 22 of 22 
Rev 4/26 
including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special 
circumstances. 
Subcontractors 
Vendor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements 
stated herein, and Vendor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance required from 
subcontractors. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances.