Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Pflugerville TX PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Sep 20 2026

Overview

Pflugerville TX PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Pflugerville TX PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Pflugerville TX PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Visit pflugervilletx.gov/safetycameras for the total number of Automated License Plate Readers leased by the Pflugerville PD and more information.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

32

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

209,718

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

24

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

266

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Pflugerville TX PD data.

Pflugerville TX PD is not sharing data with any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Image of the Rear of Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Pflugerville TX PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, speed enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), personal use.

Access Policy

All system access is controlled by administrators and requires a valid reason which is stored indefinitely, for audit purposes.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be officer verified prior to action.
*Hotlist refers to alerts related to stolen vehicles, warrants or Amber Alerts.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety