source: packet.pdf
sha256: 6f6349f189b004004bd969ccd9b91e41894d27f16aea5b431385ca5e991fcc0d
pages: 46
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
September 2, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 2, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 862 2632 1616      Passcode: 666902
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
City of San Mateo Strategic Plan — Update
Provide final direction on the Strategic Plan and strategic planning process.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
2.
Youth Commissioners to the Senior Advisory Commission — Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.29.10 “Senior Advisory Commission” to
provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members.
CEQA: This Ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
1 of 46

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form.
Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation, with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that
time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in
attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 46

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10283
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City of San Mateo Strategic Plan — Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide final direction on the Strategic Plan and strategic planning process.
BACKGROUND:
October 7, 2024 City Council Study Session 
On October 7, 2024, the City Council reviewed staff’s proposal to develop a Strategic Plan (Plan), which will provide a 
framework to help guide the implementation of the City’s current planning documents. The Plan will be a living document 
for the City Council to use in determining both short- and long-term priorities, with support from staff recommendations. 
It will also serve as an instrument in guiding the City’s Annual Budget process and help prioritize projects based on the 
availability of funding in a given fiscal year, provide a context for immediate decisions relative to crisis or opportunity, and 
integrate key elements from long-term planning documents, such as the General Plan and Capital Improvement Program. 
The October 7, 2024 Agenda Report provided details, the report is available here: Discussion and Adoption of Strategic 
Planning Process for the City Council.
To inform the Plan, the Council agreed to rely upon information from the General Plan (i.e. the Ten Big Ideas), the 
community “Conversations” outreach effort, 2025 Community Survey, and 2024 Faith/community Leaders Round Table 
meeting, which are summarized in Attachment 4. 
At this meeting, the Council agreed on the structure of the Strategic Plan which incorporates the following elements: 
• Mission Statement: The guiding benchmark for Council decisions, developed and approved by the City Council.
• Strategic Initiatives: Major categories reflecting the long-term concerns and interests of the City, developed by the City 
Council. 
• Priority Initiatives: Priority initiatives will receive priority in both directional and financial decisions. These priorities may 
span several years but are reviewed annually. 
• Goals: High-level outcomes established by the Council, related to Strategic Priorities, with typically 2-4 goals per priority.
• Activities: Approved and funded projects and programs that align with the Strategic Priorities, developed by staff, though 
reflecting Council interests and direction. 
• Reports: Though not a structural part of the Strategic Plan, the Council will receive a minimum of two status reports on 
all Activities annually. 
3 of 46

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
March 14, 2025 City Council Strategic Plan Facilitated Discussion 
On March 14, 2025 the Council engaged in a half-day facilitated discussion to begin developing the Strategic Plan. The 
Council developed the following elements: 
San Mateo Mission Statement 
Cultivate a vibrant, safe community through collaboration, innovation, and sustainability. 
San Mateo Strategic Initiatives 
Climate Resiliency
Infrastructure
Transportation
Housing
Economic Development
Healthy Community for All Ages
Public Safety
Land Use
Organizational Health and Good Governance
Community Engagement and Communications
San Mateo Priority Initiatives 
Climate Resiliency
Infrastructure
Transportation
Housing
San Mateo Values Statements: The Council asked staff to develop these based on the Values in the General Plan and 
directed staff to also add Integrity as a Value. 
Prosperity
Inclusivity
Diversity
Resiliency
Integrity
Balance
Staff Strategic Plan Development 
In addition to the Mission, Values, and Strategic Initiatives, staff drafted the Values Statements, Strategic Initiative 
Descriptors, and Goals. The draft Plan with all these components can be seen in Attachment 1. The City Manager’s Office 
held 10 internal meetings with Executive Team members and their key staff to draft Strategic Initiative Descriptors and 
Goals for each Strategic Initiative and Priority Initiative. Then, the Executive Team engaged in a half-day facilitated 
discussion to review the Strategic Plan elements. At this meeting, the Executive Team came to a consensus on the Values 
Statements, Values Statement descriptions, Strategic Initiative Descriptors, and Goals. 
To ensure the Plan is workable for future staff and councilmembers, staff is recommending two adjustments that differ 
from the Council’s direction on March 14: 
1. Staff recommends changing the term “Activities” to “SMART Activities” (Attachment 2) and to make all the Activities in 
the Plan SMART Activities. SMART stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-Bound. 
2. The Executive Team recommends removing “Balance” as a value because it is more relevant to the City’s General Plan 
than this Plan. The Value “Seeking to balance competing community priorities amidst regulations and resource 
constraints” was viewed as negative rather than aspirational. 
Next Steps 
The City Manager’s Office in coordination with the Executive Team will develop SMART Activities based on General Plan 
Goals, Workplans, and the City Council’s Priority List developed during the 2025 Blue Sky process. This team will also 
provide a summary of each department’s day-to-day core services. The summary of core services is important because it 
shows the work each department is doing in addition to the discretionary actions in the Strategic Plan. The SMART 
Activities and core services will be developed for Fiscal Year 2026/27, and examples of both can be seen in Attachment 2. 
Formal adoption of the Plan and the Plan process will be brought back to the Council on consent at the September 15 City 
Council meeting. 
The two-year budget process (Fiscal Year 2026/27 and 2027/28) and the 2026 Blue Sky will be guided by the Strategic Plan, 
4 of 46

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and a finalized document that shows Fiscal Year 2026/27 (and beyond) SMART Activities and core services will be brought 
to the Council for approval in Spring 2026. 
The Strategic Plan will offer a comprehensive framework for City Council to utilize when making decisions for both long-
term and immediate priorities. This Strategic Plan will enable the City to move in an intentional, strategic direction over a 
longer timeframe. This is critically important to ensure resources are used to carry out Goals and SMART Activities with the 
utmost efficiency and impact while the City contends with a structural deficit. 
New Blue Sky Process 
Adopting this new Strategic Plan process did not interfere with the February 2025 Blue Sky goal-setting process for Fiscal 
Year 2025/26. Council members submitted their three top priorities for consideration, the community had the opportunity 
to submit public comment, and staff are currently implementing the Fiscal Year 2025/26 priority list. However, if approved, 
the Blue Sky goal-setting process will be modified in 2026 to align with the new Strategic Plan priorities identified by City 
Council while also ensuring opportunities for community input in accordance with both law and Council practices. The 
intention of this Strategic Plan is to be a dynamic document that has the ability for Goals and SMART Activities to be 
updated annually. It is also a management tool that will help guide the City on a short- and long-term basis. 
The proposed new Blue Sky process would include the following: 
• Council affirmation of Strategic Initiatives and Strategic Priority Initiatives: at this time, the Council can decide to change 
Strategic Initiatives or increase or decrease the importance of a specific initiative, which will result in more/less resources 
going towards the Goals and SMART Activities within that area. 
• Staff provide a recommended list of new SMART Activities: based on long-range planning documents and staff identified 
organizational and community needs, staff can provide new SMART Activities as a starting point for Council consideration. 
• Public Input on Strategic Plan SMART Activities and the annual budget process: the public would continue to be able to 
weigh in on future Activities and priorities for the City, and how they may impact the City budget. 
• Council new SMART Activities: this gives the Council an opportunity annually to add up to three new Activities to the 
Strategic Plan for consideration. The expectation is for the City Council to bring all new Activities to Blue Sky rather than be 
brought up during the Reports and Announcements section of the City Council meeting agenda. Additionally, the 
recommendation is for Councilmembers to identify which Activities are coming off the list or moving down in priority to 
accommodate the proposed new Activity. All Activities will be finalized as part of the annual budget approval process. All 
Activities, both new and ongoing, are prioritized as to inclusion, scope, and timelines within the final annual budget.
Reporting 
Staff recommend reporting to the Council twice per fiscal year to provide transparency on progress and outcomes of 
approved SMART activities. These reports will provide the Council and community with information and help guide future 
decisions. 
To ensure the Strategic Plan is embedded in all City work and processes, staff developed a calendar that shows how the 
Strategic Planning process and annual budget process will work in tandem (Attachment 3). 
Strategic Plan Alignment Section of Future Agenda Reports 
To inform the City Council and community about how City Council agenda report items are furthering the completion of 
SMART Activities, Goals, and the Strategic Plan, staff recommends including a new section of future agenda reports titled 
“Strategic Plan Alignment”. In this section, staff can identify which strategic initiative area their item aligns with the City’s 
Strategic Plan. 
Question For City Council 
1. Does Council have any recommended changes to the strategic planning process outlined in this report and attachments?
2. Does Council have any recommended changes to Attachment 1 – the draft Strategic Plan? 
5 of 46

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact with the adoption of the Strategic Plan framework and process.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Strategic Plan
Att 2 – Example SMART Activities and Core Services 
Att 3 – Strategic Plan Calendar FY26-27 
Att 4 – Strategic Plan Outreach 
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Reda, Senior Management Analyst
zreda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 435-0823
6 of 46

--- page 7 ---
City of San Mateo  
2026 Draft Strategic Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 of 46

--- page 8 ---
Mission and Values 
 
Mission: 
Cultivate a vibrant, safe community through collaboration, innovation, and sustainability. 
 
Values: 
Prosperity: Cultivating a diverse and thriving economy with different types of homes, jobs, recreation, lifelong learning opportunities, 
and services for both current and future generations. 
 
Inclusivity: Striving to include everyone in community life and decisions for a shared, sustainable future. 
 
 
Diversity: Embracing diversity, arts, and culture, and respecting the experiences, contributions, and aspirations of people of all ages, 
abilities, incomes, and backgrounds. 
 
Resiliency: Leading in sustainability, making San Mateo strong and resilient by acting boldly to adapt to a changing world. 
 
 
Integrity: Ensuring transparency and accountability for our actions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 of 46

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo Strategic Priority Initiatives 
Climate Resiliency 
Infrastructure 
Transportation 
Housing 
 
 
 
 
San Mateo Strategic Initiatives: 
Economic Development 
Healthy Community for All Ages 
Public Safety 
Land Use 
Organizational Health and Good Governance 
Community Engagement and Communications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 of 46

--- page 10 ---
San Mateo Priority Initiatives 
 
 
Climate Resiliency 
Proactively address a changing climate through the City’s policies, projects, activities, and programs. 
 
Goals 
 
• Create a comprehensive climate resilience strategy to account for climate change impacts. 
• Implement the Climate Action Plan to meet greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. 
• Continuously evaluate opportunities to incorporate climate resilience into new City policies, projects, activities, and programs. 
 
 
San Mateo Priority Initiatives 
 
Infrastructure 
Maintain and continuously improve a resilient and sustainable City infrastructure system to meet the needs of all members of the 
community. 
Goals 
 
• Create and implement an infrastructure management program for critical assets that includes proactive assessment, 
maintenance, and repair.  
• Plan for the future of City infrastructure based on the changing needs of the community and with a focus on equity, accessibility, 
resiliency, and sustainability. 
• Actively and continuously seek funding opportunities and partnerships to support infrastructure needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 of 46

--- page 11 ---
San Mateo Priority Initiatives 
 
Transportation 
Maintain and continuously improve a safe, multimodal, accessible, and efficient transportation network. 
 
Goals 
 
• Work toward a transportation system that prioritizes user safety, accommodates future growth, and maintains efficient and safe 
operations for all users. 
• Seek funding opportunities to accelerate transportation project implementation. 
• Pursue initiatives that increase access to transit, improve east-west travel, and expand last mile connections. 
 
 
San Mateo Priority Initiatives 
 
Housing 
Support all forms of housing and achieve greater housing equity and access for all residents. 
 
Goals 
 
• Implement the Housing Element to affirmatively further fair housing, meet the City’s housing allocation, and retain certification. 
• Strategically deploy housing funds and leverage outside funding and partnerships to meet the housing needs of the community. 
• Focus on identifying and taking local actions that can contribute to reducing overall housing costs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
 
Economic Development 
11 of 46

--- page 12 ---
Create an environment that supports a thriving and diverse economy with opportunities that meet the needs of the entire community. 
 
Goals 
 
• Attract and retain a wide range of businesses to create a robust economy that supports employment opportunities within the 
San Mateo community. 
• Create vibrant commercial areas Citywide by improving the customer experience, developing partnerships, and exploring 
enhancement opportunities. 
 
 
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
Healthy Community for All Ages 
Create and promote an environment that empowers all community members to thrive. 
 
Goals 
 
• Seek opportunities for City services and programs to support people of all ages and abilities for their mental, emotional, physical, 
and social well-being. 
• Ensure greater access to the systems that support healthier lifestyles and increase well-being throughout all neighborhoods with 
a focus on equity priority communities. 
 
 
12 of 46

--- page 13 ---
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
Public Safety 
Provide a safe and secure quality of life through professional and proactive police and fire services, and effectively prepare for future 
emergencies. 
Goals 
 
• Provide fire and emergency services through professionalism, collaboration, and public trust. 
• Protect and promote safety and well-being with a proactive approach while serving San Mateo residents, businesses, and 
visitors. 
• Develop a comprehensive approach to emergency preparedness.   
 
 
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
Land Use 
Utilize the General Plan 2040 to guide policy and permitting decisions that shape the physical environment. 
 
Goals 
 
• Complete a comprehensive Zoning Code update to implement the policies and actions in the General Plan 2040. 
• Update the City’s specific and area plans to be consistent with the City’s General Plan 2040. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 of 46

--- page 14 ---
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
Organizational Health and Good Governance 
Promote a high-performing and resilient organization by upholding the highest standards of integrity, customer service, and fiscal 
responsibility to effectively serve the community. 
 
Goals 
 
• Efficiently and effectively manage the City’s resources to support financial health, operate with transparency, and provide 
services that are responsive to the community’s needs. 
• Continuously support our employees’ professional development and wellness, and foster a healthy culture that attracts and 
retains a talented, innovative, and accountable workforce. 
 
 
San Mateo Initiatives 
 
Community Engagement and Communications 
Build community by empowering the public to be informed and involved. 
 
Goals 
 
• Provide an accessible avenue for everyone in the community to have the ability to participate and be heard. 
• Inform, educate, and encourage feedback from all community stakeholders. 
 
 
 
 
14 of 46

--- page 15 ---
SMART Activities Examples 
SMART Activities definition: Approved and funded projects and programs that align with 
the Strategic Priorities, developed by staff, though reflecting Council interests and 
direction. SMART stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-
Bound. All activities will follow the SMART guidelines.  
Priority Initiative: Climate Resilience 
• Climate Resilience SMART Activity: By July 2025, establish policies to 
decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use 
by 2030. 
Priority Initiative: Transportation 
• Transportation SMART Activity: In Fiscal Year 2025/26, complete necessary 
analyses and adoption of ordinances as required by the California Vehicle Code 
to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways are enforceable. Begin by 
onboarding a professional consultant by December 2025 and develop an 
analysis and implementation strategy for systematic evaluation of our roadways 
by March 2026.  
• Transportation SMART Activity: By July 2025, explore policy and enforcement 
options regarding RV parking in commercial corridors and present them at a City 
Council Study Session. 
Priority Initiative: Infrastructure 
• Infrastructure SMART Activity: Engage in construction work to address structural 
issues and accessibility at the Marina Library throughout 2025 and 2026, with 
completion targeted by February 2027. 
 
*Note, these are examples. The SMART Activities will be brought to City Council in 
Spring 2026.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 of 46

--- page 16 ---
Core Services Examples 
Core Services definition: The day-to-day services each department provides that the 
City and community rely upon.  
Finance Department Core Services Examples:  
• Perform the accounting for all of the City’s financial transactions and preparing 
the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and all other required annual 
financial statements. 
• Manage the annual operating and capital budget development process, and 
provide departments with reports and analysis to ensure expenditures are 
maintained within budgeted appropriations. 
• Process bi-weekly payroll for all of the City’s employees, report and pay tax 
obligations, and complete all regulatory reporting requirements 
Public Works Department Core Services Examples: 
• Administer, manage, operate, and maintain the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
facility.  
• Provide centralized maintenance for all City buildings and park infrastructure. 
• Design and construction management services for capital improvement projects 
to improve the City’s streets, sewer, and storm drain system 
Parks and Recreation Department Core Services Examples: 
• Provide for the maintenance and conservation of all parks, open spaces, and 
public medians and right of ways and ensure the long-term protection of the 
City’s urban forest through scheduled maintenance activities. 
• Operate Poplar Creek Golf Course and driving range through concessionaire 
agreements, pro shop services, and food and beverage services. 
• Provide a comprehensive program of recreational, instructional, and 
community-building activities for all age groups utilizing community centers, 
aquatic facilities, numerous parks, and school sites. 
*Note, these core services are not comprehensive for these departments, they are 
examples. 
 
 
 
 
16 of 46

--- page 17 ---
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
2025
2025
2025
2025
2025
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
Blue Sky
Budget Study 
Session
Proposed 
Budget Book
1st Public 
Hearing
2nd Public 
Hearing & 
Adoption
CC Adopt SP 
System
Submit Proposed 
Department Activities
Prioritize 
Activities
Performance 
Report
2026-27 Strategic Plan Calendar
Performance 
Report
17 of 46

--- page 18 ---
Strategic Planning Process for the City of San Mateo
The following is a summary of the strategic planning process and the elements therein as 
approved by the City Council at its Study Session of 10/07/24.  This information will be 
reviewed at the Off-Site Workshop on March 14, 2025.
Reference Summaries for Initiative Identification
The following summary reflects the work of the General Plan, the Community Opinion 
Survey (February 2025), the Community Leader Interviews (July 2024) and the 
Community Conversations (sessions 1 – 5, with 6 to be completed March 2025).  Please 
note that the Community Conversations are yet to be officially completed and compiled, 
so the information within this summary reflects current notes from the facilitator of those 
sessions.
The purpose of this document is to assist the Council in identification of appropriate 
Initiatives for the Strategic Plan by reflecting some information from historical and current 
communication and planning processes.  To be most effective, the Council will identify up 
to ten (10) Initiatives.
Theme
General Plan 
2040
2025 
Community 
Survey
Community 
Leaders 
Interviews
“Conversations”
Housing & 
Homelessness
Housing 
Element
More affordable 
housing; 
addressing 
homelessness
Expand 
affordable 
housing
Maintain & 
expand 
affordable 
housing 
Land Use and 
Development
Land Use 
Element
Limited growth 
& preserving 
open space. 
Manage land 
use and 
development
Development
process is 
arduous and 
costly
Increase green 
spaces and 
public serving 
facilities
Transportation
Circulation 
Element
Managing 
congestion; 
Improve City’s 
transportation 
system to 
reduce traffic, 
encourage 
walking, biking,
transit use
Increase 
accessibility 
for public 
transportation; 
pedestrian 
friendly 
infrastructure
Enhance bus 
services; address 
parking issues; 
enhance 
accessibility; 
pedestrian safety; 
traffic congestion
Aesthetics
Community 
Design and 
Historic 
Improve 
appearance of 
the City by 
removing trash 
Maintaining 
property 
standards to keep 
the neighborhood 
18 of 46

--- page 19 ---
Resources 
Element
and graffiti, 
improving
landscaping, 
beautification 
projects
attractive. 
Enforce 
maintenance 
codes; mobile 
food vendors; see 
more tree 
planting
Public 
Safety/Emergency 
Preparedness
Safety 
Element
Improving the
City's 
preparedness 
for emergencies 
and natural 
disasters
Promote safety 
initiatives. 
Continue to build 
strong 
relationships with 
first responders; 
domestic violence 
is prevalent
Sustainability and 
Climate 
Resiliency
General Plan 
Theme - 
Sustainability
Protect 
Resources; 
reduces GHGs
Invest in eco-
friendly 
projects
Invest in green 
spaces
Infrastructure and 
Facilities
Public 
Services and 
Facilities 
Element
Upgrade and 
maintain public 
infrastructure
Centralized 
Resources: 
Create a 
multilingual 
centralized 
hub for 
resources and 
events to 
improve 
accessibility 
and inclusivity 
for all 
residents
Upgrade City 
facilities to serve 
the current needs 
of the community; 
make space for 
community 
gatherings; more 
ped/bike paths
Economic Vitality
Land Use 
Element
Promoting 
economic 
development; 
improve City’s 
economic 
vitality through 
business-
friendly policies, 
revitalizing
outdated 
commercial 
areas, attracting 
diverse mix of 
employers, jobs
Locally 
focused job 
training
Revitalize 
neighborhood 
amenities; 
support 
employment 
opportunities; 
attract 
supermarkets 
and other 
essential 
businesses back 
to the area
19 of 46

--- page 20 ---
Community 
Engagement and 
Communication
General Plan 
Theme – 
Community 
Engagement
Continue to 
improve 
communications 
and 
engagement
Increase 
engagement 
& 
participation; 
foster 
leadership; 
multiple 
languages for 
materials; 
annual 
assessments 
and feedback
Promote 
advocacy; target 
youth in 
communications; 
encourage 
volunteerism & 
leadership; 
support 
educational 
opportunities; 
increase 
responsiveness 
of government.
Organization 
Health/Good 
Governance
Public 
Services and 
Facilities 
Element
Long-term 
financial 
conditions
Hire diverse 
staff;
promote 
programs that 
explain the 
political 
process, civic 
rights, and 
avenues 
for 
involvement.
need for 
better access 
to city 
services and 
resources
City needs to 
demonstrate that 
they are listening 
and willing to 
work together 
with the 
community to 
address 
challenges and 
provide solutions. 
Ensure city staff 
receive cultural 
sensitivity training 
to better serve 
diverse 
communities and 
improve 
engagement; 
increase staff 
diversity
Healthy 
Community for all 
Ages
Cultural 
Enhancement
Conservation, 
Open Space 
and 
Recreation 
Element
Community 
Design and 
Historic 
Resources 
Element
Appreciation for 
Parks and 
Recreation 
facilities and 
opportunities 
and a strong 
community 
bond 
Strengthen 
neighborhood 
support 
structures; 
preserve and 
uplift 
cultural 
districts; use 
local task 
forces; health 
access 
programs; 
Community 
programming; 
enhance senior 
services; 
celebrate cultural 
diversity; bridge 
neighborhoods; 
host community-
unifying events 
and multicultural 
celebrations
20 of 46

--- page 21 ---
cultural story 
telling
21 of 46

--- page 22 ---
San Mateo     
Strategic Plan 
Zack Reda
Sr Management Analyst, City Manager's Office
1 of 15
22 of 46

--- page 23 ---
Agenda
• Strategic Plan purpose and structure
• New Elements
• Blue Sky Process
• Reporting on Progress
• Core Services
• Agenda Reports
• Strategic Plan / Budget Calendar 
2 of 15
23 of 46

--- page 24 ---
Questions for City Council
1.
Does Council have any recommended changes to the strategic 
planning process outlined in this report and attachments?
2.
Does Council have any recommended changes to the draft 
Strategic Plan?
3 of 15
24 of 46

--- page 25 ---
Strategic Plan’s Purpose
• Framework that will help determine short and long-term priorities
• City can move in an intentional direction over a longer timeframe 
than current Blue Sky process
• Enables staff to implement other planning documents in a systematic 
way
• Greater resource efficiency with budget constraints in mind
4 of 15
25 of 46

--- page 26 ---
Values
Strategic Initiatives
Initiative Priorities
Goals
SMART Activities
Mission
Aspirational
Specific & 
Actionable
Specific
Measurable
Achievable
Relevant
Time-bound
5 of 15
26 of 46

--- page 27 ---
Mission
Cultivate a vibrant, safe community through Collaboration, 
Innovation and Sustainability 
6 of 15
27 of 46

--- page 28 ---
Values
• Prosperity: Cultivating a diverse and thriving economy with different types of homes, jobs, 
recreation, lifelong learning opportunities, and services for both current and future generations
• Inclusivity: Striving to include everyone in community life and decisions for a shared, 
sustainable future
• Diversity: Embracing diversity and respect the experiences, contributions, and aspirations of 
people of all ages, abilities, incomes, and backgrounds. We celebrate arts and culture.
• Resiliency: leading in sustainability, making San Mateo strong and resilient by acting boldly to 
adapt to a changing world
• Integrity: Fostering transparency and trust by doing what is right and by being accountable for 
our actions
7 of 15
28 of 46

--- page 29 ---
Council’s Initiatives and Priority Initiatives
Priority Initiatives
• Climate Resiliency 
• Transportation 
• Infrastructure 
• Housing 
Strategic Initiatives
• Economic Development
• Land Use
• Organizational Health & Good Governance
• Public Safety
• Community Engagement & Communications
• Healthy Community for all Ages
8 of 15
29 of 46

--- page 30 ---
Priority Initiative: Infrastructure
Maintain and continuously improve a resilient and sustainable City 
infrastructure system to meet the needs of all members of the community
Goals

Create and implement an infrastructure management program for critical 
assets that includes proactive assessment, maintenance, and repair 

Plan for the future of City infrastructure based on the changing needs of the 
community and with a focus on equity, accessibility, resiliency and 
sustainability

Actively and continuously seek funding opportunities and partnerships to 
support infrastructure needs
9 of 15
30 of 46

--- page 31 ---
Priority Initiative: Infrastructure
SMART Activities Examples
• Infrastructure SMART Activity: Engage in construction work to 
address structural issues and accessibility at the Marina Library 
throughout 2025 and 2026, with completion targeted by February 
2027.
10 of 15
31 of 46

--- page 32 ---
New Blue Sky Process
Would include the following elements:
• Council affirmation of Strategic Initiatives and Strategic Priority 
Initiatives
• Staff provide a recommended list of new SMART Activities
• Public Input on Strategic Plan SMART Activities and the annual 
budget impact
• Council propose new SMART Activities
11 of 15
32 of 46

--- page 33 ---
Additional Elements
• Core Services
• “Strategic Plan Alignment” section on Future Agenda Reports
12 of 15
33 of 46

--- page 34 ---
2026-27 Strategic Plan Calendar
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
2025
2025
2025
2025
2025
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
2026
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CC Adopt SP System
Submit Proposed Department Activities
 
Blue Sky
Prioritize Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Report
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submit Department Operating Budget & Personnel Requests
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Metrics & Narratives
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CIP Planning
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Budget Study Session
 
Proposed Budget Book
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1st Public Hearing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2nd Public Hearing & Adoption
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 of 15
34 of 46

--- page 35 ---
Next Steps
• Receive feedback and bring Draft Strategic Plan back for adoption
• Develop SMART Activities
• Bring list of FY 2026/27 SMART Activities and Core Services to Council 
in Spring 2026
14 of 15
35 of 46

--- page 36 ---
Questions for City Council
1.
Does Council have any recommended changes to the strategic 
planning process outlined in this report and attachments?
2.
Does Council have any recommended changes to the draft 
Strategic Plan?
15 of 15
36 of 46

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 18-6114
File ID: 25-10339
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
September 2, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Youth Commissioners to the Senior Advisory Commission — Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.29.10 “Senior Advisory Commission” to provide for 
Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members.
BACKGROUND:
On September 3, 2024, the Council adopted an Ordinance to introduce youth commissioners to the then Senior Citizen 
Commission. On December 9, 2024, the City Council amended San Mateo Municipal Code ("SMMC") Chapter 2.29 “Senior 
Citizens Commission” to change its name to “Senior Advisory Commission.” Due to an administrative error, that 
amendment inadvertently deleted the previously approved provision establishing youth commissioners. The purpose of 
this Ordinance is to correct the error and restore the City Council’s intended direction.
The proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1) amends SMMC 2.29.010 to add two non-voting youth advisory members (“Youth 
Commissioners”) to the Senior Advisory Commission. The two Youth Commissioners must be at least 13 years old, and no 
more than 17 years old at the time of the appointment. They must present written documentation of parental or guardian 
consent to be considered for appointment. Like other members of the commission, Youth Commissioners would serve at 
the pleasure of the Council. The Youth Commissioners would not be “members” for purposes of Charter section 6.05, 
which addresses the membership of boards and commissions, but would instead serve as non-voting advisory members 
that would not count towards quorum. Youth Commissioners are appointed for one year but can be reappointed for one 
additional one-year term.
 
In addition, the City currently offers opportunities for youth engagement in local government through the Youth Activities 
Council (“YAC”), which seeks to provide a voice for youth in the community and offers opportunities for civic engagement 
and youth advocacy. YAC members are required to be residents of the City of San Mateo or students attending a high 
school in San Mateo, entering 9th through 12th grade by the beginning of each fall term, and willing to attend monthly 
meetings and events.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
37 of 46

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance with redline
STAFF CONTACT
Joanne Magrini, Director, Park and Recreation
jmagrini@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7404
38 of 46

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 to amend the organization of the Senior 
Advisory Commission to include two non-voting youth advisory members (youth commissioners).
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 establishes that the San Mateo Senior Advisory 
Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council; and
WHEREAS, the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2023-24 included exploring the expanding of 
youth participation and representation on Boards and Commissions; and
WHEREAS, on March 4, 2024, the City Council directed staff to provide for the appointment of youth 
members to the Library Board, Senior Citizens Commission, and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.29.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.010 Organization.
The senior advisory commission of the City shall consist of no more than five members appointed by the 
Council, and two non-voting youth advisory members who must be at least 13 years old, and no more than 17 
years old at the time of appointment ("Youth Commissioners"). Members shall be persons who display an 
interest in and appreciation of senior affairs. Youth commissioners must present written documentation of 
parental or guardian consent to be considered for appointment. Youth commissioners shall serve only in an 
advisory capacity and shall not count towards a quorum of the commission.
Each member of the senior advisory commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and for a term 
of four years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the initial terms of the first members 
appointed shall be determined by lot at their first meeting so that each year at least one term will expire. 
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of four years. Each Youth Commissioner shall serve at the 
pleasure of the Council for a term of one year and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Youth 
Commissioners may be reappointed for one additional one-year term.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is an administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect 
physical changes in the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
39 of 46

--- page 40 ---
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
40 of 46

--- page 41 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 to amend the organization of the Senior 
Advisory Commission to include two non-voting youth advisory members (youth commissioners).
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 establishes that the San Mateo Senior Advisory 
Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2023-24 included exploring the expanding of 
youth participation and representation on Boards and Commissions; and 
WHEREAS, on March 4, 2024, the City Council directed staff to provide for the appointment of youth 
members to the Library Board, Senior Citizens Commission, and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. Section 2.29.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.010 Organization.
The senior advisory commission of the City shall consist of no more than five members appointed by the Council, 
and two non-voting youth advisory members who must be at least 13 years old, and no more than 17 years old 
at the time of appointment ("Youth Commissioners"). Members shall be persons who display an interest in and 
appreciation of senior affairs. Youth commissioners must present written documentation of parental or guardian 
consent to be considered for appointment. Youth commissioners shall serve only in an advisory capacity and 
shall not count towards a quorum of the commission.
Each member of the senior advisory commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and for a term of four 
years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the initial terms of the first members appointed shall 
be determined by lot at their first meeting so that each year at least one term will expire. Thereafter, all 
appointments shall be for a term of four years. Each Youth Commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of the 
Council for a term of one year and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Youth Commissioners 
may be reappointed for one additional one-year term.
Section 2.
Section 2.29.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.020 Meetings.
Regular meetings will take place on the second Monday of every other month at 4 PM.
Section 3.
 
Section 2.29.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.030 Powers – Duties.
It shall be the objective of the senior advisory commission, as an advisory body to the Council, to encourage, 
foster, and facilitate programs for the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population.
41 of 46

--- page 42 ---
The Commission shall recommend to the Council the establishment and funding of programs and services for 
seniors within the City and review and make recommendations to the Council regarding any senior center 
operated by the City.
The Commission shall possess other such powers and duties as may be prescribed from time to time by 
resolution of the City Council.
Section 4. Environmental Determination.
 
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is an 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment.
Section 5. Severability.
 
In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined invalid or unconstitutional, 
such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or portions hereof shall 
remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication.
 
This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, posted in the City Clerk's 
Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date.
 
This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete and adopted on Clerk to complete and shall be effective 30 
days after its adoption.
42 of 46

--- page 43 ---
Senior Advisory 
Commission 
Ordinance Introduction
Zachary Silva
Community Services Manager
1
43 of 46

--- page 44 ---
Background and Scope
On December 9, 2024, the Council 
adopted an ordinance to introduce Youth 
Commissioners to the Senior Advisory 
Commission (formerly Senior Citizen 
Commission).
2
44 of 46

--- page 45 ---
Scheduled Change
• Introduce Youth Commissioners to the Senior Advisory Commission
• The two Youth Commissioners must be at least 13 years old, and no more 
than 17 years old at the time of appointment. 
•  They must present written documentation of parental or guardian consent 
to be considered for appointment. 
•  Like other members of the commission, Youth Commissioners would serve 
at the pleasure of the Council.  
• The Youth Commissioners would not be “members” for purposes of the 
Charter but would instead serve as non-voting advisory members that would 
not count towards the quorum.
3
45 of 46

--- page 46 ---
Ordinance Introduction 
4
Introduce an ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
2.29.010 to add to non-voting youth advisory (“Youth Commissioners”) to 
the Senior Advisory Commission.
46 of 46