--- page 1 ---
> Home > Home Security
When Flock Surveillance Comes to Your Town:
Everything to Know About These Cameras
Flock Safety is setting up cams and drones around the country. Here's why communities are
fighting back and exactly how this technology works.
15 min read
ai atlas
Tyler Lacoma
June 8, 2026 3:00 a.m. PT

--- page 2 ---
Flock surveillance cameras and drones are now common: Here's what they can do. 
CNET Art
Cities across the country are adopting -- or rejecting -- Flock Safety
surveillance systems, which use controversial AI-powered license plate
cameras partnered with local police and other law enforcement. Due to
concerns over privacy and how Flock allows data to be used, dozens of cities
have cancelled their Flock contracts this year. Bend, Oregon, was one of them,
but only after passionate city council meetings. Some towns have even had to
cover Flock cameras with plastic bags because they aren't sure if the cams are
shut down. 
But what does it mean when Flock comes to town, and what exactly does its
technology do? The answers are complex -- and incredibly important for the
future of surveillance in the US.
Read more: State Laws Against Surveillance and License Plate Cams
Flock gripped news headlines late last year when it was under the microscope
during widespread crackdowns by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Though Flock doesn't have a direct partnership with federal agencies (a blurry

--- page 3 ---
line I'll discuss below), law enforcement agencies are free to share data with
departments like ICE, and they frequently do. 
One study from the Center for Human Rights at the University of Washington
found that at least eight Washington law enforcement agencies shared their
Flock data networks directly with ICE in 2025, and 10 more departments
allowed ICE backdoor access without explicitly granting the agency
permission. Many other reports outline similar activity.
Following Super Bowl ads about finding lost dogs, Flock was under scrutiny
about its planned partnership with Ring, Amazon's security brand. The
integration would have allowed police to request the use of Ring-brand home
security cameras for investigations. Following intense public backlash, Ring cut
ties with Flock just like my city did, although it now faces a new lawsuit for its
own face recognition systems.
To learn more, I spoke to Flock about how the company's surveillance
technology is used (and misused). I also spoke with privacy advocates from the
American Civil Liberties Union to discuss surveillance concerns and what
communities are doing about it.

--- page 4 ---
What it means when Flock Safety sets up
Flock's presence means license plate cameras -- and these days, much more.
Bloomberg/Contributor/Getty Images
If you hear that Flock is setting up near you, it usually means the installation of
ALPR cameras to capture license plate photos and monitor cars on the street.

--- page 5 ---
Flock signs contracts with a wide range of entities, including city governments
and law enforcement departments. A neighborhood can also partner with
Flock -- for example, if an HOA decides it wants extra eyes on the road, it may
choose to use Flock's systems.
When Flock secures a contract, the company installs cameras at strategic
locations. Though these cameras are primarily marketed for license plate
recognition, Flock reports on its site that its surveillance system is intended to
reduce crime, including property crimes such as "mail and package theft,
home invasions, vandalism, trespassing, and burglary." The company also says
it frequently solves violent crimes like "assault, kidnappings, shootings and
homicides."
Flock has recently expanded into other technologies, including advanced
cameras that monitor more than just vehicles. Most concerning are the latest
Flock drones equipped with high-powered cameras. Flock's "Drone as First
Responder" platform automates drone operations, including launching them in
response to 911 calls or gunfire. Flock's drones, which reach speeds up to 60
mph, can follow vehicles or people and provide information to law
enforcement.
Drones like these can be used to track fleeing suspects. In practice, the key is
how law enforcement chooses to use them, and whether states pass laws
allowing police to use drones without a warrant -- I'll cover state laws more
below, because that's a big part of today's surveillance.

--- page 6 ---
It's important to note that not all cities or neighborhoods refer to Flock Safety
by name, even when using its technology. They might mention the Drone as
First Responder program, or ALPR cameras, without further details. For
example, a March announcement about police drones from the city of
Lancaster, California, doesn't mention Flock at all, even though it was the
company behind the drone program.

--- page 7 ---
How Flock uses tech to ID cars -- and people
Flock has expanded from cameras to drones, and with that comes greater ability to track people as well as
cars.
Connecticut Post/Hearst Newspapers/Getty Images
Flock states on its website that its standard license-plate cameras cannot
technically track vehicles, but only take a "point-in-time" image of a car to nab
the license plate.

--- page 8 ---
However, due to AI video and image search, contracted parties like local law
enforcement can use these tools to piece together license information and
form their own timeline of where and when a vehicle went. Adding to those
capabilities, Flock also told Forbes that it's making efforts to expand access to
include video clips and live feeds.
Flock's machine learning can also note details like a vehicle's body type, color,
the condition of the license plate and a wide variety of identifiers, like roof
racks, paint colors and what you have stored in the back. Flock rarely calls this
AI, but it's similar to AI-recognition features you can find in the latest home
security cameras
A Flock spokesperson told me the company has boundaries and does not use
facial recognition. "We have more traditional video cameras that can send an
alert when one sees if a person is in the frame, for instance, in a business park
at 2 a.m. or in the public parks after dark."
By "traditional" cameras, Flock refers to those that capture a wider field of view
-- more than just cars and license plates -- and can record video rather than
just snapshot images.
The information Flock can access provides a comprehensive picture that
police can use to track cars by running searches on their software. Just like
you might Google a local restaurant, police can search for a basic vehicle
description and retrieve recent matches that the surveillance equipment may
have found. Those searches can sometimes extend to people, too.

--- page 9 ---
"We have an investigative tool called Freeform that lets you use natural
language prompts to find the investigative lead you're looking for, including the
description of what a person's clothes may be," the Flock spokesperson told
me. 
Unlike red-light cameras, Flock's cameras can be installed nearly anywhere
and snap vehicle ID images for all cars. There are Safe Lists that people can
use to help Flock cameras filter out vehicles by filling out a form with their
address and license plate to mark their vehicle as a "resident." 
The opposite is also true: Flock cameras can use a hot list of known, wanted
vehicles and send automatic alerts to police if one is found.
With Flock drones, these intelligent searches become even more complete,
allowing cameras to track where cars are going and identify people. That
raises additional privacy concerns about having eyes in the sky over your
backyard.
"While flying, the drone faces forward, looking at the horizon, until it gets to the
call for service, at which point the camera looks down," the Flock
spokesperson said. "Every flight path is logged in a publicly available flight
dashboard for appropriate oversight."
Yet unlike personal security options, there's no easy way to opt out of this kind
of surveillance. You can't turn off a feature, cancel a subscription or throw away
a device to avoid it.

--- page 10 ---
And even though more than 45 cities have canceled Flock contracts amid
public outcry, that doesn't guarantee that all surveillance cameras will be
removed from the designated area. 
When I reached out to the police department in Eugene, another city in
Oregon that ended its Flock contract, the PD director of public information told
me that, while there were concerns about certain vulnerabilities and data
security requirements with the particular vendor, the technology itself is not the
problem. "Eugene Police's ALPR system experience has demonstrated the
value of leveraging ALPR technology to aid investigations … the department
must ensure that any vendors meet the highest standards."

--- page 11 ---
Does Flock track personal information? The
devil is in the details
License plates can be closely connected to your personal information.
Joa_Souza/Getty Images 
Flock's stance, as outlined in its privacy and ethics guide, is that license plate
numbers and vehicle descriptions aren't personal information. The company
says it doesn't surveil "private data" -- only cars and general descriptive
markers.
But vehicle information can be considered personal because it's legally tied to
the vehicle's owner. Privacy laws, including proposed federal legislation from
2026, prohibit the release of personal information from state motor vehicle
records in order to protect citizens.

--- page 12 ---
However, those laws typically include exemptions for legal actions and law
enforcement, sometimes even for private security companies.
AI detection also plays a role. When someone can identify a vehicle through
searches like "red pickup truck with a dog in the bed," that tracking goes
beyond basic license plates to much more personal information about the
driver and their life. It may include the bumper stickers, what can be seen in
the backseat and whether a vehicle has a visible gun rack.
Flock's practices -- like its recent push toward live video feeds and drones to
track suspects -- move out of the gray area, and that's where privacy
advocates are rightly concerned. Despite its policy, it appears you can track
specific people using Flock tech. You'll just need to pay more to do so, such as
upgrading from ALPRs to Flock's suspect-following drone program, or using its
Freeform tool to track someone by the clothes they're wearing.

--- page 13 ---
How does Flock Safety handle the data it
collects? 
Flock's security practices are solid, but it's the company's users I'm worried about.
Anadolu/Contributor/Getty Images

--- page 14 ---
Flock states on its website that it stores data for 30 days on Amazon Web
Services cloud storage and then deletes it. It uses KMS-based encryption (a
managed encryption key system common in AWS) and reports that all images
and related data are encrypted from on-device storage to cloud storage. 
When Flock collects criminal justice information, or sensitive data managed by
law enforcement, it's only available to official government agencies, not an
entity like your local HOA. Because video data is encrypted throughout its
transfer to the end user, employees at Flock cannot access it. These are the
same kind of security practices I look for when reviewing home security
cameras, but there are more complications here.
However, Flock also makes it clear that its customers -- whether that's a local
police department, private business or another institution -- own their data and
control access to it. Once end users access that data, Flock's own privacy
measures don't do much to help. That raises concerns about the security of
local law enforcement systems, each of which has its own data regulations and
accountability practices.

--- page 15 ---
Abuse of Flock data
Flock can audit camera access, but that hasn't prevented bad behaviors so far.
Matthew Jonas/Boulder Daily Camera/Getty Images
You may have noticed a theme: Flock provides powerful surveillance
technology, and the final results are deeply influenced by how customers use
it. That can be creepy at best, and an illegal abuse of power at worst.

--- page 16 ---
Since Flock Safety began partnering with law enforcement, a growing number
of officers have been found abusing the surveillance system. In one instance,
a Kansas police chief used Flock cameras 164 times while tracking an ex. In
another case, a sheriff in Texas lied about using Flock to "track a missing
person," but was later found to be investigating a possible abortion. In Georgia,
a police chief was arrested for using Flock to stalk and harass citizens. In
Virginia, a man sued the city of Norfolk over purported privacy violations and
discovered that Flock cameras had been used to track him 526 times, around
four times per day.
Those are just a few examples from a long list, giving real substance to worries
about a surveillance state and a lack of checks and balances. When I asked
Flock how its systems protect against abuse and overreach, a spokesperson
referred to its accountability feature, an auditing tool that "records every search
that a user of Flock conducts in the system." Flock used this tool during the
Georgia case above, which ultimately led to the arrest of the police chief.
While police search logs are often tracked like this, reports indicate that many
authorities start searches with vague terms and cast a wide net using terms
like "investigation," "crime" or a broad immigration term like "deportee" to gain
access to as much data as possible. While police can't avoid Flock's audit logs,
they can use general or discriminatory terms -- or skip filling out fields entirely
-- to evade investigations and hide intent.

--- page 17 ---
Regardless of the auditing tools, the onus is on local organizations to manage
investigations, accountability and transparency. That brings me to a particularly
impactful current event.
Flock, ICE and the federal government: Data
sharing complications
While ICE can't directly access Flock's system, they tend to get a lot of help from local law enforcement. 
Douglas Rissing/Getty Images

--- page 18 ---
ICE is the elephant in the room in my Flock guide. Does Flock share its
surveillance data with federal agencies such as ICE? Yes, the federal
government frequently has access to that data, but how it gets access is
important.
Flock states on its website that it has not shared data or partnered with ICE or
any other Department of Homeland Security officials since terminating its pilot
programs in August 2025. Flock says its focus is now on local law enforcement,
but that comes with a hands-off approach that doesn't control what happens
to information downstream.
"Flock has no authority to share data on our customers' behalf, nor the
authority to disrupt their law enforcement operations," the Flock spokesperson
told me. "Local police all over the country collaborate with federal agencies for
various reasons, with or without Flock technology. "
That collaboration has grown more complex. As Democratic Senator Ron
Wyden from Oregon stated in an open letter to Flock Safety, "local" law
enforcement isn't that local anymore, especially when 75% of Flock's law
enforcement customers have enrolled in the National Lookup Tool, which
allows information sharing across the country between all participants.

--- page 19 ---
"Flock has built a dangerous platform in which abuse of surveillance data is
almost certain," Wyden wrote. "The company has adopted a see-no-evil
approach of not proactively auditing the searches done by its law enforcement
customers because, as the company's Chief Communications Officer told the
press, 'It is not Flock's job to police the police.'"
Police department sharing isn't always easy to track, but reporting from 404
Media found that police departments across the country have been creating
Flock searches with reasons listed as "immigration," "ICE," or "ICE warrant,"
among others. Again, since police can put whatever terms they want in these
fields -- depending on local policies -- we don't know for sure how common it
is to look up info for ICE.
Additionally, there's not always an official process or chain of accountability for
sharing this data. In Oregon, reports found that a police department was
conducting Flock searches on behalf of ICE and the FBI via a simple email
thread.
"When this kind of surveillance power is in malevolent hands -- and in the case
of ICE, I feel comfortable saying a growing number of Americans view it as a
bad actor -- these companies are empowering actions the public increasingly
finds objectionable," a lawyer with the ACLU told a Salt Lake City news outlet
earlier this year.

--- page 20 ---
With the myriad ways law enforcement shares Flock data with the federal
government, it may seem like there's not much you can do. But one powerful
tool is advocating for new laws.
The rise of laws limiting what Flock Safety and
police can do
State laws differ drastically when it comes to Flock surveillance, but legislation is on the rise.
Klaus Vedfelt/Getty Images
In the past two years, a growing number of state laws have been passed or
proposed to address Flock Safety, license plate readers and surveillance. Much
of this legislation is bipartisan, or has been passed by both traditionally right-
and left-leaning states, although some go further than others.

--- page 21 ---
When I contacted the ACLU to learn what legislation is most effective in
situations like this, Chad Marlow, senior policy counsel and lead on the ACLU's
advocacy work for Flock and related surveillance, gave several examples.
"I would limit the allowed uses for ALPR," Marlow told me. "While some uses,
like for toll collection and Amber Alerts, with the right guardrails in place, are
not particularly problematic, some ALPRs are used to target communities of
color and low-income communities for fine/fee enforcement and for minor
crime enforcement, which can exacerbate existing policing inequities."
This type of harmful ALPR targeting is typically used to both oppress minorities
and bring in a greater number of fees for local law organizations -- problems
that existed long before AI recognition camera, but have been exacerbated by
the technology.
New legislation can help, but it needs to be carefully crafted. The most
effective laws fall into two categories. The first is requiring any collected ALPR
or related data to be deleted within a certain time frame -- the shorter, the
better. New Hampshire wins here with a 3-minute rule.
"For states that want a little more time to see if captured ALPR data is relevant
to an ongoing investigation, keeping the data for a few days is sufficient,"
Marlow said. "Some states, like Washington and Virginia, recently adopted 21-
day limits, which is the very outermost acceptable limit."

--- page 22 ---
The second type of promising law makes it illegal to share ALPR and similar
data outside the state (such as with ICE) and has been passed by states like
Virginia, Illinois and California. 
"Ideally, no data should be shared outside the collecting agency without a
warrant," Marlow said. "But some states have chosen to prohibit data sharing
outside of the state, which is better than nothing, and does limit some risks."
Vermont, meanwhile, requires a strict approval process for ALPRs that, by
2025, left no law enforcement agency in the state using license cams.
But what happens if police choose to ignore laws and continue using Flock as
they see fit? That's already happened. In California, for example, police in Los
Angeles and San Diego were found sharing information with Homeland
Security in 2025, in violation of a state law that bans organizations from
sharing license plate data out of state.
When this happens, the recourse is typically a lawsuit, either from the state
attorney general or a class action by the community, both of which are
ongoing in California in 2026. But what should people do while legislation and
lawsuits proceed?

--- page 23 ---
Living with Flock Safety and its growing
competitors
Many other AI surveillance tools are appearing, including some aimed at law enforcement and businesses.
NurPhoto/Contributor/Getty Images
Marlow acknowledged that individuals can't do much about Flock surveillance
without bans or legislation.

--- page 24 ---
"Flock identifies and tracks your vehicle by scanning its license plate, and
covering your license plate is illegal, so that is not an option," he told me.
However, Marlow suggested minor changes that could make a difference for
those who are seriously worried. "When people are traveling to sensitive
locations, they could take public transportation and pay with cash (credit cards
can be tracked, as can share-a-rides) or get a lift from a friend, but those aren't
really practical on an everyday basis."
Ditching or restricting Flock Safety is one way communities are fighting back
against what they consider to be unnecessary surveillance with the potential
for abuse. But AI surveillance doesn't begin or end with one company.

--- page 25 ---
When multiple companies, including Motorola, are offering similar tools, the problem becomes much larger
than Flock Safety tech.
Motorola Solutions
Flock Safety is an intermediary that provides technology in demand by
powerful organizations. It's hardly the only one with these kinds of high-tech
eyes -- it's just one of the first to enter the market at a national level. If Flock
were gone, another company would likely step in to fill the gap, unless
restricted by law.

--- page 26 ---
As Flock's integration with other apps and cameras becomes more complex,
it's going to be harder to tell where Flock ends and another solution begins,
even without rival companies showing up with the latest AI tracking.
But rivals are showing up, from Shield AI for military intelligence to commercial
applications by companies like Ambient.ai, Verkada's AI security searches and
the infamous intelligence firm Palantir, all looking for ways to integrate and
expand. Motorola, in particular, is in on the action with its VehicleManager
platform.
Other steps to take if you're worried 
If you want to take an extra step, you can volunteer, donate and participate in a variety of anti-surveillance
activities.
Institute for Justice

--- page 27 ---
The first step is being aware, including knowing which new cameras your city
is installing and which software partnerships your local law enforcement has. If
you don't like what you discover, find ways to participate in the decision-
making process, like attending open city council meetings on Flock, as in
Bend.
On a broader level, keep track of the legislation your state is considering
regarding Flock and similar surveillance contracts and operations, as these will
have the greatest long-term impact. Blocking data from being shared out of
state and requiring police to delete surveillance ASAP are particularly
important steps. You can contact your state senators and representatives to
encourage legislation like this. 
When you're wondering what to share with politicians, I recommend something
like what Marlow told me: "The idea of keeping a location dossier on every
single person just in case one of us turns out to be a criminal is just about the
most un-American approach to privacy I can imagine."

--- page 28 ---
TYLER LACOMA
Editor / Home Security and Smart Home
Tyler has worked on, lived with and tested all types of smart home and security technology
for over a dozen years, explaining the latest features, privacy tricks, and top
recommendations. With degrees in Business Management, Literature and Technical Writing,
Tyler takes every opportunity to play with the latest AI technology, push smart devices to
their limits and occasionally throw cameras off his roof, all to find the best devices to trust
in your life. He always checks with the renters (and pets) in his life to see what smart
products can work for everyone, in every living situation. Living in beautiful Bend, Oregon
gives Tyler plenty of opportunities to test the latest tech in every kind of weather and
temperature. But when not at work, he can be found hiking the trails, trying out a new food
recipe for his loved ones, keeping up on his favorite reading, or gaming with good friends.
See full bio
You can also sign up for and donate to projects that are addressing Flock
concerns, such as The Plate Privacy Project from The Institute for Justice. I'm
currently talking to them about the latest events, and I'll update if they have
any additional tips for us.
Keep following CNET home security, where I break down the latest news you
should know, like privacy settings to turn on, security camera settings you may
want to turn off and how surveillance intersects with our daily lives. Things are
changing fast, but we're staying on top of it.

--- page 29 ---
YOUR GUIDE
TO A BETTER FUTURE
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information

--- page 30 ---
© 2026 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
BEST PRODUCTS
POPULAR REVIEWS
DEALS
TOP EXPLAINERS
EVENTS
POPULAR SERIES