When Flock Surveillance Comes to Your Town: Everything to Know About These Cameras - CNET X Your Guide To a Better Future Add as a preferred source on Google News AI Tech VPN Phones Laptops Audio TV Services & Software Computers All Tech Home Home Security Smart Home Kitchen & Household Yard & Outdoors Home Internet All Home Entertainment Gaming TV & Movies Streaming All Entertainment Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care All Wellness Gift Guides Cover Stories More Money CNET Video Editors' Choice All More Add as a preferred source on Google Back Today's Highlights 01 75+ Best Fourth of July Deals 02 New AI Chips for Amazon Home Tech Devices 03 Best Data Removal Services of 2026 04 T-Mobile Pushes Legacy Customers Onto Its Current Plans 05 SpaceX, Explained: 8 Things to Know After the IPO 06 10 Smart Home Cooling Tricks 07 Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services 08 These Are the 22 Official Best of CES Winners This Year 09 Best VPN 2026: Top 5 Services Tested AI As AI Expands, Erin Brockovich Taps Communities to Map Data Center Concerns The Home AI Features That Actually Make Daily Life Easier AI Chatbot Pricing Comparison: Here's What You Get When You Pay AI Detectors Are Garbage: Here Is How to Spot a Bot Yourself Wellness 9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep 10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More 7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood Back Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it. Explore all Best VPN Deals Best Gifts Under $300 Apple Deals iPad MacBook AirPods iPhone TV & Audio Deals TV Roku Sonos Streaming Gaming Deals Xbox PS5 Nintendo Switch Gaming PCs Back Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank. Explore all Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals Smart Home Deals Smart Home Home Security Robot Vacuum Smart Thermostat Equipment Deals Portable ACs Generators Electric Lawnmowers Air Purifiers Kitchen Deals Coffee Makers Keurig Air Fryers Back Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings. Explore all Best Mattress Deals Fitness Gifts Fitness Deals & Gifts Fitbit Garmin Meal Delivery Kit Glasses and Contacts Back Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion. Explore all 100 Days of Holiday DIY Father's Day Gifts Under $100 Under $50 Hottest Toys Online Flower Delivery Services Gaming Tweens Available on Amazon People Who Already Have It All Gift Baskets Back Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives. Explore all All Your Wearables Have One Glaring Weakness. What Can We Do About It? Phone Batteries Are Better Than Ever. It Doesn't Really Feel That Way Millions of Satellites, but Who's in Charge? It's a Wild West in Space Getting Older Messed With My Gaming. So I Changed How I Play AI Slop Is Destroying the Internet. These Are the People Fighting to Save It PDAs, Tube TVs and $13,000 VCRs: How CES Jump-Starts the Tech of Tomorrow Back Gift Guides Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 39 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2026 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2026 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2026 36 Best Gifts for Teens in 2026 24 of the Best Gifts for Tweens in 2026 Gifts For Everyone The 23 Best Luxury Gifts Our Editors Say Are Worth Every Penny Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 34 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back Gift Guide Our gifting experts are obsessively searching for holiday gifts that are unique, thoughtful and suitable for any budget. Explore all Best Tech Gifts 39 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2026 Best Gifts for Gamers in 2026 Best Travel Tech Gifts: Must-Haves for the Journey and the Destination Gifts For Kids Best Toys for Kids in 2026 36 Best Gifts for Teens in 2026 24 of the Best Gifts for Tweens in 2026 Gifts For Everyone The 23 Best Luxury Gifts Our Editors Say Are Worth Every Penny Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 34 Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything Back AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas. Explore all AI News Claude Can Now Run Tasks on Your Behalf With New 'Computer Use' Feature How to Tell Google's AI Features to Leave You Alone, Once and for All ChatGPT 5.5 Is All About Math, Science and AI Research ChatGPT Images 2: Why OpenAI Built a New Image Model After Killing Sora AI Reviews Best AI Image Generators ChatGPT Free vs. Plus Google Gemini Microsoft Copilot Best AI Chatbots Best AI Website Builders ChatGPT vs Gemini AI Guides How to Detect AI What is an LLM AI Resume Writing ChatGPT Glossary Back VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy. Explore all Best VPNs Best VPN iPhone Free Amazon Fire Stick Mobile Streaming VPN Deals VPN Reviews ExpressVPN Surfshark NordVPN NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN Back Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs. Explore all Best Phones Best Overall Phones iPhone Android iPhone Deals Best Phone Plans Family Plans Cellphone Plans Unlimited Plans Phone Reviews Galaxy S25 Ultra iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 16 Cases Back Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs. Explore all Best Laptops Best Laptop School Laptop Macbook Windows Battery Life Lightweight Gaming Budget Monitors Laptop Guides Chromebook vs. Laptop MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro Laptop Deals Back Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience. Explore all Best Earbuds Wireless Budget Noise-Canceling Best Headphones Best Overall Headphones Noise Canceling Work from Home Best Speakers Bluetooth Record Players AV Receivers Back TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies. Explore all Best TVs Best Overall TVs 65-inch 75-inch Budget TV Deals QLED vs. OLED TV Accessories Best Projectors Best TV Antenna TV Streaming Devices Best Streaming Device Best Fire TV Stick Back Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day. Explore all Services and Software Best Antivirus Software Best Password Manager Extra 15GB Gmail Storage iOS Tips Settings to Change How to Clear Your Cache Hidden Features Web Hosting Minecraft Server Best Web Hosting Services Best Cheap Web Hosting Back Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it. Explore all Best Computers Desktop Computer Gaming PC iMac Deals Best Tablets Best Overall Tablet Best iPad E Ink Tablets iPad Pro Deals Computer Tips Recycle Old Tech Windows on Mac Back Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure. Explore all Best Home Security Cameras Best Overall Security Camera Outdoor With No Subscription Wireless Best Security Systems Best Overall Security System DIY Security System Best Security Products Ring Video Doorbell Smoke Detectors Smart Locks Video Doorbells Back Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you. Explore all Best in Smart Home Indoor Smart Garden HomeKit Smart Thermostats Smart Garage Door Controller Smart Plugs Smart Displays Smart Home Devices Smart Lights Amazon Alexa Smart Home Deals Best Electric Vehicles Best Overall EVs EV Chargers Budget Back Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly. Explore all Best in Home Tech Dishwashers Car Vacuums Showerheads Air Purifiers Cordless Vacuums Robot Vacuums Best for Home Office Office Chairs Standing Desks Surge Protectors Tower Fans Dehumidifiers Best in the Kitchen Air Fryers Bread Machines Meat Thermometers Nonstick Pans Back Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp. Explore all Best in Yard & Outdoors Garden Hoses Pressure Washers Water Guns Grills Electric Lawn Mowers Solar Batteries Portable Power Stations Back Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service. Explore all Internet Reviews Verizon 5G T-Mobile 5G Xfinity Internet AT&T Internet Air Starlink Best ISPs Best Routers Best Overall Routers Gaming Wi-Fi Extenders Mesh Wi-Fi Systems Top ISPs by Location Chicago, IL San Francisco, CA Houston, TX New York, NY Back Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming. Explore all Nintendo Switch 2 How to Buy the Switch 2 Switch 1 vs. Switch 2 Switch Deals Best Games by Platform Nintendo Switch PlayStation 5 Xbox PC Games Mobile Virtual Reality Best Gaming Hardware VR Headsets SSDs for PS5 Best Gaming Deals PlayStation Plus Xbox Game Pass Free Xbox Game Pass Xbox Deals Back TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services. Explore all What to Watch Best Shows This Week Best Netflix Shows Best Netflix Movies Best Max Shows Best Max Movies Best Prime Video Shows Best Prime Video Horror Movies Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies Best Disney Plus Shows Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows Best Hulu Horror Movies Best Peacock Shows Back Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming. Explore all Best Streaming Services Best Overall Streaming Services Free Live TV 4K Content Kids Music Streaming Deals Streaming Service Reviews YouTube TV Hulu Plus Live TV Netflix Max Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV Back Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night. Explore all Best Mattresses Best Overall King Firm Memory Foam Twin Adjustable Plus Size Side Sleepers Air Mattresses Mattress Reviews Tempur-Pedic DreamCloud Nectar Beautyrest Helix Purple Mattress Deals Best Sleep Products Cooling Comforters Cooling Mattress Toppers Earplugs for Sleeping Sleep Trackers Travel Pillows Best Pillows Cooling Pillows Sleep Headphones Back Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy. Explore all Best Meal Kits Best Overall Meal Kit Meal Delivery Deals Vegan Healthy Meat Delivery Keto Cheapest Nutrition Tips Protein Visual Guide Meal Kits vs. Groceries Natural Sugar Substitutes Apple Cider Vinegar Back Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need. Explore all Best Fitness Equipment Peloton Alternatives Smart Home Gyms Exercise Bikes Treadmills Ellipticals Best Fitness Accessories Smart Scale Massage Guns Heart Rate Monitor Back Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean. Explore all Best in Eyewear Replacement Rx Lenses Reading Glasses OTC Eye Drops Vitamins for Healthy Eyes Online Glasses Stores Online Contact Lenses Best in Dental Care Electric Toothbrushes Teeth Whitening Strips Whitening Toothpaste Back Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future. Explore all Social Security Social Security Check Tracker Social Security Mistakes How to Maximize Social Security Best Finance Software Identity Theft Protection Tax Software TurboTax Review Free Tax Filing Rocket Money Review Zelle Limits Back CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world. Explore all Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET Back Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend. Explore all Subscription Services Energy Services Giftable Tech Money and Wellness ai atlas Home Home Security When Flock Surveillance Comes to Your Town: Everything to Know About These Cameras Flock Safety is setting up cams and drones around the country. Here's why communities are fighting back and exactly how this technology works. Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security and Smart Home Tyler has worked on, lived with and tested all types of smart home and security technology for over a dozen years, explaining the latest features, privacy tricks, and top recommendations. With degrees in Business Management, Literature and Technical Writing, Tyler takes every opportunity to play with the latest AI technology, push smart devices to their limits and occasionally throw cameras off his roof, all to find the best devices to trust in your life. He always checks with the renters (and pets) in his life to see what smart products can work for everyone, in every living situation. Living in beautiful Bend, Oregon gives Tyler plenty of opportunities to test the latest tech in every kind of weather and temperature. But when not at work, he can be found hiking the trails, trying out a new food recipe for his loved ones, keeping up on his favorite reading, or gaming with good friends. Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V See full bio Tyler Lacoma June 8, 2026 3:00 a.m. PT 15 min read Flock surveillance cameras and drones are now common: Here's what they can do. CNET Art Cities across the country are adopting -- or rejecting -- Flock Safety surveillance systems, which use controversial AI-powered license plate cameras partnered with local police and other law enforcement. Due to concerns over privacy and how Flock allows data to be used, dozens of cities have cancelled their Flock contracts this year. Bend, Oregon, was one of them , but only after passionate city council meetings. Some towns have even had to cover Flock cameras with plastic bags because they aren't sure if the cams are shut down. But what does it mean when Flock comes to town, and what exactly does its technology do? The answers are complex -- and incredibly important for the future of surveillance in the US. Read more : State Laws Against Surveillance and License Plate Cams Flock gripped news headlines late last year when it was under the microscope during widespread crackdowns by Immigration and Customs Enforcement . Though Flock doesn't have a direct partnership with federal agencies (a blurry line I'll discuss below), law enforcement agencies are free to share data with departments like ICE, and they frequently do. One study from the Center for Human Rights at the University of Washington found that at least eight Washington law enforcement agencies shared their Flock data networks directly with ICE in 2025, and 10 more departments allowed ICE backdoor access without explicitly granting the agency permission. Many other reports outline similar activity. Following Super Bowl ads about finding lost dogs, Flock was under scrutiny about its planned partnership with Ring , Amazon's security brand. The integration would have allowed police to request the use of Ring-brand home security cameras for investigations. Following intense public backlash, Ring cut ties with Flock just like my city did, although it now faces a new lawsuit for its own face recognition systems. To learn more, I spoke to Flock about how the company's surveillance technology is used (and misused). I also spoke with privacy advocates from the American Civil Liberties Union to discuss surveillance concerns and what communities are doing about it. What it means when Flock Safety sets up Flock's presence means license plate cameras -- and these days, much more. Bloomberg/Contributor/Getty Images If you hear that Flock is setting up near you, it usually means the installation of ALPR cameras to capture license plate photos and monitor cars on the street. Flock signs contracts with a wide range of entities, including city governments and law enforcement departments. A neighborhood can also partner with Flock -- for example, if an HOA decides it wants extra eyes on the road, it may choose to use Flock's systems. When Flock secures a contract, the company installs cameras at strategic locations. Though these cameras are primarily marketed for license plate recognition, Flock reports on its site that its surveillance system is intended to reduce crime, including property crimes such as "mail and package theft, home invasions, vandalism, trespassing, and burglary." The company also says it frequently solves violent crimes like "assault, kidnappings, shootings and homicides." Flock has recently expanded into other technologies, including advanced cameras that monitor more than just vehicles. Most concerning are the latest Flock drones equipped with high-powered cameras. Flock's " Drone as First Responder " platform automates drone operations, including launching them in response to 911 calls or gunfire. Flock's drones, which reach speeds up to 60 mph, can follow vehicles or people and provide information to law enforcement. Drones like these can be used to track fleeing suspects . In practice, the key is how law enforcement chooses to use them, and whether states pass laws allowing police to use drones without a warrant -- I'll cover state laws more below, because that's a big part of today's surveillance. It's important to note that not all cities or neighborhoods refer to Flock Safety by name, even when using its technology. They might mention the Drone as First Responder program, or ALPR cameras, without further details. For example, a March announcement about police drones from the city of Lancaster, California, doesn't mention Flock at all, even though it was the company behind the drone program. How Flock uses tech to ID cars -- and people Flock has expanded from cameras to drones, and with that comes greater ability to track people as well as cars. Connecticut Post/Hearst Newspapers/Getty Images Flock states on its website that its standard license-plate cameras cannot technically track vehicles , but only take a "point-in-time" image of a car to nab the license plate. However, due to AI video and image search, contracted parties like local law enforcement can use these tools to piece together license information and form their own timeline of where and when a vehicle went. Adding to those capabilities, Flock also told Forbes that it's making efforts to expand access to include video clips and live feeds. Flock's machine learning can also note details like a vehicle's body type, color, the condition of the license plate and a wide variety of identifiers, like roof racks, paint colors and what you have stored in the back. Flock rarely calls this AI, but it's similar to AI-recognition features you can find in the latest home security cameras A Flock spokesperson told me the company has boundaries and does not use facial recognition. "We have more traditional video cameras that can send an alert when one sees if a person is in the frame, for instance, in a business park at 2 a.m. or in the public parks after dark." By "traditional" cameras, Flock refers to those that capture a wider field of view -- more than just cars and license plates -- and can record video rather than just snapshot images. The information Flock can access provides a comprehensive picture that police can use to track cars by running searches on their software. Just like you might Google a local restaurant, police can search for a basic vehicle description and retrieve recent matches that the surveillance equipment may have found. Those searches can sometimes extend to people, too. "We have an investigative tool called Freeform that lets you use natural language prompts to find the investigative lead you're looking for, including the description of what a person's clothes may be," the Flock spokesperson told me. Unlike red-light cameras, Flock's cameras can be installed nearly anywhere and snap vehicle ID images for all cars. There are Safe Lists that people can use to help Flock cameras filter out vehicles by filling out a form with their address and license plate to mark their vehicle as a "resident." The opposite is also true: Flock cameras can use a hot list of known, wanted vehicles and send automatic alerts to police if one is found. With Flock drones, these intelligent searches become even more complete, allowing cameras to track where cars are going and identify people. That raises additional privacy concerns about having eyes in the sky over your backyard. "While flying, the drone faces forward, looking at the horizon, until it gets to the call for service, at which point the camera looks down," the Flock spokesperson said. "Every flight path is logged in a publicly available flight dashboard for appropriate oversight." Yet unlike personal security options, there's no easy way to opt out of this kind of surveillance. You can't turn off a feature, cancel a subscription or throw away a device to avoid it. And even though more than 45 cities have canceled Flock contracts amid public outcry, that doesn't guarantee that all surveillance cameras will be removed from the designated area. When I reached out to the police department in Eugene, another city in Oregon that ended its Flock contract, the PD director of public information told me that, while there were concerns about certain vulnerabilities and data security requirements with the particular vendor, the technology itself is not the problem. "Eugene Police's ALPR system experience has demonstrated the value of leveraging ALPR technology to aid investigations … the department must ensure that any vendors meet the highest standards." Does Flock track personal information? The devil is in the details License plates can be closely connected to your personal information. Joa_Souza/Getty Images Flock's stance, as outlined in its privacy and ethics guide , is that license plate numbers and vehicle descriptions aren't personal information. The company says it doesn't surveil "private data" -- only cars and general descriptive markers. But vehicle information can be considered personal because it's legally tied to the vehicle's owner. Privacy laws, including proposed federal legislation from 2026 , prohibit the release of personal information from state motor vehicle records in order to protect citizens. However, those laws typically include exemptions for legal actions and law enforcement, sometimes even for private security companies . AI detection also plays a role. When someone can identify a vehicle through searches like " red pickup truck with a dog in the bed ," that tracking goes beyond basic license plates to much more personal information about the driver and their life. It may include the bumper stickers, what can be seen in the backseat and whether a vehicle has a visible gun rack. Flock's practices -- like its recent push toward live video feeds and drones to track suspects -- move out of the gray area, and that's where privacy advocates are rightly concerned. Despite its policy, it appears you can track specific people using Flock tech. You'll just need to pay more to do so, such as upgrading from ALPRs to Flock's suspect-following drone program, or using its Freeform tool to track someone by the clothes they're wearing. How does Flock Safety handle the data it collects? Flock's security practices are solid, but it's the company's users I'm worried about. Anadolu/Contributor/Getty Images Flock states on its website that it stores data for 30 days on Amazon Web Services cloud storage and then deletes it. It uses KMS-based encryption (a managed encryption key system common in AWS) and reports that all images and related data are encrypted from on-device storage to cloud storage. When Flock collects criminal justice information, or sensitive data managed by law enforcement, it's only available to official government agencies, not an entity like your local HOA. Because video data is encrypted throughout its transfer to the end user, employees at Flock cannot access it. These are the same kind of security practices I look for when reviewing home security cameras , but there are more complications here. However, Flock also makes it clear that its customers -- whether that's a local police department, private business or another institution -- own their data and control access to it. Once end users access that data, Flock's own privacy measures don't do much to help. That raises concerns about the security of local law enforcement systems, each of which has its own data regulations and accountability practices. Abuse of Flock data Flock can audit camera access, but that hasn't prevented bad behaviors so far. Matthew Jonas/Boulder Daily Camera/Getty Images You may have noticed a theme: Flock provides powerful surveillance technology, and the final results are deeply influenced by how customers use it. That can be creepy at best, and an illegal abuse of power at worst. Since Flock Safety began partnering with law enforcement, a growing number of officers have been found abusing the surveillance system. In one instance, a Kansas police chief used Flock cameras 164 times while tracking an ex. In another case, a sheriff in Texas lied about using Flock to "track a missing person," but was later found to be investigating a possible abortion. In Georgia, a police chief was arrested for using Flock to stalk and harass citizens. In Virginia, a man sued the city of Norfolk over purported privacy violations and discovered that Flock cameras had been used to track him 526 times , around four times per day. Those are just a few examples from a long list, giving real substance to worries about a surveillance state and a lack of checks and balances. When I asked Flock how its systems protect against abuse and overreach, a spokesperson referred to its accountability feature, an auditing tool that "records every search that a user of Flock conducts in the system." Flock used this tool during the Georgia case above, which ultimately led to the arrest of the police chief. While police search logs are often tracked like this, reports indicate that many authorities start searches with vague terms and cast a wide net using terms like "investigation," "crime" or a broad immigration term like "deportee" to gain access to as much data as possible. While police can't avoid Flock's audit logs, they can use general or discriminatory terms -- or skip filling out fields entirely -- to evade investigations and hide intent. Regardless of the auditing tools, the onus is on local organizations to manage investigations, accountability and transparency. That brings me to a particularly impactful current event. Flock, ICE and the federal government: Data sharing complications While ICE can't directly access Flock's system, they tend to get a lot of help from local law enforcement. Douglas Rissing/Getty Images ICE is the elephant in the room in my Flock guide. Does Flock share its surveillance data with federal agencies such as ICE? Yes, the federal government frequently has access to that data, but how it gets access is important. Flock states on its website that it has not shared data or partnered with ICE or any other Department of Homeland Security officials since terminating its pilot programs in August 2025. Flock says its focus is now on local law enforcement, but that comes with a hands-off approach that doesn't control what happens to information downstream. "Flock has no authority to share data on our customers' behalf, nor the authority to disrupt their law enforcement operations," the Flock spokesperson told me. "Local police all over the country collaborate with federal agencies for various reasons, with or without Flock technology. " That collaboration has grown more complex. As Democratic Senator Ron Wyden from Oregon stated in an open letter to Flock Safety , "local" law enforcement isn't that local anymore, especially when 75% of Flock's law enforcement customers have enrolled in the National Lookup Tool , which allows information sharing across the country between all participants. "Flock has built a dangerous platform in which abuse of surveillance data is almost certain," Wyden wrote. "The company has adopted a see-no-evil approach of not proactively auditing the searches done by its law enforcement customers because, as the company's Chief Communications Officer told the press, 'It is not Flock's job to police the police.'" Police department sharing isn't always easy to track, but reporting from 404 Media found that police departments across the country have been creating Flock searches with reasons listed as "immigration," "ICE," or "ICE warrant," among others. Again, since police can put whatever terms they want in these fields -- depending on local policies -- we don't know for sure how common it is to look up info for ICE. Additionally, there's not always an official process or chain of accountability for sharing this data. In Oregon, reports found that a police department was conducting Flock searches on behalf of ICE and the FBI via a simple email thread. "When this kind of surveillance power is in malevolent hands -- and in the case of ICE, I feel comfortable saying a growing number of Americans view it as a bad actor -- these companies are empowering actions the public increasingly finds objectionable," a lawyer with the ACLU told a Salt Lake City news outlet earlier this year. With the myriad ways law enforcement shares Flock data with the federal government, it may seem like there's not much you can do. But one powerful tool is advocating for new laws. The rise of laws limiting what Flock Safety and police can do State laws differ drastically when it comes to Flock surveillance, but legislation is on the rise. Klaus Vedfelt/Getty Images In the past two years, a growing number of state laws have been passed or proposed to address Flock Safety, license plate readers and surveillance. Much of this legislation is bipartisan, or has been passed by both traditionally right- and left-leaning states, although some go further than others. When I contacted the ACLU to learn what legislation is most effective in situations like this, Chad Marlow, senior policy counsel and lead on the ACLU's advocacy work for Flock and related surveillance, gave several examples. "I would limit the allowed uses for ALPR," Marlow told me. "While some uses, like for toll collection and Amber Alerts, with the right guardrails in place, are not particularly problematic, some ALPRs are used to target communities of color and low-income communities for fine/fee enforcement and for minor crime enforcement, which can exacerbate existing policing inequities." This type of harmful ALPR targeting is typically used to both oppress minorities and bring in a greater number of fees for local law organizations -- problems that existed long before AI recognition camera, but have been exacerbated by the technology. New legislation can help, but it needs to be carefully crafted. The most effective laws fall into two categories. The first is requiring any collected ALPR or related data to be deleted within a certain time frame -- the shorter, the better. New Hampshire wins here with a 3-minute rule. "For states that want a little more time to see if captured ALPR data is relevant to an ongoing investigation, keeping the data for a few days is sufficient," Marlow said. "Some states, like Washington and Virginia, recently adopted 21-day limits, which is the very outermost acceptable limit." The second type of promising law makes it illegal to share ALPR and similar data outside the state (such as with ICE) and has been passed by states like Virginia, Illinois and California. "Ideally, no data should be shared outside the collecting agency without a warrant," Marlow said. "But some states have chosen to prohibit data sharing outside of the state, which is better than nothing, and does limit some risks." Vermont, meanwhile, requires a strict approval process for ALPRs that, by 2025, left no law enforcement agency in the state using license cams. But what happens if police choose to ignore laws and continue using Flock as they see fit? That's already happened. In California, for example, police in Los Angeles and San Diego were found sharing information with Homeland Security in 2025, in violation of a state law that bans organizations from sharing license plate data out of state. When this happens, the recourse is typically a lawsuit, either from the state attorney general or a class action by the community , both of which are ongoing in California in 2026. But what should people do while legislation and lawsuits proceed? Living with Flock Safety and its growing competitors Many other AI surveillance tools are appearing, including some aimed at law enforcement and businesses. NurPhoto/Contributor/Getty Images Marlow acknowledged that individuals can't do much about Flock surveillance without bans or legislation. "Flock identifies and tracks your vehicle by scanning its license plate, and covering your license plate is illegal, so that is not an option," he told me. However, Marlow suggested minor changes that could make a difference for those who are seriously worried. "When people are traveling to sensitive locations, they could take public transportation and pay with cash (credit cards can be tracked, as can share-a-rides) or get a lift from a friend, but those aren't really practical on an everyday basis." Ditching or restricting Flock Safety is one way communities are fighting back against what they consider to be unnecessary surveillance with the potential for abuse. But AI surveillance doesn't begin or end with one company. When multiple companies, including Motorola, are offering similar tools, the problem becomes much larger than Flock Safety tech. Motorola Solutions Flock Safety is an intermediary that provides technology in demand by powerful organizations. It's hardly the only one with these kinds of high-tech eyes -- it's just one of the first to enter the market at a national level. If Flock were gone, another company would likely step in to fill the gap, unless restricted by law. As Flock's integration with other apps and cameras becomes more complex, it's going to be harder to tell where Flock ends and another solution begins, even without rival companies showing up with the latest AI tracking. But rivals are showing up, from Shield AI for military intelligence to commercial applications by companies like Ambient.ai , Verkada's AI security searches and the infamous intelligence firm Palantir , all looking for ways to integrate and expand. Motorola, in particular, is in on the action with its VehicleManager platform . Other steps to take if you're worried If you want to take an extra step, you can volunteer, donate and participate in a variety of anti-surveillance activities. Institute for Justice The first step is being aware, including knowing which new cameras your city is installing and which software partnerships your local law enforcement has. If you don't like what you discover, find ways to participate in the decision-making process , like attending open city council meetings on Flock, as in Bend. On a broader level, keep track of the legislation your state is considering regarding Flock and similar surveillance contracts and operations, as these will have the greatest long-term impact. Blocking data from being shared out of state and requiring police to delete surveillance ASAP are particularly important steps. You can contact your state senators and representatives to encourage legislation like this. When you're wondering what to share with politicians, I recommend something like what Marlow told me: "The idea of keeping a location dossier on every single person just in case one of us turns out to be a criminal is just about the most un-American approach to privacy I can imagine." You can also sign up for and donate to projects that are addressing Flock concerns, such as The Plate Privacy Project from The Institute for Justice . I'm currently talking to them about the latest events, and I'll update if they have any additional tips for us. Keep following CNET home security , where I break down the latest news you should know, like privacy settings to turn on , security camera settings you may want to turn off and how surveillance intersects with our daily lives . Things are changing fast, but we're staying on top of it. TYLER LACOMA Editor / Home Security and Smart Home Tyler has worked on, lived with and tested all types of smart home and security technology for over a dozen years, explaining the latest features, privacy tricks, and top recommendations. With degrees in Business Management, Literature and Technical Writing, Tyler takes every opportunity to play with the latest AI technology, push smart devices to their limits and occasionally throw cameras off his roof, all to find the best devices to trust in your life. He always checks with the renters (and pets) in his life to see what smart products can work for everyone, in every living situation. Living in beautiful Bend, Oregon gives Tyler plenty of opportunities to test the latest tech in every kind of weather and temperature. But when not at work, he can be found hiking the trails, trying out a new food recipe for his loved ones, keeping up on his favorite reading, or gaming with good friends. See full bio Your guide to a better future US France Germany Japan Korea About CNET Software Downloads Press Room Accessibility Newsletters Your Privacy Rights Licensing Privacy Policy Sitemap Terms of Use Careers Do Not Sell My Personal Information Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Best Products Best VPNs Best VPN for Firestick Best Mobile VPN Best iPhone VPN Best Live TV Streaming Services Best Streaming Devices Best TV Antennas Best Phones Best Cheap Phones Best Camera Phones Best iPhones Best Android Phones Best TVs Best OLED TVs Best Soundbars Best Projectors Best Bluetooth Speakers Best Laptops Best Gaming Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Monitors Best External Hard Drives Best Antivirus Best Password Managers Best Wordpress Hosting Best Web Hosting Best Gaming Keyboards Best Gaming Headsets Best VR Headsets Best Portable Generators Best Electric Vehicle Chargers Best Electric Cars Best Hybrid Cars Best Electric Bikes Best Home Security Systems Best Security Cameras Best Video Doorbells Best Smart Thermostats Best Smart Locks Best Smart Lights Best Robot Vacuums Best Air Purifiers Best Coffee Makers Best Dishwashers Best Lawn Mowers Best Outdoor Security Cameras Best Grills Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Best Mortgage Lenders Best Home Equity Loans Best Tax Software Best Mattresses Best Pillows Best Weighted Blankets Best Sleep Trackers Best White Noise Machines Best Meal Kit Delivery Services Best Protein Powders Best Fitness Trackers Best Standing Desks Best Massage Guns Best Electric Toothbrushes Best Hair Dryers Best Internet Providers Best Mesh WiFi Systems Best WiFi Routers Best Fiber Internet Providers Best Satellite Internet Providers Popular Reviews ExpressVPN Review Surfshark VPN Review NordVPN Review PIA VPN Review ProtonVPN Review Tempurpedic Mattress Review Saatva Classic Mattress Review DreamCloud Mattress Review Helix Mattress Review Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review Avocado Green Mattress Review Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review Helix Sunset Luxe Review Hostinger Review Blue Apron Review Thistle Meal Delivery Review Hungryroot Review ModifyHealth Review Chase Savings Account Review Verizon 5G Home Internet Review T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review LG OLED C4 TV Review Hisense U8N TV Review TCL QM6K TV Review Deals VPN Deals Streaming Service Deals Galaxy S24 Deals iPhone Deals T-Mobile Deals Phone Plan Deals Google Pixel Deals TV Deals Cheap TV Deals MacBook Deals Laptop Deals Xbox Game Pass Deals Mattress Deals Apple Watch Deals Top Explainers What Is Teflon Flu? What Is Cellular Internet? What is Apple Cider Vinegar? How to Improve Cell Service? What is 5G? What are Eye Supplements? Medicare 2025? Soundbar vs Speakers? Fun Alexa Commands Nordvpn vs Expressvpn AT&T vs Xfinity OLED vs QLED How to Increase Gmail Storage? Netflix Secret Menu EVs vs Gas Cars? Child Tax Credit? Events Black Friday Cyber Monday Apple WWDC CES Samsung Unpacked Google I/O World Mobile Congress Apple Event ComiCon Gamescom IFA Black Hat/Defcon Popular Series AI Atlas Editor's Choice CNET Voices Science Culture © 2026 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.