Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Palatine IL PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Aug 23 2026

Overview

Palatine Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence while maintaining strong safeguards for individual privacy. The department utilizes retroactive search capabilities to help solve crimes after they occur, as well as real-time alerts on hot-listed vehicles to identify wanted offenders and vehicles entering or leaving the Village. To ensure proper use, accountability, and transparency, the Department has made the following policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Story

School Threat
A subject made threats of violence toward a local school while driving. Utilizing Flock License Plate Reader technology, officers quickly identified the suspect vehicle's location and coordinated a response. The subject was safely located and taken into custody before reaching the school, preventing a potentially dangerous incident and helping ensure the safety of students, staff, and the community.

Child Abduction and Sexual Abuse Investigation
Flock Safety cameras assisted investigators in identifying the offender involved in a child abduction and criminal sexual abuse case. Information obtained from the system also helped another jurisdiction identify the same offender in similar cases.

Homicide Investigation
Following a homicide in Palatine, Flock cameras helped investigators identify and locate the offender's vehicle. This information was critical in the investigation, and the offender was ultimately convicted in early 2026.

Homicide Investigation
Following a homicide in Palatine, investigators utilized Flock License Plate Reader technology to identify and track the vehicles used to transport the suspect. The suspect was transported by these individuals before and after the incident, allowing investigators to reconstruct their movements.

Hit-and-Run Investigation
After a vehicle struck a large digital sign at a local nonprofit organization and fled the scene, officers used physical evidence recovered from the crash scene along with Flock License Plate Reader technology to identify and locate the suspect vehicle. Officers subsequently made contact with the registered owner, who admitted to being involved in the crash, successfully resolving the hit-and-run investigation

Child Exploitation Investigation
Flock cameras were utilized during a joint investigation between the Palatine Police Department and the Cook County Sheriff Police that resulted in the apprehension of a child pornography offender.

Residential Burglary Investigation
Flock camera data helped investigators identify suspects involved in multiple residential burglaries. The offenders were later located and taken into custody in St. Louis.

Crime Prevention - Burglary and Auto Theft
Flock cameras alerted Palatine Police that vehicles associated with commercial burglaries and auto thefts were approaching the Village. This early notification allowed officers to strategically deploy resources and prevent additional crimes.

Stolen Vehicle Arrest
A Flock camera alerted an officer to a stolen vehicle entering the area. Officers located the vehicle and arrested two individuals who were also wanted on multiple warrants.

Stolen Vehicle Investigation
Flock cameras were used to identify and locate a stolen vehicle. After the vehicle was recovered, detectives obtained search warrants that further advanced the investigation.

Fraudulent Vehicle Purchase Investigation
Detectives were alerted to a stolen vehicle near their location using Flock cameras. Further investigation revealed the vehicle had been purchased using fraudulent documents.

Serious Hit-and-Run Crash
After a hit-and-run crash that caused serious injury, officers used Flock cameras to identify the suspect vehicle. Investigators later obtained a full confession.

Road Rage Incident
Following a road rage incident that escalated into a physical altercation resulting in one subject suffering cardiac arrest, Flock cameras helped investigators identify the individual who fled the scene.

Felony Retail Theft Investigation
Automated License Plate Readers (ALPR) helped officers identify suspects involved in a felony retail theft at Walmart.

Hit-and-Run Crash Investigation
Flock cameras provided critical information that helped identify the offender involved in a hit-and-run crash at a local grocery store.

Reckless Driving-110 MPH
A vehicle was observed traveling over 110 MPH in a posted 35 MPH zone. Officers used Flock ALPR cameras to identify the vehicle and, through further investigation, the driver, who was later arrested and charged. The technology allowed officers to investigate the incident without initiating a high-speed pursuit that could have placed the public and officers at additional risk.

Elderly Scam
A resident of a neighboring community was targeted by scammers who directed the victim to travel to multiple banks to complete financial transactions. When family members were unable to contact the victim, area Flock ALPR cameras assisted officers in locating the victim’s vehicle. Officers were able to intervene and help prevent additional financial loss.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

28

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

22

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

455,894

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

421

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, Illinois Leads, NCMEC Amber Alert, IL SOS

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

23,262
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Palatine IL PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

Additional Info

To ensure the responsible use of automated license plate reader (ALPR) technology, the Palatine Police Department conducts a monthly network audit of all Flock system activity. Supervisory staff review search activity and system access logs to confirm that all use of the system is consistent with department policy, Illinois law, and legitimate law enforcement purposes.

These internal reviews are conducted in addition to Flock Safety’s built-in privacy and accountability protections, which include detailed audit logs of every search performed, safeguards that block searches associated with prohibited or unlawful purposes, and other transparency features designed to detect misuse. In Illinois, access by federal law enforcement agencies has also been disabled for all participating departments, further ensuring compliance with state law and privacy protections.

Provided by Flock Safety