source: packet.pdf
sha256: 6683001d4ea325a831a12f29be40d0f2a501c2d742705049d3b3644aaef84297
pages: 86
ocr_pages: 38
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
May 30, 2024
9:00 AM
San Mateo Senior Center
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo,
CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD AS AN IN-PERSON WORKSHOP. PUBLIC ATTENDANCE IS AVAILABLE IN-PERSON ONLY. PUBLIC
COMMENTS MAY BE SUBMITTED IN PERSON OR IN WRITING. FOR SUBMITTING PUBLIC COMMENT SEE FURTHER DETAILS BELOW.
Council Member Rich Hedges will be participating from the following teleconference location:
904 Wharfside Road, San Mateo CA 94404.
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
PUBLIC COMMENT
This is the opportunity for the public comment on the Council’s Governance Workshop  before the Council proceeds with its working
session. Public comment will be limited to a total of 30 minutes. 
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
City Council Governance Workshop
Conduct a City Council Governance Workshop to review and update Chapter 6. "Council Member Conduct" of the
City Council Rules and Procedures.
CEQA: This workshop is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government activity which does not involve
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website and can be viewed at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material
distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. on Wednesday, May 29, 2024.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 86

--- page 2 ---
445 S. Figueroa St. Suite 1925, Los Angeles, CA 90071 
www.raftelis.com
City of San Mateo
City Council Governance Workshop
May 30, 2024
Senior Center
9 am to 1 pm
Workshop objectives:
•
Shared understanding of each other’s points of view
•
Consensus on Council values and code of conduct
•
Consensus on a path forward
•
Strengthened teamwork
AGENDA
•
Welcome and call to order
•
Public comments
•
Comments from the City Manager
•
Review guidelines for today’s discussions
•
Icebreaker
•
Review best practices in governance
•
Establish a set of Council values and an agreed upon code of conduct
•
Council’s next steps
•
Wrap up
Attachments
•
“Attributes of Exceptional Councils,” Institute for Local Government
•
“Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings,” Institute for Local Government
2 of 86

--- page 3 ---
RAFTELIS
2
Facilitators: Jan Perkins and Susan Healy Keene of Raftelis
3 of 86

--- page 4 ---
1 
   
 
 
Leading public organizations and governing with colleagues on a council is a challenging art of 
community service. The Institute recognizes that many aspects of leadership and governance are not 
intuitive. This piece is intended to provide councilmembers and city managers insight into the attributes of 
exceptional councils as well as provide practical tips to help them become exceptional. 
 
1. Exceptional councils develop a sense 
of team – a partnership with the city 
manager to govern and manage the city 
 
The mayor, councilmembers and city manager see 
themselves and work as a team as they undertake a  
series of tasks to further their common purpose. The 
individual team members work in a coordinated and 
collaborative manner with a high degree of respect, trust  
and openness. The team values diversity in style and 
perspective. The team thinks and acts strategically as it 
examines issues/situations and decides on a course of 
action serving their city’s mission and goals. 
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Successfully transition from candidate  
to a member of the council. 
 Become a champion of the city. Make 
decisions based on the needs and 
interests of the community at-large / the 
greater good. 
 Develop, communicate and support 
policy goals and council decisions. 
 Demonstrate a willingness to work 
collaboratively (as a team) and have a 
citywide perspective. 
 
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
Build capacity to create a more effective team. The governance team (mayor, councilmembers and 
city manager) should get to know each other; how each person approaches issues, decision making 
style and so on. This can be accomplished at annual meetings or workshops through-out the year. 
In the event that councilmembers disagree, clear ground rules (norms of behavior and practice) can 
help quell acrimony before it becomes a problem. It’s important to remember that trust is built 
around understanding and respect, not necessarily agreement.  
 
 
 
 
 
Attributes of Exceptional Councils 
4 of 86

--- page 5 ---
Attributes of Exceptional Councils 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
2. Exceptional councils have clear  
roles and responsibilities that are 
understood and adhered. 
 
Exceptional councils understand their role is to serve as 
policy maker - to represent the values, beliefs and priorities 
of their community while serving in the community’s best 
interest. They carry out a variety of responsibilities including: 
developing and adopting a vision for the city; focusing  
and aligning plans, policies, agreements and budgets in 
furtherance of this vision; and holding themselves and  
the city manager accountable for results.  
  
Exceptional councils understand that the city manager  
is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the city.  
The city manager is responsible for undertaking and 
accomplishing the policy objectives of the council. 
Exceptional councils recognize the subject matter expertise 
of staff and utilize their knowledge and experience to  
guide and inform decision making.  
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Understand the role of local 
government and their responsibilities. 
 Know their role- to set vision and policy, 
avoid micromanagement.  
 Councilmembers should strive to be 
informed about the issues facing the 
city and be prepared to ask questions of 
staff and each other.  
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
Create a shared understanding of the city manager’s role and the council’s expectations to optimize 
the working relationships. This shared understanding is informed by local charter and ordinance 
provisions that provide the overall framework for the relationship. The council should make time to 
have conversations during retreats and or study sessions to define and/or reveal and refine their 
role and responsibilities. Since role clarity between the city council and city management is critical to 
mutual success, having clear protocols helps avoid misunderstandings.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 of 86

--- page 6 ---
Attributes of Exceptional Councils 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
3. Exceptional councils honor the 
relationship with staff and each other 
 
Exceptional councils understand that a good working 
relationship with staff is vital for the city to be run 
successfully. Exceptional councils treat each other and  
staff with dignity and respect. They act with civility and  
a high level of professional decorum. Councilmembers  
build trust by not playing the “gotcha game” and strive to 
have a no secrets, no surprises approach as an operating 
norm. Finally, they respect the diversity of styles and 
perspectives among their colleagues and staff and are  
open to new ideas. 
 
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Councilmembers have the ability to 
respectfully disagree (to disagree 
without being disagreeable). 
They are able to leave it at the dais; 
debates are about policy, not 
personality. 
 Exceptional councilmembers reflect 
positive decorum/model of leadership 
by providing respectful tone with 
colleagues. 
 Establish a set of behaviors ahead of 
time, potentially documented in a code 
of conduct, to help promote civility and 
respect. 
 
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
 
Set council priorities and strategic goals at an annual meeting; these goals and priorities are a tool 
to guide the city manager and staff on where to focus their efforts. This annual meeting provides 
time for the council to reflect on community priorities as well as offer an opportunity to discuss their 
decorum and their relationship among each other and the relationship between the city 
manager/staff and the council.  
 
 
 
4. Exceptional councils routinely conduct 
effective meetings 
 
Open and public meetings are central to democratic 
decision-making. Exceptional councils master the art  
of effective meetings. They develop and adhere to meeting 
protocols and processes. They spend time planning and 
organizing the agenda with the aim of having a more 
focused meeting. They allocate the council’s time and 
energy appropriately (focused on the council’s role and 
responsibilities) and meeting short- and long-term priorities. 
They honor the public’s participation and engagement  
and they generally start on time and are held during 
reasonable hours. 
 
Exceptional councils use public meetings not only for their 
intended purpose, information sharing and decision-making, 
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Councilmembers are respectful of each 
other, the public and everyone’s time. 
 Councilmembers use engaging body 
language as a way to demonstrate 
respect. 
 Issues are not personalized, thoughtful 
dialogue is the objective. 
 Agenda packets are read, 
councilmembers come prepared and 
have an open mind 
 Respect is demonstrated for varied 
opinions. 
 Everyone strives to be civil and act with 
decorum. 
 
6 of 86

--- page 7 ---
Attributes of Exceptional Councils 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
but they also use the meeting to demonstrate respect and 
civility for each other, staff and the public. Exceptional 
councilmembers prepare in advance of the meeting, remain 
focused on the city goals and objectives and mindful of their 
role and responsibilities.   
 
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
Develop and adopt (with regular reviews and updates), guidelines for conducting meetings and 
making decisions. These governance protocols typically address meeting procedures (agenda 
preparation, how to put issues on the agenda, debate and voting procedures (parliamentary rules)  
and standards of decorum (civility)). As part of a regular self-assessment, councils should evaluate 
their meetings and their effectiveness and adjust behavior and practices for better results. 
 
 
5. Exceptional councils hold themselves 
and the city accountable 
 
Exceptional councils operate openly, ethically and work to 
engage the community in a myriad of decisions impacting 
the prosperity and well-being of their community. Toward 
that end, exceptional councils consistently provide short- 
and long-term strategic direction and goals, as well as 
provide budget, program and policy oversight. 
 
Exceptional councils hold themselves accountable for the 
conduct, behavior and effectiveness of the council. They 
establish clear priorities and goals and hold the city 
manager accountable for results. And finally, they embrace 
accountability as a process and tool to calibrate ongoing 
efforts to address and meet policy and program objectives. 
 
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Councilmembers operate ethically and 
with integrity. 
 Councils conduct team building / goal 
setting exercise to track progress 
towards mutually agreed upon goals 
 Councils taking responsibility for the 
results (good and bad). 
 Councils celebrate success. 
 Councilmembers hold themselves 
responsible for adhering to operating 
protocols and codes of conduct. 
 
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
Annually evaluate council and city manager performance toward achieving the city’s priorities and 
goals (consider having this be part of an annual goal setting meeting). Council should consider 
assessing its own behavior and effectiveness as part of its annual self-assessment.   
 
 
 
 
 
7 of 86

--- page 8 ---
Attributes of Exceptional Councils 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
6. Exceptional councils have members 
who practice continuous personal 
learning and development 
 
Governance is not intuitive. In addition, the policy and 
economic environment impacting cities are ever changing. 
Exceptional councils continually provide the opportunity  
to build their knowledge and skills, to enhance their 
understanding of key issues, increase their awareness  
of best practices and sharpen their leadership and 
governance skills. 
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 Stay informed on key issues 
 Gain key insights and knowledge on all 
aspects of governing, from budgets to 
plans and everything in between. 
 Learning to listen is sometimes more 
important than learning to give a 
speech. 
 
 
BEST PRACTICE TIPS 
Seek out national, state and local professional growth and educational opportunities. These 
opportunities can focus on the nuts and bolts of governing to helping you gain valuable information 
and/or insights on key policy issues facing your city. In addition, city run orientations for newly elected 
officials provide a good way to acclimate new members to the council’s norms and protocols as well as 
the budget and key policy issues. 
 
 
  
 
8 of 86

--- page 9 ---
LOCAL GOVERNMENT 101
 
1400 K Street, Suite 205  •  Sacramento, CA 95814  •  916.658.8208  •  www.ca-ilg.org 
 
 
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
www.ca-ilg.org/OrientationMaterials  
December 2011 
 
What is Civility?  
 
In the context of democratic debate, civility is about 
how people treat each other.  Civility involves the 
display of respect for those who have positions with 
which one disagrees.   
 
Even though disagreement plays a necessary role in 
governance and politics, the issue is how one expresses 
that disagreement.  The key is to focus on the strengths 
and weakness of proposed solutions to community 
problems—not to engage in personal attacks against 
those who favor different solutions.1  An even more 
powerful leadership strategy is to listen for the 
concerns and values that underlie people’s diverse 
perspectives to try to identify points of agreement and 
common ground. 
 
Specific Strategies 
 
• Embrace Diverse Points of View.  Local 
officials are grappling with difficult policy 
challenges.  Bringing as many perspectives on what might be the best solution to a given 
problem increases the likelihood that the solution will indeed be successful and enduring.  
A goal is to create a culture of tolerance for differing points of view that credits everyone 
with having the best interests of the community in mind.   
 
• Everyone Gets a Chance to Share Their Views.  Voltaire said "I may not agree with 
what you say, but I will fight to the death for your right to say it."  Everyone’s right to 
have their view heard is a central democratic value. Conversely, a strategy that relies on 
drowning other perspectives out usually results in a turning up of the volume and 
corresponding decreases in civility in discussions. 
 
 
 
Related Resources 
 
This tip sheet is a distillation and 
update of the Institute for Local 
Government’s 2003 whitepaper called 
Promoting Civility at Public Meetings: 
Concepts and Practice, available at 
www.ca-ilg.org/civility. 
 
Additional resources from the Institute 
include 
• Dealing with Emotions at 
Public Hearings, available at 
www.ca-
ilg.org/respondingtoconflict  
and  
 
• A Leader’s Role When Tragedy 
Strikes, available at www.ca-
ilg.org/tragedy   
9 of 86

--- page 10 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
2 
 
• With Rights Come Responsibilities.  For there to be time for everyone to weigh in on 
an issue, there may need to be reasonable time limits on how long individuals speak.  The 
goal is to create a culture in which as many people as possible (including decision-
makers) are respectful of other people’s time in attending and participating in the 
meeting. 
 
• Avoid Debates and Interruptions.  Interruptions should be discouraged so that 
individuals have the opportunity to 
complete their thoughts.  A good practice 
for everyone participating in the 
conversation is to make a note of a question 
or different point of view that occurs to you 
when someone is speaking and then 
address that issue when it is one’s turn to 
speak.  This is an especially important 
approach for decision-makers to model. 
 
• Reduce Uncertainty.  Assuring people 
they will be allowed to share their views 
and how can reduce concerns that they will 
not be allowed to be heard.  Explaining the 
process to be used to allow all views to be 
heard at the outset of a meeting or 
discussion item can reduce tension levels.  
 
• The Importance of Listening.  Listening 
is an important sign of respect, as is giving 
others the opportunity to listen.  Decision-
makers’ active interest in what people are 
saying is vital.  Repeating back core points 
that a speaker makes reassures the speaker 
that their message has indeed been heard—
even if one does not necessarily agree with 
it.  The mood turns ugly if the public thinks 
the matter has already been decided, 
decision-makers don’t care about public 
input, or decision-makers are being impolite or disrespectful of the public they serve.  
Everyone attending a meeting should respect other attendees’ right to both listen and be 
heard.  One person should talk at a time, any private conversations should be taken 
outside or deferred, and smart phones should be turned off (texting and emailing should 
not occur during the meeting).  
 
• Be Compassionate About the Fear Factor/ Heckling and Applause Not Allowed.  
Polls suggest many people fear public speaking.2 This fear can come from concerns about 
Agenda Guidance 
 
Some local agencies include language to 
the following effect on their agendas:  
 
Free expression of all points of view is 
an important democratic value in this 
community.   
 
To allow all persons to speak who may 
wish to do so, each speaker is allowed 
a maximum of __ minutes.  An 
effective approach is to lead with your 
key point or concern and then explain 
the reasons underlying it.  
 
If others have already expressed your 
views, you may simply indicate that 
you agree with the previous speaker.  
If appropriate, a spokesperson may 
present the views of a group.   
 
To encourage and respect expression 
of all views, meeting rules prohibit 
clapping, booing or shouts of approval 
or disagreement from the audience.  
 
10 of 86

--- page 11 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
3 
 
being judged negatively or having ideas that people will ridicule or reject.  Allowing 
cheering and booing or other forms of heckling discourages people from sharing their 
views (even silence or no applause can be perceived as rejection).  It also runs the risk 
that those that do speak will focus more on getting applause than moving the 
conversation towards addressing difficult 
issues.  (Eye-rolling and grimacing can be 
non-verbal forms of heckling and also have 
no place in communities that value mutual 
respect.)  
 
• Separate People from The Problem.  
Personal attacks or questioning people’s 
motives or character rarely moves the 
conversation forward to a solution of a 
problem.  In the book about effective 
negotiating called Getting to Yes,3 the 
authors encourage negotiators to attack the 
problem, not the people involved in the 
problem.  Anything that approaches name-
calling should be off limits.  
 
• Consider Using Titles.  Referring to each 
other by title and last name (Supervisor 
Hassan, Council Member Lee, Board 
Member Aviña) can serve as a way of 
showing respect that an individual has been 
elected and is participating in the 
conversation in that capacity.  Using 
similar forms of respect for members of the 
public (Mr., Ms, Sir, Madam) when 
speaking can also reinforce the notion that 
everyone is engaged in a special kind of 
discussion.  Community norms vary, 
however, and in some communities this 
may be perceived as an affectation.   
 
• Take a Break.  If conversations get heated, 
consider taking a break.  As one veteran 
observer of public meetings noted “time 
can be an anti-inflammatory agent” that can 
give people a chance to calm down and 
restore order.4  
 
A Note on Civility and Staff 
 
Staff plays a critical role in providing 
service to the agency and the public the 
agency serves.  An agency’s ability to 
attract and retain capable and motivated 
staff is an important determinant of how 
satisfied the public is likely to be with 
the agency’s performance and that of its 
elected officials. 
 
An old management saw counsels those 
with oversight responsibilities to praise 
in public and criticize in private.  That 
advice is sound for those in public 
service. 
 
If an elected official has concerns about 
a staff member’s performance or 
actions, a good practice is to make the 
top administrative official of the agency 
aware of those concerns.  
 
Similarly, if a member of the public 
raises concerns about the performance 
of a public agency employee, refer it to 
management with a request for follow 
up. 
 
If the communication is more in the 
nature of a personal attack, try to 
identify the underlying concern and 
respond to that.  Encouraging the person 
to focus on the issue and avoid personal  
attacks.  Separating people from the 
problem can be just as valuable a 
strategy when it comes to staff.  
11 of 86

--- page 12 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
4 
 
 
Parliamentary Procedure and Civility 
 
Rules of parliamentary procedure are another tool to encourage civility and decorum at meetings.  
The most famous source of parliamentary procedure is Robert’s Rules of Order.  A good starting 
point is   www.robertsrules.com/ (the “survival tips” page is especially helpful). 
 
A former mayor and county supervisor (and now judge) has created a simplified version for use 
at the local level.  Called “Rosenberg’s Rules,” the text and an explanatory video are accessible 
from the Institute’s website at www.ca-ilg.org/rosenbergsrules.  
The following is an excerpt from Rosenberg’s Rules on about courtesy and decorum: 
The rules of order are meant to create an atmosphere where the members of the body and 
the members of the public can attend to business efficiently, fairly and with full 
participation.  At the same time, it is up to the Chair and the members of the body to 
maintain common courtesy and decorum.  Unless the setting is very informal, it is 
always best for only one person at a time to have the floor, and it is always best for every 
speaker to be first recognized by the Chair before proceeding to speak. 
The Chair should always ensure that debate and discussion of an agenda item focuses on 
the item and the policy in question, not the personalities of the members of the body.  
Debate on policy is healthy, debate on personalities is not. The Chair has the right to cut 
off discussion that is too personal, is too loud, or is too crude. 
Debate and discussion should be focused, but free and open.  In the interest of time, the 
Chair may, however, limit the time allotted to speakers, including members of the body. 
Can a member of the body interrupt the speaker?  The general rule is “no.”  There are, 
however, exceptions.  . . .  
Note that the chair may have greater latitude in enforcing decorum among decision-makers than 
between the public and decision-makers. 
• Ejection a Last Resort.  If a recess does not work to restore order and other techniques 
are not successful, calling in the sergeant of arms is a last resort.  A good practice is to 
create a record that disruptor was given ample warnings and opportunity to leave or 
reform their behavior voluntarily.  If selective removal of one or more disruptors does not 
restore order, state law does allow clearing the room with the media allowed to remain5 
(as an even more last resort).   
 
 
 
 
12 of 86

--- page 13 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
5 
 
• Walk the Talk.  For civility to be a regular part of community discourse, community 
leaders must set the standard.  Scholars are concerned—and the data seems to 
demonstrate—that public officials’ incivility to one another contributes to voter 
alienation and antipathy toward public officials and public agencies.6   
 
A good approach is to treat people how you would like to be treated.  This includes a) 
limiting one’s statements in discussions to those that move the conversation forward, b) 
keeping one’s remarks brief, to the point and non-repetitive of comments others have 
made (other than to note one’s agreement), c) avoiding personal attacks (in public and 
private) and d) otherwise adhering to the strategies described above.    
 
 
Conclusion 
 
How a community conducts its public meetings is a reflection of the community and its values. 
As Dr. Martin Luther King’s observed: 
 
In a neighborhood dispute there may be stunts, rough words, and even hot insults; but 
when a whole people speaks to its government, the dialogue and the action must be on a 
level reflecting the worth of that people and the responsibility of that government.7 
 
Dr. King’s admonition to his listeners to set their standards of discourse high--irrespective of 
how others behave--is consistent with the quote from Gandhi to his followers that “you must be 
the change you wish to see in the world.”   
 
 
 
 
 
G:\INSTITUTE\Gov 101\Civility Tipsheet\Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings.docx 
 
 
About This Resource 
This resource is a service of the Institute for Local Government (ILG) whose mission is to promote good 
government at the local level with practical, impartial, and easy-to-use resources for California 
communities.  ILG is the nonprofit 501(c)(3) research and education affiliate of the League of California 
Cities and the California State Association of Counties. For more information and to access the Institute’s 
resources on Local Government 101, go to www.ca-ilg.org/localgovt101. 
 
*The Institute welcomes feedback and suggestions on enhancing this resource: 
 
• 
Email: info@ca-ilg.org Subject: Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
• 
Mail: 1400 K Street, Suite 205 ▪ Sacramento, CA ▪ 95814  
13 of 86

--- page 14 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
6 
 
 
Sample Codes of Civility 
 
Drafting Note: A threshold issue is whether an agency’s code will be positive or negative. In 
other words, will the code describe conduct that is prohibited or describe the kind of conduct it 
desires to be the norm.  Describing the kind of conduct that is preferred has the advantage of 
being more instructive in setting the goal and encouraging people to meet that goal.  
 
Commitment to Civil Behavior  
 
To maintain a cohesive, productive working environment, the members of the San Diego County 
Water Authority Board of Directors commit to: 
 
1. Support the Authority’s mission.  
 
2. Bring Authority related concerns, issues, and conflicts to the Authority Board                     
for discussion.              
 
3. Offer alternative solution(s) when addressing a problem or issue. 
 
4. Show respect to each other as appointed representatives of their member agencies.  
 
5. Promote civility during Board meetings and tolerate nothing less. 
 
6. Maintain the confidentiality of material discussed during closed Board meeting sessions.  
Similarly, not to disclose the content or substance of confidential or privileged 
communications relating to Authority business. 
 
7. Limit the length of comments during Board meetings to three minutes per Director per 
item and not repeat points that already have been stated by other Directors. 
 
Pledge of Civility  
 
1.  The manner in which we govern ourselves is often as important as the positions we 
take. 
 
2.   The organization’s collective decisions will be better—and truer to our mission—
when differing views have had the opportunity to be fully vetted and considered. 
 
3.   All those who appear before the organization’s board and committees have the right 
to be treated with respect, courtesy, and openness.  We value all input. 
 
Accordingly, we commit to conduct ourselves at all times with civility and courtesy, to both 
those with whom the Board interacts and to each other.  We also pledge to endeavor to correct 
ourselves, should our conduct fall below this standard.8 
 
14 of 86

--- page 15 ---
Tips for Promoting Civility in Public Meetings 
December 2011
 
Institute for Local Government   www.ca-ilg.org  
7 
 
Resources and References 
                                                 
1 Burgess, Guy and Heidi, The Meaning of Civility , Conflict Research Consortium at 
www.colorado.edu/conflict/civility.htm. 
2 http://www.gallup.com/poll/1891/Snakes-Top-List-Americans-Fears.aspx (fear of public speaking 
ranks second to fear of snakes).  
3 Fisher, Roger and Ury, William L., Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In (1991). 
4 See Vermont Institute for Government, Born to Chair: An Introduction to the Science and Art of 
Chairing a Board Meeting (1998), available at http://www.sec.state.vt.us/municipal/pubs/chair.pdf and 
http://crs.uvm.edu/citizens/chair.pdf., page 3.  
5 See Cal. Gov’t Code § 54957.9, which provides:  
 
In the event that any meeting is willfully interrupted by a group or groups of persons so as to 
render the orderly conduct of such meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of individuals who are willfully interrupting the meeting, the members of the legislative 
body conducting the meeting may order the meeting room cleared and continue in session.  Only 
matters appearing on the agenda may be considered in such a session.  Representatives of the 
press or other news media, except those participating in the disturbance, shall be allowed to 
attend any session held pursuant to this section.  Nothing in this section shall prohibit the 
legislative body from establishing a procedure for readmitting an individual or 
individuals not responsible for willfully disturbing the orderly conduct of the meeting. 
 
 
6 Carter, Stephen L., Civility: Manners, Morals and the Etiquette of Democracy (1998) at 9. 
7 From the March on Washington for Jobs, Peace and Freedom, 1963. 
8 Adapted from the Pledge of Civility adopted by the California Public Employee Retirement System 
Board.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 of 86

--- page 16 ---
From:

To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date: Wednesday, May 29, 2024 12:29:00 PM
Attachments: image001.pnq
SOP 2024-2 Revi 5May2024.pdf
Statement of Position 2024-1.pdf
Greetings,

On behalf of the membership and Board of Directors of Ethics San Mateo, | would like to
extend our welcome to you. We believe your expertise in the facilitation of the San Mateo City
Council Governance Workshop will be of great value.

Ethics San Mateo is a 501(c)(4) Tax Exempt California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
promoting ethical conduct by our city government and leadership, those seeking leadership
roles, and businesses and organizations conducting transactions with or seeking to influence
city government. Launched on October 19, 2022, our mission is to lead and support efforts by
the residents of San Mateo to ensure our city is served according to the highest level of ethical
standards and behavior.

We are issue agnostic. We do not take positions on building heights, traffic issues, code
variances, zoning, etc. We DO take positions on HOW decisions are made, who is influencing
the decision makers and the tactics the influencers are using.

Ethics San Mateo has been strongly advocating for a Code of Conduct and Ethics Standards
that are clear, enforceable and contain consequences for violations. We believe our
dedication to our mission and constant voice in the ears of the city council made this session
happen. There is quite strong and vocal opposition to our goals, some from current city
leadership. Our organization, and our members, have been barraged with false claims,
personal insults, and threats from some that most likely benefit from the current lack of
enforceable rules. We take these unacceptable acts as evidence we are succeeding at our
work.

Currently the behavior of our City’s elected and appointed leadership, the Council Members
and Commissioners, is not subject to any disciplinary action short of removal due to crimes of
“Moral Turpitude”. In cases of clear and obvious conflicts of interest, even if identified by the
City Attorney, Council Members and Commissioners can (and do) dismiss the conflict, many
times without disclosure, and continue to participate in decisions. Removal by the City
Council of an appointed commissioner for cause is all but impossible.

| have attached two of our recent Statement of Position as examples of the behavior we have

observed and how we conduct fact-checking. We spend hundreds of hours researching and
verifying information, and include foot noted references. Please visit our website,

16 of 86


--- page 17 ---
www.EthicsSanMateo.com, to learn more about us and view additional Statements of
Position.

Ethics San Mateo is proud to know that our tireless advocacy was a driving factor in moving the
City Council to begin a process of establishing enforceable Codes of Conduct and Ethics
Standards. The residents of San Mateo deserve a local government that represents them.

Our expectations are high for the outcome of this session. If the Council does not formally
agree to the basics for the rules to be established and commit to having them completed and
implemented in a reasonable time frame, they will have failed the residents of San Mateo.

Regards,
Dave Cohen, President/CEO

Ethics San Mateo, A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

u

17 of 86


--- page 18 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

May 5, 2024
Statement of Position
Councilmember Lee and Rules
INTRODUCTION

Ethics San Mateo is issuing this Statement of Position to inform residents and the City of San
Mateo of our concerns about Councilmember Amourence Lee’s statements regarding historic
districts.

The mission of Ethics San Mateo is to lead and support efforts by the residents of San Mateo to
ensure our city is served according to the highest level of ethical standards and behavior. We
advocate for the establishment of a comprehensive Code of Conduct for all.city officials,
including Council members, Commissioners and staff, establishing enforceable standards of
ethical behavior.

Accountability on the part of our city’s leaders is key to good governance. We believe the
common core element to much of the turmoil. observed by the residents of our city is that the
current rules are insufficient. Several Statements of Position have previously been issued
regarding the lack of ethical standards and behavior. Please refer to our website,
www.EthicsSanMateo.com, for these publications.

SUMMARY

On April 18, 2024, Councilmember Lee added to her Facebook page! (image below) a posting
which included a strong statement regarding historic districts, and specifically the proposed
Baywood Historic District. Also included in the post is a video of part of her testimony before
the California Assembly’s Housing and Community Development Committee. Her introduction
by Assemblymember Buffy Wicks and her complete statement is available on the State of
California Media Archive”. Lee’s testimony is in support of AB 2580, and a copy of the hearing
document is attached. The Assembly Bill imposes requirements that would affect a city’s historic
district program.

Ethics San Mateo neither supports nor opposes AB 2580, historic district designations in general,
or the Baywood Historic District in specific. As is our mission, we are concerned about ethical
conduct and bias in decision making by our City Council, City Commissions, and staff.

1 https://www.facebook.com/LeeCityCouncil
2 https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=/&o i=89978449&url=https:

archive ved=2ahUKEwi03YbGmeOFAxUAJkQIHaBxBp4QFnoECBoQAQ&usg=AOvVaw1z-O k5sGDrGsp3QLax66i

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo — A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
All Rights Reserved

www.EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Any copyrighted material or images contained in this Statement of position and attachments remain the property of the copyright holder and
are included in accordance with Section 107 of the Copyright Act, the Fair Use doctrine.

18 of 86


--- page 19 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

In the statements made by Councilmember Lee we cite, both written and in videos, Lee makes
numerous clear and unambiguous declarations. These statements are in strong opposition to the
Baywood Historic Distriet.

a]

°e) Amourence Lee, San Mateo Councilwoman & former Mayor

Testifying in Sacramento with California YIMBY and Assemblywoman Buffy Wix in support of AB
2580. Our City is being used as a testing ground for a perilous NIMBY strategy that strips away
property rights and restricts housing.

The proposed Baywood Historic District sends.us backward, exacerbating inequity and racial
segregation and making housing further out of reach for our community members.

Sign the petition and say NO to the Baywood Historic District! -https://wwwessredtape.com

*

there's a. small group of neighbors who have
specifically and

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo — A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation

www.EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.

Page |2
19 of 86


--- page 20 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ET. HICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

_————————— aa

FACTS

It is indisputable Councilmember Lee made the referenced statements as a witness before the
California State Assembly Housing and Community Development Committee. The contents of
her statements are clearly disputable. Lee, herself or by an authorized person, posted the item on
her Facebook page. ESM reviewed the complete video of Lee’s AB 2580 testimony, and it
appears that the video on Facebook is a true copy of the State of California’s archived video. Her
testimony matches between the two sources, although the Facebook video is truncated.

Before Lee spoke at the hearing, Assemblymember Buffy Wicks introduced her as
“Councilmember and Former Mayor Amourence Lee from San Mateo”. No statement of whether
Lee was speaking for the City of San Mateo, or as_an individual, was made. Lee identified
herself as “Former Mayor and Current Councilwoman” and that she was there in support of AB
2580. Again, no statement that she was representing the city or herself as an individual was
made.

The following three statements appear in Lee’s F acebook post and reflect her testimony before
the State Assembly’s Committee:

e [Historic districts are] a perilous NIMBY strategy that strips away property rights and

restricts housing.
e The proposed Baywood Historic District sends us backward, exacerbating inequity and
racial segregation.

© That the majority of council members oppose the Baywood Historic District.
Additionally, appearing in the Facebook post text only:

© Sign the petition and say NO to the Baywood Historic District!
https://wwwilessredtape.com

The videos, written statements and posts speak for themselves, Councilmember Lee is clearly
and adamantly opposed to the establishment of a Baywood Historic District.

The below screenshot taken from the Less Red Tape website further demonstrates Lee’s
ceaseless and aggressive opposition to the Baywood Historic District, as well as her refusal to
abide by even the current guidelines set forth by the City to regulate the behavior of City Council
members.

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo —A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.
Page |3
; 20 of 86


--- page 21 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

Less Red Tape Home About FAQs Homeowner Stories News Details Contact

San Mateo
vg Sign the Petition to Object!

Oppose Baywood Historic District

The Office of the Major
2023-11-27
Amourence Lee

Clicking on the link results in being directed to the statement below, in which Lee once again
pushes her egregious claims that the people supporting the Baywood Historic District are
complicit in a conspiracy to reestablish the long-banned land title covenants of the last century:

“The San Mateo Historic Alliance is pushing a divisive and exclusionary
agenda that undermines our City’s vision of inclusivity and diversity, and
exacerbate socio-economic and geographic inequities. Baywood was
founded as a white-only neighborhood, explicitly banning all people of
color from ownership, and the legacy of racist zoning continues to
divide our east and west neighborhoods.”

These restrictions were abhorrent, but were implemented by housing developers of that time.
Many of those developers still exist and.are active but have renounced those covenants and work
diligently to provide equal opportunity in-housing everywhere. It is fair to assume that none of
the current residents of Baywood, or the other neighborhoods in San Mateo with such covenants,
were party to establishing these reprehensible, and now illegal, rules. To even infer that residents
have race as a criterion for ownership in their neighborhood is contrary to common decency,
attacks without basis the constituents she was elected to represent, and is against the City’s
Guidelines for Conduct by City Council members’.

——————
3 City of San Mateo, City Council Guidelines https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/46842/San-
Mateo-City-Council-Guidelines?bidld=
Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo — A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com

Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.

Page |4
21 of 86



--- page 22 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

oo ee ee
In reality, Baywood is a highly diverse neighborhood. A review of statistics for the Baywood
Neighborhood in the Statistical Atlas website shows, contrary to claims made by those opposed
to the historic district designation, Baywood is not the “most segregated” neighborhood in San
Mateo.’ The neighborhood is very close to a 50/50% mix of “White” and “Non White” residents.

APPLICABLE PARTS OF THE GUIDELINES AND CHARTER

Ethics San Mateo has championed the revision of the current guidelines governing the
conduct of city officials, including City Council members, and those revisions are now
in process. In a City Council Special Meeting, on February 5, 2024, City staff presented
changes, which included renaming the document to “City Council Rules and
Procedures”.° 1
In Chapter 1, Purpose and Overview, the currently in force San Mateo City Council
Guidelines state:

[The guidelines are} “a compilation of all Council-related rules and
procedures that have been formally adopted by Council.”

.

Clearly, the authors state that the document contains “rules” governing the conduct of City
business and the actions of City Council members. This document was officially adopted by the
San Mateo City Council.

The San Mateo City Charter® reads, in part:

“The council shall adopt rules for conducting its proceedings, and shall provide for
keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record. A reasonable
number of copies of such rules shall be made available in the office of the city clerk
for inspection by members of the public, and copies shall be furnished by the clerk
upon payment of a reasonable charge for same.”

The Charter further provides for penalties for violations’:

“The violation of any express provision of this Charter shall be deemed to be a
misdemeanor as well as.any violation specifically declared herein to bea
misdemeanor. Such violations shall be punishable by fine not exceeding One
Thousand Dollars or by imprisonment for not exceeding six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. The violation of an ordinance shall be punishable as in the
ordinance. The city council by ordinance may establish civil penalty provisions.”

bs https://statisticalatlas.com/neighborhood/California/San-Mateo/Baywood/ Race-and-Ethnicity
5 Meeting Package attached

6 The San Mateo City Charter, 2.12 Rules and Journal

7 Ibid 9.05 Violations of Charter and Ordinances

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo—A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com

Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.

Page |5
22 of 86


--- page 23 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

The current “Guidelines”, deemed rules by the document itself, have specific requirements
applicable to Lee’s appearance before the HCD Committee and her published statements’:

San Mateo City Council Guidelines 10/17/22
Chapter 6. Council Member Conduct
1. Members shall:

A. put constituents first at all-times;

B. treat each other, staff, and members of the public with dignity, courtesy,
and respect;

C. maintain confidentiality of all.closed session materials and discussion;
D. be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions;

E. encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to
prolong discourse or block consensus;

F. agree to réspectfully disagree;

G. keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic;

H. start and end meetings on time, work from the agenda;

L. present problems in a way that promotes discussion and resolution; and

Chapter 10. Communication
11. Speaking for “the City”

Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to
speak to groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the
response should reflect the position of the City Council as a whole. Of
course, a member may clarify their vote. ona matter by stating, for
example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in support of it.”
When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important that
those in attendance gain-an understanding of the City Council s position
rather than that of an individual member.

Se  ——Ee—EeEee ee

8 City of San Mateo, City Council Guidelines https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/Docu mentCenter/View/46842/San-
Mateo-City-Council-Guidelines?bidld=

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo -A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.
Page |6
23 of 86


--- page 24 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

12. Speaking as an Individual

On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on
an issue upon which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an
issue for which the City Council has no position. In these circumstances,
members should clearly indicate in their communications that they are not
speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for themselves as an
individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support may
be utilized in these circumstances.

FINDINGS/CONCLUSIONS

Ethics San Mateo has considered the facts and has arrived.at the following findings and
conclusions:

It is clear that Councilmember Lee is:strongly opposed to the Baywood Historic District, and
strongly indicates conditional opposition to historic districts in general. She states that “as a city
official” she has observed that historic district designations can be used to block housing
development. In her Facebook post, she includes: “Sign the Petition and say NO the Baywood
Historic District” and provides a link to a group opposing the district.

In Lee’s multitude of statements, written and verbal, she has violated several rules for conduct by
Council Members contained in Chapter 6 of the San Mateo City Council Guidelines:

1. Members shall:
A, put constituents first at all times;
B. treat each other, staff, and members of the public with dignity, courtesy, and respect;

E. encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong discourse
or block consensus;

F. agree to respectfully disagree;

It is also clear she violated the current Council Guidelines by not identifying whether she was
testifying on the behalf of the City of San Mateo, or as an individual, at the State Assembly
committee hearing.

Although the San Mateo City Council Guidelines for Councilmembers contain no enforcement
or penalty provisions in that document, the Charter states the City Council may set rules, and per
the Charter, violation of any provision of the Charter is a misdemeanor. The question of whether
violation of City Charter-mandated rules can be charged as a misdemeanor requires further
investigation and is outside the scope of this Statement of Position.

These serious and irrefutable actions, regardless of a determination of legality, must be
considered as evidence of her bias and inability to abide by the City’s rules.
Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo—A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com

Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.

Page |7
24 of 86


--- page 25 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

OUR POSITION

Ethics San Mateo believes the statements made by Councilmember Lee are well beyond what the
residents of San Mateo should hear or expect from any public official. The City Council, with the
City Attorney, must take immediate action to rein in Lee’s conduct and take steps to ensure fair,
equitable, unbiased decisions are made about historic districts, the proposed Baywood Historic
District, and the pending revision of the City’s Historic District Ordinance. We believe only the
complete recusal of Councilmember Amourence Lee from these discussions and decisions can
provide any hope for a democratic process.

Furthermore, Ethics San Mateo believes, based on her testimony before the Assembly Committee
and her clear and unequivocal position against the Baywood Historic District, that
Councilmember Amourence Lee has demonstrated a more than sufficient bias which requires her
to either completely recuse herself, or be removed by the Council from any and all Council
discussions and decisions regarding historic resources, especially the proposed Baywood
Historic District. :

Finally, we ask that the San Mateo City Attorney investigate Lee’s conduct to determine whether
or not it has violated San Mateo City Charter and determine any potential legal consequences as
a result.

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo — A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
www.EthicsSanMateo.com

Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo.
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law.

Page |8
25 of 86


--- page 26 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

ATTACHMENT

ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

Hearing Package

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo -A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
All Rights Reserved
www. EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo
Any person accused of a crime is presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law
COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Any copyrighted material or images contained in this Statement of position and attachments remain the property of the copyright holder and
are included in accordance with Section 107 of the Copyright Act, the Fair Use doctrine.

26 of 86


--- page 27 ---
AB 2580
Page 1

Date of Hearing: April 10, 2024

ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Christopher M. Ward, Chair
AB 2580 (Wicks) — As Amended March 19, 2024

SUBJECT: Historical resources

SUMMARY: Adds information about a local government’s historic preservation practices and
policies to the constraints analysis required by housing element law, and requires a local
government to provide in its Annual Progress Report (APR) a list of all historic designations
listed on specified registers of historic places in the past year, including an assessment of how
those designations affect the ability of the local government to meet its housing needs.

EXISTING LAW:

1) Requires each city and county to adopt a housing element, which must contain specified
information, programs, and objectives, including:

a) An assessment of housing needs and an inventory of resources and constraints relevant
to the meeting of these needs, including a quantification of the locality’s existing and
projected housing needs for all income levels; an inventory of land suitable and
available for residential development; an analysis of potential and actual governmental
and nongovernmental constraints upon the maintenance, improvement, or development
of housing for all income levels; and a demonstration of local efforts to remove
constraints that hinder the locality from meeting its share of the regional housing need,
among other things;

b) A statement of the community’s goals, quantified objectives, and policies relative to
affirmatively furthering fair housing and to the maintenance, preservation,
improvement, and development of housing; and

c) A program that sets forth a schedule of actions during the planning period, and
timelines for implementation, that the local government is undertaking to implement
the policies and achieve the goals and objectives of the housing element, including
actions that will be taken to make sites available during the planning period with
appropriate zoning and development standards and with services and facilities to
accommodate that portion of the local government’s share of the regional housing need
for each income level that could not be accommodated on sites identified in the sites
inventory without rezoning, among other things. (Government Code (GC) Section
65583(a)-(c))

2) Requires a local government’s inventory of land suitable for residential development to be
used to identify sites throughout the community that can be developed for housing within
the planning period and that are sufficient to provide for the jurisdiction’s share of the
regional housing need for all income levels. Defines “land suitable for residential

. development” to include:

a) Vacant sites zoned for residential use;

27 of 86


--- page 28 ---
AB 2580
Page 2

b) Vacant sites zoned for nonresidential use that allows residential development;

| c) Residentially zoned sites that are capable of being developed at a higher density,
including sites owned or leased by a jurisdiction; and

d) Sites zoned for nonresidential use that can be redeveloped for residential use, and for
which the housing element includes a program to rezone the site, as necessary and as
specified. (GC 65583.2(a))

3) Requires a planning agency to provide an APR to the legislative body, the Office of
Planning and Research, and the Department of Housing and Community Development
(HCD) by April 1 of each year that includes certain information, including:

a) The progress in meeting its share of the regional housing needs, including the need for
extremely low-income households, and local efforts to remove governmental
constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of housing included in
the housing element;

b) The number of housing development applications received in the prior year, including
whether each housing development application is subject to a ministerial or
discretionary approval process;

c) The number of units included in all development applications in the prior year;
d) The number of units approved and disapproved in the prior year;

e) A listing of sites rezoned to accommodate that portion of the city or county’s share of
the regional housing need for each income level that could not be accommodated on
sites identified in the housing element’s site inventory and any sites that may have been
required to be identified under the No Net Loss Zoning law;

f) The number of housing units demolished and new units of housing, including both
rental housing and for-sale housing, that have been issued a completed entitlement, a
building permit, or a certificate of occupancy, thus far in the housing element cycle, and
the income category by area median income that each housing unit satisfies;

g) Specified information related to density bonus applications; and

h) Specified information related to Affordable Housing and High Road Jobs Act of 2022

applications. (GC 65400(a)(2)(A)-(M))

—

FISCAL EFFECT: Unknown.
COMMENTS:

Author’s Statement: According to the author, “AB 2580 enhances the transparency of the
interaction between historic preservation and housing policy. It does so by requiring historic
preservation policies and practices to be evaluated as potential constraints on housing in the
Housing Element process, and ensures that cities disclose to HCD any newly adopted historical
designations. By increasing this transparency, AB 2580 can help balance development of
critically-needed housing production with protecting valuable historic resources.”

28 of 86


--- page 29 ---
AB 2580
Page 3

California’s Housing Crisis: California is in the midst of a severe housing crisis. Over two-
thirds of low-income renters are paying more than 30% of their income toward housing, a “rent
burden” that means they have to sacrifice other essentials such as food, transportation, and health
care.! In 2023, over 181,000 Californians experienced homelessness on a given night, with a
sharp increase in the number of people who became homeless for the first time.” The crisis is
driven in large part by the lack of affordable rental housing for lower income people. According
to the California Housing Partnership’s (CHP) Housing Need Dashboard, in the current market,
nearly 2 million extremely low-income and very low-income renter households are competing
for roughly 687,000 available and affordable rental units in the state. Over three-quarters of the
state’s extremely low-income households and over half of the state’s very low-income
households are severely rent burdened, paying more than 50% of their income toward rent each
month. CHP estimates that the state needs an additional 1.3 million housing units affordable to
very low-income Californians to eliminate the shortfall. By contrast, production in the past
decade has been under 100,000 housing units per year — including less than 10,000 units of
affordable housing per year.*

Historic Preservation: According to the US National Park Service, historic preservation is “a
conversation with our past about our future,” meaning it allows us to convey our understanding
of the past to future generations. The National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA), which
established a national preservation program and a system of procedural protections to identify
and protect historic resources, was signed into law in 1966 as a result of the significant
infrastructure and urban renewal projects taking place in the postwar era.° Many cultural sites
and archaeological resources were destroyed or at risk of alteration prior to enactment of the
NHPA, so the Act took a multi-pronged approach to identifying, evaluating, and protecting
historic and culturally significant properties. It established the National Register of Historic
Places, which acts as the official federal inventory of historic sites across the country, and
established a review process for federal agencies to consider the effects of their activities or
programs on those historic properties. State and local governments, Native American tribes, and
other cultural organizations also had roles and responsibilities under the Act, and California’s
Office of Historic Preservation, under the Director of California State Parks, implements our
state’s obligations under the NHPA.°

Local governments and communities have an extremely important role in the historic
preservation context as well, often identifying ways to adaptively reuse or preserve historic
resources in local land use planning decisions. According to the latest version of California’s
Statewide Historic Preservation Plan, “Over the last 20 years or so, the scope of historic
preservation planning practice has expanded beyond being concerned primarily with
understanding the nature and significance of historic and cultural resources to integrating historic
preservation into the broader land use planning and decision-making processes,

and incorporating historic preservation into other social and economic concerns such as

4 https://www.hed.ca.gov/policy-research/housing-challenges.shtm|
; https://www.nps.gov/subjects/archeology/national-historic-preservation-act.htm
6 https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/?page_id=27961

29 of 86


--- page 30 ---
AB 2580
Page 4

sustainability, revitalization and community development, affordable housing, disaster
preparedness planning and recovery, and environmental quality.”

Adoption and Implementation of Housing Elements: One important tool in addressing the
state’s housing crisis is to ensure that all of the state’s 539 cities and counties appropriately plan
for new housing. Such planning is required through the housing element of each community’s
General Plan, which outlines a long-term plan for meeting the community’s existing and
projected housing needs. Cities and counties are required to update their housing elements every
eight years in most of the high population parts of the state, and five years in areas with smaller
populations. Localities must adopt a legally valid housing element by their statutory deadline for
adoption. Failure to do so can result in certain escalating penalties, including an accelerated
deadline for completing rezoriing, exposure to the “builder’s remedy,” public or private lawsuits,
financial penalties, potential loss of permitting authority, or even court receivership.

Among other things, the housing element must demonstrate how the community plans to
accommodate its share of its region’s housing needs allocation (RHNA). To do so, each
community establishes an inventory of sites designated for new housing that is sufficient to
accommodate its fair share. Where a community does not already contain the existing capacity to
accommodate its fair share of housing, it must undertake a rezoning program to accommodate
the housing planned for in the housing element. Depending on whether the jurisdiction met its
statutory deadline for housing element adoption, it will have either one year (if it failed to meet
the deadline) or three years (if it met the deadline) from its adoption deadline to complete that

rezoning program.

It is critical that local jurisdictions adopt legally compliant housing elements on time in order to
meet statewide housing goals and create the environment locally for the successful construction
of desperately needed housing at all income levels. Unless communities plan for production and
preservation of affordable housing, new housing will be slow to build. Adequate zoning, removal
of regulatory barriers, protection of existing stock and targeting of resources are essential to
obtaining a sufficient permanent supply of housing affordable to all economic segments of the
community. Although not requiring the community to develop the housing, housing element law
requires the community to plan for housing. Recognizing that local governments may lack
adequate resources to house all those in need, the law nevertheless mandates that the community
do all that it can and that it not engage in exclusionary zoning practices.

One necessary component of the housing element is an assessment of potential and actual
governmental constraints upon the maintenance, improvement, or development of housing for all
income levels, including land use controls, building codes and their enforcement, site
improvement, fees and other exactions required of developers, local processing and permit
procedures, and any locally adopted ordinances that directly impact the cost and supply of
residential development. This analysis must also demonstrate local efforts to remove
governmental constraints that hinder the development of housing at the income levels required
by the RHNA process, as well as housing for people experiencing homelessness.

This bill would require the constraints analysis to include an assessment of the local
government’s historic preservation practices and policies, to push local governments to evaluate

7 California’s Statewide Historic Preservation Plan 2019-2023 Update,
https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/pages/ 1069/files/CAStatePlan_2019-2023_F INAL.pdf

30 of 86


--- page 31 ---
AB 2580
Page 5

whether they are striking the right balance between the preservation of valuable historic
resources and the production of essential new housing in their communities.

Annual Progress Reports: Current law requires all local jurisdictions to provide housing
information annually to HCD via the APR, including the following information from the prior
year and/or for the current eight-year housing element cycle:

© The number of housing development applications received, and whether those
applications are subject to ministerial or discretionary approval;
The number of units included in all development applications,
The number of units approved and disapproved;

e For each income category, the number of net new units of housing, including both rental
housing and for-sale housing, that have been issued a completed entitlement, a building
permit, or a certificate of occupancy,

e A unique site identifier (such as assessor’s parcel number) for each entitlement, building
permit, or certificate of occupancy;

e The number of applications submitted under the Affordable Housing and High Road Jobs
Act of 2022; and

© The overall progress in meeting its share of RHNA.

The APR also includes a housing element portion, which local governments must use to describe
their progress in meeting their RHNA, local efforts to remove governmental constraints
identified in their housing element, and actions taken toward completion of their housing element
programs and the status of their compliance with the deadlines imposed in the housing element.

This bill would also require the APR to include a list of all historic designations listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, the California Register of Historic Resources, or a local
register of historic places by the local government in the past year, and further require that list to
include an assessment of how those designations affect the ability of the locality to meet its
housing needs. The committee may wish to consider whether the APR is the appropriate place to
require a narrative-form analysis of how historic designations affect the locality’s ability to meet
its RHNA, as the bulk of information reported in the APR is quantitative and HCD’s open data
tools display information in many charts and graphs with data filters, rather than blocks of text.

Arguments in Support. According to California YIMBY, the bill’s sponsor, “Historic
preservation plays a vital role in protecting California's architectural heritage and conserving
places of historical significance. Historic districts and buildings designated as ‘historically
significant’ receive special protections that subject new developments, building renovations, and
design changes to a more rigorous and thorough review process to protect the integrity of historic
elements. However, the ability to designate a building as ‘historically significant’ or creating a
new historic district often encourages abuse by individuals and small local groups who seek to
prevent more inclusive and affordable housing development. There are also currently no
measures in place to ensure local governments balance legitimate historic preservation with
potential impacts on a community's ability to meet its housing needs. AB 2580 would require
local jurisdictions to monitor how new historic designations could impact their ability to meet
housing needs under existing state law and report new historic buildings and districts to the
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) during the Annual Progress
Report of the Regional Housing Needs Assessment process.”

31 of 86


--- page 32 ---
AB 2580
Page 6

Arguments in Opposition: None on file.
Committee Amendments: Staff recommends the bill be amended as follows:

© Strike the assessment of how new historic designations affect the ability of a locality to
meet its housing needs from the APR reporting, and instead move that component into
the governmental constraints analysis of the housing element; and

e Inthe APR, when localities are required to report a list of all new historic designations,
also require the report to include information regarding the status of any housing
development projects that were proposed for the sites newly designated as historic,
including whether the projects have been entitled, whether any building permits have
been issued for the project, and the number of units in the projects.

Government Code Section 65400(a)(2)(N). A list of all historic designations listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, the California Register of Historic Resources, or a local
register of historic places by the city or county in the past year and the status of any housing
development projects proposed for the new historic designations, including
ovaTs) dacionatio attao eS ahilitue bs ea ts voter a maatite hous

: aseHd s- all of
the following:
1) Whether the housing development project has been entitled.
2) Whether a building permit has been issued for the housing development project.
3) The number of units in the housing development project.

Section 65583(a)(5). An analysis of potential and actual governmental constraints upon the
maintenance, improvement, or development of housing for all income levels, including the types
of housing identified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c), and for persons with disabilities as
identified in the analysis pursuant to paragraph (7), including land use controls, building codes
and their enforcement, site improvements, fees and other exactions required of developers, local
processing and permit procedures, historic preservation practices and policies and an assessment
of how existing and proposed historic designations affect the locality’s ability to meet its share
of the housing need pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), and any locally adopted
ordinances that directly impact the cost and supply of residential development. The analysis shall
also demonstrate local efforts to remove governmental constraints that hinder the locality from
meeting its share of the regional housing need in accordance with Section 65584 and from
meeting the need for housing for persons with disabilities, supportive housing, transitional
housing, and emergency shelters identified pursuant to paragraph (7).

Related Legislation:

AB 2728 (Gabriel) of the current legislative session would make changes to housing element and
APR requirements related to the production of housing under the Affordable Housing on Faith
and Higher Education Lands Act of 2023, among other things. This bill is currently pending
before this committee.

AB 2144 (Grayson) of the current legislative session adds evidence of compliance with existing
law requirements for local governments to post fee schedules and other information on their
websites to the list of information local governments must provide in their APR. This bill
recently passed out of this committee on a 9-0 vote and is pending before the Assembly
Committee on Local Government.

32 of 86


--- page 33 ---
AB 2580
Page 7

AB 2667 (Santiago) of the current legislative session would require the APR to include the
number of housing units approved and disapproved in the prior year that are located within an
opportunity zone, among other changes. This bill is currently pending before this committee.

Double Referred: This bill was also referred to the Assembly Committee on Local Government,
where it will be heard should it pass out of this committee.

REGISTERED SUPPORT / OPPOSITION:
Support

California YIMBY (Sponsor)

Abundant Housing LA

California Community Builders

Circulate San Diego

House Sacramento

Housing Action Coalition

John Ebneter, Planning Commissioner, City of San Mateo
Mountain View YIMBY
Noelia Corzo, San Mateo County Supervisor (District 2)
One San Mateo

San Mateo City Council Member Amourence Lee

San Mateo City Council Member Rick Bonilla

Seema Patel, Planning Commissioner, City of San Mateo
SPUR

Supervisor Warren Slocum

Uma Krishnan, President, San Mateo County Asian American Pacific Islander Alliance
Willy’s LLC

YIMBY Action

Opposition
None on file.

Analysis Prepared by: Nicole Restmeyer / H. & C.D. / (916) 319-2085

33 of 86


--- page 34 ---
ETHICS SAN MATEO

DEDICATED TO TRUTH, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICAL CONDUCT IN CITY GOVERNMENT

ATTACHMENT

February 5, 2024 _City Council Special Meeting Minio-Packet

Note: The attached is a partial copy of the packet. The complete 114 page document can be
viewed and downloaded from the City’s website.

Copyright 2024 Ethics San Mateo—A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation
All Rights Reserved

www.EthicsSanMateo.com
Statements of Position and Ethics Watches are the opinions of Ethics San Mateo
Any person accused of a crime fs presumed to be innocent until found guilty by a court of law
; COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Any copyrighted material or images contained in this Statement of position and attachments remain the property of the copyright holder and
are included in accordance with Section 107 of the Copyright Act, the Fair Use doctrine.

34 of 86


--- page 35 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor

CITY OF SAN MATEO

. i 3 . Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
City Council Special Meeting Rich Hedges
February 5, 2024 Amourence Lee
5:30 PM Adam Loraine

1; City Council Guidelines - Updates

Review and provide direction on proposed changes for consideration to the City Council's Guidelines.

CEQA:

35 of 86


--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN.MATEO sill

330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Report
Agenda Number: 1 Section Name: STUDY SESSION Account Number: 10-1111 File ID: 24-8419

TO: City Council

FROM: Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY: City Clerk's Office

MEETING DATE: February 05, 2024

SUBJECT:

City Council Guidelines - Updates

RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide direction on proposed changes for consideration to the City Council's Guidelines and Code of Conduct

BACKGROUND:

The City Council adopted its “Guidelines” to provide rules on how it conducts its business in August 2015. These were
compiled from several stand-alone resolutions that the Council had historically relied on. The Guidelines have been
amended seven times since its original adoption. This is due to several factors including law changes, process changes,
experience with the rules and the realization of unintended consequences, trends in local governance practices, andin
response to public concern raised on local issues. At the May 1, 2023 City Council meeting, a majority of Council supported
bringing forward for consideration a more robust code of conduct in the Guidelines.

Staff is seeking direction from the Council on proposed language changes in the Guidelines in response to new or changing
processes; to codify practices that have evolved since the last update in October 2022; and on the overhaul and update of
a few major sections of the Guidelines having to do with meeting item hearing order, liaison assignments, and the Board
and Commission appointment process. In addition, separate guidance is sought on replacing the current Council Member
Conduct section with a more robust Code of Conduct that could entail a longer discussion and additional research.

The City Council has also adopted “Rules and Procedures” for its Boards and Commissions in a document aligned with the
Council Guidelines (where applicable). At this study session, staff is looking for direction on the City Council Guidelines and
then, as is our standard practice, will return for either another study session or for action on both the City Council’s rules
and with an updated Board and Commissions rules that mirrors changes directed in the Guidelines. If Council directs a
Code of Conduct, one will be proposed and adapted specific to the Boards and Commissions also.

Name Change
Staff is recommending changing the name from “City Council Guidelines” to “City Council Rules and Procedures” to more

closely align with the intent; which was to establish rules for conducting business. Calling them Guidelines diminishes the
importance of this document and causes confusion. Keeping it a simple title and being more specific to the intent would be
beneficial to everyone’s understanding.

Council Rules — Current Practice Update
Attachment 1 is the current Guidelines (“Rules”) with a tracked changes version of proposed changes to more closely

match current practices which have evolved over the last year. These include:

ee Eat 7 7
CITY OF SAN MATEO 36 of 86


--- page 37 ---
Minor language neutrality updates, tense changes, and grammar changes throughout the document

Providing clarity on expectations and alignment of roles between the Mayor and the City Council

More specificity around decision making protocols on the dais

In response to experience with remote public comment, addressing limited public forum in public meetings

Standardizing the practice of speaker timing based on the number of speakers

Clarifying the appeal speaker order and rebuttal options

Adding the AB 2449 check-in as part of the script at the beginning of every Council agenda

Removing some language that we don’t practice and is not necessary, such as how many speakers under

ceremonial items

e Aligning the Rules with current practices, for instance initially it was thought a majority vote was required to place
an item on an agenda, but Council seems comfortable with a majority consensus without a formal vote

e Updating the timing for publication for receiving public comment on an agenda item

Note: Any section highlighted in yellow in the attachment will be discussed separately.

Order of Consideration on an Agenda Item — Chapter 7
Council is asked to provide direction on the proposed action to change the order of how an individual item is handled in

the public consideration process. Staff is proposing exchanging the order of council questions with public comment as
follows:

Currently:
1) Staff presentation
2) Council questions
3) Public comment
4) Council additional questions, discussion and deliberation
5) Vote or action

Proposed:
1) Staff presentation
2) Public Comment
3) Council questions
4) Discussion & deliberation
5) Vote or action

Council Liaison Roles — Chapter 12
Staff is seeking Council direction specifically on whether the designee of “continuity” continues to make sense for these

assignments. There was very little movement on this year’s assignment list from last year’s assignments. The Rules actually
state (Chapter 12, Section 5) that continuity is intended for external agencies liaison roles; but the Council had designated
Planning Commission and the Sustainability & infrastructure Commission as continuity assignments. Council elected this
year to change Planning Commission from Continuity to Mayor and Deputy Mayor as the standard. An unintended
consequence of these Continuity designations is that a single council member could be on a high-profile assignment for
years and that may not be fair for other council members seeking a high-profile assignment. A discussion is desired on
whether to continue the practice of Continuity designation or to limit or cap it in some way.

Board and Commission Appointment Process—Chapter13
Several years ago, the City established an appointment sub-committee comprised of the Mayor and the Council liaison to

the commission to be the interviewing body and to make the recommendation to the Council for any openings on the
City’s Boards and Commissions. Any Council Member could join any appointment sub-committee by requesting to do so.
All appointment sub-committee meetings are designated as Brown Act bodies and are open and public. In addition, they
established the practice of creating a ranked eligibility list from those interviewed. The intent was to address long term
vacancies that were occurring on commissions and be more efficient and timely in filling those vacancies. The staff liaison

Tio toe
37 of 86

CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 38 ---
was also designated to be an advisor to the appointment sub-committee. The prior practice was for the full council to do
all interviews. Staff is seeking direction on if the appointment sub-committee process is effective in the current
environment, whether an eligibility list should or should not be used, and any other improvement in practices that need to
occur,

Council Member Conduct — Chapter 6
Staff would like to receive direction on strengthening this section to provide more clarity on expectations, clearly laid out

rules, relevant definitions to increase a common understanding, a process for public concern and complaints, and a
discussion around repercussions for not following an adopted code of conduct.

First, many cities, towns, counties and states are actively looking at establishing or strengthening a Code of Conduct in
response to the national trend highlighting a loss of civility and decorum in the political sphere and in public processes. In
California, there is a significant increase in our professional ListServ inquiries to share codes of conduct as many
organizations struggle with addressing this need. At the City Clerk’s New Law conference this past December, “When
Decorum and Civility Do Not Work, Then What?” which has not previously been an educational offering at past
conferences. From the national to the local level there is a need to fearlessly address this. In the City of San Mateo, we
have personally experienced issues on and off the dais and this has led to a loss of public trust. There is a great deal of
public interest and comment in defining a robust Code of Conduct which includes a procedure to hold public officials
accountable and includes an avenue and process to empower action when an inappropriate action occurs that will meet
the needs of the City of San Mateo community.

It is incumbent upon the City Council to take the lead on establishing a robust Code of Conduct as the governing body sets
the example for its appointed bodies, employees, and residents to follow. By modeling adherence to rules of civility and
decorum, accountability, and ethics the City Council sets the tone for public discourse and action.

Code of Conduct — Research
In proposing some material for Council consideration of a code of conduct, we considered public comment received in

meetings and in writing including information from residents. The City also relied on material from the Institute for Local
Government (20 sample codes), and sample codes provided by the following cities in response to an inquiry on the Clerk’s
ListServ: ,

Principles Banner Sign an
Values P onthe Communication* Enforcement
/ Purpose Dais Affirmation

Cyn

. Only for
Sacramento nepotien at
violating
: whistleblowing

on

San C rloS 3 : 2 i

Te Se ee ae Pe a ae Ee ae
Fores ee > = = ‘ =T— 7 <= . ; =

*Communication with colleagues, public, staff, advisory bodies

CITY OF SAN MATEO 38 of 86


--- page 39 ---
Strategies to Strengthen Conduct
There are many ideas for strengthening Chapter 6 — Council Member Conduct to borrow from for Council consideration.

This is not meant to be an exhaustive or completely comprehensive list. Some strategies to think about include:

1. City Council Core Values —a listing of approximately six to ten values that are the underlying structure of the Code
of Conduct and give guidance on how City officials conduct itself.
Principles — example: leadership and ethics must go hand-in-hand.
Development of an oath or member statement that includes the Code of Conduct requiring a signature affirming
to have read, understood, and pledging adherence to the Code of Conduct for elected and appointed officials.
4. Begin the Code of Ethics with a clear purpose statement for its intended use.
5. Include a definition section defining the terms used to create clear and common understanding.
6. Better define the role and responsibility of Council Liaison to a commission
7
8
9

we

Establish an annual review of the Code as an ongoing practice.
Consider making the Code of Conduct be a separate stand-alone document to the Rules and Procedures.
Consider if all of the City’s commissions be mandated to take AB1234 Ethics Training every two years.

Elements in a Code of Conduct

The following are some themes, and not proposed wording or staff recommendations, that Council may want to consider.

1. Code of Conduct for City officials (elected and appointed)

Represent the entire City for the community good — Act in the public interest
Comply with the spirit and the letter of the law and policy

Model operating by the code in all conduct, on and off the dais

Respect the public process and governance systems

Do not state opinion, until the public process has run its course (in all communication avenues)
Be aware of speaking in your official capacity versus as a private citizen

Do not use inflammatory language, be aware of your own bias

Listen to all voices, all deserve to be heard

Ensure statements are factual

Assume good intentions of all

Be respectful of all roles and responsibilities (colleagues and staff)

Be responsive to colleagues and staff with timely communication

Operate with civility and decorum

rere same Ange

2

2. Conduct on the Dais
a. Treat all with fairness and equity — specifically each other, staff, and members of the public with dignity,
courtesy, and respect
Be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions
Encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong discourse or block consensus
Agree to respectfully disagree
Be open minded
Keep comments clear, concise and germane
Focus on the issues and avoid personalizing debate
Present issues in a way that promotes discussion and resolution
Don’t admonish or lecture :
Keep campaign issues away from the dais

rere mp aos

3. Actions-to Enforce — some starter ideas
a. Private admonishment
b. Public admonishment Loss of committee assignments if repeated issues
c. Automatic recusal if position stated ahead of the public process
d. Other?

ee CT 1
39 of 86

rrry Oc CAA AAATECNM


--- page 40 ---
4. Process to Enforce — need to define it
a. ‘Who can report?
b. Who receives report?
c. How to report?
d. How is it acknowledged?

5. Boards & Commissions
a. Include all code and specify also advisory role not advocacy role
b. Actions
i. Automatic reinterview for the seat
ii. Removal from commission per Charter
iii, Other?

Next Steps
Council to provide direction on the City Council Rules and direct for next steps:

1. Enough direction was given and staff will bring it back with a formal recommendation;

2. Or Council may choose to ask staff to schedule a second study session to continue to provide direction and
feedback

3. Council could elect to appoint a Council sub-committee to work with the Clerk and key staff on crafting the
additional code of conduct language for the Rules

4. Bring this back with a facilitator to assist with the conversation

5. Council could consider and direct a different process

BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this‘administrative action.

ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)

NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.

ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City Council Guidelines with Track Changes

Att 2 -Sample Codes of Conduct https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Index/5308

Att 3 — Public Comment

STAFF CONTACT

Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042

I
AO of 86

CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 41 ---
City Council Rules and Procedures
ces deli

Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)

Amended by Council action on:

January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021,
February 22, 2022, and October 17, 2022

41 of 86


--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo, Council Guidelines

Table of Contents

Chapter 1.
Chapter 2.
Chapter 3.
Chapter 4.
Chapter 5.
Chapter 6.
Chapter 7.
Chapter 8.
Chapter 9.

Chapter 10.
Chapter 11.
Chapter 12.
Chapter a3.
Chapter 14.

San Mateo City Council Guidelines

Purpose and OVErVview ......sssessssesseseesesessssessssesecseensnnensanansanensananensenenennansenanassestsststs 3
Authority of the City COUNCIl ........cssssseseseseerenssessnesennensnsnnensnsessnsncnsnenennanennnanaanentes 4
Key Governance Principles .........s:sssssssesesssseessseenesnenssnensarsnnanenenscnennansanancansnsnsessssatets 5
DUtie .....ceccccecocsccssssscescscccoscesscssenscssessccsescsasersecssnscnscenccsoseeosssscesssonsssocasacenaaseosaosess 7
Selection of Mayor and Deputy NAO sit sacitsscsassicdenenssitanensagndishdsecenbressinesceneunat> 11
Council Member COnduct........ccscssesecessesrsseseeeeeessetseseeenensneeessensaneasenasennssersnaesens 13
Meetings .........cscecssssessssseecscscscesssesesnssensnessnscsencacssnsnsesnssnenencorsasacassensacacaaansrosenensess 14
Meeting Agendas.........ssssssssssesessessssenessseessserseenssssnensnsnnansnsassnsessensassncncanensacanenseness 20
Financial Matters...........c.sccccscesscssscsesecesssecenseessesscesssnsesssnsasenussensnssenasscnascaensasensenes 23
Commiuniestioniescckien sgendiaciuninivayebaces sesseeneesuecsnecsnsenscenscsnncnneconscanecsnncnncnnscnnsenneen# 28
Legislative ..........csssscssssssssssssessseseesesesesesssssnssconssssensasenensnsanansnsonsncsenenssucnencasacsceeets 33
COUNCII LiaisON ROIES ........ecscessceseceseeeeseseseseeseceeseeeseesaeesseenecensasaaanaaenaasneessennanennee® 36
Boards and COMMISSIONS. .........:::sssseesecceesesecssneeessteesserssseseneseenecennnassnnacenaneaansees 39
REFEFEMCES........ccccescceccccscecssssscrscesscsscssscssssscscnssenssssassncssssssassscrsnaceanessssscseonsroasonseens 42

Proposed Revisions 2/5/24 0AF/22

42 of 86


--- page 43 ---
Chapter 1. Purpose and Overview

This handbook provides guidelines-describes the way for the San Mateo City Council hat
describe thewaythe Counciito conduct dees its business and the expectations for members,
staff and the public to operate and engage with each other and the community as a whole . It is
a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by
Council.

The purpose of these Rules and Procedures (Rules) guidelines is to set a standard of
professionalism, civility and decorum-for the conduct of the City Council’s business. San Mateo
has a long and proud tradition of open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These
guidelines are intended to enhance public participation and Council debate so that the best
possible decisions can be made for San Mateo.

Revisions to these Rules and ProceduresGuidelines

Amendments to these rules Fhese- guidelines which must be approved by the City Council as a
body, and are subject to review and future modification as needed.

City Council Vision
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website:

http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167

eo a
San Mateo City Council Guidelines Proposed Revisions 2/5/24 20 #/22

43 of 86


--- page 44 ---
Chapter 2. Authority of the City Council

The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council.

General Authorities and Applicability

Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these City

‘ Council Guidelines (“Guidelines”) shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the
Council.

Revisions to these Rules
The Council shall review and revise these Rules Guidelines as needed.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order

To the extent these Rules Guidelises-do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure
for legislative body. meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary
Procedures for the 21st Century shall apply.

ee Peres
San Mateo City Council Guidelines Proposed Revisions 2/5/24 104422

44 of 86


--- page 45 ---
City of 
San Mateo
City Council Governance 
Workshop
May 30, 2024
Senior Center
9 am to 1 pm
45 of 86

--- page 46 ---
Welcome and
Roll Call

46 of 86


--- page 47 ---
Public
omment

CITY OF SAN MATEO

—_s had ¥

47 of 86


--- page 48 ---
Comments from 
 City Manager Alex Khojikian
4
48 of 86

--- page 49 ---
Councilmembers’ 
Hopes for Today
§
Agreement on Council values
§
Consensus on code of conduct for us
§
Statement of who we are and how we lead, 
striving to be the best
§
Assume the good intent of all of us
§
Respectful, constructive conversations
§
An ability for people to say difficult things to 
each other – but respectfully
§
Everyone listens
§
Agreement on follow up steps
5
49 of 86

--- page 50 ---
Objectives for 
Today
• Shared understanding of 
each other’s points of view
• Consensus on Council 
values and code of conduct
• Consensus on a path 
forward
• Strengthened teamwork
6
50 of 86

--- page 51 ---
Agenda
§
Review guidelines for today’s discussions
§
Icebreaker
§
Review best practices in governance
§
Establish a set of Council values and an 
agreed upon code of conduct
§
Council’s next steps
§
Wrap up
7
51 of 86

--- page 52 ---
Our 
Guidelines 
for Today
Assume that each 
person brings good 
intent about the City
Be self-reflective 
and open to change
Work toward 
agreement
Show respect to 
each other
Listen first to 
understand before 
responding
Think about the 
impact of your 
actions and words
8
52 of 86

--- page 53 ---
Bike 
Rack
Things to discuss at 
another time will be 
tracked separately
Time management tool
9
53 of 86

--- page 54 ---
Facilitator Role
Keep us 
on track
Ensure all 
voices are 
heard – 
no one 
dominates
Raise 
questions
Offer best 
practice 
advice
10
54 of 86

--- page 55 ---
If you do tomorrow what you did today, 
you will get tomorrow what you got 
today.
Benjamin Franklin
11
55 of 86

--- page 56 ---
Icebreaker



--- page 57 ---
Governing Together
13
57 of 86

--- page 58 ---
Best Governance Practices

Ne INSTITUTE ror
LOCAL GOVERNMENT™
Promoting Good Government at the Local Level

Home Subject Areas About the Institute Support Our Work

ro ~

— —

>
,

Working Together |

Collaborative efforts make local governments more

effective and efficient. Working together helps create
3 healthy and vibrant communities for all Californians.

58 of 86


--- page 59 ---
Effective 
Councils 
Have 
These 
Four 
Elements
Clear Roles and 
Responsibilities
Adopted 
Norms, 
Protocols, 
and 
Policies
Positive 
Governance 
Culture
Unity of 
Purpose
Institute for Local Government
15
59 of 86

--- page 60 ---
Attributes of an Effective Council – from 
Council Interviews
• Participatory with the public
• Govern for the entire City
• Consensus-oriented among the Council 
• Being united even when the vote is not 
unanimous
• Being respectful to staff and each other 
in and out of Council meetings
• Considering the whole organization, its 
capacity, being mindful of impacts on 
staff
• Move from campaigning to governing
• Once a decision is made, move on
• Seek compromise to find agreement on 
what is possible
• Do not decide until hearing from all
• Build on each other’s good ideas
• Vote on the merits of an issue
• Be informed and educated about issues 
coming before Council
• Accountable
60 of 86

--- page 61 ---
Key Attributes of An Effective Council
Institute for Local Government
Trust
Do what we say we 
will do – be 
trustworthy  
Assume radical good 
intent
Authentic dialogue
Positive governance 
culture
Move from 
campaigning to 
governing
Respect
Treat others as you 
would wish them to 
treat you
Maintain respectful 
relationships in and 
out of Council 
meetings
Respect roles and 
responsibilities.
Follow norms, 
protocols, and 
policies
Collaboration
Find common ground
Engage in mutual 
problem solving
Be prepared for 
meetings
View staff as partners
Unity of purpose
Honor the team
Understanding
Value the differences 
that each person 
brings
Be mindful of how we 
speak to each other
Know good 
government systems 
and services 
Conduct efficient and 
effective meetings
Hold ourselves 
accountable
61 of 86

--- page 62 ---
1. Have a sense of team, a partnership with 
each other and the city manager to 
govern and manage the city
2. Have clear roles and responsibilities 
that are understood and adhered to
3. Honor the relationship with staff and 
each other
4. Routinely conduct effective meetings
5. Hold themselves and the city 
accountable, for the conduct, behavior 
and effectiveness of the council, and for 
results of established priorities and goals
6. Practice continuous personal learning 
and development 
Beyond Effective is Exceptional
Exceptional Councils Do These Things
See article in workbook
18
62 of 86

--- page 63 ---
Reflections on 
the Institute for 
Local 
Government 
Article
What resonates the 
most for you from this 
article?
19
63 of 86

--- page 64 ---
Why is an  
effective 
City 
Council 
team 
important?
Recruitment and 
Retention
Achieving Results
Strategic Direction
Economic 
Development
Regional Influence
Perceptions matter
20
64 of 86

--- page 65 ---
The Differences Between Functional and 
Dysfunctional Governance
• Respect for the roles within the 
Council – Manager form of 
government
• After the vote, accept the outcome
• Disagree, but respectfully
• Engage the public in productive ways
• Doing what you say you will do and do 
it transparently – being trustworthy
• Considering all members of the public 
– not just those who speak
• Making unpopular but necessary 
decisions
• Trying to direct staff
• Personal attacks on colleagues, staff, 
or the public
• Dominating the discussion, lecturing 
colleagues
• Despite majority vote, speaking 
against the people who voted for it, or 
continuing to bring the issue up
• Stacking the audience
• Using social media to attack 
colleagues or staff
• Viewing colleagues or staff as 
enemies
21
65 of 86

--- page 66 ---
22

66 of 86


--- page 67 ---
23
To achieve what we hope 
to be known for, what are 
the values the San Mateo 
City Council will need to 
exhibit?
67 of 86

--- page 68 ---
So

rs
a5
aC:
<->
O¢
UO

24

68 of 86


--- page 69 ---
Stretch
Break

69 of 86


--- page 70 ---
Council Norms and a Code of Conduct
Every group has norms
• Explicit – written
› OR
• Implicit – not written
Norms are 
expected 
behaviors 
in a group
Through 
behaviors, 
the group 
says what 
it believes 
in
Terminology:  A written code of 
conduct is an explicit set of 
expected norms (behaviors).  
Some cities use the term “norms” 
and others use “code of conduct”
26
70 of 86

--- page 71 ---
Example
BEHAVIOR: Surprise staff 
at the Council meeting 
with questions.
Staff can take that as a 
“gotcha” and the public may 
think the Council does not 
trust staff or that the staff is 
incompetent – this fosters 
incivility and distrust
INTENT: Ask questions to 
inform the public about 
information.  
Explicit norm of asking 
questions in advance allows 
staff the time to provide a 
meaningful answer, shows 
mutual respect, and gives 
confidence to the public that 
the staff is professionally 
doing its job
27
71 of 86

--- page 72 ---
28

Discuss code
of conduct

72 of 86


--- page 73 ---
San Mateo’s Key Governance Principles 
From Chapter 3
1.
Serve the entire community
§ Consider the needs of the community as a 
whole
§ Serve and be responsive to all residents 
regardless of where they live within a 
district
2.
Continue to follow the Council/manager 
form of government and best 
management practices
3.
Use city resources efficiently and 
effectively
§ Allocate on the basis of a long-term 
strategic plan with city-wide consideration 
of service levels and financial capacity
§ Budget allocations and financial 
considerations not made based on districts
4.
Distribute Council duties, 
assignments and events fairly
5.
Provide equal access to 
information for all Council 
members
§ Communication resources will be 
provided on a city-wide and/or 
program level basis with equitable 
distribution across districts
§ Legal requirements prohibiting use 
of public resources for campaign 
purposes will be followed
29
73 of 86

--- page 74 ---
Council Member Conduct  Chapter 6 (version in draft manual)
1. Members shall:
A.Put constituents first at all times
B.Treat each other, staff, and 
members of the public with 
dignity, courtesy, and  respect
C.Maintain confidentiality of all 
closed session materials and 
discussion
D.Be attentive to others, limiting 
interruptions and distractions
E.Encourage diverse viewpoints in 
debate while being mindful not to 
prolong,  discourse, or block 
consensus
F.Agree to respectfully disagree
G.Keep comments clear, concise, 
and on-topic
H.Start and end meetings on time, 
work from the agenda
I. Present problems in a way that 
promotes discussion and 
resolution
30
74 of 86

--- page 75 ---
Suggested Version for Discussion
Council Member Conduct  Chapter 6  
31
Incorporates concepts in 
draft rules, interviews with 
members of Council, and 
best practices
75 of 86

--- page 76 ---
Introductory section:
32
Council Members are committed to governing for all, 
and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and 
respect.
With that spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall:
See next slide 
76 of 86

--- page 77 ---
A. Govern as a body.  If we work together well, our City will excel.
B. Treat all with dignity, courtesy and respect. This includes staff, each other, or members of 
the public. 
C. Keep confidential matters confidential.
D. Respect process and roles.  This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions.
E. Agree to disagree in a respectful manner.  We focus on the issue not the person. 
F. Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic.  This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time.
G. Give each other a chance to speak.  Everyone gets to speak before another of us speaks 
for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion.
H. The Mayor normally speaks last.  After other members of the Council have offered their 
opinions, the Mayor speaks.
I. Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address each 
other, staff and the public.
J. Promote discussion and resolution.  We present problems and issues in that way.
K. Follow the agenda.  We begin and end meetings on time.
L. Respect decisions once made.  We do not attempt to undermine decisions.
M. Speak for the city only when specifically authorized.
N. Practice a “no surprise” rule. We give a heads up to Council colleagues, City Manager and 
City Attorney out of respect and teamwork.
33
77 of 86

--- page 78 ---
Discussion
When we are at 
our best, how do 
we carry these 
out?
What actions 
should we avoid 
as we practice 
these norms?
Go 
through 
each one
Examples
78 of 86

--- page 79 ---
Discussion:  A through G
A.Govern as a body.  If we work together well, our City will excel.
B.Treat all with dignity, courtesy and respect. This includes staff, 
each other, or members of the public. 
C.Keep confidential matters confidential.
D.Respect process and roles.  This includes avoiding 
interruptions and distractions.
E.Agree to disagree in a respectful manner.  We focus on the 
issue not the person. 
F.Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic.  This 
respects our colleagues’, the public’s, and staffs’ time.
G.Give each other a chance to speak.  Everyone gets to speak 
before another of us speaks for a second time. We refrain from 
dominating the discussion.
35
79 of 86

--- page 80 ---
Discussion: H through N
H.The Mayor normally speaks last.  After other members of the 
Council have offered their opinions, the Mayor speaks.
I. Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider 
this as we address each other, staff, and the public.
J.Promote discussion and resolution.  We present problems and 
issues in that way.
K.Follow the agenda.  We begin and end meetings on time.
L.Respect decisions once made.  We do not attempt to 
undermine decisions.
M.Speak for the city only when specifically authorized.
N.Practice a “no surprise” rule. We give a heads up to Council 
colleagues, City Manager, and City Attorney out of respect and 
teamwork.
36
80 of 86

--- page 81 ---
Where we go
from here

81 of 86


--- page 82 ---
Committing to Our Code of Conduct
§ Each member of Council, City Manager, City 
Attorney commits to the Code of Conduct
§ Each person contributes to the “care and 
feeding” of the partnership
§ All members participate in regular training and 
professional development (CalCities, Institute for 
Local Government, others) 
§ Staff incorporates Code of Conduct into new 
Council orientation
§ Council conducts a three- to six-month check in 
on how we are carrying out our agreed upon 
Code of Conduct
§ What else?
38
82 of 86

--- page 83 ---
Peer 
Accountability
Everyone contributes equally to 
maintaining standards, meeting 
goals, and upholding shared values
Relies on mutual respect, trust, and 
a shared understanding of 
expectations within the group
If you got off track on one of your 
commitments, how would you like 
your colleagues to approach you?
83 of 86

--- page 84 ---
The beginning is always today.
Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley
40
84 of 86

--- page 85 ---
Wrap Up
One 
valuable 
takeaway 
from today
Summary 
Report
Session 
Evaluation
41
85 of 86

--- page 86 ---
Thank You!
42
Contact: Jan Perkins
jperkins@raftelis.com
(949) 202-8870
86 of 86