--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
60
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Privacy advocates want Denver mayor to turn off Flock
cameras
By Deborah Smith July 16, 2025 | updated 10 months ago
 
   
A group of Denver residents plans to deliver a petition to Denver Mayor Mike
Johnsto on Thursday asking him to turn off the city’s 111 Flock automaked
licence plate reading (ALPR) cameras until better guardrails around their use
and the data they collect – and share – can be firmly enshrined in policy.
Search
Buy Our Photos
1 of 4
No Flock Cameras Logo
Local privacy advocates plan to deliver a
petition to Denver Mike Johnston asking
him to turn off the city's 111 Flock license
plate reading cameras until better
guardrails around their use and the data
they collect – and share – can be  enshrined
in policy.
Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public
Safety
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
In early May, the Denver City Council rejected a resolution that would have
added two years and $666,000 to an existing contract between the Denver
Police Department and Flock Group, Inc. for cameras that read license plates.
While the unanimous vote ended the city’s 12-month “pilot program,”
Johnston, despite public outcry, has kept the cameras operating, a move local
privacy advocates say is “dangerous.”
Some council members have expressed concerns surrounding information
sharing and possible use of data from the automated license plate readers for
mass surveillance and to target illegal immigrants.
Petition sponsor Kristen Seidel of the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing
and Public Safety told more than 100 community members who attended a
“Teach-In” held at the Shorter Community AME Church on Tuesday that the
group has some “very specific asks.”
Among them is the request that all Flock ALPR cameras be turned off
immediately, along with a complete audit of search data from Flock to be
shared with the City Council.
In addition, petitioners want to see better guardrails, including:
• A bi-monthly full audit of Flock ALPR searches, rather than monthly, and the
results to be shared with the Denver City Council, also on a bi-monthly basis.
• Community input on all surveillance technology, where their needs should be
justified and proven for all new and changes to existing technologies.
• The creation of a public task force process that includes community
members, members of the City Council, and privacy and surveillance experts
to create comprehensive legislation governing the use of surveillance
technology in Denver.
• Existing and future surveillance technology usage should be clearly
documented in a public dashboard.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
• Details of all stored and shared data should be publicly disclosed to the
public before contracts are approved by the City Council.
“We’re living in a very unusual time where we have federal agencies and a U.S.
president who is actively breaking all norms about their attempt to invade or
gather data based on their political beliefs, or their gender identity or
immigration status,” Johnston told Denver Gazette news partner 9News. “I
understand that concern.”
However, Johnston added that the city has “every intention of making sure
these cameras stay up, the public safety is in place, and we can track down
violent criminals.”
Critics are calling for the city to develop stricter and more well-defined laws
and policies around surveillance and data sharing.
“If you get hit by a car, you probably know it,” At-large Councilmember Sarah
Parady said. “If your data gets stolen or copied or sold, you probably don’t
know it. And so these kinds of laws are really, really challenging to enforce.”
Denver Gazette news partner 9News contributed to this story.
 
   
Tags
 Flock Cameras  Ice  Immigration  Mike Johnston  Privacy Protections
Deborah Smith
Reporter
Sections
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter