Privacy advocates want Denver mayor to turn off Flock cameras - Denver Gazette Privacy advocates want Denver mayor to turn off Flock cameras - Denver Gazette Denver Gazette Search Naviga Feed Log in My Account Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months Newsletter Search 60 °F Weather from WeatherAPI Daily Weather Report Powered By: Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Search Login My Account Subscribe Newsletter Archive Information Carrier Portal Search Buy Our Photos Local News Denver News Aurora News Colorado News Crime & Courts Education Environment Wildfires Weather Colorado Watch Transportation Health Marijuana Military Advertising Submit a news tip Sports Betting Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Colorado Rockies CSU Rams CU Buffs Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets DU Pioneers Golf Olympics Mark Kiszla Paul Klee Woody Paige OutThere Colorado Politics Government Elections State Politics National Politics Business Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Housing Nonprofits Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Outdoors Skiing and Snowboarding Whiteout Colorado Trails Trail Trax Colorado State Parks Craving Colorado Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter US & World U.S. & World News National Politics Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Food, Dining & Beer Music Obituaries Best of Mile High About Subscription Terms of Service Mobile Contact Terms Privacy Policy Privacy advocates want Denver mayor to turn off Flock cameras By Deborah Smith July 16, 2025 | updated 10 months ago × ➜ 1 of 4 Local privacy advocates plan to deliver a petition to Denver Mike Johnston asking him to turn off the city's 111 Flock license plate reading cameras until better guardrails around their use and the data they collect – and share – can be enshrined in policy. Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public Safety 2 of 4 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added the cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 3 of 4 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added Flock cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 4 of 4 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A group of Denver residents plans to deliver a petition to Denver Mayor Mike Johnsto on Thursday asking him to turn off the city’s 111 Flock automaked licence plate reading (ALPR) cameras until better guardrails around their use and the data they collect – and share – can be firmly enshrined in policy. In early May, the Denver City Council rejected a resolution that would have added two years and $666,000 to an existing contract between the Denver Police Department and Flock Group, Inc. for cameras that read license plates. While the unanimous vote ended the city’s 12-month “pilot program,” Johnston, despite public outcry, has kept the cameras operating, a move local privacy advocates say is “dangerous.” Some council members have expressed concerns surrounding information sharing and possible use of data from the automated license plate readers for mass surveillance and to target illegal immigrants. Petition sponsor Kristen Seidel of the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public Safety told more than 100 community members who attended a “Teach-In” held at the Shorter Community AME Church on Tuesday that the group has some “very specific asks.” Among them is the request that all Flock ALPR cameras be turned off immediately, along with a complete audit of search data from Flock to be shared with the City Council. In addition, petitioners want to see better guardrails, including: • A bi-monthly full audit of Flock ALPR searches, rather than monthly, and the results to be shared with the Denver City Council, also on a bi-monthly basis. • Community input on all surveillance technology, where their needs should be justified and proven for all new and changes to existing technologies. • The creation of a public task force process that includes community members, members of the City Council, and privacy and surveillance experts to create comprehensive legislation governing the use of surveillance technology in Denver. • Existing and future surveillance technology usage should be clearly documented in a public dashboard. • Details of all stored and shared data should be publicly disclosed to the public before contracts are approved by the City Council. “We’re living in a very unusual time where we have federal agencies and a U.S. president who is actively breaking all norms about their attempt to invade or gather data based on their political beliefs, or their gender identity or immigration status,” Johnston told Denver Gazette news partner 9News. “I understand that concern.” However, Johnston added that the city has “every intention of making sure these cameras stay up, the public safety is in place, and we can track down violent criminals.” Critics are calling for the city to develop stricter and more well-defined laws and policies around surveillance and data sharing. “If you get hit by a car, you probably know it,” At-large Councilmember Sarah Parady said. “If your data gets stolen or copied or sold, you probably don’t know it. And so these kinds of laws are really, really challenging to enforce.” Denver Gazette news partner 9News contributed to this story. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Loveland police chief, state senator react to ICE access to traffic cam account Loveland Police Chief Tim Doran and Colorado State Sen. Janice Marchman reacted to a recent revelation that the Loveland Police Department’s a… Denver City Council may extend license plate reader contract Denver rejects contract on license plate reader cameras over lack of privacy concerns State of Surveillance: Everyone’s watching Tags Flock Cameras Ice Immigration Mike Johnston Privacy Protections Deborah Smith Reporter Around the Web Denver Gazette is proudly powered by WordPress Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites Sections News Sports Opinion Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Obits Services Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data Advertising forms Calendar Weather Transparency in Coverage Statement of Principles About Us Contact Us Subscriber-Only Content Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram DenverGazette.com Gazette.com ColoradoPolitics.com OutThereColorado.com © Copyright 2025 The Denver Gazette , 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices