Denver council committee wants more control over flock cameras Denver council committee wants more control over flock cameras Denver Gazette Search Naviga Feed Log in My Account Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months Newsletter Search 69 °F Weather from WeatherAPI Daily Weather Report Powered By: Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Search Login My Account Subscribe Newsletter Archive Information Carrier Portal Search Buy Our Photos Local News Denver News Aurora News Colorado News Crime & Courts Education Environment Wildfires Weather Colorado Watch Transportation Health Marijuana Military Advertising Submit a news tip Sports Betting Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Colorado Rockies CSU Rams CU Buffs Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets DU Pioneers Golf Olympics Mark Kiszla Paul Klee Woody Paige OutThere Colorado Politics Government Elections State Politics National Politics Business Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Housing Nonprofits Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Outdoors Skiing and Snowboarding Whiteout Colorado Trails Trail Trax Colorado State Parks Craving Colorado Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter US & World U.S. & World News National Politics Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Food, Dining & Beer Music Obituaries Best of Mile High About Subscription Terms of Service Mobile Contact Terms Privacy Policy Council panel insists on more robust discussion on Denver’s Flock dealings By Deborah Grigsby October 29, 2025 | updated 7 months ago Effective Oct. 22, 2026 access to Denver’s Flock LPR data has been shut off to all other agencies and, going forward, will only be accessible to law enforcement agencies that sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the City and County of Denver. (Flock Safety Photo) A Denver City Council committee has called for members of the city’s Surveillance Technology Task Force to have more input not only into Mayor Mike Johnston’s dealings with license plate reading camera vendors, but with all city surveillance technology and the policies that governs it it. The meeting comes on the heels of a recent announcement from Johnston’s office that the city had entered into a “no-cost five-month” trial contract with Flock Safety under several stipulations, notably locking down access to data gathered by the city’s 111 ALPR cameras and imposing a $100,000 per incident fine to the vendor for any data leaks outside of the city’s own law enforcement agencies. The announcement drew close to 700 people to a community town hall to criticize the mayor’s decision, which Johnston adopted despite the City Council’s wishes not to extend the contract with Flock. Critics, including the ACLU and some members of the Denver City Council, have pushed back on the city’s use of the technology, citing overreach and alleging misuse of the imagery and data captured. Supporters said police agencies have begun to look to technology to help fill critical gaps and clear cases, often referring to the camera system as a “force multiplier,” a military term that refers to a resource that enhances a unit’s combat power beyond what its raw troop numbers and capacities may suggest. The Denver police have credited the notable reduction in auto theft to the city’s network of license plate reading cameras, while Douglas County Sheriff Darren Weekly said tools like Flock “are force multipliers that allow us to fight crime proactively and effectively.” The task force, which met for the first time in August, was established to provide guidance to the city on the use of AI and surveillance technologies, including license plate readers (LPRs) like Flock cameras. Members of the Health and Safety Committee posed questions on Wednesday to Denver Police Department Chief Ron Thomas and to Johnston’s policy director, Tim Hoffman, seeking clarification on several aspects of the city’s use of surveillance technology, including vendor risk evaluation and assessment. “I think, as evidenced by the last week and some of the discussions that have taken place, this is a really hot button issue, and understandably so,” Johnston’s policy director, Tim Hoffman, told members of the Health and Safety Committee on Wednesday. “I think that when you are at a point in time in the country where the federal government is acting in the way it’s acting, people at the local level are understandably and legitimately concerned and scared.” Angry and suspicious of the mayor’s new “no cost” deal with Flock, residents who poured into a large conference room inside the Geotech Environmental building on Oct. 22, 2025, spilled into overflow rooms, calling for answers and for the mayor to explain his unilateral decision. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette) Councilmember Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, who sits on the task force, said she is frustrated with the fact that the task force assembled a group of subject matter experts on all sides of the issue to “mitigate concerns” — only to find that a decision had been made in a “closed-room conversation.” When ALPRs were first introduced in Denver, Councilmember Paul Kashmann said the idea was framed around reducing car thefts and public notifications such as Amber Alerts. “There was absolutely no mention of a national network of any sort, and that lack of transparency continues through today,” Kashmann said. “I’m as frustrated with this process as any process I’ve been involved with in 10 years. I fully believe these cameras can provide great assistance in crime-solving, but I’m getting the feeling that there’s an attempt to minimize the dangers that the Flock system carries.” Thomas argued that the technology is a critical public-safety tool that helped address the city’s auto theft problem, which at one time was among the highest in the nation. He said Flock cameras have also been credited with helping address other crime challenges, such as homicide. Councilmember Amanda Sawyer said she supports the license plate-reading camera but added that she’s not “married to Flock.” “I don’t care what ALPR technology company we use,” Sawyer said. “ALPR technology itself has been an extraordinary asset for the city of Denver in closing the gap between the number of officers we have and the number of officers that we would need to have to do this work and achieve those same results in District Five.” “Flock is the tip of the iceberg,” Sawyer said. “If you carry a cell phone, you should be way more concerned about the information your cell phone is providing to apps than you are about Flock.” Other questions from the committee focused on data audit policies, searches, whether Flock uses data stored during the 30-day retention period to train artificial intelligence models, and whether the data can be subpoenaed by the federal government. Gonzales-Gutierrez called for more “transparency and understanding of what it is that we’re actually charged with, if it’s not to provide recommendations and not to have a feedback loop; instead, is it just information that is then going to the executive branch, to the administration, and then decisions are being made without any kind of collaboration.” “There is going to be any number of legitimate disagreements and questions around this company, in particular, this technology and how it’s used, how it was rolled out, and then kind of future state things that we’re going to do, not just with license plate readers, but with surveillance technologies generally,” Hoffman told the group. “We look forward to having that substantive discussion.” Officials promised to provide answers to the committee. Tags Alpr Denver Denver Mayor Mike Johnson Flock Cameras Local News Right Now Deborah Grigsby Reporter Around the Web Denver Gazette is proudly powered by WordPress Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites Sections News Sports Opinion Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Obits Services Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data Advertising forms Calendar Weather Transparency in Coverage Statement of Principles About Us Contact Us Subscriber-Only Content Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram DenverGazette.com Gazette.com ColoradoPolitics.com OutThereColorado.com © Copyright 2025 The Denver Gazette , 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices