--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
67
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Denver mayor extends Flock camera contract against
council’s wishes
By Deborah Grigsby October 22, 2025 | updated 6 months ago
Effective Oct. 22, 2026 access to Denver’s Flock LPR data has been shut off to all other agencies and, going forward,
will only be accessible to law enforcement agencies that sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the City
and County of Denver. (Flock Safety Photo)
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
 
   
Just hours before a community town hall where critics were expected to push
for Denver to immediately suspend the use of its Flock Safety license plate
reading cameras, Mayor Mike Johnston announced on Wednesday that the city
would be extending its contract with the Atlanta-based technology company.
That extension would come at no cost to the city, the Johnston administration
announced. Under the extension, the camera security company must abide by
several stipulations, notably the prohibition against sharing its data with
federal authorities.
Critics have claimed that Flock Safety shares data with federal immigration
authorities, and, in response, the Denver City Council rejected a two-year
contract extension with the company.
Effective Oct. 22, access to Denver’s Flock LPR data has been shut off to all
other agencies and, going forward, it will only be available to law enforcement
agencies that sign a memorandum of understanding with Denver, a statement
from Johnston’s office said. 
The Johnston administration framed the no-cost, five-month contract as an
opportunity to “evaluate unprecedented and strict new measures that ensure,
beyond a shadow of a doubt, that license plate readers (LPRs) are used
transparently and within local and state law.”  
The contract extends camera usage in Denver through March 31, 2026, at
which point the Johnston administration will, if all conditions have been met,
present a contract to the City Council for approval of a long-term agreement,
under which Flock will presumably get paid again.
City officials said that any violations of the restrictions by Flock Safety will carry
severe monetary penalties – $100,000 in damages for any breach or improper
release of city data – and could result in the contract’s dissolution.   
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
Additionally, Flock will agree to only allow search terms for a select number of
crimes, and no federal agents would be permitted to search Denver’s data,
even if they are assigned to a Denver task force. 
“I’ve been asking for strong guardrails around use of this technology, and this
new structure provides them,” said Councilmember Kevin Flynn, who is serving
on the task force put together to create policies for Flock’s cameras. “The
system has already proved its worth in solving crimes around the city. We can
boost safety while ensuring the data is restricted.”
Critics, including the ACLU and some members of the Denver City Council,
have pushed back on the city’s use of the technology, citing overreach and
alleging misuse of the imagery and data captured.
Supporters said police agencies have begun to look to technology to help fill
critical gaps and clear cases, often referring to the camera system as a “force
multiplier,” a military term that refers to a resource that enhances a unit’s
combat power beyond what its raw troop numbers and capacities may
suggest.
The Denver police have credited the notable reduction in auto theft to the
city’s network of license plate reading cameras, while Douglas County Sheriff
Darren Weekly said tools like Flock “are force multipliers that allow us to fight
crime proactively and effectively.”
Flock’s contract extension in Denver caught some councilmembers by
surprise.
“I was stunned to learn late yesterday that after convening a task force of local
and national experts, Mayor Johnston has been negotiating secretly with the
discredited CEO of Flock Safety and signing another unilateral extension of this
mass surveillance contract with no public process and no vote from the City
Council or input from his own task force,” Councilmember Sarah Parady told
The Denver Gazette.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
Parady added said what Johnston is calling the “Denver plan” is just a “version”
of Flock’s product that has always been available and what the city had
originally signed up for – “a version where we do not participate in massive
data networks with other jurisdictions.”
“The mayor always had the ability to remove the FBI officers DPD invited into
our system and to restrict data sharing outside the city,” Parody added. “His
delay in doing so is inexcusable, and Flock’s mass surveillance system remains
incredibly dangerous for Denver regardless of this belated step.”
Councilmember Flor Alvidrez said Denver City Council rejected the contract,
citing concerns over government bypassing community accountability.
“I’m tired of seeing major public safety decisions made behind council’s back,”
Alvidrez said in a statement to The Denver Gazette. “Extending Flock again
without a vote undermines democratic oversight and public trust.”
“Even with new promises,” she added, “I remain deeply concerned about how
this surveillance data could be accessed or misused by other jurisdictions,
especially those looking to prosecute women or pregnant people seeking
reproductive healthcare in Denver.
a uniformed police officer stands behind a podium as a city official looks on
FILE PHOTO: Denver Mayor Mike Johnston and Denver Police Chief Ron Thomas speak at a Jan. 25 news conference
to announce a robust effort to crack down on auto thefts, which includes adding 109 license plate-reading cameras
to only two such cameras hooked up to the system now.
Johnston called the move a way to ensure technology is “wielded responsibly”
and that the city’s data stays out of the federal government’s hands.
“I’ve made clear to Flock’s leadership that I expect total transparency and that
anything less will result in an end to our relationship,” Johnston said. “To their
credit, they have agreed to our terms and will build a Denver-specific package
that will lead the way in using this technology for the public good.” 
Agencies must negotiate an agreement with Denver, with the understanding
that any data sharing with the federal government regarding civil immigration
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 6 ---
enforcement will result in an immediate loss of access and referral to the
Colorado Attorney General’s Office for prosecution. 
Shortly before the Denver City Council rejected a two-year contract extension
with Flock, the DPD quietly opted out of the national lookup feature tied to
more than 100 solar-powered, license plate-reading cameras across the city.
The 24-month extension was valued at $666,000, or approximately $27,750
per month for 111 solar-powered cameras across 70 location citywide.
A spokesperson from the department’s media relations team confirmed that
DPD disabled the feature on April 8, 2025 and has been limiting outgoing and
incoming searches to “statewide look-up.” 
Prior to the City Council vote, the contract with Flock was met with weeks of
public outcry over concerns surrounding information sharing and possible use
of data from the ALPRs for mass surveillance and to target illegal immigrants.
Staffing shortages among law enforcement agencies have been a top concern
for many municipalities, and recruitment and retention numbers are also
suffering, according to a 2023 study by the Police Executive Research Forum,
an independent police policy research organization.  
“It is not an exaggeration to say that individuals suspected of the worst crimes
could still be on the streets if not for this technology,” Denver Police Chief Ron
Thomas said in a statement, referring to Flock cameras. “Denver police have
always used license plate readers responsibly and we will continue to do so
under these new safeguards.” 
 
   
Tags
 Alcu  Alpr  Denver Mayor Mike Johnston  Dever  Editors' Picks  Flock Safety  License Plate
Readers  Local  News
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 7 ---
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 8 ---
OutThere

wm coLonano ‘2c0loradopolitics
