--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
69
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Council panel insists on more robust discussion on
Denver’s Flock dealings
By Deborah Grigsby October 29, 2025 | updated 7 months ago
Effective Oct. 22, 2026 access to Denver’s Flock LPR data has been shut off to all other agencies and, going forward,
will only be accessible to law enforcement agencies that sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the City
and County of Denver. (Flock Safety Photo)
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
 
   
A Denver City Council committee has called for members of the city’s
Surveillance Technology Task Force to have more input not only into Mayor
Mike Johnston’s dealings with license plate reading camera vendors, but with
all city surveillance technology and the policies that governs it it.
The meeting comes on the heels of a recent announcement from Johnston’s
office that the city had entered into a “no-cost five-month” trial contract with
Flock Safety under several stipulations, notably locking down access to data
gathered by the city’s 111 ALPR cameras and imposing a $100,000 per incident
fine to the vendor for any data leaks outside of the city’s own law enforcement
agencies.
The announcement drew close to 700 people to a community town hall to
criticize the mayor’s decision, which Johnston adopted despite the City
Council’s wishes not to extend the contract with Flock.
Critics, including the ACLU and some members of the Denver City Council,
have pushed back on the city’s use of the technology, citing overreach and
alleging misuse of the imagery and data captured.
Supporters said police agencies have begun to look to technology to help fill
critical gaps and clear cases, often referring to the camera system as a “force
multiplier,” a military term that refers to a resource that enhances a unit’s
combat power beyond what its raw troop numbers and capacities may
suggest. The Denver police have credited the notable reduction in auto theft to
the city’s network of license plate reading cameras, while Douglas County
Sheriff Darren Weekly said tools like Flock “are force multipliers that allow us
to fight crime proactively and effectively.”
The task force, which met for the first time in August, was established to
provide guidance to the city on the use of AI and surveillance technologies,
including license plate readers (LPRs) like Flock cameras.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
Members of the Health and Safety Committee posed questions on Wednesday
to Denver Police Department Chief Ron Thomas and to Johnston’s policy
director, Tim Hoffman, seeking clarification on several aspects of the city’s use
of surveillance technology, including vendor risk evaluation and assessment.  
“I think, as evidenced by the last week and some of the discussions that have
taken place, this is a really hot button issue, and understandably so,”
Johnston’s policy director, Tim Hoffman, told members of the Health and
Safety Committee on Wednesday. “I think that when you are at a point in time
in the country where the federal government is acting in the way it’s acting,
people at the local level are understandably and legitimately concerned and
scared.”
a crowded conference room
Angry and suspicious of the mayor’s new “no cost” deal with Flock, residents who poured into a large conference
room inside the Geotech Environmental building on Oct. 22, 2025, spilled into overflow rooms, calling for answers
and for the mayor to explain his unilateral decision. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette)
Councilmember Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, who sits on the task force, said
she is frustrated with the fact that the task force assembled a group of subject
matter experts on all sides of the issue to “mitigate concerns” — only to find
that a decision had been made in a “closed-room conversation.”
When ALPRs were first introduced in Denver, Councilmember Paul Kashmann
said the idea was framed around reducing car thefts and public notifications
such as Amber Alerts.
“There was absolutely no mention of a national network of any sort, and that
lack of transparency continues through today,” Kashmann said. “I’m as
frustrated with this process as any process I’ve been involved with in 10 years.
I fully believe these cameras can provide great assistance in crime-solving, but
I’m getting the feeling that there’s an attempt to minimize the dangers that the
Flock system carries.”
Thomas argued that the technology is a critical public-safety tool that helped
address the city’s auto theft problem, which at one time was among the
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
highest in the nation.
He said Flock cameras have also been credited with helping address other
crime challenges, such as homicide.
Councilmember Amanda Sawyer said she supports the license plate-reading
camera but added that she’s not “married to Flock.”
“I don’t care what ALPR technology company we use,” Sawyer said. “ALPR
technology itself has been an extraordinary asset for the city of Denver in
closing the gap between the number of officers we have and the number of
officers that we would need to have to do this work and achieve those same
results in District Five.”
“Flock is the tip of the iceberg,” Sawyer said. “If you carry a cell phone, you
should be way more concerned about the information your cell phone is
providing to apps than you are about Flock.”
Other questions from the committee focused on data audit policies, searches,
whether Flock uses data stored during the 30-day retention period to train
artificial intelligence models, and whether the data can be subpoenaed by the
federal government.
Gonzales-Gutierrez called for more “transparency and understanding of what
it is that we’re actually charged with, if it’s not to provide recommendations
and not to have a feedback loop; instead, is it just information that is then
going to the executive branch, to the administration, and then decisions are
being made without any kind of collaboration.”
“There is going to be any number of legitimate disagreements and questions
around this company, in particular, this technology and how it’s used, how it
was rolled out, and then kind of future state things that we’re going to do, not
just with license plate readers, but with surveillance technologies generally,”
Hoffman told the group. “We look forward to having that substantive
discussion.”
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 6 ---
Officials promised to provide answers to the committee.
 
   
Tags
 Alpr  Denver  Denver Mayor Mike Johnson  Flock Cameras  Local  News  Right Now
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 7 ---
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter