--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
41
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Denver delays Axon ALPR camera contract
By Deborah Grigsby March 23, 2026 | updated 1 month ago
Dozens of residents gave testimony during an hour-long courtesy public hearing on a proposed new contract for
automated license plate reading cameras. The city's current contract with Georgia-based Flock Group expires
March 31, 2026. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette)
 
   
The City and County of Denver still hasn’t officially broken up with automated
license plate reading camera vendor Flock Group, as members of the City
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
Council agreed Monday to delay approving a new contract with Arizona-based
ALPR maker Axon.
Denver Councilman Kevin Flynn asked the council to postpone the contact for
one week.
Several on the council called into question risks of approving the contract
before the city has an overarching ordinance on surveillance.
Residents and privacy advocates filled the Parr-Widener Community Room for
a special one-hour courtesy public hearing on the matter, with 55 individuals
signed up for comment. 
While Axon’s proposed $150,000 contract for a 50-camera system is about half
of Denver’s current 111-camera system with Flock, opponents argue the
technology poses the same risks because there are “no proper guardrails” in
place to protect their privacy and personally identifiable information, the
statement added.
Privacy and civil rights advocates have stated that the matter has come down
to the wire as Flock’s contract with the city ends March 31.
The new Axon contract was not shared with Task Force members until March
19, and shared with the City Council on March 13, just five days before the
committee vote, according to a statement from the American Civil Liberties
Union.  
Denver City Council members hear public testimony on Monday, March 23, 2026, regarding a proposed new contract
between the City and Axon, a vendor of automated license plate reading (ALPR) cameras. (Debroah Grigsby, The
Denver Gazette)
In a letter sent to the Denver City Council prior to the vote, several community,
advocacy, and civil rights organizations, as well as the Denver Surveillance Task
Force, asked the councilors to vote “no” to “prevent the city from rushing into a
new contract.”
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
The opponents argued that Mayor Mike Johnston’s plan to switch vendors
“does little to protect the civil rights of people living and visiting Denver.”
“This process is being rushed. Take a breath, turn off the Flock cameras on
March 31, put a hood on them until they are removed,” Marilym Ackerman
said during the one-hour public hearing. “Then City Council can wait for the
Surveillance Task Force members to create a surveillance policy that answers
questions and provides guardrails.”
Supporters of the technology, which include Johnston and the Denver police,
say it saves lives and helps solve crimes.
“What we have done with this contract is try to balance the very real benefit to
public safety that it provides with the very legitimate privacy and civil liberty
considerations that the mayor shares, and that you all members of council
chair and that these community members have shared, Johnston
spokesperson Tim Hoffman said.
Added: “Yes, get to take advantage of this tool, which has helped us reduce
crime in Denver, and making sure that we have robust safe.”
“Let’s give DPD access to the technology that can help them quickly find, track
and remove the threat of violant criminals from our streets,” Denver Business
owner Derek Friedman told City Coucnil members.
“The city cannot simply move from one dragnet surveillance company to
another and trust that these for-profit companies will put people’s civil
liberties first,” ACLU of Colorado’s public policy director, Anaya Robinson, said.
artist's rendering of a modern building with a security camera
Denver Mayor Mike Johnston has floated a 12-month $150,000 contract with Arizona-based Axon for 50 new license
plate reading cameras and the software to support them. The proposed contract will replace the city’s existing
agreement with Flock Safety, whose contract expires March 31, 2026. (Courtesy, Axon.com)
Robinson added: “The city must implement critical protections around data
retention, information sharing, access limitations, and meaningful community
input and legislative approval policies to prevent abuses from government
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
agencies and law enforcement. Continuing to operate this risky, unregulated
surveillance technology in the city carries far greater risks than pausing the
ALPR program.”
However, Robin Engel, a professor of criminal justice at the University of
Cincinnati, finds the Axon contract with the city agreeable.
“From my perspective, after reviewing the current contract under discussion, I
found it to be especially strong carefully threading the needle between the
ambitious goals of improving public safety while also protecting the collection,
storage, sharing and use of surveillance technology,” Engel said.
But just because the city of Denver will no longer have an agreement with
Flock, privately owned Flock cameras, owned by HOAs and local businesses,
will still remain, and Denver police could still have access to them if the owning
entity cooperates.
The resolution will be back before the full City Council body on March 31, as
City Council offices will be closed on Monday, March 30.
a police officer holding a body-worn camera
The Denver Department of Public Safety has a new five-year, $27 million contract with Arizona-based Axon for
2,563 new body cameras and 2,175 Tasers. (Courtesy, Axon)
Axon is no stranger to the Mile High City.
In December 2025, the City Council approved a new five-year, $27 million
contract with Axon for 2,563 new body cameras and 2,175 Tasers.
 
   
Tags
 Alpr  Axon License Plate Reader  Denver Mayor Mike Johnston  Flock License Plate Reader
Immigration  Local  News  Privacy  Public Safety  Sanctuary City Policy
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 6 ---
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 7 ---
OutThere

wm coLonano ‘2c0loradopolitics
