--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
65
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Denver City Council to consider Axon ALPR camera
contract
By Deborah Grigsby March 27, 2026 | updated 2 months ago
Denver City Hall is noted for its distinguishing columns. The building, as pictured on Feb. 26, 2026, is a major hub
for city and community activity. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette)
 
   
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
Denver’s regular meeting of the City Council moves to Tuesday as most city
offices will be closed Monday in observance of Sí Se Puede Day.
On the agenda, the clock is ticking on a delayed contract for automated license
plate reading cameras. The 12-month, $150,000 agreement with Axon would
deliver approximately 50 new cameras, replacing the 111 Flock cameras
currently operating throughout the city. The city’s agreement with Flock ends
March 31.
A pair of resolutions would approve a $1.5 million funding agreement between
the city and Wolff 23 LLC for the development of 23 affordable for-sale units at
4801 W. 10th Ave., in the Villa Park neighborhood.
One agreement, Council Resolution 26-0320, supports a pass-through of
money from the Colorado State Affordable Housing Fund, which provides
grant funds to eligible local governments for affordable homeownership
opportunities. The funding can be used to build new homes, acquire and
rehabilitate existing properties, or prepare sites for future development.
The second, Council Resolution 26-0321, approves a $1.7 million loan
agreement between the City and County of Denver and Wolff 23 LLC to build
the condominium units, which will be known as Wolff Flats.
The units will provide affordable housing to households at or below 80% area
median income (AMI), and will remain affordable, secured by a covenant
recorded against the property that will run for a minimum of 70 years.
Initial sale price of the units, according to city documents, will be $285,703 for
a one-bedroom unit, and $328,641 for a two-bedroom unit.
City Council members have placed two proclamations on the agenda.
The first, sponsored by Councilmember Flor Alvidrez, will honor Denver Arts
and Venues during Colorado Arts Education Month.
The second, sponsored by Councilmember Darrell Watson, will recognize
National Public Health Week which, in Denver, runs from April 6–12 and
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
recognizes the work of public health workers.
Bills on final consideration include Council Bill 25-0934, a $108 million
Convention Center garage and Denver Performing Arts Center parking garage
financing deal to fund fire alarm replacement using Certificates of
Participation (COPs).
The money would be used to replace the existing fire alarm system at the
Colorado Convention Center, reimburse the city for some preliminary
expenditures, and cover the associated costs of executing the deal.
Denver City Council meetings continue to be held in the Parr-Widener
Community Room as renovations in the council chambers progress.
Seating is limited, and the room will fill quickly.
The Denver City Council’s regular meeting begins at 3:30 p.m., with the general
public comment session scheduled to begin at 5 p.m.
 
   
Tags
 Axon License Plate Reader  Denver City Council  Flock License Plate Reader  Immigration
Local  News  Privacy Law
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter