Flock camera paranoia handcuffs the police | Mike Rosen - Denver Gazette ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Friday October 9, 2026 Newsletters Account Subscribe News Local News U.S. & World Colorado Watch Crime Courts Education Environment Health Housing Transportation Weather Sports Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rockies CU Buffs CSU Rams DU Pioneers Colorado Rapids Denver Summit FC Golf OutThere Colorado News Adventures Features Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Outdoors Food & Drink Movies Music Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Obits Search Menu Denver Search × Search for: Search Explore Sports OutThere Colorado Politics Business Opinion Things To Do × → Site menu News + Local News U.S. & World Colorado Watch Crime Courts Education Environment Health Housing Transportation Weather Sports + Sports Columnists Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rockies CU Buffs CSU Rams DU Pioneers Colorado Rapids Denver Summit FC Golf OutThere Colorado + News Adventures Features Politics + Elections Government State Legislature Colorado Politics National Politics Business + Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Opinion + Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter Things To Do + Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Outdoors Food & Drink Movies Music Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Obits About + Privacy Policy Contact Mobile Subscription Terms of Service Terms of Service E-Edition Newsletters Account Subscribe Live now Editorial Board's ballot picks DPD affairs chief faces discipline Sean Payton takes over play calling Weiser, Marx participate in forum Punk back in Cap Hill venue Dark Horse demolition begins Opinion Flock camera paranoia handcuffs the police | Mike Rosen By Mike Rosen Published October 9, 2026 5:00am | Updated October 9, 2026 2:26pm + Add Denver Gazette on Google Mike Rosen ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT One of the most popular formats on network television and streaming services like Netflix and Prime Video has been police and federal-agent crime-fighting dramas like “Law & Order”, “Blue Bloods” and “NCIS”. Within that category are formats like “Chicago PD” and “FBI” that routinely include high-speed car chases (and foot chases on “FBI)” that especially feature forensic investigative, pursuit and capture technology. Showrunners aren’t making this stuff up. Their production staffs obviously retain experienced expert consultants with state-of-the-art technical knowledge. If I were a fugitive on the lam from a serious felony, I’d now be well aware to instantly get off and stay off the grid. That means no credit card use. No cellphone calls, lest I’m “pinged” at a tower. Staying away from my LKA (last known address). Abandoning my own car on which there’s a BOLO (be on the lookout for) alert. Better, I should steal a car, although that info will be put out over the police network soon enough. Then there are the omnipresent surveillance security cameras in airports, stores, businesses, hospitals, homes and government buildings that Chicago PD and the FBI access to track where I’ve been and where I’m at. Recommended Stories ▶ EDITORIAL: Mayor mediates Denver’s data center dilemma ‘CoCo’ fails before it even hits the rails | Jimmy Sengenberger Suzanne Taheri on the state SOS office’s ‘circus’ | The OpEdge Podcast Courtesy, Flock Safety To make matters even worse, criminals have to contend with the dreaded Flock cameras, an invention of the Atlanta-based Flock Safety company whose crime-fighting systems are highly-valued by law enforcement agencies nationwide as force multipliers for solving homicides, kidnappings, assaults, vehicle thefts, jewelry store robberies, missing persons, human trafficking and more. It was a Flock camera in Boulder that quickly located the car and aided police in the arrest and conviction for murder of the Islamist antisemitic terrorist who firebombed a crowd on the Pearl Street Mall. Flock’s automated license plate readers, installed at intersections all over town with the consent of local governments across the country, photograph the plate and record details, including GPS locations, of every passing vehicle and compare the data to a “hot list” stored in the Flock system of all wanted plates nationwide. Local police can be notified of the hot plate vehicle in as little as 16 seconds. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Despite the claims of anti-Flock paranoids, their cameras don’t record your Social Security number or what takes place in the privacy of your bedroom. One critic equated Flock’s cameras with Big Brother’s mass surveillance of the entire populace in George Orwell’s classic dystopian novel, “1984.” But BB’s cameras were hidden in two-way TV screens in everyone’s homes! Flock’s cameras are only in public venues. As a law-abiding citizen who roots for the cops and FBI agents, I’m grateful for this modern technology. I have nothing to hide in public places. This technology makes me safer by helping to capture the robbers and other bad guys. As for personal privacy, don’t be naïve. We live in a technological era that already compromises much of our privacy through our own behavior in internet interactions with countless servicers, retailers, unknown scammers and on social media. We’re easy prey for sophisticated computer and email hackers. Your only sanctuary is to become a recluse. Another silly ploy of the anti-Flockers is to falsely invoke the Fourth Amendment’s protection from unreasonable search and seizure, and the requirement of a warrant supported by a probable cause. This is beyond Flock’s capabilities. And the Fourth Amendment isn’t absolute; gray areas have forced many exceptions. Like allowing mass searching of travelers by TSA agents at airports without “probable cause.” This is a rational tradeoff to protect travelers from getting blown up in flight by terrorists or crashing into the World Trade Center and Pentagon again. Will the next contrivance to handcuff crimefighters be outlawing fingerprinting and DNA evidence? ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT A large element of those who oppose Flock cameras are sanctuary-city activists who want open borders, and who coddle and defend illegal immigrants. They don’t want data from those cameras to be shared with federal authorities like ICE because they don’t want these people or any illegal immigrants (including the criminals among them) to be deported, even if Flock technology will assist crimefighters in apprehending criminals of all kinds. The organizations and lawyers that support those here illegally describe themselves as defenders of the rights of “undocumented immigrants.” More accurately, they’re defenders of “illegal immigrant aliens.” If you drive a car without a license, that’s illegal; you’re not an “undocumented driver.” This is another example of the mentality of Denver’s progressive prosecutors, judges and juries who pander to criminals at the expense of their victims. Like rewarding, with multimillion dollar settlements and awards, violent leftist protesters who intentionally attack and provoke police attempting to keep the peace. Mike Rosen is a Denver-based American radio personality and political commentator. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Tag: Flock Cameras Surveillance Previous story Denver area events for Oct. 9 Next story ‘CoCo’ fails before it even hits the rails | Jimmy Sengenberger 84 °F Weather from WeatherAPI ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Today's Cover Yesterday's Cover Subscribers Flip for yesterday's cover More from Opinion ▶ ‘CoCo’ fails before it even hits the rails | Jimmy Sengenberger EDITORIAL: Mayor mediates Denver’s data center dilemma Suzanne Taheri on the state SOS office’s ‘circus’ | The OpEdge Podcast EDITORIAL: Let’s hope a ballot boo-boo derails the choo-choo GUEST OPINION: New Denver parking policies will backfire on business ⛽ Gas Tracker Updated Daily Today's National Average $ 4.51 -$0.01 Price per gallon of regular unleaded in the U.S. Change since Oct. 8, 2026 · Source: AAA TRENDING NOW ▶ Investigation into Nederland fire continues a year later U.S. House: Colorado’s ‘sanctuary’ policies threaten public safety Lockheed Martin to bring 1,250 new jobs in Colorado expansion New website makes it easier to book a spot at popular campsites Man faces felony charge after allegedly killing bear near trail ADVERTISEMENT Read Colorado from the people who live it. Unlimited access to The Denver Gazette e-edition, web, and subscriber-only app. Get for 3 months Independent Colorado journalism, breaking news, sports, politics, business, opinion and the stories shaping the Front Range. Sections News Sports OutThere Colorado Politics Business Opinion Things To Do Obits About More E-Edition Newsletters Account Contact Denver Gazette Contact Us About Us Terms of Service Subscription Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices © 2026 The Denver Gazette ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites