--- page 1 ---
LOCAL NEWS
Ditch or switch? Colorado governments
decide fate of Flock cameras
By Nicholas Fogleman
Published September 25, 2026 6:18pm
Updated September 25, 2026 11:03pm
+
Add Denver Gazette on Google
Marijuana company recalls products
A dive into Boettcher's makeover
Mayor Waymo Q&A
Den
LIVE NOW
SATURDAY
SEPTEMBER 26, 2026
NEWSLETTERS
ACC

--- page 2 ---
Flock cameras record cars along South Quebec Street near C-470 on Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026. (Stephen Swofford, Denver Gazette)
(Stephen Swofford, Denver Gazette)
Flock cameras have become the focus of a nationwide debate over privacy, data and law
enforcement tools as the technology has been rapidly deployed across Colorado.
As public outcry has grown over the use of the automatic license plate reading cameras,
governments in Colorado have responded by canceling contracts, removing cameras and
reviewing their own policies around the use of ALPR devices.
RECOMMENDED STORIES ▶
Gorsuch criticizes ‘ruling by emergency edict’ in Colorado appearance

--- page 3 ---
Rep. Lauren Boebert granted temporary protection order against accuser
Bear activity closes Tucker Gulch trail in Golden
Some police departments are switching to Axon, a legacy law enforcement technology
company best known for its body cameras and Tasers. 
Supporters of the technology argue it has become a vital tool for law enforcement to solve
and prevent crime. Officials have argued that switching vendors addresses many of the
public concerns raised about the technology.
Detractors have argued that the technology threatens the public’s right to privacy, often
highlighting examples of misuse within local police departments. They have argued that
switching to a new company does not address fundamental concerns about the use of the
technology.
Police departments often advocate for the technology as a means to conserve resources,
find criminals and prevent crimes. News releases frequently highlight the advantage of the
cameras in solving crimes that would have likely gone unsolved much longer if the cameras
were not in use.
The debate over whether to use ALPRs and, if so, which vendor to choose has played out in
municipal, county and state governments, where public comments, police testimony and
elected officials’ concerns about privacy and data collection have shaped the discussion.

--- page 4 ---
Flock cameras record cars along South Quebec Street near C-470 on Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026. (Stephen Swofford, Denver
Gazette)
ALPR in Colorado
The anti-ALPR organization DeFlock has mapped more than 142,000 ALPRs across the
nation, including 2,691 in Colorado. The organization aggregates volunteer reports, public
records and news coverage to document the locations of ALPR devices.
Over the past year, a number of local governments have canceled their Flock contracts,
citing concerns about privacy, data practices and misuse.
Fort Collins, Steamboat Springs and Moffat County have all dropped their Flock contracts
and ordered the removal of the cameras from public streets.
Others, including Denver, Douglas County, Longmont and Durango, have replaced Flock
with Axon, a company with longstanding ties to local police departments.

--- page 5 ---
A review of public testimony, officials’ statements, public records and company terms and
conditions suggests that the debate often centers on whether concerns about privacy, data
retention and surveillance stem from the policies of individual companies or from the use of
ALPR technology itself. 
Courts have consistently ruled that the technology is legal, but many public officials still
express hesitation about deploying ALPRs sold by any company.
Governments and ALPR
In Englewood, the City Council voted Sept. 8 to end its contract with Flock. A vote to
approve a contract with Axon narrowly failed on a 3-3 tie.
“I have a problem with the government keeping track of everywhere we go and everywhere
we are,” Councilmember Rita Russell said, explaining her no vote. “I think whether we use
Flock or Axon, it’s no different. They both do the same thing.”
A Flock camera is shown in Denver in this file photo. (Courtesy of Flock Safety)

--- page 6 ---
Denver had a different result.
The City Council did not renew its Flock contract this year over reports that Denver’s
tracking data was on a national network available to immigration enforcement. According to
Flock, information sharing is controlled by the customer and access by a federal agency
must be explicitly granted. 
In February, the Denver City Council narrowly approved a contract with Axon by a 7-6 vote
following months of tension over use of ALPRs.
“Keeping Denver safe means giving our officers effective tools to combat crime while
ensuring our rights are protected. This contract does both,” Denver Mayor Mike Johnston
said in a statement at the time. 
Not every police department is canceling or switching.
In April, Commerce City approved a $4.5 million contract with Flock for five years.
Commerce City Police Chief Darrel Guadnola told councilmembers that the technology has
increased the recovery of stolen vehicles and firearms.
“We’ve seen great success,” Guadnola said. “When Flock was relatively new we did get a
hit on a stolen vehicle … which was subsequently used in a robbery homicide. We were
able to connect all the dots and close it that night. We had the manpower in the area solely
because of the LPR.”
During three years of use, Commerce City police made 36 stolen vehicle recoveries.
“It’s been here for three years and those are successes for those 36 car owners,”
Councilmember José Guardiola said. “It’s their livelihood.”
What’s the difference

--- page 7 ---
In switching to Axon, public officials have pointed to differences in how both companies
handle data retention, security and access. 
Englewood Mayor Othoniel Sierra, who supported a contract with Axon, pointed to Flock’s
policy over data use.
“Enough has been said about how some of that information has been used by other
jurisdictions and how we are unable to regulate exactly who has access to that information
once it is captured,” Sierra said. “Unfortunately, it just seems to be a flaw in the system.”
Trevor Chandler, Flock’s senior director of public affairs, acknowledged the tension and
confusion surrounding the company’s policy before the Commerce City Council in April. 
“What we were hearing … was actually more confusion about our terms and conditions
rather than clarity,” Chandler said.
According to Flock’s public terms and conditions, the company allows customers to control
a variety of settings to meet state and local laws and conform to department policies. 
The company allows customers to choose who they share their data with and how long the
data is retained. The company does not sell or own customer data and tracks each query
into the system.
Any access to customer data by a federal agency must be explicitly granted by a local
customer and must comply with applicable law. Customers can share data through national
and state lookup networks or through one-to-one agreements.
Axon follows a similar structure.
According to Axon, customers can choose whom they share access to ALPR data with. 
Similarly, Axon does not sell or own customers’ ALPR data, allows agencies to set their own
data retention timelines and tracks individual searches conducted by officers.
Axon does not have national or statewide lookup systems and solely operates on a one-to-
one sharing relationship.

--- page 8 ---
Chandler told the Commerce City Council the system was designed for each department to
have the ability to configure its own settings to conform to local laws.
“We provide the departments the ability to make those decisions according to their state
and local laws and regulations,” Chandler said in April. “Commerce City owns the data,
Commerce City decides who it shares with and Commerce City has full control over
whether or who they want to share with, if at all.”
Legal standards and misuse
ALPRs in Colorado are generally governed by laws that restrict data retention and
information sharing for immigration-related purposes. Requirements such as timely audits,
information sharing for other purposes, general uses and access controls are typically set
up at local government’s discretion.
A bill introduced this year, but ultimately unsuccessful, would have significantly expanded
restrictions on government access to historical location information and require deletion
after four days unless a warrant or court order extends the period. 
Access to the data generally would have required a warrant or another listed exception and
the bill mandated 90-day audits of data systems. 
Similar bills have been passed in other states. In Washington, ALPRs can only be used for
limited purposes and cannot be placed around sensitive locations including schools, places
of worship and health care facilities. Virginia restricts data sharing primarily to statewide law
enforcement agencies and requires a 21 day retention period unless needed for an ongoing
investigation.
There is currently no comprehensive federal law that regulates ALPRs nationwide.
On Wednesday, during a U.S. Senate hearing chaired by Sen. Josh Hawley, Alasdair
Whitney of the Institute for Justice pointed to the lack of legal safeguards governing the use
of ALPRs.
“Where governments have not written the rules, a vendor or law enforcement agency has,”
Whitney wrote in his testimony.

--- page 9 ---
During the hearing, witnesses described examples of misuse of the technology that often
arose from police mismanagement and decision-making, rather than ALPR company policy.
One woman told senators she was arrested and spent 13 days in jail because of a camera’s
misidentification of her vehicle in a Florida hit-and-run case, despite showing that her
vehicle had no damage and providing proof of where she had been at the time.
Whitney described alleged misuse in California, where law enforcement reportedly ran
searches on behalf of federal agencies in violation of state law, and another case in Virginia
where a police department’s 230,000 searches over a two-year period were never audited.
The Institute for Justice has logged 244 ALPR abuses, including five in Colorado between
2020 and 2026. One incident in 2020 involved a family, including two minors, being
handcuffed and held at gunpoint due to a misidentification. 
Other incidents in Colorado involved drivers who were repeatedly pulled over after their
license plate was incorrectly placed on a hot list and another person who was blamed for a
series of thefts. Nationally, cases have involved stalking, assisting criminals and other
personal uses. 
“Flock acknowledged that it conducts very little oversight of client searches and instead
relies on its clients to police themselves,” Hawley said during the Senate hearing.
What do police say?
Police have frequently touted the usefulness of the technology in deterring and solving
crimes. Numerous outlets across the state have reported that ALPRs helped solve cases,
including a $12 million jewelry heist in Cherry Creek in 2025 and a recent fatal hit-and-run in
Aurora.
Englewood Police Chief David Jackson cited reductions in vehicle theft and an increase in
public safety since the technology’s deployment.
“I think some of that has to do with letting the criminals know, do not come here, we are
going to arrest you,” Jackson said.

--- page 10 ---
In response to privacy concerns, Jackson said that before the technology’s deployment,
police could still misidentify suspects, leading to stops of law-abiding citizens while
searching for criminals.
“Prior to having ALPR technology, when somebody said that there was a green Jeep used
in a burglary, officers pulled over green Jeeps,” Jackson said. “What I think the technology
has done has made it easier for us to delineate which green Jeep.”
Councilmember Tena Prange, who supported the Axon contract, argued the benefits of the
technology outweigh the negatives. 
“I think if we’re talking about nationwide, the number of hits that come in on ALPRs against
the statistics of misuse, I would believe that it would not be statistically significant,” Prange
said. 
Deborah Grigsby contributed to this report.
Tag:
Axon
Colorado
Colroado
Denver
Flock
license plater reader
PREVIOUS STORY
Rep. Lauren Boebert granted temporary
protection order against accuser
NEXT STORY
Uncertain QB situation highlights Colorado
State’s first road trip
62
°F

--- page 11 ---
asvosnem taratteod amislo zzaldoj yisew .2.U
obsi0lo0 saiT .og 6 ai 2wol 1esy-\¢ 168n 1wvorl
Fr .og ert no 2i ynoriqmye 3 .2ye2 Inemhegsd tode]

gas BO Ta0r39Cd

anitseda tnabitnos xi 08
nil 21evned ts eyslg otni
£0 .sgemminoe to

AD0E Al AEE ee G2 WOME RE © OS Te = WOOATTARAOAS a) 2 OFT AT AA ea

pneujnieM = iZ div eloorn qari
ynsqmod
allso91
etouborg

AGED AZHPOTEIAHS Ye
eatvernad) terre] aril

ni hasubot, ano waitin eit cio) voi
qerega hr, load 2 aa dor ie qtr,
Sevoia¥.

to Twiiumen obetolod A

BriAi rat to bird teluqgodg
eabieenoqeiby banrw soynv
snilloooa 2i ai devi? Aeaw Jaal
-snimsines of sub atauborg

& sbhiolds saakadison ed moti to mvel dived sito wots gatub etahoge of adssqe qmutT blanod tnsbiestT
Ininomamivad of} lesley OOAROIOO

r i H . i Ie r aT ory r C He . - atictt
itguoe end yaesaA nolresv014 HOTAW JotgnilasW oi webu) oo gotqatl (4 Insbrestd sean ctr sevoH stil alt
seunoed eset on W a ned au a 0 ISA srrote

T2009 34069 19 Hi
aon. 6 bites 2smes [eos ofl
2 to noiteinomslqmi sete oi yelsb beta
<6 svec bloow tert enubeoog yoitesd bsboag
aingviog tao bos sbnolds soshuitem bats - a . el
adit dilesd seo terlt 1 J 1

Wihnsioulos woolvete astufetonem oT not BAI BVI cB 10 rat el9 mom [ONO
fat doin to smoe 2twhotg ati to boggelt

$2999 OFTAISOZEA FHT

B gedit stom evelode yieensqeb no qu tov no agonesd jogbud srotouniteetion -ies bemew eleiito moitehog AUIEMAAE 3 BOC VEE

sbulsai ameati ballavet sifT voge Wed 2 bos was to fueq 2s yebe wT bos yebewT ate dadgid saat blo eto sctreced) werere(] eft

“wo iuelt someon abner orld yd og deel eoqev ‘walsge to wats alismod wi | etdis aalt to clilesd Ieisoenit oT mates notivellos dae ets]

& bise saiten Mesa oT cello) aque) Eo ol analy gnibraqe TOS bseoqet = inloq nas bagnems meager dead = gobiqnong Weedh wot gabeaq fon ai
aC] vee] anihub molinsinos to tol The of eisdnoeniisnios owl

Of BOA » DHE YHTEM oe AS + TOO Bae brs noitknogenm] to tema ane a6 soivise ofl) anixileving



--- page 12 ---
SUBSCRIBERS
FLIP FOR YESTERDAY'S COVER
MORE FROM LOCAL NEWS ▶
Bear activity closes Tucker Gulch trail in Golden
Aurora council to vote on state, municipal mandatory minimum sentences
Denver reports mixed results on five-year housing goals
APD installs 5 cameras at Aurora high schools
Coffee company moves HQ from Denver to Kentucky
⛽
GAS TRACKER
UPDATED DAILY
TODAY'S NATIONAL AVERAGE
$4.51
-$0.01
Price per gallon of regular unleaded in the U.S.
Change since Sep. 25, 2026 · Source: AAA
TRENDING NOW ▶
Responsibly developed data centers play a vita role
Gorsuch criticizes ‘ruling by emergency edict’ in Colorado appearance
T.J. Hughes forcing Sakic, Avalanche into tough roster decisions

--- page 13 ---
Analysis: Air Force football needs strong start to buck larger trend
Colorado State Rams football at UTSA | How to watch
Read Colorado from the
people who live it.
Unlimited access to The Denver Gazette e-edition, web,
and subscriber-only app.
GET FOR 3 MONTHS

--- page 14 ---
Independent Colorado journalism, breaking news, sports,
politics, business, opinion and the stories shaping the
Front Range.
SECTIONS
News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Opinion
Things To Do
Obits
About
MORE
E-Edition
Newsletters
Account
Contact
DENVER GAZETTE
Contact Us
About Us
Terms of Service
Subscription Terms
of Service
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy
Choices
© 2026 THE DENVER GAZETTE