--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
74
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Denver Council narrowly approves deal with Axon
By Deborah Grigsby March 31, 2026 | updated 1 month ago
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
 
   
After weeks of delay, the Denver City Council narrowly approved a one-year
$150,000 contract with Axon for 50 automated license plate-reading cameras
and the necessary system hardware, replacing the city’s former vendor, Flock.
The 7-6 vote came during Tuesday’s regular City Council meeting, where
councilmembers weighed in on the risks of approving the contract before the
city’s surveillance task force and other stakeholders could craft guardrails and
an associated ordinance.
Councilmembers Stacie Gilmore, Serena Gonzales-Gutierrez, Paul Kashmann,
Sarah Parady, Shontel Lewis and Jamie Torres cast the dissenting votes.
City officials confirmed that Flock cameras were removed Tuesday, in
compliance with the Flock contract end date.
“Keeping Denver safe means giving our officers effective tools to combat crime
while ensuring our rights are protected. This contract does both,” Denver
Mayor Mike Johnston said in a statement. “We’re proud to have Council’s
support to move forward with this common-sense technology that has helped
drive historic reductions in crime while protecting residents’ privacy. And with
these strengthened privacy and data protections, we are ensuring that no
federal agency or federal agent can access this data—now or ever.”
Several councilmembers expressed concerns that approving the contract
without a city ordinance and guardrails would open the city up to further
expansion of the camera system citywide.
“If we continue to authorize these technologies without a contract in place, this
contract makes the executive branch and the police department the decision
makers (regarding expansions),” said Parady, who is one of two at-large
Denver City Council members.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
“I really think that we made a mistake when we allowed Flock to expand in the
city without our oversight.” Parody added. “And I think the people in the city
agree with that, and we really need to not make that mistake twice.”
Tim Hoffman, policy director for Mayor Johnston, assured the City Council that
there would be no expansion of the contract or the number of cameras during
the next year.
While the City Council will bring forth an ordinance on the matter at some
point, Councilman Kevin Flynn said he was comfortable approving the contract
before the legislation is passed.
“I believe the contract has stronger safeguards and recourse than an
ordinance will have,” Flynn said. “With high-level policy, the contract has the
most controls, and with those controls that are written in this contract, I’m
very comfortable with it.”
City officials tout that the Axon contract has “stringent protections and
ensures Denver’s data cannot be accessed by federal authorities or used for
any purposes other than those set forth by the city. Any request for data from
outside agencies will go through the City Attorney’s Office, where they can be
challenged in court.”
Councilwoman Lewis questioned Axon’s ties to federal agencies.
“I’m not comfortable with approving this kind of technology offered by this
contractor in this current political moment, Lewis said. “Axon has open ties to
the Department of Homeland Security and other federal agencies. They are a
multi-million dollar company that has a variety of commitments it has made to
various institutions that may be in conflict with one another.”
Privacy and civil rights advocates argue that ALPRs, regardless of the vendor,
pose certain risks for the unintended use of data for the enforcement of
federal immigration laws and identifying women seeking abortions.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
Limited time to review the contract was also cited by the council as a
challenge.
The Axon contract was not shared with Task Force members until March 19,
and shared with the City Council on March 13, just five days before the
committee vote, according to a statement from the American Civil Liberties
Union.
 
   
Tags
 Axon Alpr  Civil Rights  Denver  Denver City Council  Denver Mayor Mike Johnston  Federal
Immigration Enforcement  Flock Cameras  Local  News  Privacy
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 6 ---
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter