Denver City Council to consider Axon ALPR camera contract - Denver Gazette Denver City Council to consider Axon ALPR camera contract - Denver Gazette Denver Gazette Search Naviga Feed Log in My Account Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months Newsletter Search 65 °F Weather from WeatherAPI Daily Weather Report Powered By: Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Search Login My Account Subscribe Newsletter Archive Information Carrier Portal Search Buy Our Photos Local News Denver News Aurora News Colorado News Crime & Courts Education Environment Wildfires Weather Colorado Watch Transportation Health Marijuana Military Advertising Submit a news tip Sports Betting Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Colorado Rockies CSU Rams CU Buffs Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets DU Pioneers Golf Olympics Mark Kiszla Paul Klee Woody Paige OutThere Colorado Politics Government Elections State Politics National Politics Business Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Housing Nonprofits Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Outdoors Skiing and Snowboarding Whiteout Colorado Trails Trail Trax Colorado State Parks Craving Colorado Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter US & World U.S. & World News National Politics Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Food, Dining & Beer Music Obituaries Best of Mile High About Subscription Terms of Service Mobile Contact Terms Privacy Policy Denver City Council to consider Axon ALPR camera contract By Deborah Grigsby March 27, 2026 | updated 2 months ago Denver City Hall is noted for its distinguishing columns. The building, as pictured on Feb. 26, 2026, is a major hub for city and community activity. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette) Denver’s regular meeting of the City Council moves to Tuesday as most city offices will be closed Monday in observance of Sí Se Puede Day. On the agenda, the clock is ticking on a delayed contract for automated license plate reading cameras. The 12-month, $150,000 agreement with Axon would deliver approximately 50 new cameras, replacing the 111 Flock cameras currently operating throughout the city. The city’s agreement with Flock ends March 31. A pair of resolutions would approve a $1.5 million funding agreement between the city and Wolff 23 LLC for the development of 23 affordable for-sale units at 4801 W. 10th Ave., in the Villa Park neighborhood. One agreement, Council Resolution 26-0320, supports a pass-through of money from the Colorado State Affordable Housing Fund, which provides grant funds to eligible local governments for affordable homeownership opportunities. The funding can be used to build new homes, acquire and rehabilitate existing properties, or prepare sites for future development. The second, Council Resolution 26-0321, approves a $1.7 million loan agreement between the City and County of Denver and Wolff 23 LLC to build the condominium units, which will be known as Wolff Flats. The units will provide affordable housing to households at or below 80% area median income (AMI), and will remain affordable, secured by a covenant recorded against the property that will run for a minimum of 70 years. Initial sale price of the units, according to city documents, will be $285,703 for a one-bedroom unit, and $328,641 for a two-bedroom unit. City Council members have placed two proclamations on the agenda. The first, sponsored by Councilmember Flor Alvidrez, will honor Denver Arts and Venues during Colorado Arts Education Month. The second, sponsored by Councilmember Darrell Watson, will recognize National Public Health Week which, in Denver, runs from April 6–12 and recognizes the work of public health workers. Bills on final consideration include Council Bill 25-0934, a $108 million Convention Center garage and Denver Performing Arts Center parking garage financing deal to fund fire alarm replacement using Certificates of Participation (COPs). The money would be used to replace the existing fire alarm system at the Colorado Convention Center, reimburse the city for some preliminary expenditures, and cover the associated costs of executing the deal. Denver City Council meetings continue to be held in the Parr-Widener Community Room as renovations in the council chambers progress. Seating is limited, and the room will fill quickly. The Denver City Council’s regular meeting begins at 3:30 p.m., with the general public comment session scheduled to begin at 5 p.m. Tags Axon License Plate Reader Denver City Council Flock License Plate Reader Immigration Local News Privacy Law Deborah Grigsby Reporter Around the Web Denver Gazette is proudly powered by WordPress Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites Sections News Sports Opinion Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Obits Services Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data Advertising forms Calendar Weather Transparency in Coverage Statement of Principles About Us Contact Us Subscriber-Only Content Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram DenverGazette.com Gazette.com ColoradoPolitics.com OutThereColorado.com © Copyright 2025 The Denver Gazette , 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices