Denver delays Axon ALPR camera contract - Denver Gazette Denver delays Axon ALPR camera contract - Denver Gazette Denver Gazette Search Naviga Feed Log in My Account Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months Newsletter Search 41 °F Weather from WeatherAPI Daily Weather Report Powered By: Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Search Login My Account Subscribe Newsletter Archive Information Carrier Portal Search Buy Our Photos Local News Denver News Aurora News Colorado News Crime & Courts Education Environment Wildfires Weather Colorado Watch Transportation Health Marijuana Military Advertising Submit a news tip Sports Betting Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Colorado Rockies CSU Rams CU Buffs Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets DU Pioneers Golf Olympics Mark Kiszla Paul Klee Woody Paige OutThere Colorado Politics Government Elections State Politics National Politics Business Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Housing Nonprofits Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Outdoors Skiing and Snowboarding Whiteout Colorado Trails Trail Trax Colorado State Parks Craving Colorado Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter US & World U.S. & World News National Politics Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Food, Dining & Beer Music Obituaries Best of Mile High About Subscription Terms of Service Mobile Contact Terms Privacy Policy Denver delays Axon ALPR camera contract By Deborah Grigsby March 23, 2026 | updated 1 month ago Dozens of residents gave testimony during an hour-long courtesy public hearing on a proposed new contract for automated license plate reading cameras. The city's current contract with Georgia-based Flock Group expires March 31, 2026. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette) The City and County of Denver still hasn’t officially broken up with automated license plate reading camera vendor Flock Group, as members of the City Council agreed Monday to delay approving a new contract with Arizona-based ALPR maker Axon. Denver Councilman Kevin Flynn asked the council to postpone the contact for one week. Several on the council called into question risks of approving the contract before the city has an overarching ordinance on surveillance. Residents and privacy advocates filled the Parr-Widener Community Room for a special one-hour courtesy public hearing on the matter, with 55 individuals signed up for comment . While Axon’s proposed $150,000 contract for a 50-camera system is about half of Denver’s current 111-camera system with Flock, opponents argue the technology poses the same risks because there are “no proper guardrails” in place to protect their privacy and personally identifiable information, the statement added. Privacy and civil rights advocates have stated that the matter has come down to the wire as Flock’s contract with the city ends March 31. The new Axon contract was not shared with Task Force members until March 19, and shared with the City Council on March 13, just five days before the committee vote, according to a statement from the American Civil Liberties Union. Denver City Council members hear public testimony on Monday, March 23, 2026, regarding a proposed new contract between the City and Axon, a vendor of automated license plate reading (ALPR) cameras. (Debroah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette) In a letter sent to the Denver City Counci l prior to the vote, several community, advocacy, and civil rights organizations, as well as the Denver Surveillance Task Force, asked the councilors to vote “no” to “prevent the city from rushing into a new contract.” The opponents argued that Mayor Mike Johnston’s plan to switch vendors “does little to protect the civil rights of people living and visiting Denver.” “This process is being rushed. Take a breath, turn off the Flock cameras on March 31, put a hood on them until they are removed,” Marilym Ackerman said during the one-hour public hearing. “Then City Council can wait for the Surveillance Task Force members to create a surveillance policy that answers questions and provides guardrails.” Supporters of the technology, which include Johnston and the Denver police, say it saves lives and helps solve crimes. “What we have done with this contract is try to balance the very real benefit to public safety that it provides with the very legitimate privacy and civil liberty considerations that the mayor shares, and that you all members of council chair and that these community members have shared, Johnston spokesperson Tim Hoffman said. Added: “Yes, get to take advantage of this tool, which has helped us reduce crime in Denver, and making sure that we have robust safe.” “Let’s give DPD access to the technology that can help them quickly find, track and remove the threat of violant criminals from our streets,” Denver Business owner Derek Friedman told City Coucnil members. “The city cannot simply move from one dragnet surveillance company to another and trust that these for-profit companies will put people’s civil liberties first,” ACLU of Colorado’s public policy director, Anaya Robinson, said. Denver Mayor Mike Johnston has floated a 12-month $150,000 contract with Arizona-based Axon for 50 new license plate reading cameras and the software to support them. The proposed contract will replace the city’s existing agreement with Flock Safety, whose contract expires March 31, 2026. (Courtesy, Axon.com) Robinson added: “The city must implement critical protections around data retention, information sharing, access limitations, and meaningful community input and legislative approval policies to prevent abuses from government agencies and law enforcement. Continuing to operate this risky, unregulated surveillance technology in the city carries far greater risks than pausing the ALPR program.” However, Robin Engel, a professor of criminal justice at the University of Cincinnati, finds the Axon contract with the city agreeable. “From my perspective, after reviewing the current contract under discussion, I found it to be especially strong carefully threading the needle between the ambitious goals of improving public safety while also protecting the collection, storage, sharing and use of surveillance technology,” Engel said. But just because the city of Denver will no longer have an agreement with Flock, privately owned Flock cameras, owned by HOAs and local businesses, will still remain, and Denver police could still have access to them if the owning entity cooperates. The resolution will be back before the full City Council body on March 31, as City Council offices will be closed on Monday, March 30. The Denver Department of Public Safety has a new five-year, $27 million contract with Arizona-based Axon for 2,563 new body cameras and 2,175 Tasers. (Courtesy, Axon) Axon is no stranger to the Mile High City. In December 2025, the City Council approved a new five-year, $27 million contract with Axon for 2,563 new body cameras and 2,175 Tasers. Tags Alpr Axon License Plate Reader Denver Mayor Mike Johnston Flock License Plate Reader Immigration Local News Privacy Public Safety Sanctuary City Policy Deborah Grigsby Reporter Around the Web Denver Gazette is proudly powered by WordPress Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites Sections News Sports Opinion Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Obits Services Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data Advertising forms Calendar Weather Transparency in Coverage Statement of Principles About Us Contact Us Subscriber-Only Content Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram DenverGazette.com Gazette.com ColoradoPolitics.com OutThereColorado.com © Copyright 2025 The Denver Gazette , 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices