--- page 1 ---
Daily Weather Report
Powered By:
Login
My Account
Subscribe
Newsletter
Archive Information
Carrier Portal
56
°F
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 2 ---
Denver mayor’s office requests delay on Axon ALPR
contract vote
By Deborah Grigsby March 11, 2026 | updated 2 months ago
Denver Mayor Mike Johnston has floated a 12-month $150,000 contract with Arizona-based Axon for 50 new
license plate reading cameras and the software to support them. The proposed contract will replace the city's
existing agreement with Flock Safety, whose contract expires March 31, 2026. (Courtesy, Axon.com)
Search
Buy Our Photos
Local News
Sports
OutThere Colorado
Politics
Business
Outdoors
Opinion
US & World
Things To Do
Obituaries
Best of Mile High
About
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 3 ---
 
   
While Denver’s long-running contract with the Flock Group, maker of
automated license plate reading cameras, terminates March 31, the fuss over
the city’s use of the ALPRs and the data they collect is far from over.
Tim Hoffman, policy director for Mayor Mike Johnston’s office, asked members
of the City Council’s Health and Safety Committee to postpone its vote by one
week on a proposed 12-month $150,000 contract with Arizona-based camera
maker Axon. The delay would give the administration time to finalize the
contract before presenting it to council members for review as promised.
“We are getting pretty close to having that (contract) prepared for you, but it
was not ready in a timely manner to present to you all in advance, to give you
the time to review,” Hoffman said.
The committee was set to vote Wednesday on whether to advance the matter
to the full council for consideration, but the mayor’s representative requested
a delay until March 18.
Unlike a previous contract extension — which Johnston executed unilaterally,
bypassing the City Council — the mayor’s office indicated the new contract
requires council approval. 
Johnston explained to Denver City Cast that the city needed a “short-term
extension” of the Flock contract while it re-evaluated the vendor.
“We didn’t want to shut off access (to Flock) while we did that, but when we
bought ourselves the time to do that, and found the right partner, we believe
we can now work collaboratively with council…,” Johnston said.
The new deal with Axon comes after months of tension between Johnston and
the City Council over mounting privacy concerns and how license plate data
could be shared or misused.
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 4 ---
people gathered at community meeting
FILE PHOTO: Residents inside the Geotech Environmental building on Oct. 22, 2025, press the Denver mayor’s
office to explain his decision to extend the city’s contract with Flock Safety. (Deborah Grigsby, The Denver Gazette)
In February, Denver City Auditor Tim O’Brien refused to countersign a new
contract with Flock, citing concerns of “a risk of liability for the city.”
The nuts and bolts of the deal include 50 fixed ALPR cameras that can be
deployed on poles, trailers, or buildings, along with the solar panels, batteries
and software to support the system.
City officials said the contract with Axon will include several protections to
ensure Denver’s data cannot be accessed by federal authorities or used for
any purpose other than those set forth by the city.
Under the agreement, regular data reviews would be conducted, an auditing
function would be added, and data would be retained for no longer than 21
days unless required as part of an active investigation.
Denver would also retain full and exclusive ownership of all data, which would
be encrypted, and opt the city out of any data sharing.
Axon would agree to abide by Colorado law, including restricting access to the
city’s data for civil immigration enforcement, abortion-related investigations,
or any purpose not explicitly agreed to.
Finally, Denver’s data would not be used to train AI models.
“While this RFP is an opportunity to turn the page, we cannot take it for
granted,” Anaya Robinson, public policy director for the ACLU of Colorado, said
in a press release. “Any new contract must include rigorous guardrails around
data retention, information sharing, and access limitations. These protections
are critical in preventing abuses from government agencies or other bad
actors. We cannot trade one dragnet surveillance company for another.”
Clifford Barnes, who heads the Denver Police Department’s cyber bureau, said
that when the Flock camera contract ends on March 31, the Flock cameras
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 5 ---
would be placed in a “decommission mode” until they can be removed.
Councilman Paul Kashmann, District 6, said he was extremely uncomfortable
with just the decommission mode on a screen and asked that “at the very
least” the Flock cameras also be covered with a hood until they can be
removed.
a product shot of a license plate reading camera.
Denver is aiming to replace its current Flock license plate reading cameras with new ones from Arizona-based Axon.
City documents show that the city is requesting 45 Axon Outpost cameras, such as this one, along with five Axon
Light Post cameras. (Courtesy, axon.com)
City officials were unclear on the timeline for the complete removal of the
Flock cameras after decommissioning.
“As soon as the contract reaches term, our data is purged, and those are
moved to decom status,” Barnes said.
Barnes added: “I don’t know at what rate yet they’ll be able to remove them,
but obviously we’re going to move as quickly as possible, because the
hardware has to come down for us to put the new hardware up.”
But just because the city of Denver will no longer have an agreement with
Flock, privately owned Flock cameras, owned by HOAs and local businesses,
will still remain, and Barnes said the DPD could still have access to them if
permitted by the owner.
Ultimately, it is the private entity that controls access, Barnes said.
The contract will return to the Health and Safety Committee on March 18,
2026.
 
   
Tags
 Axon  Denver Mayor Mike Johnston  Flock License Plate Reader  Immigration  Local  News
Privacy
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 6 ---
Deborah Grigsby
Reporter
Sections
News
Sports
Opinion
Lifestyle
Arts & Entertainment
Obits
Services
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Data
Advertising
forms
Calendar
Weather
Transparency in Coverage
Statement of Principles
About Us
Contact Us
Subscriber-Only Content
DenverGazette.com
Gazette.com
ColoradoPolitics.com
OutThereColorado.com
© Copyright 2025  The Denver Gazette, 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy |  Your Privacy
Choices
Around the Web
My Account
Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months
Newsletter

--- page 7 ---
OutThere

wm coLonano ‘2c0loradopolitics
