As Flock camera network grows, so do privacy and data concerns - Denver Gazette As Flock camera network grows, so do privacy and data concerns - Denver Gazette Denver Gazette Search Naviga Feed Log in My Account Subscribe 99¢ for 3 months Newsletter Search 60 °F Weather from WeatherAPI Daily Weather Report Powered By: Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Search Login My Account Subscribe Newsletter Archive Information Carrier Portal Search Buy Our Photos Local News Denver News Aurora News Colorado News Crime & Courts Education Environment Wildfires Weather Colorado Watch Transportation Health Marijuana Military Advertising Submit a news tip Sports Betting Colorado Avalanche Colorado Rapids Colorado Rockies CSU Rams CU Buffs Denver Broncos Denver Nuggets DU Pioneers Golf Olympics Mark Kiszla Paul Klee Woody Paige OutThere Colorado Politics Government Elections State Politics National Politics Business Aerospace Agriculture Economy Energy Housing Nonprofits Real Estate Restaurants Retail Technology Sponsored Articles Contributor Content Outdoors Skiing and Snowboarding Whiteout Colorado Trails Trail Trax Colorado State Parks Craving Colorado Opinion Editorials Columns Commentaries Letters Send us a letter US & World U.S. & World News National Politics Things To Do Arts & Entertainment Lifestyle Arts & Culture Comics Horoscopes Puzzles Food, Dining & Beer Music Obituaries Best of Mile High About Subscription Terms of Service Mobile Contact Terms Privacy Policy As Flock camera network grows, so do privacy and data concerns By Deborah Smith July 19, 2025 | updated 10 months ago × ➜ 1 of 11 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added the cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 2 of 11 FILE PHOTO: Castle Rock Police Department Officer Adrian Mendez talks with an officer in the field about a suspect vehicle that may be coming into town as he keeps an eye on an array of computer monitors flagging suspected stolen vehicles via the Flock Safety license plate recognition cameras mounted around the city on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 2024, in the Strategic Response Center at the department’s headquarters in Castle Rock, Colo. (Timothy Hurst/Denver Gazette) Timothy Hurst/Denver Gazette 3 of 11 Vehicles drive through different intersections in Douglas County feeding live footage into the county's traffic command center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 4 of 11 Green dots show the locations of Arapahoe County Flock cameras as of July 1, 2025. Kyla Pearce/Denver Gazette 5 of 11 DPD is launching a new online portal after using the license plate readers for about four months. Courtesy, DPD 6 of 11 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 7 of 11 Jason Oldham, a traffic engineering and operations manager, works in the Douglas County traffic management center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 8 of 11 Jason Oldham, left, and Jose Mejia, work in the Douglas County traffic management center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 9 of 11 Jose Mejia, a traffic management center engineer, works in the Douglas County traffic management center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 10 of 11 FILE PHOTO: A Flock surveillance camera sits at the intersection of Colfax and Downing after the city added Flock cameras to about 100 different locations in the hope of tracking stolen cars after an increase in auto thefts, as seen on Monday, May 5, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com 11 of 11 The Denver Police Department has more than 100 solar-powered Flock license plate reader cameras in close to 70 different intersections across the metro areas. The cameras —and the policies that surrounds the sharing of their data — have become a point of contention between the city and privacy advocates. Denver Police Department Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More than 100 automated license plate readers (ALPRs) photograph and record details of every passing vehicle at nearly 70 intersections throughout the Denver metro area. The cameras, made by Atlanta-based Flock Safety, have been lauded by law enforcement agencies as a welcome crime-fighting tool, solving stolen vehicle cases and jewelry store heists, as well as locating missing and endangered persons. However, as multiple jurisdictions ramp up the use of ALPRs, they are closing the shutter on out-of-state agencies while taking a closer look at data sharing policies related to privacy and unauthorized access concerns. More than just a license plate photo Unlike red-light cameras, ALPRs are not live recording devices and are not used to enforce traffic laws, according to DPD Commander Jacob Herrera, who heads Denver’s auto theft program. Just over a year ago, the city entered a 12-month test program with Flock to evaluate the system’s ability to reduce auto thefts. When a vehicle enters an intersection, the camera takes two photos of each vehicle and creates an image location map. “The first is the license plate,” Herrera explained at an April Denver City Council committee meeting. “The second is a picture of what the vehicle looks like, and the third is a GPS – a Google Maps pin location.” Unlike red-light cameras, Flock ALPRs are not live recording devices and are not used to enforce traffic laws, according to the Denver Police Department's Auto Theft Unit. However, upon entering an intersection, the Flock cameras will take two photos of each vehicle and create an image location map. Denver Police Department Unlike red-light cameras, Flock ALPRs are not live recording devices and are not used to enforce traffic laws, according to the Denver Police Department’s Auto Theft Unit. However, upon entering an intersection, the Flock cameras will take two photos of each vehicle and create an image location map. Denver Police Department Officers are then notified through mobile data terminals in their patrol vehicles, in the same way notifications are received on cell phones. Herrera estimated that there is an approximate 16-second time lapse between when a vehicle with a “hot list” plate enters an intersection and when an officer receives an alert notification. The hot list is a list of all the “wanted” license plates in Colorado as well as the nation, and is updated every six hours or so, Herrera said. All Flock cameras come standard with a “Vehicle Fingerprint” feature that uses machine learning to analyze captured footage to identify “key details” that traditional cameras can’t, according to the company’s product information literature. Image from a Flock license plate reader, which spots license plates on stolen cars. Courtesy photo, Northglenn Police Department Image from a Flock license plate reader, which spots license plates on stolen cars. Courtesy photo, Northglenn Police Department Those details include vehicle make, body type (sedan, SUV, pickup truck, etc.), color, plate state, resident or non-resident vehicle, type of plate (standard or temporary), missing plate, and unique identifiers such as vehicle damage, roof racks, window stickers, tool boxes and more. Law enforcement officials argue that such details are helpful in solving hit-and-run cases. But before acting on any alert, Herrera said, it is DPD’s policy to verify it through “a human being” at Denver 911 to ensure the flagged plates are still considered wanted. According to DPD’s Flock transparency dashboard, more than 2 million vehicles were photographed from mid-June to mid-July 2025, with 175,916 “hits” matching a law enforcement hotlist. In 2023, auto thefts in the Mile High City topped more than 12,000. After the city’s Flock camera pilot program began, that number dropped to 8,550. During Denver’s 12-month pilot program with Flock, Herrera said, there were 289 arrests made and 170 vehicles recovered. And with those arrests, DPD recovered 29 firearms. Images and data captured by Denver’s Flock ALPR system are not tied to a Department of Motor Vehicles database. Officers are not alerted should a vehicle with a driver known to have a suspended license or no proof of insurance enter an ALPR-equipped intersection. National look-up triggers cold feet Billed as a way to “solve” cross-jurisdictional crimes, Flock’s national look-up feature has garnered support from law enforcement but also raised local government concerns over privacy and data sharing overreach. According to Flock, it’s a simple system configuration that can be toggled on or off that permits law enforcement agencies to either access or restrict national vehicle “reads” with other users who have opted in to the same system. Shortly before the Denver City Council rejected a two-year contract extension with Flock, the DPD quietly opted out of the national lookup feature tied to more than 100 solar-powered license plate-reading cameras across the city. A spokesperson from the department’s media relations team confirmed that DPD disabled the feature on April 8, 2025, and has been limiting outgoing and incoming searches to “statewide look-up.” Prior to the City Council vote, the contract with Flock was met with weeks of public outcry over concerns surrounding information sharing and possible use of data from the ALPRs for mass surveillance and to target illegal immigrants. “While this tool is helpful for the Denver police to investigate kidnappings, stolen cars and other crimes, it is not worth the huge risk for immigrants – and the rest of us – living in Denver,” said Roxanne Rhodes, a retired Denver Public Schools teacher concerned with the federal government data mining through illegal hacking and forcing government entities and private companies like Flock to open their databases to ICE, regardless of any contract protections. “The Denver Police Department has been working closely with Flock and the community to immediately implement safeguards that protect privacy, particularly in today’s political environment,” said Jordan Fuja, spokesperson for Denver Mayor Mike Johnston. “Denver has shut off access to federal law enforcement, and now only allows law enforcement agencies in Colorado to access our data. All Colorado agencies are forbidden under state law to do the work of civil immigration enforcement, and we have no knowledge of Denver’s Flock data ever being used for civil immigration enforcement.” After backlash from residents, Johnston asked council members to reject the contract until the city can adequately address concerns. Calling the city’s network of cameras “mass surveillance,” At-large Councilmember Sarah Parady has been among the most vocal in pushing back against the continued use of Flock cameras. “We know that many, many people seeking reproductive health care come from Texas to Denver and Boulder,” Parody said during the May 5 council meeting where the contract renewal failed. “A law enforcement agency in Texas, the week after Roe v Wade fell, which kicked a bunch of abortion restrictions into law in Texas, including criminalization of women who seek abortions and a bounty law for those who can provide information about them – that jurisdiction requested full access to Boulder’s license plate readers, and we know exactly why they did that.” Jose Mejia, a traffic management center engineer, works in the Douglas County traffic management center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com Jose Mejia, a traffic management center engineer, works in the Douglas County traffic management center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com The Denver Gazette contacted the Boulder Police Department with questions about their ALPR cameras, but a response has yet to be received. “We’re living in a very unusual time where we have federal agencies and a U.S. president who is actively breaking all norms about their attempt to invade or gather data based on their political beliefs, or their gender identity or immigration status,” Johnston told Denver Gazette news partner 9News . “I understand that concern.” However, Johnston added that the city has “every intention of making sure these cameras stay up, the public safety is in place, and we can track down violent criminals.” Denver’s neighbor to the west, Jefferson County, is home to more than 576,000 residents and several of the region’s major thoroughfares, such as Wadsworth Boulevard, Interstate 25 and C-470. The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office just wrapped up its first year using the Flock ALPR camera system. As of June 3, 2025, Jefferson County also opted out of Flock’s national look-up tool. “We were initially opted in for all of the access tools available when we first began using Flock,” said Karlyn Tilly, department spokesperson. “Recently, we’ve seen reports about concerns that Flock access might be used for searches beyond the purposes for which it is intended. We use Flock solely for criminal investigations and locating people at risk – missing people, kidnapping, human trafficking, etc.” Tilly added that stateside access would remain in place. Any jurisdiction outside of Colorado may request access, but that is granted on a case-by-case basis. “We review who has accessed our cameras on a regular basis,” she said. “If an agency outside Colorado that has been granted access has not been active after 90 days, we turn off access.” In Arapahoe County, commissioners recently approved a $127,000 contract extension with Flock, adding 17 new cameras starting next year. The decision passed with a lone “no” vote from District 2 Commissioner Jessica Campbell, who expressed concerns about the use of cameras, like Flock, to track people. “I philosophically have very huge issues with the privacy and use of these cameras,” she said Tuesday. “It feels very much like an encroachment on our privacy … I do not like the tracking of our people like that.” Parady warned that risks of “political persecution” are also on the table, referring to recent orders from the Trump administration’s Department of Justice embolding agents to seek out and hold accountable those who “obstruct enforcement of immigration policies.” The DPD shares access to its Flock cameras with nearly 80 external organizations, primarily law enforcement agencies, as well as the National Crime Information Center and the U.S. Postal Service, according to its Flock Transparency dashboard. Vehicles drive through different intersections in Douglas County feeding live footage into the county's traffic command center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com Vehicles drive through different intersections in Douglas County feeding live footage into the county’s traffic command center on Tuesday, June 17, 2025. Tom Hellauer tom.hellauer@denvergazette.com While Denver’s original contract with Flock ended in May, the city continues to utilize the cameras and plans to until funding is exhausted near the end of the year. “The existing pilot contract had an unspent amount of funding at the end of the 12-month pilot,” Fuja said. “These unspent funds have allowed us to continue using these cameras through the end of the year just as they had been used previously.” The City Council may revisit the contract extension should it return for reconsideration. “Force multiplier” for law enforcement Staffing shortages among law enforcement agencies are a top concern for many municipalities, and recruitment and retention numbers are also suffering, according to a 2023 study by the Police Executive Research Forum , an independent police policy research organization. Many agencies are starting to look to technology to help fill critical gaps and clear cases, often referring to the system as a “force multiplier,” a military term that refers to a resource that enhances a unit’s combat power beyond what its raw troop numbers and capacities may suggest. “The reality is, it’s really hard to hire good police officers these days. In a perfect world, Denver PD would be able to be at 100% staffing, 100% of the time,” Josh Thomas, Flock Safety’s chief of communications, told The Denver Gazette. “There’s a lot of primary research that shows, if we can invest in policing, crime rates go down, and it increases our economic output as a city.” Denver police credit a notable reduction in auto theft to the city’s network of license plate reading cameras. “Since just last year, the cameras have helped provide evidence for nine homicide investigations and 19 violent gun crime investigations, led to 275 arrests, and helped recover more than 180 stolen vehicles and at least 29 firearms,” Fuja said. While not all of the solved cases can be directly attributed to the cameras, officials note they contribute along with other department programs. Last summer, burglars dressed as construction workers broke into a high-end Hyde Park jewelry store inside the Cherry Creek Mall and stole more than $12 million in jewelry, according to court documents. Even though the truck did not have a license plate, detectives were able to use the Flock system to track the vehicle to the location where the suspects had purchased the tools to aid their entry into the store. Two days after Denver voted to reject its contract renewal with Flock, Douglas County Sheriff Darren Weekly took to social media with a video of deputies in pursuit of a stolen vehicle flagged by the department’s Flock camera system. The chase ended when the suspects crashed into a building on the south side of Centennial Airport, where they were immediately taken into custody. “Tools like Flock are force multipliers that allow us to fight crime proactively and effectively,” Weekly said in a written statement shortly after the May 7 incident. Law enforcement liability While designed to aid law enforcement and enhance public safety, Flock acknowledges its system is not without flaws. In 2020, Aurora police officers held a Black woman and her four children at gunpoint and wrongfully detained them after believing the vehicle she was driving had been stolen. Officers had acted on incorrect information relayed to them from a Flock license plate reader, which was not the family’s SUV but rather a stolen motorcycle from Montana. The woman and her children were handcuffed and forced to lie on the ground, The New York Times reported. A video of the incident was widely shared and evoked the ire of a community still reeling from the 2019 death of Elijah McClain, who died in police custody. The woman, Brittney Gilliam, sued the city and, in February of last year, was awarded a $1.9 million settlement, court documents show. Three years ago, a lieutenant with the Kechi Police Department in Kansas was arrested for using the Wichita Police Department’s Flock camera system to stalk his former wife . Victor Heiar, 32, was arrested and pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of computer crime and stalking. He was sentenced to 24 months in jail, according to a statement from Kansas District Attorney Marc Bennett. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and other privacy advocates argue that while license plate readers have been used by law enforcement for quite some time, the rapid proliferation of Flock’s products is creating a mass surveillance system. And, it’s more than just law enforcement using Flock cameras. Local businesses , hospitals, retail shopping malls, private citizens, and homeowners’ associations are also using them to prevent loss and help solve crimes. With every camera purchased, Flock’s nationwide network is expanded, according to the ACLU. The ACLU has stated that it “does not find every use of ALPRs objectionable,” provided they are used fairly and not “disproportionately” in low-income areas or communities of color. “But there’s no reason the technology should be used to create comprehensive records of everybody’s comings and goings — and that is precisely what ALPR databases like Flock’s are doing,” the ACLU said in a February 2023 commentary . In June, the company announced the launch of the Flock Business Network, billed as a “secure, collaborative hub designed to help private sector organizations work together to solve and prevent crime.” While Flock’s national look-up feature has raised questions about outside access to local data, the Thornton Police Department, which opted in when it first started using Flock cameras, also sees it as a valuable tool for the recovery of stolen vehicles and locating missing persons. “Access to data from other jurisdictions makes a big difference when cases cross city or state lines, and it allows us to support public safety efforts beyond our own community,” a Thornton Police Department spokesperson told The Denver Gazette. However, the company and law enforcement agencies using the cameras point to internal guardrails specifically designed to limit who has access and for what reasons. Among those protections are the absence of facial recognition features in the APLR cameras, and that data is only retained for 30 days before being automatically purged from the Flock system unless it is flagged as part of an investigation. But privacy advocates argue that Flock’s growing network presents “a single point of failure that can compromise — and has compromised — the privacy of millions of Americans simultaneously,” wrote Electronic Frontier Foundation reporters Sara Hamid and Rindala Alajai . Flock’s data-sharing network lacks control for how law enforcement policies vary by jurisdiction, making them “vulnerable to both technical exploitation and human manipulation.” Thomas said Flock is not to blame for how customers choose to use of their products. “They are in charge — along with their city council — of enforcing their own policies. It’s not Flock’s job, nor any other technology vendor’s job, or any private company’s job, in my opinion, to be policing the police,” he said. “This is why we have a set of democratically elected governing bodies … to be our our oversight, have laws on the books that protect the utility of these tools and to enforce that they’re being used in respect for the law.” Parady told members of the Denver City Council prior to the contract vote that “unless we think governments and large tech companies are 100% trustworthy all the time, mass surveillance is very concerning.” Looming challenges In the days ahead, the Johnston administration will have to grapple with what to do with the city’s Flock cameras. Facing a $250 million city budget deficit, as well as forthcoming citywide layoffs, Flock’s $666,000 price tag will most likely be a topic of contention — as will growing concerns around city policy for surveillance and data sharing — if the contract extension comes before the council again before the end of the year. Along with funding, privacy and data-sharing policies will certainly be on the table, too. While some city policies do exist, critics assert a lack of transparency. “Denver has taken critical steps to address concerns of privacy and federal overreach of our law enforcement practices over the last few months,” said Fuja, the Johnston spokesperson. “We will continue to work closely with Flock, City Council, and the community to ensure concerns continue to be addressed and make sure President Trump’s Administration cannot use our data in a manner that is inconsistent with our local values and laws.” Fuja added that the cameras have been a “game-changer,” and have solved numerous crimes that would have otherwise been difficult to bring to justice. Flock does not determine who the customer shares data with. That decision lies with the customer’s system administrator, Thomas said, adding that they are contractually prohibited from doing so. “DPD has a system administrator, and that person decides who in the Denver Police Department can have access, and who the Denver Police Department can share their cameras with,” he said. “Flock has no determination or even a say in any of that.” While system data is automatically purged every 30 days, network audits live forever. Audits are important, Thomas said, because they provide a keystroke-by-keystroke record of users and their searches. “The actual data, the footage, it’s all permanently gone,” he said. “But to know who at Denver PD, searched what things — those searches will always be available. It’s like looking at your search history in Google. It’s permanently there for review, for FOIA and for accountability purposes.” Privacy advocates argue that even though Flock customers own their data, loopholes exist. “The city attorney’s office will also point you to our contract with Flock that says that we ‘own the data,’ but it also says that if Flock gets a lawful order to release the data, they will do that, and then they can tell us. So, they could get a Trump subpoena, or they could get an executive order, and we wouldn’t even know, right?” said state Sen. Julie Gonzales, D-Denver. Kristen Seidel of the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Policing and Public Safety has led a petition effort to urge Johnston to turn off all of the city’s Flock cameras until better guardrails around their use and the data they collect — and share — can be firmly enshrined in policy. Seidel said that the group delivered the petition to Johnston’s office on Thursday. The petition, which started through an online platform, had 1,336 signatures at last count. Among the group’s asks are bi-monthly full audits of DPD’s Flock system users, the establishment of a public task force to help create “comprehensive legislation governing the use of surveillance technology in Denver, and that details of stored and shared data should be publicly disclosed to the public before contracts are signed.” Johnston’s office argued that shutting off the cameras would have “a devastating impact” on the city’s ability to quickly stop crimes and bring criminals to justice. And so, for now, the cameras will remain in place. “If you get hit by a car, you probably know it,” Parady said. “If your data gets stolen or copied or sold, you probably don’t know it. And so these kinds of laws are really, really challenging to enforce.” Denver Gazette reporters Kyla Pearce, Sage Kelley and Noah Festenstein contributed to this report. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Denver rejects contract on license plate reader cameras over lack of privacy concerns A resolution that would have added two years and $666,000 to an existing contract between the Denver Police Department and Flock Group, Inc. f… Denver City Council may extend license plate reader contract Arapahoe County sees car theft decline, attributes it to special enforcement team Denver license plate readers have led to early public safety improvements, police say Distracted driving led to death of boy riding scooter in Aurora, police say Teen driver ran red light in Aurora crash that killed 2, police say Tags Civil Rights Data Leaks Denver Police Department Flock Cameras Privacy And Security Deborah Smith Reporter Around the Web Denver Gazette is proudly powered by WordPress Welcome to the Denver Gazette Subscribe to stay up to date with all things Colorado. Subscribe .99cents Welcome Back. My Account Newsletters Contact Us Streak: 9 days i Stories you've missed since your last login: A story about dogs A story about cats A story about soccer Stories you've saved for later: A story about surfing A story about kites Recommended stories based on your interests: Edit my interests A story about surfing A story about kites Sections News Sports Opinion Lifestyle Arts & Entertainment Obits Services Manage Cookies Advertising forms Calendar Weather Transparency in Coverage Statement of Principles About Us Contact Us Subscriber-Only Content Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram DenverGazette.com Gazette.com ColoradoPolitics.com OutThereColorado.com © Copyright 2025 The Denver Gazette , 555 17th Street, Suite 425 Denver, CO | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your Privacy Choices We and certain third parties may use cookies or similar technologies to process data when you visit our sites. This data may relate to your use of our sites, your preferences, your device, or other information about you. We and third parties may use this information for a variety of purposes, such as enabling the sites to function, to personalize your experience when using our sites, to provide you with advertisements based on your interests, and for analytical purposes. Privacy Policy Manage Cookies Reject All Accept All Privacy Preference Center You may use the category buttons below to enable or disable cookies or similar technologies used for each purpose. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings. Disabling some types of cookies or similar technologies may impact your experience when using our sites. You may disable all cookies/similar technologies (except those that are strictly necessary) by changing your settings below. The cookie preference tool is device and browser specific. If you delete or clear cookies or change devices or browsers, you may need to reset your cookie preferences. You may also enable the Global Privacy Control to opt out of targeted advertising. More information Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Social Media Cookies Social Media Cookies These cookies are set by social media services that we have added to the site to allow you to share content through social media sites. These social media providers may collect information about your use of our sites, or other sites on the web, and may develop a profile about your interests and behaviors based on such usage. This may affect your experience and the content you see on those social networks. If you disable these technologies, sharing functionality may be disabled. Essential Cookies Always Active These technologies are necessary for us to deliver our services to you. For example, these technologies allow us to load content on the page, perform security functions, or store mandatory preferences (e.g. opt-out of sale preferences). These technologies cannot be disabled, and if you configure your browser to block these features, our services or certain features may not function. Targeted Advertising Cookies Targeted Advertising Cookies These cookies enable us and our advertising partners to serve you with relevant targeted advertisements based on your interests and profiles held by us or our advertising partners and ad networks. You might see these advertisements on our sites or on other sites you visit. These technologies may collect information about you on our site, as well as third-party sites, and these technologies may be used to associate the information collected across sites and contexts. If you disable these technologies, you will still see ads, but they may be less relevant. Analytics Cookies Analytics Cookies These technologies are used to analyze the use and performance of our services so that we can measure and improve those services. For example, we may create analytics designed to understand how many people visit our websites, how they reach us, how they navigate the services, how the service performs, and what content is popular. This allows us to improve your experience on our services, and if you disable these services, our sites may not perform optimally. Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These technologies are used to provide specific features or functions of our site or to personalize your experience. For example, these technologies are used to maintain log-in sessions for registered users or to store your preferences (e.g. regarding the use of cookies). If you disable these technologies, the features may not function properly, and you may be required to reconfigure your preferences. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Reject All Confirm My Choices