source: packet.pdf
sha256: 575dfbad08d30100ac426280779974bdaa343a14a9e99d3bf0185b06634c0227
pages: 13
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
March 24, 2020
7:00 PM
Location: Remote
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY -
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE
NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY
IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of February 25, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
THIS ITEM IS CONTINUED UNTIL APRIL 14, 2020: Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review,
1700-1798 S. Delaware St. (PA-2020-009)
Staff recommends to continue this item without discussion until the Planning Commission hearing of Tuesday,
April 14, 2020.

--- page 2 ---
3.
Code Amendment – Reduced Development Standards for Qualifying AB 1763 Projects
Provide a recommendation to the City Council to introduce an ordinance amending the Municipal Code to modify
specified development standards for exempt 100% Affordable housing projects located near public transit and
subject to AB 1763.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the
posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7212, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Comments submitted in the following ways will be made part of the official record.
Submit prior to the meeting: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
Submit during the meeting: Comments can be submitted online beginning 1 hour before each meeting through Speak Up San
Mateo: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4245. Find the agenda item(s) you’d like to comment on and complete the form. The
platform will remain open for comments until the Chair closes the Public Comment Period for that specific item.
Staff will read into the record all comments received.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 . Notification 48
hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure
accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  1 
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 20-2798 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Rodrigo Orduña 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
March 24, 2020  
SUBJECT: 
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of February 25, 2020. 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 - Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of February 25, 2020  
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Mary Way 
Administrative Assistant  
mway@cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7213

--- page 4 ---
Page 1 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Planning Commission 
February 25, 2020 
7:00 PM 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Mike Etheridge, Chair 
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Ramiro Maldonado 
Margaret Williams 
MINUTES
CALL TO ORDER 
Pledge Allegiance 
Roll Call 
Present     4 –  Commissioner John Ebneter, Commissioner Ramiro Maldonado, Commissioner Margaret Williams 
   Vice Chair Ellen Mallory  
Excused      1 –  Chair Mike Etheridge 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the Minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of February 11, 2020.
Commissioner Williams motioned to approve, the motion was seconded by Commissioner Maldonado and
approved on a voice vote (4-0).
PUBLIC COMMENT 
The Chair opened the public comment period. There being no speakers, the public comment period was closed. 
STUDY SESSION 
2.
Transportation Analysis Policy Development – Introduction
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, and Damian Stefanakis, Principal Planner from Kittelson
and Associates, presented the project with a PowerPoint presentation.
Public Speakers:  Adam Nugent, San Mateo; Peter Mande, San Mateo
Public Comments: Comments about use of Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) for transportation analysis and the
impact of using Level of Service on the quality of the pedestrian and bicycling environment. Support for
maintaining both VMT and LOS, concern regarding quality of data input for traffic demand models.
Commission had questions about assessment of non-CEQA items, analysis for retail projects using VMT, the
screening criteria within one-half mile of transit, interpretation of the VMT maps, assessment of development
projects with respect to LOS impacts, VMT thresholds, mobile source data for traffic modeling, data collection
and inputs for traffic modeling, and screening criteria for affordable housing projects utilizing VMT.
Att 1 - Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of February 25, 2020

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission 
                                       Regular Meeting Minutes                  
                                            August 27, 2019 
 
Page 2 
 
Commission Comments:   
Appreciated introduction to topic and the upcoming policy development. Support for assessing regional VMT 
based on San Mateo County geographic area rather than the larger Bay Area region. Noted importance of 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions while not discouraging development and finding the balance between the 
two. Support in maintaining LOS in some capacity while assessing VMT impacts for CEQA.  
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Julia Klein, Principal Planner summarized future projects and upcoming meetings.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:54 p.m.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-2683
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 24, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Recommendation Regarding Introduction of Ordinance Amending Municipal Code 
to Modify Specified Development Standards for 100% Affordable Housing Projects 
Near Public Transit and Covered by Assembly Bill 1763
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide a recommendation to the City Council to introduce an ordinance amending the Municipal Code to modify specified 
development standards for exempt 100% Affordable housing projects located near public transit and subject to AB 1763.
BACKGROUND:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65915, the City has codified an existing density bonus ordinance at 
Municipal Code Chapter 27.15. This ordinance allows for density bonus projects consistent with state density bonus law. 
However, the state Legislature recently enacted Assembly Bill 1763, which amends the state density bonus. The purpose of 
this Code Amendment is to update the City’s density bonus ordinance to be consistent with state law and to allow for 
increased flexibility of development standards for housing projects that are covered by AB 1763.   
Assembly Bill 1763 provides that housing developments that are 100% affordable to lower income households and within 
a half-mile of a major transit stop, are entitled to: unlimited density, a height increase of three additional stories or 33 
feet, and up to four incentives or concessions as defined by Government Code Section 65915.  The statute defines a 
“major transit stop” as an existing rail or bus rapid transit station; a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit 
service; or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service interval of 15 minutes or less 
during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods. 
By entitling 100% affordable projects to additional building height, the state law preempts local Measure P, which 
amended the City’s General Plan to provide for a height limit of 55 feet. 
Additionally, although Assembly Bill 1763 provides for unlimited density and additional height, it did not address other 
land use restrictions impacted by increased density and building height. In order to comply with Assembly Bill 1763, staff 
proposes to address land use restrictions impacted by increased density and height for housing developments that are 
100% affordable to lower income households as defined by state law. This proposed Municipal Code Amendment will 
modify the following development standards for AB 1763 covered projects (those that are 100% affordable and within a 
half-mile mile of a major transit stop) in order to achieve the unlimited density allowed by state law: 
(1) Street wall plane. The City’s street wall plane requirement establishes maximum building height along 
the street frontage. The requirement states that the maximum building height for the street wall is 
equal to the horizontal distance between the midpoint of the public right-of-way and the parcel 
boundary, or 36 feet, whichever is greater. To allow for the increased height and unlimited density,

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
this amendment will remove the street wall plane requirement.
(2) Private open space. The City’s private open space requirement is 80 square feet per unit. In order to 
allow for unlimited density, make AB 1763 projects financially feasible, and maintain a threshold for 
usable private open space, this amendment will allow for a 50% reduction in private open space.
(3) Compact parking spaces. The City allows for new projects to provide up to 40% of required parking 
spaces a compact parking. To allow for more efficient parking layout and thereby increasing flexibility 
for unlimited density, this amendment will allow for up to 65% of parking to be designed as compact 
spaces. 
(4) Building line and setback. The City’s building line and setback requirement establishes building 
setbacks based on the location of adjacent buildings. The requirement states that new construction 
may have a setback of up to 10 feet for street and side yards, except that new construction must build 
up to the property line when a structure on an abutting property, on the same side of the street, is 
also built to the property line.  To increase flexibility of design and maximize use of the building 
frontage, this amendment will remove this “build-to requirement”.
This Municipal Code amendment will only be applicable to housing developments that are 100% affordable to lower 
income households, located within a half=mile of a major transit stop, and utilize the provisions of AB 1763. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no budget implications associated with this Municipal Code Amendment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this Ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA 
because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that it will have a significant effect on the environment 
because these changes apply only to AB 1763 projects, which will be limited in number due to the requirements for 100% 
affordability and location within a half-mile of a major transit stop.  In addition, there will be no significant impact on the 
environment for the following reasons: 
1.
Increasing the percentage of compact parking spaces allowed for AB 1763 projects will reduce the overall 
development footprint needed for parking stalls and will not change the total parking required. 
2.
A reduction in private open space area does not eliminate the requirement to provide open space. All new 
developments will still provide open space at a minimum of 40 square feet per unit and covered projects will have 
common public spaces such as conference rooms, meeting rooms and other types of shared spaces as part of the 
building program. 
3.
Eliminating the building line and setback requirement would allow for new 100% affordable projects to have a 
building setback along the street instead of building up to the property line, thereby decreasing the building mass 
along the street and allowing for these affordable projects to provide open space, landscaping or plaza space along 
the street. 
4.
Eliminating the street wall plane will allow for building height along the street wall to be consistent with the rest of 
the building that is beyond the street wall plane. This amendment does not increase the overall building height but 
allows for a limited height increase on the portion of the building that faces the street. 
5.
All AB 1763 housing development projects subject to this ordinance will undergo independent CEQA analysis as 
part of the planning application process.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – DRAFT Code Amendment 
STAFF CONTACT
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207

--- page 9 ---
Page 1 of 2
Q:\CityAtty\
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-___
AMENDING THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING SECTION 27.15.090, 
“ASSEMBLY BILL 1763 AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECTS,” TO CHAPTER 27.15, 
“DENSITY BONUS” 
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65915 provides for a density bonus for housing 
developments that include affordable units; and
WHEREAS, in conformance with state law, the City has codified an existing density bonus 
ordinance at Municipal Code Chapter 27.15; and 
WHEREAS, the state Legislature has enacted Assembly Bill 1763, which amends Government 
Code Section 65915; and
WHEREAS, Assembly Bill 1763 provides that housing developments that are 100% affordable 
to lower income households and within ½ mile of a major transit stop, are entitled to: unlimited density, 
a height increase of three additional stories or 33 feet, and up to four incentives or concessions as 
defined by Government Code Section 65915; and
WHEREAS, Measure P amended the City’s General Plan to provide for a height limit of 55 feet; 
and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65915 preempts the City’s General Plan height limit; 
and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65915, as amended by Assembly Bill 1763, provides for 
unlimited density and additional height, but did not address other land use restrictions impacted by 
increased density and building height; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with Assembly Bill 1763, the City wishes to address the land use 
restrictions impacted by increased density and height for housing developments that are 100% 
affordable to lower income households as defined by state law;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY ORDAINS that:
Section 1.
Chapter 27.15 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, “Density Bonus,” is amended to 
add a new Section 27.15.080, “Housing Projects 100% Affordable to Lower Income Households,” to 
read:

--- page 10 ---
Page 2 of 2
Q:\CityAtty\
“27.15.080     HOUSING PROJECTS 100% AFFORDABLE TO LOWER INCOME 
HOUSEHOLDS.   
(a)
Applicability.  This Section applies to housing developments that are 100% affordable to 
lower income households as defined by state law and are located within ½ mile of public 
transit (“Covered Projects”).
(b)
Reduced Requirements for Covered Projects:
(1) The City’s street wall plane requirement is inapplicable.
(2) The City’s private open space requirement is reduced by 50%.
(3) Compact parking spaces may be provided for up to 65% of the total parking spaces.
(4) Building line and setback requirements do not apply.”
  
Section 2.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION.  In accordance with CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is exempt from CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that it will have a significant effect on the environment in 
that allowing Covered Projects to design future developments with modified street wall plane, private 
open space, compact parking, and building line and setback requirements does not permit or authorize 
new development; rather, the Ordinance allows for design flexibility needed to insure Covered Projects 
can achieve the unlimited density allowed by state law. Projects subject to this ordinance will undergo 
independent CEQA analysis. 
Section 3.
SEVERABILITY.    In the event any section, clause or provision of this 
Ordinance shall be determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be 
deemed severable and all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.  It is the 
intent of the City Council that it would have adopted all other portions of this Ordinance irrespective of 
any such portion declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 4.
PUBLICATION.  This Ordinance shall be published in summary in the Daily 
Journal, posted in the City Clerk’s Office, and posted on the City’s website, all in accord with Section 
2.15 of the City Charter.

--- page 11 ---
Item #3 
Central Neighborhood Association 
712 East 4th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
March 24, 2020 
Dear Members of the Planning Commission, 
These are our concerns with amending the Municipal Code to modify specified development 
standards for exempt 100% affordable housing projects located near public transit and subject to AB 
1763. 
Please take these points into consideration before amending the zoning code for AB 1763 for this 
project.  
1.
Unlimited Density with AB 1763:
This bill entitles a 100% affordable project unlimited density,
Mid-Pen is proposing 225 units on 1.16 A (4th Avenue Parcel) which is extremely high density on a 
very small footprint.  This is almost 200 units per acre compared to 68 units per acre with a 5 story 
project with normal density bonus. 
There can be 6 people living legally in a small 3 bedroom apartment (2 people per bedroom) within 
1,144 sf.  These bedrooms in Mid Pen and AB 1763 are too small for these many adults.   If you 
count the number of people and the number of bedrooms, there will be close to 800 (792) people 
living in 225 units.  This does not count a baby living with a couple in a 624 sf 1 bedroom 
apartment.  AB 1763 does not set a good precedent for a healthy living environment.  This project is 
being rushed with no attention to the adverse impacts of over-crowding which brings more safety 
issues in a project. 
2.
Reduced on-site private open space:
With AB 1763, the City’s private open space requirement can be reduced by 50% while the density
is quadrupled.   Projects of this size need more on-site open space if this project is targeting families
with children.
3.
More Parking Impacts:
How does AB 1763 analyze the number of parking spaces in this development?  Is it by the number
of bedrooms or by the number of units?   Both options were mentioned in AB 1763 according to
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner.   Many couples and families own 2 cars.  We have a family with
teenagers in the Central Neighborhood that owns 5 cars and they all park on the street.  This project
has added 2 extra stories without additional parking.  The report states that 459 parking spaces are
needed in this project.   How was this calculation made?  164 parking spaces is not adequate for
225 units and this kind of density.  This residential parking will overflow to our residential streets.
Att - 2 Post-packet comments

--- page 12 ---
The original 5 story project would be a better fit.  
 
4. 
Design Issues and Aesthetics: 
 
We have not seen a drawing of these 2 structures side by side on one page.  This massive project is 
difficult to visualize since we have not seen the elevations next to one story homes and 
buildings.  The 2 photos (housing & garage) we were shown in isolation of the surroundings.   One 
picture of the housing shows the building at a different angle to project a reduced size.  This project 
lacks detailed comparisons between a 5 story and a 7 story project.  There is an effort to push this 
project through with less attention to the details. 
 
The Mid-Pen Housing and Garage does not blend well into the surrounding residential neighborhood 
and historic Downtown.  This project resembles East German industrial architecture. The residential 
building needs more brick material similar to Windy Hill to soften the look and integrate better into 
the surroundings.  We would prefer a green wall design vs. the aluminum elements on the 
garage.  The extreme high density promoted by AB 1763, overrides the protection and preservation 
design guidelines in the Multi-Family Design Guidelines.  AB 1763 does not serve as a good 
precedent for future projects in the Downtown and the architects are not listening to the residents 
from other neighborhoods.  
  
The pedestrian bridge is not attractive and unnecessary.  It is not practical for the elderly, the 
handicapped and the mothers with children who have to go from the garage to an elevator to the 
pedestrian bridge to another elevator to the floor of the living unit.  Then take the elevator back to the 
pedestrian bridge and an elevator to the level where the car is parked.  This project needs to be less 
dense with larger units with more residential parking.  Many couples and families have 2 
cars.  Please review the survey that Mid-Pen Housing gave to the prospective tenants. 
 
 
5. 
The confusing development of a 5 story project turning into a 7 story project has not been a 
transparent process for our neighborhood.  
 
This project originally started as a 5 story project and in mid-stream changed to a 7 story project. 
The original goal was to address the “missing middle” and now the project has shifted to 80 Section 
8 units to reduce the $8 million deficit with tax credits to a $3 million deficit.  AB 1763 is being used 
to over-ride 4 building standards to build more affordable units, over-riding street wall plane, less 
private open space, less compact parking spaces, and more building line and set-back flexibility.  
 
Is this legal to go back and retrofit a project once the project has started?  This idea of amending the 
zoning code after the fact to add two more stories with 61 units and no additional parking places the 
burden on one neighborhood.  This process has been very confusing and has 
lacked  transparency.   
 
It may be easier to secure financing with a smaller project since the economy is heading towards an 
economic downturn with the unexpected Coronavirus pandemic.  It is better to have a back-up plan 
with the original smaller less expensive project.  
 
 
 
We need an EIR with all the studies for 5 stories and 7 stories to reduce the negative impacts that 
AB 1763 brings.  We do not support amending the zoning code to retrofit Mid-Pen Housing and 
Garage into an expanded project during these uncertain economic times.

--- page 13 ---
Best, 
 
Michael Weinhauer 
Maurine Killough 
Ben Portusach 
Laurie Watanuki 
Central Neighborhood Association Board 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item #3 
 
 
To All Planning Commissioners; 
  
1)    We have questions and concerns as local owner occupied property owner within 4 Blocks of this proposed Tax 
Payer    
        supported project. 
  
a)  Parking in our neighborhood is already impacted and therefore we want you to address our concerns; 
  
b) Provide a minimum of 1 parking stall for each unit. 
  
c)  Keep New Garage open 24/7 with video security, etc. 
  
d)  Do not issue any street RPPP (Parking Permits) for the new Tenants that would end up impacting our streets 
even more. 
  
Other than this, We are in favor of more affordable housing and the addition of overall Building Height. 
  
Stay Healthy and Safe. 
  
Daniel C Gilbrech 
 
San Mateo, CA 94401-4294