--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: {{section.name}}
Account Number: 10-5131
File ID: {{item.tracking_number}}
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
August 21, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Flock Safety Platform – Purchase Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an alternative purchasing procedure; approve an agreement with Flock Group 
Inc., to purchase Flock Safety Platform products and services for automated license plate reader technology for a five-year 
term in the cumulative amount of $501,350; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented. 
BACKGROUND: 
The San Mateo Police Department continually seeks to enhance crime detection and solving capabilities by leveraging 
advancements in technology. Automated license plate reader (LPR) technology has been used by the Police Department to 
solve crime and provide evidence to prosecutors since 2011. The use of LPR technology has become an industry standard 
and a best practice for criminal investigations. 
LPR technology is rapidly advancing and has become less expensive, making it more readily accessible to cities, 
homeowner and neighborhood associations, shopping centers, and business districts. Through the San Mateo County 
Police Chiefs and Sheriffs Association, staff became aware of LPR technology provided by Flock Safety. Flock leases a 
turnkey system, which includes the physical equipment and software at a cost of approximately $2,500 per unit, per year. 
The proposed contract is for a five-year term, for the provision of forty LPRs, to be deployed in areas vulnerable to 
property crimes and gang-related activity throughout the City. A key strength of the technology is that investigators can 
access near real-time information to quickly deploy officers in the field to locate and apprehend criminals. Having more 
locations with LPR technology enhances this capability. Additionally, it is anticipated the presence of this technology may 
deter those seeking to participate in criminal activity.  
Raw LPR data is not stored or retained by SMPD. Staff utilizes the strictest industry standards with respect to how data is 
accessed and by whom. We have a records sharing agreement with the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center 
(NCRIC), along with all of the other allied County law enforcement agencies, to ensure adherence to these strict standards. 
Although Flock Systems is a private company, they do not have access to identifying information for the LPR image data 
they are collecting through their devices. This raw LPR data is retained on their servers for up to 30 days. The raw LPR data 
is uploaded directly to the NCRIC within 30 days, where it is stored and managed based on stringent federally-constructed 
policies. Access to the NCRIC data is strictly regulated and is for law enforcement personnel only. The LPR data stored on 
NCRIC servers is automatically deleted after one year per Federal guidelines, unless it is part of an ongoing investigation. 
Once the LPR data is deleted, it cannot be retrieved.  SMPD is in compliance with the law, and maintains a webpage 
explaining our commitment to privacy and strict procedures in the use of LPRs, and have made policies and usage statistics 
available to the public on the website.  


--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff wishes to enter into a multi-year contract to secure services for a five-year term at the current prices which are 
expected to go up next year.  The cost for the first year is $101,350, with subsequent years costing $100,000 annually.
Staff requests approval of the purchase pursuant to SMMC 3.60.070(h)(3), which allows the Council to use any purchasing 
process that is in the best interest of the City. Flock has emerged as a leader in this industry due to product affordability 
and ease of use.  The Flock technology is used by a majority of neighboring cities including:  Atherton, Brisbane, 
Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Redwood City, San Bruno, South San 
Francisco, in addition to several neighboring counties.  The Flock product meets the Police Department’s interest in that it 
will not require changes in how we train, operate, or manage data.  Staff has been pleased with Flock Group Inc.'s 
responsiveness and customer service.  For these reasons, staff believes it to be in the best interest of the City to proceed 
with this agreement.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the first year of this agreement is included in the Police Department’s FY2023-24 operating budget.  Future 
costs will be incorporated into the 2024-26 Business Plan.   
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matthew Earnshaw, Lieutenant
mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7627
