source: packet.pdf
sha256: b62b419e4c31b25318ddbbf2f8a7f295d29ffa459c6a49baa439b805cfdf5ef6
pages: 16
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting
May 7, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Sabrina Ocampo
Regina Trapp
Thomas Jelniker – Youth Commissioner
 Vacant – Youth Commissioner
 
 
AGENDA
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval 
Approve the minutes of the regular meeting of April 2, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at
this time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Poplar Creek Golf Course VIP Membership Program – Presentation and Feedback
Receive a presentation on the current VIP Membership Program at Poplar Creek Golf Course and provide
feedback on the proposed pilot program changes for resident reservations.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
1 of 16

--- page 2 ---
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522‐7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 16

--- page 3 ---
Wednesday, April 2, 2025 
Regular Meeting 7:00 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Vice Chair Wicher called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Commissioners Present: Vice Chair Wicher, Ocampo, and Trapp 
Commissioners Absent: Chair Fields and Kiapi 
Youth Commissioners: Jelniker - absent. 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one 
motion without discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
1. Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of March 5, 2025.  
3/0 Motion passed. 
Moved: Trapp Seconded: Ocampo 
Ayes: Wicher, Trapp, and Ocampo. 
Noes: 
Abstained: 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
• 
None received. 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs and Events Preview - Informational
3 of 16

--- page 4 ---
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager, presented the upcoming 2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs, 
and Events. Commissioners asked questions and provided comments and feedback including considering ride 
share partnerships.  
 
Public comment: There was no public comment for this item. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Joanne Magrini, Director, provided an update on the following items: 
o The Central Park Groundbreaking save-the-date has been sent out. There will a ceremony on 
April 24th at 4:30pm followed by activities and games for children. 
o Police Activities League (PAL) Annual Lights & Sirens Awards and Recognition Dinner on 
Friday, April 11th. 
o 48th Annual Eggstravaganza on Saturday, April 19th at Central Park. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 7:25 PM 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
4 of 16

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9923
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
May 07, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Poplar Creek Golf Course VIP Membership Program – Presentation and Feedback
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the current VIP Membership Program at Poplar Creek Golf Course and provide feedback on the 
proposed pilot program changes for resident reservations. 
BACKGROUND:
In October 2020, foreUP software was selected to provide tee sheet and point-of-sale (POS) services for Poplar Creek Golf 
Course. In July 2021, a VIP membership program was launched allowing members to sign-up online with a credit card and 
get billed $29.99 monthly in exchange for a variety of benefits including discounted tee times, advanced booking window 
for members, free access to short game practice area, and range card discounts. The most notable benefit of the program 
is a 14-day advance booking window for access to tee times. The minimum term for the membership is thirty (30) days and 
members can cancel anytime. Currently city residents that purchase a $20.00 per year resident card, may book eight (8) 
days in advance and receive discounted rates. All other patrons may book seven (7) days in advance and pay the non-
resident rate. Rates can be found online at http://poplarcreekgolf.com/rates/. The program has been extremely well 
received. There are approximately 250 members per month 34% of which are city residents. The average annual revenue 
generated by this membership program in the past two fiscal years is $90,000.
Since the inception of the VIP membership program, Poplar Creek Golf Course has experienced annual rounds of over 
80,000 which have exceeded all prior fiscal year numbers dating back to 2008. The only exception was in fiscal year 2023 
when the area experienced an excess of inclement weather during the fall and winter seasons. During this same period, 
Poplar Creek has not only had a steady number of players annually but has also had revenue growth in many key areas 
including green fees, driving range revenue, and membership dues. The annual revenue has exceeded annual operating 
expenditures, leading to a net positive cash flow and contributions to the City’s general fund.
 
Staff is proposing a short-term 6-month pilot program to make advance tee time reservations more accessible for City of 
San Mateo residents without requiring them to sign-up for the VIP Membership Program. There are currently eight (8) tee 
times per hour which VIP members can book fourteen (14) days in advance. The proposed changes would restrict access to 
three (3) tee times per hour in the mornings (prime tee times) to residents only. VIP members would still have access to 
the other five (5) tee times per hour, fourteen (14) days in advance. Residents would get access to these three (3) tee 
times per hour and would also have access to any tee times not already booked by VIP members ten (10) days in advance. 
The three (3) tee times reserved exclusively for residents would then be released to everyone, including VIP members, 
seven (7) days in advance (the normal booking window for everyone). The proposed changes to the  program will allow 
residents who do not wish to participate in the VIP membership program to access prime tee times which can be difficult 
to obtain with the current program.
5 of 16

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
The demand for tee times at Poplar Creek and many other public golf courses has been extremely high for the past several 
years and staff believe this trend will continue. Although it is nearly impossible to forecast what these changes would 
cause in membership numbers, it is possible that some current members will no longer see the value in this monthly 
membership and decide to cancel. 
 
Staff solicited feedback from resident and non-resident VIP members and results from that phone survey showed 100% 
were happy with the current membership program, the 14-day advance booking window and the current inventory of tee 
times available to them. Only 58% of them said they would stay in the VIP program if the proposed changes became 
permanent. Staff does not believe these changes will result in a large enough increase in rounds played to offset the 
potential loss in membership dues. The proposed changes will however make access to prime tee times for City of San 
Mateo residents who do not wish to enroll in the VIP membership program, more accessible. 
 
Due to the closure of the restaurant and banquet facility (Par3) at Poplar Creek, staff has decided to delay the rollout of 
this pilot program to avoid any further disruption to golfers. We anticipate the start of this program to coincide with the 
re-opening of the restaurant and banquet facility. Once initiated, staff will solicit feedback from VIP members and 
residents on the pilot program and report any financial impacts the program might have. This information will be 
presented at a future Parks and Recreation Commission meeting to further evaluate the VIP program and receive any 
recommendations on additional changes to the program.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed changes to the program could result in a loss of approximately $37,000 in annual membership dues 
annually.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Kevin Kobayashi, Golf Services Manager
kkobayashi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7512
6 of 16

--- page 7 ---
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Yves LeMaitre
PR Commission Mailbox
Input for P&R commission
Thursday, May 1, 2025 1:36:02 PM
Gents,
Just some input from someone who bought the resident card last year.
Unfortunately, totally wasted money. A group of golfers are colluding to
hog all the morning tee times with their own internal distribution outside of
official channels... the Pro Shop knows about it and let them change
names and tee times as they fit... I will not renew.
Best,
Yves
7 of 16

--- page 8 ---
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Kitty Waters
PR Commission Mailbox
Poplar Creek VIP Membership
Tuesday, May 6, 2025 3:06:00 PM
Hello,
I recently signed up for the VIP membership at Poplar Creek Golf Course. I have enjoyed the two week in advance
booking of tee times and using the practice area throughout the week. One concern I have is the practice area - I
wonder how many people using it have paid at the Pro Shop (to warm up for a round or paid the $6 to practice) or
are VIP members.
Thanks,
Kitty Waters
8 of 16

--- page 9 ---
End the 14-day reservation window for VIP program at San Mateo Municipal Golf Course.
Other municipal golf courses don’t have advanced booking for non-residents.
The amount of money lost to VIP member no-shows and short shows is greater than the
amount collected from membership fees.
Tee-times that are reserved by VIP members are routinely unused by VIP’s and are either
left open or sold to walk-up golfers who are taking a chance that there will be an opening.
Effectively shutting out residents and other patrons who want to enjoy golf at Poplar Creek
golf course, especially on weekends.
It seems disingenuous for the management of Poplar Creek to rely on last minute
reservations and walk-ups to make up for the no-shows. Is that what San Mateo residents
want at a municipal facility?
Almost all tee-times before 2:00 PM are reserved before resident card holders and other
golfers have a chance to access the reservation on weekends. Giving residents no chance
to use the municipal facility.
There has never been a need to start an advanced booking reservation system for non-
residents since the San Mateo municipal golf course has been one of the most played golf
courses in the state for many decades. With the closure of other near-by golf courses
Poplar Creek golf course could be the most played course in the state if it was not
hampered by VIP member abuse. All the tee-times that are being reserved by VIP members
used to be reserved by displaced residents and non-residents. It doesn’t make sense to
impose a system at a municipal golf course that punishes residents and does nothing to
stop VIP members who abuse the reservation system.
Three eighteen-hole public golf courses closed within twenty miles of Poplar Creek GC,
and many more outside twenty miles. This has put a strain on public golfers and made
affordable golf on the peninsula difficult to achieve.
San Mateo residents can purchase a VIP membership but would have to join the 300 plus
current members and their groups of up to four each who can make a reservation for as
many days of the week as they want. Having used the reservation systems at San Mateo
municipal golf course since the early eighties, I can tell you that making a reservation for
the weekend has been difficult, but with the VIP program it’s nearly impossible to get a
good Tee time.
9 of 16

--- page 10 ---
As a current resident card holder and former VIP member, seeing so many tee-times go
unused is frustrating. The people of San Mateo who have signed my petition and I would
like to use this municipal facility and host other golfers, resident and non-resident.
I have done a small amount of research and found no other municipal golf course with that
kind of reservation system that circumvents residents so effectively. In my reading of the
San Mateo city charter, I have found nothing about a VIP program accessing an advanced
booking window, only references to residents. Likewise, in the municipal codes that I have
read, nothing about VIPs getting preference over residents.
The VIP program 14-day reservation window started July 2021, and I sent my first email
documenting the problems with the VIP program in May of 2022. I have been given excuses
and berated by Poplar Creek staff and VIP members since then. I have attended two
meetings with the management who acknowledged the problem with the reservation
system and then proposed a half-measure fix. Then, they claim, other problems took
precedence over resident access to the golf course on weekends, and the half-measure fix
was shelved indefinitely.
I have started a petition to “End the 14-day reservation window for VIP program
membership” and have collected 100 signatures so far. Many are San Mateo resident card
holders who are also frustrated for getting shut-out of their home golf course. I feel an
obligation to them to continue pushing for their rights as San Mateo residents. The
treatment I have gotten for standing up for San Mateo residents has been at times been
frustrating and humiliating. The GM and his boss have been trying to placate me by giving
false information and massaged facts, and a certain VIP member threatened to “break
glass”.
Michael Sevillia
10 of 16

--- page 11 ---
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Joe Majka
PR Commission Mailbox
Poplar golf VIP proposal
Tuesday, May 6, 2025 9:32:29 AM
I support the staff recommendation to change the VIP golf program to allow more access to t- times for SM
residents.
Joe Majka
San Mateo resident
Sent from my iPhone
11 of 16

--- page 12 ---
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Joe Ishida
PR Commission Mailbox
My Comments
Thursday, May 1, 2025 11:46:00 AM
Dear Sir/Madame,
Just a few comments about your VIP Program.
a. $30 is a bit ‘steep’ just to get a ‘prime’ tee time.$360 per year . . . really?
b. Is there supposed to be a discount at the Restaurant (Par 3). If not why not.
c. Is there some kind of ‘discount’ in the Pro Shop. If not, why not.
e. Any other perks will be greatly appreciated.
Thank you.
Joe Ishida
12 of 16

--- page 13 ---
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Joe Cioni
PR Commission Mailbox
Poplar Creek
Tuesday, May 6, 2025 7:52:44 AM
Parks & Rec Commissioners,
My name is Joe Cioni and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo and also a
VIP program member at Poplar Creek Golf Course. I wanted to impress on
you how much I appreciate the program. As a loyal member who plays the
course frequently- at least twice a week - being able to book tee times in
advance allows me to better plan my schedule accordingly for the upcoming
weeks. In addition, membership allows me to use the short game area
without a fee. It is a positive program which facilitates my playing more
frequently with the ability to book tee times in advance. The cost of the VIP
membership, which I consider de minimus, is worth the investment.
Joe Cioni
13 of 16

--- page 14 ---
From:
To:
PR Commission Mailbox
Subject:
Date:
14 day fee based Poplar Creek membership
Thursday, May 1, 2025 10:36:26 PM
I am a resident of San Mateo and play golf at Poplar Creek. I pay $20 a year for a 10 play
card but when I go to book a tee time 8 days in advance I find all the AM or more tee times
are usually taken. This is due to the 14 day advance tee time booking $30/month program
where any resident or non resident can join. This program should be eliminated as it favors
nonresidents. Tax paying residents should be given priority.
I will be out of the continental US or I would be at the meeting. Let me know when the next
one is.
Gary Isoardi
Sent from AOL on Android
14 of 16

--- page 15 ---
April 28, 2025

Council Member Lisa Nash
330 W. 20 Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403

Dear Council Member Nash:

| am writing about the present situation at Poplar Creek Golf Course. | started
playing this course affectionately called Muni in 1956 with my parents.. This was
the course | played as a member of the SMHS golf team. This was the course |
brought my son to learn the game. Now|! ama 79 retired teacher, who still
loves this golf course.

First of all, | want to thank you for addressing the water situation last summer.
We were so afraid our fairways were going to burn toa crisp. Then you brought
in water and it worked !! Nice, green fairways again.

Today, | belong to the Wednesday morning Poplar Creek Women’s Golf Club
(founded in 1953) with 56 other, mostly retired, golfers. Over the years before
golf, we gathered in the restaurant area to organize our game for the day. Then,
we usually gathered for lunch afterward to discuss the day’s golf.

As you know, now we have no indoor bathrooms or restaurant. Now we have to
gather in the parking lot to plan our game for the day. Because we do not have a
place to complete/submit our scorecards, we paid for a bench to be installed by
the 18" green so we have a place to add our scores. We miss the comradery we
enjoyed when there was arestaurant. We miss inviting guests to enjoy a round
of golf and a nice lunch. Now, we have to bring our own drinks and food.

The bathroom situation is just awful....cold, smelly, damp outhouses. We
understand a worker recently suffered a bad fall in the more modern facility.

15 of 16


--- page 16 ---
As a life-long golfer, | have played countless public and private courses. | could
always count on a bathroom and some kind of a restaurant/café. | have spoken
with Council Member Lisa Nash numerous times....she did help with the water
situation.

We wonder about the short-term and long-term plans. Ona short-term level,
could you look into better restroom facilities? Not to mention, Summer is
coming and all golfers will need access to drinking water on hot days.

What is really frustrating is the lack of communication between the city and the
golf community. No one seems to know the timeline for the repairs. Rumors
abound regarding lawsuits. As taxpayers, | believe we are entitled to clear
communication with the City of San Mateo.

It is unfortunate to see these conditions at the same time San Mateo area has
beautiful country clubs up in the hills. Poplar Creek is the only municipal golf
course on the Peninsula.....Surely, the City of San Mateo can do better.

| would love to meet with you at your convenience.

Sincerely,

Diane McClain

CC: Joanne Magrini, Director of Parks and Recreation
City Manager Alex Khojikian

16 of 16
