source: packet.pdf
sha256: 6baf1a003be6b84e4d395162c7c7331fb4cf24f470d128b6e49b4d54b22e0b68
pages: 182
ocr_pages: 46
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
October 11, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 11, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 884 2919 1841      Passcode: 323897
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
STUDY SESSION
1.
Pre-Application Review (PA-2022-023) for a Proposed Commercial, Office and Residential Mixed-Use
Development at 401-445 S. B Street (Bespoke)
Review the proposed project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the applicant
and staff, with specific focus requested on the following project elements: Building Design – Architectural design,
massing, architectural detailing, building articulation, materials, and colors of the two buildings. Site Plan –
Location of access driveway, usability of ground level open space area, public realm improvements.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6605
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 11, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Pre-Application Review (PA-2022-023) for a Proposed Commercial, Office and Residential Mixed-Use Development at 401-
445 S. B Street (Bespoke)
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the applicant and staff, 
with specific focus requested on the following project elements:
1.
Building Design – Architectural design, massing, architectural detailing, building articulation, materials, and colors 
of the two buildings.
2.
Site Plan – Location of access driveway, usability of ground level open space area, public realm improvements.  
BACKGROUND:
On March 29, 2022, DTSM Housing (the applicant) submitted a Preliminary Planning Application (PA-2022-023) to 
demolish all existing structures on the block bounded by E. 4th Avenue, Railroad Ave, E. 5th Avenue and S. B Street, also 
referred to as “Bespoke,” to construct a new mixed-use development consisting of 60 residential units on City-owned land, 
and 161,380 square-feet of retail/commercial and office uses on the remaining private property. 
The City issued a Notice of Availability of Surplus Land on January 7, 2021, to solicit proposals to develop an affordable 
housing development on a 16,500 square feet lot, which is comprised of two parcels, consistent with the California Surplus 
Lands Act (Government Code 54220-54234). Following a competitive process with multiple City Council public meetings, 
the City selected DTSM Housing, LLC. as the developer for a public-private partnership project. The project includes 
development of affordable housing on the City-owned land, which is currently the 4th Avenue parking lot, in conjunction 
with the development of office and retail uses on the privately-owned parcels on the block. The City and developer 
entered into an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement (ENA) in October 2021. 
As proposed, the project will require the following entitlements:
•
Special Use Permits to allow ground floor community service/non-profit use in required retail frontage area 
(SMMC Sections 27.02.160 and 27.74); 
•
Site Plan and Architectural Reviews (SPAR) for the construction of the mixed-use development and no on-site 
loading zone (SMMC Sections 27.08.030 and 27.64.390); and,
•
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for grading an area over 5,000 square feet and for removal of any 
major trees/vegetation (SMMC Section 23.40.030). 
For this Pre-Application Study Session, the Planning Commission should primarily focus its review on the proposed building 
design elements, site plan, and other aspects necessary for the Commission to make positive findings and approve the 
project when the formal planning application is submitted. Additionally, staff requests that the Commission provide input

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and direction on other project aspects, if any, that should be considered during the formal planning application. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site 
The Bespoke site has a combined land area of 1.16-acres, or 50,600 square-feet. The site is designated Downtown Retail 
Core in the City’s General Plan Land Use Plan and is zoned Central Business District (CBD). A variety of uses currently exist 
on the site, including restaurants, a salon, and the 4th Avenue parking lot. A few of the storefronts are vacant including 
spaces formerly occupied by the Talbot’s Toy Store and Cyclery. Nearby uses include a range of retail/commercial with the 
City’s Central Parking Garage to the north, the future Kiku Crossing and 5th Avenue Garage to the east (both are under 
construction), a grocery store/market (Draeger’s Market) to the west, and a mix of retail/commercial and multifamily 
residential uses to the south. The San Mateo Downtown Caltrain station is located less than one-half of a mile north of the 
project site. The site is also located one block south of the Downtown Historic District. The project is located within a high 
sensitivity archaeological zone and includes demolition of buildings over 50 years old. A vicinity map showing the project 
site is included as Attachment 1. 
Public-Private Partnership
Bespoke is a public-private partnership that includes the City, who owns a portion of the project site, and a team of 
developers that includes Harvest Properties, Prometheus, and Alta Housing, a community-based non-profit housing 
developer. As part of the partnership, the City is contributing land in the form of a long-term ground lease of the 4th 
Avenue parking lot site and contributing $2 million dollars toward the affordable housing component of the project. The 
applicant team, led by Harvest Properties, is responsible for leading the proposal through the regulatory review and 
permitting process and will leverage a variety of funding sources toward the construction of the affordable housing units. 
The public-private partnership is executed through an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement, that requires the project to:  
•
Provide a 100% affordable housing building.  
•
Maximize number of housing units in a 7-story building on the City-owned 4th Avenue parking lot site.
•
Provide 37 dedicated parking spaces for the residents’ use.
•
Provide ground floor retail/commercial spaces consistent with the City’s Retail Frontage Requirement, including 
space for Self-Help for the Elderly, a local non-profit organization, in the ground-floor of the residential building.
Proposed Project, Building Program, and Site Plan 
The proposed project, Bespoke, consists of the redevelopment of the entire block between 4th and 5th Avenues, from B 
Street to Railroad Avenue, including the City-owned parking lot on 4th Avenue and former Talbot’s Toy Store site. The 
proposed development is comprised of two buildings located above a shared underground garage.   
Building 1 is proposed as a seven-story, mixed-use building with a total floor area of approximately 66,500 square-feet and 
an overall building height of 76 feet. The proposed building includes a total of 60 affordable housing units, approximately 
11,600 square-feet of ground floor space for resident services and a community serving non-profit use (Self-Help for the 
Elderly), and common space for residents at the second-floor terrace. The project proposes 13 studio units, 13 one-
bedroom units, 17 two-bedroom units, and 17 three-bedroom units; all of which would be rental apartments. Of the 
combined 60 units, one unit would be a manager’s unit and the remaining will be designated as below market rate at the 
low-income level, or 80% of the Area Median Income (AMI)), with a target average AMI of 60% or less, as indicated in the 
applicant’s letter (Attachment 5). 
Building 2 is proposed as a five-story, 74-foot tall, mixed-use building that is approximately 160,000 square-feet in size. The 
proposed building includes approximately 34,000 square-feet of ground floor retail/commercial space along the South B 
Street frontage, and approximately 126,000 square-feet of office space spread primarily among the second through fifth 
floors. 
The project also includes a below-grade one-level parking garage that provides 128 parking spaces to be shared among the 
retail/commercial, office, and service uses; and 37 parking spaces dedicated for residents’ use, at a ratio of 0.7 spaces per 
residential unit, which is permitted by State Density Bonus law as discussed in more detail under the Density Bonus section 
below. Driveway access to and from the underground garage is proposed along Railroad Avenue and trash/recycling

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
service is proposed to be located on East 4th Avenue. No on-site loading spaces are proposed, although there is a note on 
the plans for a future loading zone in the public right-of-way on South B Street, which if proposed would be evaluated 
during the formal planning application phase with consideration of other nearby on-street loading zones. Bike paths and 
bike parking improvements are not shown at this time.  
The project includes approximately 2,200 square-feet of common area for residents’ use on the second floor of Building 1, 
approximately 7,600 square-feet of common area on upper-level roof terraces for office uses in Building 2, and 
approximately 1,794 square-feet of at-grade open space that is publicly accessible. The project incorporates ground-level 
open space areas through a dedicated area at the northwest corner of the project site, as well as various building step-
backs. The project also proposes public realm improvements along S. B Street that include new sidewalks with decorative 
pavement, streetlights, and street trees.
The project proposes two different architectural approaches for the residential and mixed-use buildings. For Building 1, the 
primarily residential building, the architectural character is best characterized as modern and utilitarian in its rectangular 
form, lack of adornment, and large windows, with little to no articulation of the façade and massing. The architectural 
character of Building 2, the retail/commercial and office building, is best categorized as contemporary based on the 
amount of glass and use of solid building materials to express building volumes. A discussion of the building design is 
continued in the Items for Planning Commission Discussion section of this report. 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan 
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core, which is meant to provide uses at 
intensities that contribute to a thriving retail core. A preliminary list of General Plan policies applicable to the proposed 
project is included in Attachment 2. As a mixed-use development, the project would conform to Land Use Element policy 
LU 1.8 Mixed Use Commercial-Residential, which promotes housing production even in non-residential zones. The project 
would be consistent with Land Use Element policy LU 3.1 Downtown Plan in that the project includes ground level 
retail/commercial spaces to continue the active pedestrian-oriented character of S. B Street and would result in office and 
residential uses at high intensities to contribute to the vitality of downtown during daytime and evening hours.  
It should be noted that while projects in the City are subject to the density and building height limits set by the 2020 voter 
initiative, Measure Y, state Density Bonus Law (Government Code Section 65915) supersedes the voter initiative. For this 
project, the proposed 60 units and proposed building heights of 76 feet (Building 1) and 74 feet (Building 2) will be 
evaluated in detail during the formal planning application for consistency with the zoning code and applicable state law.  
Zoning Code 
The project site is zoned CBD, which implements the goals of the General Plan by encouraging a variety of uses that 
contribute to the vitality of the retail core area of downtown. Properties located in the CBD zone are subject to 
development standards in SMMC Chapter 27.38, including those for floor area, residential density, ground floor retail 
frontage, build-to-line, and open space. 
The project site is also located within the limits of the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID) which functions as the 
downtown’s parking district. The project is providing 37 secured parking spaces designated exclusively for residents use, 
consistent with the ENA. Additionally, the applicant intends to request a project specific parking demand study to 
determine the required number of off-street parking spaces, for the commercial/office uses, in-lieu of the parking ratios 
outlined in the Zoning Code. The study is expected to evaluate the applicant’s proposed shared parking concept for the 
different uses: i) residential visitor, ii) retail, iii) service, and iv) office; and the feasibility of sharing the 91 parking stalls 
with the residents and public during off-peak hours. It should be noted that a portion of the residential and commercial 
parking spaces are proposed to be provided through mechanical parking systems. Under the provisions of Chapter 
27.64.100 of the Municipal Code, the applicant is also able to request payment of CPID parking in-lieu fees for required off-
street parking that is not provided on-site. A project data sheet listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the pre-
application’s conformance to them are included in Attachment 3.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
As noted above, the project encompasses the entire block and would typically require a Special Use Permit to allow for the 
transfer of residential development density from the privately-owned parcels to City-owned parcels, pursuant to Section 
27.02.160 of the City’s Zoning Code. However, projects with 100% affordable housing and where the site is located within 
a half-mile of a major transit stop are allowed an unlimited number of density bonus units pursuant to State Density Bonus 
law. A discussion of the applicability of State Density Bonus law is provided below. 
At the Pre-Application stage, the project plans have not been fully designed with the level of detail necessary to conduct a 
full code compliance analysis. Please refer to Preliminary Data Sheet for a summary code compliance analysis (Attachment 
3).
Downtown Area Plan
The project site is located within the boundaries of the Downtown Area Plan. The Plan establishes goals and policies to 
implement the overall vision of the downtown area. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include: 
•
Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place 
•
Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses 
•
Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown
The project site is located within the Retail Core sub-area of the Downtown Plan. Recommended future conditions include 
the provision of ground floor retail and other uses that promote pedestrian activity along E. 4th Avenue and S. B Street. 
The Plan also encourages the use of street trees, streetlights, and pavement consistent with the downtown core. Staff will 
conduct a more detailed review of the project’s conformance to the Downtown Plan upon filing of the formal planning 
application. 
Pedestrian Master Plan
The Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan contains recommendations to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the City. 
Upon filing of the formal planning application, staff will evaluate the project for consistency with the Pedestrian Master 
Plan including sidewalk standards for all four frontages. 
Based on the configuration of street parking and mixed-use building type, the applicable sidewalk standard is A.9 or A.10 
Mixed Use Type B Street Parking along the E. 4th Avenue, E. 5th Ave, and S. B Street frontages. The Plan recommends an 
overall sidewalk width ranging from 16 feet to 26 feet. As presently designed, the project proposes to maintain existing 
sidewalk widths in order to continue the pattern of build-to-line of buildings on adjacent blocks. The applicant proposes to 
widen the sidewalk from 5 feet to 6 feet along Railroad Avenue given that it is a constrained street in terms of the width of 
the public right-of-way. 
The Zoning Code requires new developments in this zoning district be built to the property line unless building setbacks 
are utilized for the provision of open space or landscaping (SMMC 27.38.100). In the formal planning application review, 
staff expects the applicant to further develop the site plan and sidewalk designs for consistency with the Pedestrian 
Master Plan while achieving compliance with the Zoning Code’s requirements for building setbacks or through a Density 
Bonus waiver or concession request. 
Bicycle Master Plan 
Adopted in April of 2020, the City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide 
infrastructure improvements to support bicycle use and includes a proposed bicycle network of various bicycle lanes, paths 
and routes. Specific to the subject project, the Bicycle Master Plan calls for a separated bicycle lane (Class IV) along the 
South B Street frontage and a bicycle lane (Class II) along the project’s E. 5th Avenue frontage. Staff has made the applicant 
aware that any conflicts between the proposed bicycle facilities and Bicycle Master Plan would need to be resolved during 
the formal planning application, prior to project approval. 
State Density Bonus Law and City’s Inclusionary Requirements 
California State Density Bonus Law (Government Code Section 65915) outlines density bonus standards for residential and 
mixed-use projects that include certain percentages of below-market-rate (affordable) housing units. It also requires cities

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to allow modified development standards and density bonuses for certain affordable housing developments. San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 27.15.080 (Affordable Housing Projects Near Transit) applies to housing developments that are 
located within a half-mile of a major transit stop where the units are 100% affordable to lower income households and 
where up to 20% may be for moderate-income households, exclusive of the manager’s unit(s). Housing developments 
meeting these requirements may submit a planning application requesting unlimited waivers or reductions from 
applicable development standards, in addition to the incentives or concessions otherwise provided by state law. The 
reduced requirements must be tied to when a development standard would physically preclude a proposed project from 
achieving allowable density. Projects meeting the above requirements are allowed an unlimited percentage of density 
bonus (or additional units), unlimited waivers or reduced development standards, up to four development 
incentives/concessions, up to 33 feet of additional building height, and are not required to provide parking for the 
residential use. 
The applicant is proposing to designate 59 of the 60 units to the very low-income category (affordable to households who 
earn up to 50 percent of the area’s median income) and one unit for a manager, which counts as a 100% affordable project 
per State Density Bonus Law. The provision of 100 percent at the very-low income category would exceed the City’s Below 
Market Rate (BMR) Inclusionary requirements, which requires 15 percent of rental units to be designated in the low-
income category. 
By providing 100 percent of the units at the low-income level (80% AMI) with a target average AMI of 60% or less, the 
project would be eligible for an unlimited percentage of density bonus, up to four concessions, up to 33 feet of additional 
building height, unlimited waivers or reduced development standards, and no parking standards. The applicant proposes a 
3% density bonus (or 2 units) and has requested the following waivers:
1.
Additional 14 feet height for the residential building (above the 75 foot for mechanical penthouse),
2.
Waive 150 feet maximum building lineal feet standard and 170 feet maximum building diagonal lineal feet 
requirements,    
3.
Waive Street Wall requirement (or step back of upper levels), 
4.
Additional 1.5 FAR (above base maximum of 3.0 FAR, for a total 4.5 FAR), 
5.
Reduced dwelling unit size standard for one unit, and 
6.
Waive Required Retail Frontage requirement to allow non-profit use.
The applicant has provided a preliminary density bonus request letter, included as Attachment 5 which outlines the project 
approach and describes the justifications. In the density bonus request letter, the applicant has noted that these 
concessions, incentives or waivers would reduce the per-unit construction cost for the residential units. It should be noted 
that the housing component of the project is partially subsidized by the City; however, some of the requested concessions 
and waivers are for the entire project. 
At the Pre-Application stage, the project has not been fully designed with the level of detail necessary to conduct a full 
code compliance analysis and determine the number of incentives/concessions and waivers that may be needed to 
support the project. Upon filing of the formal planning application, staff will evaluate whether the requested concessions 
and waivers are justified and commensurate with the cost of providing affordable units and consistent with density bonus 
provisions and local ordinances. Further discussion of this request is continued in the Items for Planning Commission 
Discussion section of this report.
ITEMS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION:
The overall architectural style for both buildings is best categorized as contemporary in nature based upon the use of 
horizontal and vertical lines, amount of glass, and use of varying colors and materials to express building volumes. The 
proposed project is near other recently constructed or approved mixed-use projects in this area including 405 E. 4th 
Avenue, 406 E. 3rd Avenue, Kiku Crossing, and Block 21. The current design for the non-residential five-story building 
includes upper floor step-backs, variety in colors and materials (including use of brown brick veneer), building recesses for 
open space, mass timber (compressed timber) and green wall elements along the South B Street frontage to soften and 
bring interest to the frontage.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The design for the seven-story residential building includes a recessed wall with a different color that is proposed to serve 
as a transition from the non-residential building façade, the same design and material for the ground level residential 
entrance and non-residential entrances, and fenestration symmetry on the upper levels. The proposed neutral color 
palette and stucco materials are found in other buildings in the downtown area. Staff has concerns regarding the overall 
simplicity and lack of architectural detailing of the residential building compared to buildings in the nearby downtown 
retail core area that have higher level of detailing and articulation. This has also been identified by the community at the 
neighborhood meeting and in public comments letters (Attachments 6 & 7).
At this time, staff is requesting that the Planning Commission provide input on the following:
1.
Building Design – Architectural design, massing, architectural detailing, building articulation, materials, and colors 
of the two building.
a.
Do the designs provide enough distinction from recent projects in the area? 
b.
Should one or both building designs take inspiration from or otherwise relate to buildings in the nearby 
Downtown Historic District? 
c.
Usability of roof top terrace for residents (such as noise from railroad)?
2.
Site Plan – Location of access driveway, usability of ground level open space area, public realm improvements 
including sidewalk widths, landscaping/trees, streetlights, etc.
3.
Any other concerns?
Upon filing of the formal planning application, staff will engage a City design review consultant to review the project for 
consistency with the General Plan Urban Design element, Downtown Design Guideline, and to address any 
comments/concerns expressed by the Planning Commission.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting on September 1, 2022, that was attended by 26 
members of the public. Participants commented on the following: 
•
Comments about building height and scale; 
•
Concerns with building architectural style and quality of materials, especially for the residential building and that 
the non-residential looks similar to recently constructed buildings;
•
Concerns regarding the proposed number of on-site parking spaces and overflow into neighborhoods; 
•
Concerns with the location of garage entrance;
•
Concerns with amount of non-residential floor area vs. housing units; and 
•
Support for improvements for pedestrians and bicyclists.  
The applicant’s summary of the neighborhood meeting is included in Attachment 6. Public comments submitted to City 
staff during the pre-application review are included in Attachment 7. Any public comments received after publication of 
this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration at the study session and posted to this item on 
the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the review of a pre-application is not a project under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the Planning Commission is not taking any action at this time. An 
environmental review will be conducted as part of the formal planning application in conformance with CEQA which would 
include analysis and discussion because the project site is located within a high sensitivity archaeological zone and includes 
demolition of buildings over 50 years old.
NEXT STEPS: 
Following this Study Session, the applicant and project architect will have an opportunity to revise the design based on 
feedback provided by the public and the Planning Commission. As currently proposed, the project would be subject to 
review by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council since it includes buildings that are over 55 feet in 
height, and the City is contributing land and funding. The following planning applications will be required as part of the 
formal application:

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1.
Special Use Permit to allow ground floor community service/non-profit use in the required retail frontage area;
2.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of the mixed-use development and no on-site 
loading zone; and 
3.
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for grading an area over 5,000 square feet and for removal of any 
major trees/vegetation. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this study 
session was noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the neighborhood meeting and Planning 
Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Vicinity Map
Att 2 - Applicable Policies
Att 3 - Preliminary Data Sheet
Att 4 - Preliminary Plans
Att 5 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 6 - Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 7 - Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216

--- page 10 ---
VICINITY MAP 
PA #:  PA-2022-023 
PA Name: 445 S. B Street, Bespoke Pre-Application 
 
Address(es): 
401 – 455 S. B St. 
Parcel Number(s): 
034-179-010, -020, -030, -040, -050, -060 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 11 ---
Att 2 - Applicable Policies 
 
GENERAL PLAN – LAND USE ELEMENT  
 
GOAL 1d: Concentrate major high-intensity commercial office and retail development in specific focal areas, as 
delineated on the City Image Plan, Figure UD-1. 
 
GOAL 1f: Provide a wide range of land uses, including retail, commercial services, office, industrial, parks, open 
space, and housing, to adequately meet the needs of the community. 
 
GOAL 1g: Attain development which occurs in an orderly fashion and which limits adverse environmental 
impacts to the community. 
LU 1.11: Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at locations 
delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the commercial nodes delineated on the  
Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.15: Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office uses with residential 
uses at locations and intensities/densities as delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan. 
 
GOAL 2a: Promote economic vitality which provides jobs for existing and future residents and maintains the 
City's ability to finance public improvements and human services. 
 
GOAL 2c: Promote an intensity of commercial activity that enhances the business climate in the City to 
increase the level of business types which will benefit existing commercial uses.  
LU 2.4: Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the 
City with a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities while encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods.  
LU 2.10: Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the development 
potential of property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core and along South El 
Camino Real. 
LU 3.1: Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the downtown shall 
maintain a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities. 
 
3. DOWNTOWN.  
The goals, policies, and objectives for downtown San Mateo are located in the Downtown Plan. A general 
discussion of the downtown also occurs in Section 3 of this Land Use Element.  
Provisions of the voter-approved Measure H, Measure P, and Measure Y which reduced building heights, floor 
area ratios and residential densities, were also incorporated, including the provisions following below (the 
Measure H, P and Y provisions are in italics).  
a. A Specific Plan for the Downtown was adopted by the City Council in July 1985, and amended in 1993, 
consistent with the provisions of Measure H as adopted by the voters in November 1991. This Specific Plan 
also constituted an amendment to the previous General Plan.  
 
GENERAL PLAN – HOUSING ELEMENT 
H 2.12: Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing commercial areas, or in 
locating adjacent or near transit nodes, where the residences can be buffered from noise and safety 
concerns and can provide adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or 
height bonuses for residential development in selected areas of the City.

--- page 12 ---
DOWNTOWN PLAN 
 
GOALS 
 
ONE Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place Downtown San 
Mateo possesses a traditional downtown image, including an informal, cozy atmosphere. Key landmarks and 
landscaping in the form of street trees, San Mateo Creek and Central Park contribute to downtown’s unique 
character. New development should complement this character, while at the same time bringing 
contemporary elements that revitalize and energize the downtown.  
 
TWO Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of 
Uses Maintain and improve on the wide range of uses available downtown including retail and service 
establishments, entertainment uses, such as the Downtown Century Theater, residential uses and unique 
facilities, such as Central Park. Facilitate a wide mix of retail stores, service uses such as restaurants, and 
housing uses. 
 
THREE Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of 
Downtown. Allow for outdoor uses, such as cafes and sitting areas, to promote the pedestrian activity and 
multiple destination trips to the downtown. Strengthen the links between Central Park and downtown, and 
between the downtown and surrounding residential areas. 
 
POLICIES 
I.1 Downtown Core High Density/Intensity Development. Encourage the development of mixed-use high 
density residential projects and high intensity commercial projects within the Downtown Retail Core. 
 
II.1 Downtown Core Shopping Area. Preserve the downtown’s core shopping area between 1st and 5th 
Avenues from El Camino Real to the railroad.  
 
II.2 Required Retail Frontage. Require the provision of ground floor retail uses with windows on properties 
located on the primary shopping streets as identified in the Required Retail Frontage Zone Map (see map at 
the end of this chapter). In addition to traditional retailing activities, permit entertainment and cultural uses, 
and allow fast food establishments in limited instances. 
 
II.8 Office Development. Encourage the establishment of offices within the Downtown Retail Core and 
surrounding commercially designated areas. 
 
II.9 Housing in the Retail Core. Provide housing for new households that will utilize downtown businesses and 
is within proximity to the transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle ownership. 
 
II.10 Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing multi-family dwellings as 
part of mixed use developments in all downtown commercial and office land use categories, except areas 
designated service commercial and parks/open space in the General Plan. 
 
IV.2 Store Fronts in the Retail Core. Maintain the traditional store front environment of the Downtown Retail 
Core area by requiring new buildings to be constructed to the street property line. In the retail core area, 
require ground floor building walls to be dominated by windows and pedestrian entrances

--- page 13 ---
IV.3 Design Guidelines. Evaluate the Downtown Design Guidelines to ensure that it:  
(1) Emphasizes the public realm - streets and sidewalks and public spaces in building design, scale, detail, 
and pattern of new developments;  
(2) Encourages building design to be compatible with the historic and architectural features common to 
many buildings in the Downtown;  
(3) Encourages a compatibility of diverse building styles; and  
(4) Encourages building details, surfaces, textures and materials that are interesting for the pedestrian. 
 
IV.6 Downtown Design Guidelines/Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines. Revise the Downtown and 
Historic District Design Guidelines to give consideration to new development within a historic preservation 
context, thereby providing a balance between preserving a unique community asset (in the form of a historic 
district with intact distinct historic and contributor structures) and providing for new development and 
improvements within the downtown area.

--- page 14 ---
IMPLEMENT A NEW FINANCING MECHANISM FOR SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION
DOWNTOWN PARKING. INITIATIVES. In order to improve pedestrian, bicycle,
The Central Parking and Improvement District (CPID) was | shuttle, and transit access implement Downtown Area
created by the City in 1954 as a means of financing land Plan policies to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit
acquisition and construction of downtown public parking use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility.
facilities. The CPID includes on-street parking, surface

lots and five (5) parking structures. The bonds issued to Additionally, the Downtown Area Plan includes vehicle trip
fund these downtown parking facilities have been retired, reduction, bicycle and pedestrian accessibility policies.

and the City is presently examining methods to fund These policies will be employed on a case by case basis
additional downtown parking. as development is reviewed, with the goal of reducing
vehicle trips and promoting alternative means of mobility.

Funding of additional public parking in downtown should S BE
consider the following principles: =| al ie

a. Property owners should participate in the funding of
future parking expansion through assessments or
other appropriate methods.

b. Parking in-lieu fees when combined with
assessments and other parking revenues should
be maintained at a level to provide the full cost of
constructing a new parking space.

F Outdoor Seating,

Mountain View

SUPPORT THE DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO

ASSOCIATION IN CREATION OF A PROPERTY

BASED IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FOR DOWNTOWN

IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.

As a way to provide funding for additional parking

facilities, the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)

is currently exploring the formation of a Property Based

Improvement District (PBID) as well as other funding

options, including options with contributions by property

owners and/or tenants. The City should continue to
support these efforts in an attempt to address funding
issues related to the provision of additional downtown

parking facilities. at on
Outdoor
Outdoor Seating
Seating Hayward
Hayward

20 CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN


--- page 15 ---
Downtown Retail Core

Background

The Downtown Retail Core extends from Sth Avenue to
2nd Avenue between El Camino Real and the Railroad.
3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue and B Street are the primary retail
streets (see map at end of this chapter). The two vacant
former gas station sites at 3rd Avenue/E! Camino Real
present opportunities and challenges at this gateway to
the downtown. Mills Health Center, the Downtown Century
Cinema, and the Downtown Transit Center (see next sub-
area discussion) are also included in this sub-area.

Future Conditions

Downtown Plan policies continue to support the retail
core shopping area by requiring retail uses along 2nd, 3rd
and 4th Avenues, San Mateo Drive, Ellsworth Avenue,
and B Street. This will require a good mix of ground

floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality
and downtown's pedestrian oriented environment. New
priorities for the retail core include:

a. Provide housing for new households that will utilize
downtown businesses and is within proximity to the
transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle
ownership. In order to implement this policy, the City
should allow flexibility in architectural style to facilitate
use of nontraditional housing designs, such as loft
spaces, and allow flexibility in design where more
modem forms relate to existing buildings within an
historic environment.

b. Examine the feasibility of reducing lanes on 4th
Avenue down to 3 lanes to provide pedestrian
enhancements.

c. Examine the potential for providing a public plaza in
the retail core. The City has commissioned ERA to
examine a public plaza at the northwest comer of
3rd Avenue and San Mateo Drive in conjunction with
a mixed use development at 2nd Avenue and San
Mateo Drive.

Continue to seek additional sites for parking and
actively explore alternative methods to manage
existing parking inventory. Parking inventory
management may include experimenting with lang
term/overnight reserved parking for premium fees,
use of technological advancements, encouraging
short tarm parking turn over, and other methods as
they become available.

Provide an entry feature at the entryways to
downtown in the vicinity of the 3rd Avenue/El Camino
Real intersection, 4th Avenue/El Camino Real
intersection, B Street/Sth Avenue intersection, and B
Street/1st Avenue intersection.

Improve pedestrian linkages to Central Park and
other plazas, and provide additional widened
sidewalks where adequate parking and circulation
can be maintained.

Focus on 5th Avenue/San Mateo Drive and
opportunities to directly tie Downtown to Central
Park, including physically and visually open up to
intersection at Sth/San Mateo Drive.

Look at development opportunities on 5th Avenue
and where public benefits may be used to help fund
linkages to and/or improvements in Central Park.


--- page 16 ---
‘ 1

|= {-2-_ _—— 2s — | DOWNTOWN
LTON A\ 4 fs | : = ! =| | 4} ~FIGURE 2
5 | ca —_ I Z| — | ——————
| : H | ig iz Su DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
F ~ 4 Ses
istave : = — ae eee
a = Sa — ; oc ———
(OL et eS il Talal 5 Gee
a Je=i= ES So tt “oh ann
HL) EYL F ie ale home = oc
am aS = ims i oT i ~ Ave.
ll

LEGEND
RAILROAD DOWNTOWN SUB-AREAS:
POST OFFICE (7) CENTRAL CLAREMONT

TRAIN STATION
LIBRARIES

SAN MATEO CREEK 33 Gateway
(SUBSURFACE) iigiie

SAN MATEO CREEK TILTON AVENUE
(SURFACE)

(259) DOWNTOWN RETAIL
CORE

UTH CLAREMONT
PARKS iy so

a im : =; \ 7 | al | -— PROPERTY BOUNDARY [G==D WEST EL CAMINO
: L_] me 6 — = Mmm DOWNTOWN PLAN (7 CENTRAL PARK
| } = tn H

STUDY AREA



--- page 17 ---
RETAIL CORE
FIGURE 3

bs

=| DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

ST MATTHEWS AVE

HLaoOMSs114
fi

aa

» as

ee

WN
a § se
SS 8
ty:

NH

Zz

CoN

paces

NSN
N

mami: bec th PAG

ie Y

Pett LOPLI ta

'

SAN

E 4TH AVE il

rc) Downtown Cinema

Tot sRailroad «= Train Station Parks/Downtown Plaza

Medium Density Multi-Family
@B@B Downtown Plan Study Area

F Neighborhood Commercial’
Downtown Retail Core s 4 ; : ,
@@@ vic-Biock Pedestrian Connections ispesmeniniis:: sinauiciiians Seeammaidiaaae:
Downtown Retail Core Support Public Facility- Library
FE] Sc Parking Facility
Executive Office

Executive Office’ ; .
——— = Required Retail Frontage High Density Multi-Family Single Family
S88 Uniform Building Line

EP Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area Service Commercial

High Density Multi-Family Transportation Comidor
EZ Historic District / Design Guidlelines Low Density Multi-Family



--- page 18 ---
city

DOWNTOWN
LAND USE PLAN
FIGURE 10

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

February 2009

O_ 200 400 600 800
Feet

_ Legend
HHE naitroad 8 train station
ame Required Retail Frontage
eeee 1/4 -1/2 MILE Radius from Station
Mima Downtown Plan Study Area
(—) Property Boundary

LAND USE
Downtown Retail Core

Downtown Retail Core Support

PHOn es

Executive Ojfice

Executive Office’ High Density
= Multi-Family

ao High Density Multi-Family
Low Density Multi-Family
Manufacturing

Medium Density Multi-Family

Wa ONIN aS

Neighborhood Commercial

Neigh. Gomm/ Medium-High Density
Multi-Family

Parks/ Open Space

Public Facility

Regional/Community Commercial
Regional‘Community Commercial!
High Density Multi-Family

Service Commercial

Single Family

ee le

Transportation Corridor

REQUIRED RETAIL

CTE E eee ee i

1S INVUS N

February 2009

f —o
RSET | ell & FRONTAGE ZONES
= =o | 0. — "fie —— | FIGURE 11
smartest — aS i | ! re
a ee CYPRESS DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
f L
1 | lr CITY OF SAN MATEO

SHH RAILROAD
USPS POST OFFICE
TRAIN STATION
oe @ LIBRARIES

easitas SAN MATEO CREEK (SUBSURFACE)
—— _SAN MATEO CREEK (SURFACE)

vues
a
Hy

MISSION

Tamas

CIR

ONVULSIdVI ZT
Teo

om PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY
3 mmm = DOWNTOWN PLAN STUDY AREA
qm = REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE



--- page 19 ---
‘omen,

%

-
.

— 2? cen

SAN MATEO CREEK

LEGEND

@OE@ Wit Block Pedestrian Connections

SAN MATEO CREEK

PROPERTY BOUNDARY

UG

DOWNTOWN
URBAN DESIGN

PLAN
FIGURE 12

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

LOH ;

ES

Natrual Landscaping to Define
Downtown Boundaries

Street Trees to Unite the Areas
East of the Railroad Tracks
Application of Downtown

Gore Design Policies
Application of Historic!
Architectural Design Policies
Screening of Commercial
Areas East of RR Tracks

Application of Uniform
Building Line



--- page 20 ---
Sample Findings for Approval: 
 
Special Use Permit (SUP) (SMMC 27.74.020) 
 
The appropriate approval body shall have the power to hear evidence that the granting of such permit will or will not 
adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the community, and that the use, if permitted, will not 
cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor or noxious gas, dust, glare, 
heat or fumes, or industrial waste. Any physical alteration, physical expansion, or change of an existing approved special 
use shall require a review by and be final with the Planning Commission, unless appealed to the City Council in 
accordance with Section 27.08.060.  
 
 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) (SMMC 27.080.030(a)) 
 
In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, Development Review Board, and Planning Commission shall be guided by 
the standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council.  The application shall be approved if the Zoning 
Administrator or Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the neighborhood; 
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City; 
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and otherwise is in the 
best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council, conforms 
with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes 
that exist on the site; 
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, and security. 
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in accordance with the approved 
drawings. 
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding 55 feet in height or where 
required by express General Plan provisions. 
 
 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) (SMMC 23.40.040(a)(4)). 
 
Prior to recommending approval of a site development planning application, the approval body shall find that all 
concerns regarding surface grading, structure foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and 
tree removal have been addressed. The approval body shall consider the following factors, where applicable, in making 
the above finding: 
(A) Saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic; 
(B) Runoff of surface waters that produce erosion, and silting of drainage ways; 
(C) Subsurface conditions such as the rock strata and faults; 
(D) Nature and type of soil or rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may create earth movements; 
(E) Effect upon the potential for optimum subdivision design; 
(F) Effect upon the visual relationships with other development in the vicinity of the site; 
(G) Appropriateness of the proposed site development for the character of a planned community or planned unit 
development proposal; 
(H) Capability of proposed slopes to be landscaped; 
(I) Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through the proposed grading or 
removal of vegetation; 
(J) The report from the Project Arborist with respect to Protected Trees pursuant to Chapters 27.71 and 13.40; 
(K) Any other considerations arising from any environmental impact report which will eliminate or mitigate 
environmental damage.

--- page 21 ---
Density Bonus request for waivers and reduced development standards (SMMC 27.15.080(b)). 
 
The request to waive or reduce development standards shall be considered by the decision-making body with the 
authority to act on the Covered Project, and shall be subject to the following findings: 
(1) The requested deviations will not conflict with the General Plan; 
(2) The development is of an excellent design quality and is consistent with applicable Design Guidelines; 
(3) The development is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
(4) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity; and 
(5) The project has demonstrated use of all allowable incentives consistent with Government Code Section 65915. 
(Ord. No. 2020-10 § 1.)

--- page 22 ---
PRELIMINARY MIXED-USE DATA FORM 
PA-2022-023 (Bespoke)  
NAME: 407 S. B Street Pre-
Application 
PA: 2022-023 
ADDRESSES:   
401 - 445 South B Street 
LAND AREA:  
Total: 50,600 sf (1.16 ac) 
City owned portion = 16,500 sf 
(0.37ac) 
ZONING: Central Business District with 
Residential Overlay (CBD/R) 
APNs:   
034-179-010, -020, -030, -040, -050, -
060 
FLOOR AREA: 
Existing total floor area:   
 
Building 1:  
    Ground floor (service, lobby): 
    Upper floors (residential): 
    Building 1 Subtotal:  
Building 2: 
    Ground floor (retail & office): 
    Upper floors (office): 
    Building 2 Subtotal:  
Underground garage: 
    (Fully subterranean & not 
counted toward FAR) 
 
TOTAL: 
PROPOSED 
~42,722 sf 
 
 
~11,637 sf 
~54,948 sf 
~66,585 sf 
 
~34,653 sf 
~126,727 sf 
~161,380 sf 
 
Not shown 
 
 
~227,965 sf1 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
151,800 sf 
F.A.R.: 
~4.52 
Up to 3.0 per zoning code.  
BLDG. HEIGHT (measured from 
existing grade to top of plate3): 
  Building 1 
  Building 2 
 
 
Approx. 76’ to top of plate  
Approx. 74’ to top of plate, with 
mechanical penthouse above (at 85’) 4 
 
 
Maximum of 55 ft, or up to75 ft with 
provision of public benefit. 
STORIES: 
  Building 1 
  Building 2 
 
7 stories 
5 stories 
 
Limited by overall Building Height. 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
51.72 du/ac 
 
50 du/acre, or 75 du/acre with 
provision of public benefit, or 
unlimited density bonus per State 
Density Bonus Law. 
UNITS: 
 
58 base units, plus 3.45% Density Bonus 
(or 2 units) = 60 du 
1.16 acres at 50 du/acre = 58 units 
 
UNIT TYPE 
Studio 
1-bedroom 
2-bedroom 
3+- bedroom 
 
NO. 
13 
13 
17 
17 
Total: 60 
PROPOSED SIZE 
410 – 409 sf 
5125 – 654 sf 
760 – 852 sf 
1,120 – 1,229 sf 
 
MINIMUM SIZE 
Subject to R3 dwelling size standards:  
Studio w/ kitchen = 350 ft 
One-bed w/ kit = 540 sf 
Two-bed w/ kit = 750 sf 
Three-bed = 960 sf 
SETBACKS: 
Front (S. B St): 
Left Side (E. Fourth Ave): 
Right Side (E. Fifth Ave): 
Rear (Railroad Ave):   
PROPOSED 
0 
0 
0 
0 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
1   Floor area calculations are needed in order to verify. 
2   Applicant’s Density Bonus Request Letter includes additional FAR. 
3   Building height as measured from existing grade to top of plate are needed in order to verify. 
4   Applicant’s Density Bonus Request Letter includes additional height for mechanical penthouse.  
5   Applicant’s Density Bonus Request Letter includes substandard unit size for one (1) one-bedroom unit [Unit Type A1.1].

--- page 23 ---
BICYCLE PARKING: 
PROPOSED 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
  Short-term (visitor) racks: 
 
 
 
Not shown 
Retail (1 per 2,000 sf): 2.72 
Office (1 per 20,000 sf): 1.81 
Residential: 5.55 
Total Short term: 10.08 racks 
 
 Long-term facility: 
 
 
 
 
Not shown 
Retail (1 per 12,000 sf): 0.45 
Office (1 per 10,000 sf): 3.64 
Residential = 72.75 
Total Long-term facility: 76.84 spaces 
PARKING: 
Employee Parking: 
Retail use: 
General Office use: 
Service use:  
Visitor Parking: 
 
 
 
 
PROVIDED 
 
 
 
 
128 spaces 6 
 
 
Visitor stall locations and dimensions 
needed to verify code compliance.7 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
1.9 spaces/1,000 gsf 
2.6 spaces/1,000 gsf 
TBD 
0.2 visitor spaces/1,000 gsf 
TBD 
 
Limited Parking Zone (Non-
residential) – parking above required 
visitor parking, may be allowed on-
site subject to SUP8 
PARKING (continued): 
  Residential Parking: 
  Residential Visitor Parking: 
   
 Total:  
PROVIDED 
37 spaces 
Visitor spaces shared with non-
residential uses. 
37 spaces 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
Municipal Code: 115 spaces 
Density Bonus Code9: 30 spaces 
ERNA: 37 spaces 
 
REQUIRED ON-SITE PARKING 
SPACES TO BE MET THROUGH 
PAYMENT OF CPID PARKING IN-
LIEU FEE: 
 
 
Not shown. 
Approx. one-third of project site is 
located in LPZ. For required parking 
for non-residential uses may be met 
through payment of parking in-lieu 
fee subject to availability within 
CPID.10 
EXISTING ON-STREET SPACES: 
Existing spaces: 
On-street Replacement spaces: 
On-Site Replacement spaces: 
In-Lieu Fee spaces:   
 
Not shown. 
Not shown. 
Not shown. 
Not shown. 
 
Municode code requires replacement 
of lost public parking space. 11 
COVERED PARKING FOR 
RESIDENTIAL: 
PROVIDED 
37 covered spaces  
 
 
REQUIRED 
Municipal Code: 30 spaces 
(1 covered stall/unit) 
Density Bonus Code: None. 
 
6   Floor area calculation needed to verify parking requirements. Alternative parking requirement may be established 
through project specific Parking Demand Study. 
7   A portion of project site is located in LPZ area, location of visitor stalls should be located outside LPZ area to meet code 
or request SUP, if findings can be made. (SMMC 27.64.100) 
8   In LPZ area, parking may be located on-site through an approved SUP that meets one of the following: 1) has primary 
access from a street outside LPZ, or 2) parcel is located on a corner site with minimum lot area of 22,000 sf, or the project 
site is a minimum of one-half of the block, whichever is less. (SMMC 27.64.100) 
9   Density Bonus parking ratio is 0.5 spaces per unit. 
10  Proposed projects, with non-residential uses that are located within the LPZ area of the CPID, have the option to pay 
the In-Lieu fee for required parking that is not provided on-site; subject to availability within the CPID. (SMMC 
27.64.100(a)(4)(D)) 
11  Public parking spaces that are removed due to a development are required to be replaced on-site, elsewhere on-street 
or through payment of an in-lieu fee for each lost parking spaces. (SMMC 27.64.100)

--- page 24 ---
AUTOMATED/MECHANICAL 
PARKING: 
 
 
Residential = 36 spaces, stall 
dimensions not shown. 
 
Office = “possible stacker location”, 
number of spaces and stall dimensions 
not shown. 
 
 
Requires SUP or Variance; and must 
meet mechanical parking stall 
standards; or be a Density Bonus 
request. 
LOADING ZONE: 
 
On-Site: 
On-Street:  
 
PROVIDED 
 
None provided on-site. 
Plans indicate a note for an on-street 
loading zone on S. B Street; but 
dimensions not shown. 12  
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
Retail (5K - 12K sf = 1; 12K – 25K sf = 
2): 1 – 2 spaces  
Office (50K-100K of sf): 1 space 
Residential (50+ units): 1 space 
Service: none 
Total: 3 - 4 (10’X25’) spaces 
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING: 
- 
Not applicable, no surface parking. 
FLOOD ZONE: 
- 
Not within flood zone. 
STREET WALL: 
Does not meet.  
45 degree from midpoint of public 
right-of-way 
OPEN SPACE: 
  Non-residential Open Space: 
 
 
 
 
 
  Residential Open Space:  
 
 
 
 
PROPOSED 
~7,660 sf (common area in 4th floor 
terrace); however, dimensions not 
shown. 13 
 
 
 
~2,198.48 sf (of Common Useable Open 
Space in 2nd floor terrace), does not 
meet requirement.  
 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
Non-residential14:  
Building 1 (service) = 1% of 11,637 sf 
= 116.37 sf  
Building 2 (commercial & office) =  
1% of 161,380 sf = 1,614 sf 
 
Residential15:  
Cumulative Private Open Space = 
4,800 sf 
Private Usable Open Space (w/o any 
private) = 7,200 sf 
BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK: 
Yes, meets build to line; however, does 
not meet street wall height limit. 
 
 
 
 
Dimension and % not shown.  
 
 
 
 
[SMMC 27.38.100 (a)] – build to 
property line to a minimum of 26 ft 
and up to maximum street wall 
height, except where set back is 
required for ground floor open space. 
 
[SMMC 27.38.100 (b)] Along Streets 
with Required Retail Frontages 
(Fourth Ave & S. B Street): Up to 25% 
of building line may be set back from 
property line to provide for additional 
 
12  Floor area calculation is not shown and is needed to verify required number of on-site loading spaces. Applicant may 
request SPAR or Variance to remove the requirement to provide loading on the project site; and a separate request is 
required for any proposed loading zone on a public street (or public right-of-way (ROW)). 
13  Open space dimensions are not shown. Appears to meet non-residential open space requirements; however, project 
would need to subtract areas that are entrances to building. 
14  Open space requirement for non-residential: 1% of floor area; no requirement for open space if resulting open space is 
less than 200 sf. Minimum width of 25 ft along sidewalk. 50% of open space area shall be unshaded between noon and 2 
pm at spring and fall equinox, except if shaded by existing building. Open space shall include public use facilities. (SMMC 
27.38.090) 
15  Residential Overlay code for /R refers to R5-D open space requirements (SMMC 27.28.062 (b)): Private Usable Open 
Space = at least 80 sf per unit (or 4,800 sf), at least 75 sf & 6’ in each direction; or Common Usable Open Space = at least 
150% of Private Usable Open Space Requirements (or 7,200 sf), at least 300 sf & 15’ in each direction; or “a proportional 
combination of both of the above”.

--- page 25 ---
Not requested at this time. 
 
 
 
 
open space (above base 
requirement). 
 
Non-Required Retail Frontage (Fifth 
Ave & Railroad Ave): Up to 40% of 
building line may be set back to 
provide for additional open space 
(above base requirement).  
 
BUILDING HEIGHT AND BULK:   
  Diagonal Dimension for 
Buildings/Structures with Heights 
above 55 ft and up to 75 ft  
 
Building 1: not met. 
Building 2: not met. 
 
 
SMMC 27.40.030(1) – Above 55 ft, 
maximum building dimension of 150 
lineal feet and maximum diagonal 
dimension of 170 lineal feet. 
REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE: 
 
 
Required Retail Frontage streets: 
Fourth Ave & S. B St 
  View of Interiors 
 
South B Street = Yes 
Fourth Ave = Yes 
Fourth Ave & S. B St: Minimum 75% 
devoted to entrances & windows 
  Ground Floor Entries to Other 
Uses 
 
S. B St: Approx 28 ft (24.6%) 
Fourth Ave: Does not appear to meet. 16 
Fourth Ave & S. B St: Up to 25% for 
entrances to uses other than 
permitted uses in Required Retail 
  Second Floor Offices 
 
 
 
Fourth Ave: appears to meet 
requirement. 
S. B St: ground floor “flex space” does 
not meet requirement. 
Fourth Ave & S. B St: Offices 
permitted on second floor only if 
ground floor is occupied by one of 
the permitted uses in Required Retail 
LOT COVERAGE: 
Yes.  
Up to 100% 
COMMENTS: 
• Conceptual plans do not contain level of detail necessary to verify code compliance. Preliminary data sheet is 
subject to change based upon submittal and review of detailed plans during the formal planning application 
phase.  
• Land Use: Downtown Retail Core 
• Archaeological: Site is located in high sensitivity area 
• Historical: buildings over 50 yrs old.  
• Noise – Site is located in area of high noise due to proximity to Caltrain railroad, it is unclear whether residential 
open space area would meet Noise Element thresholds.  
• Tree – Removal of on-site & street trees proposed, would require planting of new trees or in-lieu fee payment.  
• Grading: Yes, underground garage. Phase I and Soils Report would be required. 
• Garage entrance: Prohibited on 4th and S. B Street, may be located on Railroad Ave or 5th Ave, proposed to be 
located on Railroad Ave.  
• Parking Demand Study for non-residential uses - requested by applicant. 
• Traffic/VMT/TDM: Based on trip generation, analysis of garage circulation and nearby local intersections as per 
TIA/VMT guidelines.  
• Easements – To be verified during formal planning application.  
 
 
 
 
 
16  On Fourth Ave, the entrances to service use, residential lobby and shared trash room does not appear to meet 
Required Retail Frontage.

--- page 26 ---
ADDRESS OF PROJECT:
COMMERCIAL:
401-445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
RESIDENTIAL
307 E 4TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER:
034-179-010, 034-179-020, 034-179-030, 034-179-040, 034-179-050, 034-179-060
EXISTING ZONING DISTRICT:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD/R)
2009 DOWNTOWN PLAN AREA:
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE
LOT SIZE (SQ. FT.):
+/- 50,600 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
3.0
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA:
151,800 SQ. FT. (3.0 FAR)
FRONT SETBACK:
NONE
SIDE SETBACK:
NONE
REAR SETBACK:
NONE
PARKING ZONE:
CPID LIMITED PARKING ZONE (LPZ)
REQUIRED (SMMC 27.64.100)
RETAIL (1.9/1,000):
23 STALLS
OFFICE (2.6/1,000):
374 STALLS
RESIDENTIAL (0.5/UNIT):
30 STALLS
PROVIDED
COMMERCIAL: 
91
RESIDENTIAL:
37 (+/- 0.7/UNIT)
TOTAL:
128
BIKE PARKING
SHORT TERM REQ'D - OFFICE (1/20,000 SF):
8
SHORT TERM REQ'D - RETAIL (1/2,000 SF):
6
LONG TERM REQ'D - OFFICE (1/10,000 SF):
15
LONG TERM REQ'D - RETAIL (1/12,000 SF):
1
PROVIDED SHORT TERM:
14
PROVIDED LONG TERM:
28
PROJECT SITE
PROPOSED BUILDING AREA PER SMMC 27.04.200:
COMMERCIAL:
1ST FLOOR
34,653
RESIDENTIAL: 
1ST FLOOR
11,637
2ND FLOOR
32,502
2ND FLOOR
9,158
3RD FLOOR
32,246 
3RD FLOOR
9,158 
4TH FLOOR
28,149
4TH FLOOR
9,158
5TH FLOOR
28,149
5TH FLOOR
9,158
PENTHOUSE 5,681
6TH FLOOR
9,158
7TH FLOOR 9,158
TOTAL:
227,965 SF (4.5 FAR, INCREASED BY
 CA STATE DENSITY LAWS)
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/24/2022 4:13:14 PM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.1
COVER SHEET
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
GENERAL INFORMATION
PROPOSED BUILDING DATA
PARKING CALCULATIONS
VICINITY MAP
R ISSUED FOR REFERENCE ONLY
X ISSUED AS PART OF THIS SET
ISSUE LOG KEY:
SHEET #
SHEET NAME
PREAPPLICATION
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL
ISSUE #3
ISSUE #4
ISSUE #5
REMARKS
ARCHITECTURAL
A0.1
COVER SHEET
X
X
A0.2
PROJECT INFORMATION
X
X
A0.3
BASEMENT AND FIRST FLOOR CODE PLANS
X
X
A0.4
SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR CODE PLANS
X
X
A0.5
FOURTH AND FIFTH FLOOR CODE PLANS
X
X
A0.6
RENDERINGS
X
X
A0.7
RENDERINGS
X
X
A0.8
RENDERINGS
X
X
A0.9
RENDERINGS
X
X
A0.10
RENDERINGS
X
X
A0.11
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
X
X
A1.0
EXISTING SITE PLAN
X
X
A1.1
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
X
X
A2.0
BASEMENT PLAN
X
X
A2.1
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
X
X
A2.2
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
X
X
A2.3
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
X
X
A2.4
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
X
X
A2.5
FIFTH FLOOR PLAN
X
X
A2.6
ROOF PLAN
X
X
A3.0
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
X
X
A3.1
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
X
X
A4.0
BUILDING SECTIONS
X
X
CIVIL
C1.00
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
X
C2.00
CONCEPT GRADING AND DRAINAGE
X
X
C2.50
CONCEPT UTILITIES
X
X
C3.00
CONCEPT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
X
X
LANDSCAPE
L.1.0
LANDSCAPE PLAN, GROUND LEVEL
X
X
L.1.1
LANDSCAPE PLAN - DIAMGRAMS, 2ND, 3RD, 4TH & 5TH FLOORS
X
X
L.1.2
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAMS
X
X
L.2.0
ILLUSTRATIVE RENDERINGS
X
X
L.2.1
ILLUSTRATIVE RENDERINGS
X
X
RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECTURAL
AR0.01
PROJECT INFORMATION
X
X
AR1.00
SITE PLAN
X
X
AR2.01
FLOOR 1
X
X
AR2.02
FLOOR 2
X
X
AR2.03
FLOORS 3-7
X
X
AR3.00
BLOCK ELEVATIONS
X
X
AR3.01
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
AR3.02
PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
X
AR3.10
MATERIAL BOARD
X
X
AR3.20
BUILDING SECTIONS
X
X
AR3.21
STREET WALL SECTION EXHIBITS
X
X
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE
LR1.0
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 2 AMENITY TERRACE
X
X
LR2.0
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS LEVEL 2 TERRACE
X
X
SHEET TOTAL: 45
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
PRE-APPLICATION PLANNING SUBMISSION FOR:
4TH & B 
401-445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
SHEET INDEX
4TH & RAILROAD
307 E 4TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PRE-APPLICATION PLANNING SUBMISSION FOR:
2
2
02/10/2022
06/10/2022

--- page 27 ---
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (TITLE 24), EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2020:
• PART 1 - CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
• PART 2 - CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE, VOLUMES 1 AND 2
• PART 2.5 - CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE
• PART 3 - CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
• PART 4 - CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
• PART 5 - CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
• PART 6 - CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
• PART 7 –VACANT/ NOT USED
• PART 8 - CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
• PART 9 - CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
• PART 10 - CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE
• PART 11 - CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (CALGREEN CODE)
• PART 12 - CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
• CAL/ OSHA – TITLE 8, 2019 ELEVATOR SAFETY CODE
• STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND DETAILS AND OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS ISSUED BY AGENCIES HAVING JURISDICTION
OVER THE PROJECT.
• THE WORK SHALL MEET OR EXCEED THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODES ND REGULATIONS LISTED ABOVE, NCLUDING
SUPPLEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS IN EFFECT AT THE TIME THE DOCUMENTS WERE ISSUED
NOTES:
1.
REQUIREMENTS PER 2019 CPC TABLE 422.1.
2.
SQUARE FEET AREAS SHOWN ARE USABLE SPACES LESS ACCESSORY AREAS (HALLWAYS, RESTROOMS, STAIR
ENCLOSURE, UTILITY ROOMS AND STORAGE ..) PER CPC TABLE A EXCEPTION
3.
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTORS:
A.
ASSEMBLY; A2
30 SF
B.
OFFICE; B
200 SF
FIXTURES REQUIRED
WOMEN
MEN
DF
OCC 
(M/W)
AREA
OCC
GROUP
LEVEL
FIXTURES REQUIRED TOTAL
4 WC / 2 LAVS
2 WC / 1 UR / 2 LAVS
2
FLR 3
81/81
32,248 SF
B
FLR 4
70/70
27,970 SF
B
1
LOAD 
FACTOR
200
392/392
8
22 WC / 11 LAVS 11 WC / 6 UR / 8 LAVS
4 WC / 2 LAVS
2 WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
FIXTURES PROVIDED
8
22 WC / 11 LAVS 11 WC / 6 UR / 8 LAVS
4.
CPC 2016 - 422.0 - 3  THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS FOR FEMALES SHALL BE NOT LESS
THAN THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS AND URINALS FOR MALES. [BSC] THIS
REQUIREMENT SHALL NOT APPLY WHEN SINGLE OCCUPANCY TOILET FACILITIES ARE PROVIDED FOR EACH
SEX IN AN A OR E OCCUPANCY WITH AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF LESS THAN 50. EITHER THE REQUIRED URINAL
SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BE OMITTED OR IF INSTALLED, THE URINAL SHALL NOT REQUIRE A SECOND WATER
CLOSET TO BE PROVIDED FOR THE FEMALE.
5.
RESTROOMS ARE PROVIDED AS SINGLE-OCCUPANT FACILITIES. 50% ARE PROVIDED AS ACCESSIBLE.
4 WC / 2 LAVS
2 WC / 1 UR / 2 LAVS
2
FLR 2
82/82
32,502 SF
B
4 WC / 2 LAVS
2 WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
1
FLR 1
29/29
11,509 SF
M
200
200
200
1
FLR 1
60/60
23,636 SF
B
200
2 WC / 1 LAVS
1 WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
FLR 4
70/70
27,630 SF
B
1
200
4 WC / 2 LAVS
2 WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
PROJECT SITE
THIS SET OF DRAWINGS IS FOR A NEW 5-STORY + BASEMENT MASS TIMBER OFFICE BUILDING OF APPROXIMATELY 155,835 SF 
AT THE INTERSECTION OF S. B STREET AND 4TH AVENUE IN THE DOWNTOWN CORE OF SAN MATEO, CA. THIS PROJECT 
INCLUDES ON- AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDING GROUND-LEVEL AND TERRACE LANDSCAPING, A CORNER RETAIL 
PLAZA, AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS.
NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION WILL PURSUE USGBC LEED GOLD STANDARDS, AND WILL BE IN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH 
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE. THE BUILDING IS ALSO EXPECTED TO RUN ON ALL-ELECTRIC SYSTEMS WITH A 
POTENTIAL EXCEPTION FOR A FUTURE RESTAURANT TENANT.
BUILDING HEIGHT (FT.):
75' - 0"
NUMBER OF STORIES:
BASEMENT + 5 LEVELS ABOVE GRADE
OCCUPANCY TYPE: 
B, M
CONSTRUCTION TYPE (ASSUMES MASS TIMBER):
III-B (CBC TABLE 503, 506, 601)
(MAY CHANGE IF MATERALS CHANGE)
NOTE: 
PROPOSED BUILDING TO BE FULLY SPRINKLERED. BASE FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM TO MEET NFPA13 REQUIREMENTS
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:09 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.2
PROJECT
INFORMATION
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
PROPOSED BUILDING DATA
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS
VICINITY MAP
OWNER
DTSM TALBOTS VENTURE, LLC
180 GRAND AVENUE, SUITE 1400
OAKLAND, CA 94612
PH: 510.466.1485
PRESTON O'CONNELL - PARTNER
ARCHITECT
RMW ARCHITECTURE & INTERIORS
30 E. SANTA CLARA STREET, SUITE 200
SAN JOSE, CA 95113
PH: 415.781.9800
RUSS NICHOLS - PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURAL
DCI ENGINEERS
135 MAIN STREET, SUITE 1800
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
PH: 415.781.1505
JEFF BRINK - PRINCIPAL
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
CIVIL
SHERWOOD DESIGN ENGINEERS
2548 MISSION STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
PH: 415.677.7300
ELIZABETH LO - SR. PROJECT MANAGER
LANDSCAPE 
PLACE
735 NW 18TH AVENUE
PORTLAND, OR 97209
PH: 503.334.2080
CHARLES BRUCKER - PRINCIPAL
MECHANICAL - ELECTRICAL - PLUMBING
PAE ENGINEERS
48 GOLDEN GATE AVENUE
SAN FRANCISCO, CA  94102
PH: 415.544.7500
MOANA REYNAU - SR. ASSOCIATE
PROJECT TEAM
4TH & B
401-445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

--- page 28 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
UP
UP
UP
295' - 7 9/16"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
235' - 8"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4 1/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
312' - 8 1/2"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
142' - 2"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1/
1641 SF
RETAIL 2
M
57
50
2
1/
2144 SF
RETAIL 3
M
43
50
1
1/
2444 SF
RETAIL 4
M
49
50
1
1/
1780 SF
OFFICE
LOBBY
A3
119
15
2
1/
4086 SF
RETAIL 5
B
41
100
1
1/
13554 SF
OFFICE
B
139
100
2
1/
1556 SF
ELECTRICAL
ROOM
B
6
300
1
1/
262 SF
TRANSFORMER
ROOM
B
4
300
1
1/
262 SF
TRANSFORMER
ROOM
B
4
300
1
1/
233 SF
STAIR 3
B
3
100
1
1/
1142 SF
TRASH
ROOM
B
6
300
1
1/
393 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
301 SF
BIKE
STORAGE
B
4
100
1
1/
820 SF
HALL
B
11
100
1
1/
234 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1/
234 SF
GARAGE
STAIR
B
3
100
1
1/
587 SF
RESTROOMS
B
6
100
1
47
8"
48"
OPENING
47
8"
48"
OPENING
14
2"
60"
OPENING
14
2"
60"
OPENING
14
2"
60"
OPENING
97
15"
48"
OPENING
97
15"
48"
OPENING
49
7"
60"
OPENING
43
6"
60"
OPENING
57
9"
48"
OPENING
35
5"
48"
OPENING
1/
1768 SF
RETAIL 1
M
35
50
1
2
PATH OF EGRESS ROUTE
MAX DIAGONAL DISTANCE
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION, CBC SECTION 1007.1.1, EXCEPTION 2
ILLUMINATED EXIT SIGN WITH 
DIRECTIONAL ARROWS (WHERE 
SHOWN)
1/
OFFICE
Occupancy
15
150 SF
100
1
ROOM TYPE
OCCUPANCY TYPE
CODE ROOM TAG
LOAD FACTOR
ROOM AREA
NO. OF REQD EXITS
CALCULATED OCCUPANCY LOAD
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT WITH ADA COMPLIANT SIGNAGE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET - RECESSED MOUNTED, UON
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SEPARATION  - ACCESS RADIUS 
RANGE OF 75" MAXIMUM
NTS
R = 75'
1 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL, (MAX 100 FEET PER CBC 
TBL1006.3.2(2)
REQUIRED POINT OF EGRESS
E
ER
ESD
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT ROUTE" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:   " EXIT STAIR DOWN" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
171
26"
72"
OPENING OR  STAIR (WHERE INDICATED)
OCC LOAD SERVED
REQD WIDTH
PROVIDED WIDTH
[PH]
PANIC HARDWARE REQUIRED FOR  NON-RATED DOORS
[PHR]
PANIC HARDWARE - RATED REQUIRED FOR RATED DOORS
AE
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE ROUTE (MAX 300 FEET 
PER CBC TBL 1017.2)
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
(SEE EXIT WIDTH CALCS AT POINT OF EGRESS CHART)
OP-XX
CR
ELECTRONIC CARD READER DEVICE
TI AREA NON-RATED
NEW PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
1 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
2 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPES
TRAVEL ROUTE AND DISTANCE TO NEAREST FEC (MAX 75')
EXIT ROUTE SIGNAGE
A
B
C
OCCUPANT LOAD SIGN TO BE MINIMUM 8-1/2 “X 11” WITH CONTRASTING 
BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS NOT LESS THAN 3/4” HIGH AND 1/16” STROKE. 
SIGN SHALL INDICATE USE OF ROOM AND ADDRESS OF OCCUPANCY 
D
2 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
TOTAL STAIR WIDTH
TOTAL EGRESS WIDTH
FACTOR = 0.15
FACTOR = 0.2
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXITS
OCCUPANT LOAD
LEVEL
REQUIRED
463 OCC
BASEMENT
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
70"
108"
93"
180"
3
3
NOTES:
1.
CALCULATIONS IN THIS TABLE ARE BASED ON 2019 CBC SECTION 1005.3 
2.
EGRESS WIDTHS BASED ON CBC SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2
3.
EGRESS WIDTH MEETS CBC SECTION 1005.5 FOR DISTRIBUTION OF MINIMUM WIDTH AND REQUIRED CAPACITY
474 OCC
FLR 1
72"
72"
95"
120"
3
3
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
10 SPACES
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
HC
HC
HC
C
C
C
HC
C
C
C
C
C
C
HC
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
83 COMMERCIAL SPACES
POSSIBLE STACKER LOCATION
1/
35307 SF
OPEN
PARKING
B
459
100
3
1/
424 SF
MPOE
B
2
300
1
1/
224 SF
STAIR
B
3
100
1
1/
451 SF
PLUMBING
WATER
ROOM
B
2
300
1
1/
232 SF
STAIR
B
3
100
1
1/
213 SF
STAIR
B
3
100
1
155
24"
36"
OPENING
155
31"
60"
STAIR
155
24"
36"
OPENING
155
31"
60"
STAIR
155
24"
36"
OPENING
155
31"
60"
STAIR
26 SPACES
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 10:16:08 AM
As indicated
A0.3
BASEMENT AND FIRST
FLOOR CODE PLANS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
LEVEL 1 CODE PLAN
OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATION
EXIT WIDTH CALCULATION
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
KEYNOTES
1. 
SHEET NOTES AND KEY NOTES ARE FOR THE C+S SCOPE OF WORK AND ARE SPECIFIC TO THIS SHEET ONLY, UON
THE ITEMS BELOW ARE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY. ALL 2019 CBC REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE ADHERED TO.
2. 
THE OCCUPANCIES FOR THE TENANT SPACES WERE CALCULATED PER CBC TABLE 1004.1.2.
3. 
REQUIRED EXITS ARE PLACED AT LEAST 1/3 THE CALCULATED DISTANCE FROM THE FARTHEST POINTS OF THE NEW 
SPACE. (CBC SECTION 1007.1.1 EXCEPTION 2).
4. 
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE IS 250'-0" FOR A OCCUPANCY AND 300'-0" FOR B OCCUPANCY; CBC TABLE 1017.2.
5. 
EGRESS WIDTH CALCULATIONS FOR OPENINGS AND STAIRS IS BASEB UPON CBC, SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2. 
6. 
EXCEPTION 1
- EXIT OPENING WIDTH FACTOR  = 0.15 X OCCUPANT LOAD
- STAIR WIDTH FACTOR 
    = 0.2 X OCCUPANT LOAD
7. 
EGRESS WIDTH AND EXIT COMPONENTS IS BASED UPON CBC SECTION 1005.3.
8. 
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED EXITS IS BASED UPON CBC TABLE 1006.2.1.
9. 
REFER TO DOOR SCHEDULE FOR DOOR AND FRAME TYPES, RATINGS, SIZE AND HARDWARE TYPES.
10. 
ALL DOORS SHALL HAVE CLEAR WIDTH NOT LESS LESS THAN 32" PER CBC SECTION 1010.1.1, UON.
11. 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR C+S SCOPE OR WORK. LOCATE A MAXIMUM OF 75 FEET FROM ANY 
12. 
LOCATION WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA AND 100 FEET BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL FEC UNITS; 3,000 SF PER CABINET. LOCATE 
UNITS WHERE SHOWN OR AS DIRECTED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CBC 
SECTION 906 AND TABLE 906.3.1. FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO BE MOUNTED ON FREE STANDING PEDESTALS. LARSEN'S MP5 WITH RATING 2A 10B:C, 5 LBS CAPACITY.
13. 
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-703 FOR SIGNAGE.
14. 
PROVIDE SYMBOL OF ACCESSIBILITY AT FRONT ENTRANCE.
15. 
PROVIDE STAIRWELL TACTILE EXIT SIGNAGE PER CODE REQUIREMENT.  REFER TO TACTILE SIGNAGE NOTES (2019 CBC
SECTION 1023.9 AND 11B-504.8). REFER TO ENLARGED STAIR PLANS.
16. 
ALL INTERIOR TACTILE EGRESS SIGNAGE TO BE PROVIDE DURING FUTURE TI PHASE.
17. 
ALL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND ROOMS CONTAINING CONTROLS FOR AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, SPRINKLER
RISERS AND VALVES, OR OTHER SUPPRESSION OR CONTROL ELEMENTS SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY APPROVED SIGNAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PER SECTION 509, 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE. COORDINATE SIGNAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS WITH LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL JURISDICTION.
18. 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
19. 
THE MAXIMUM REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION IS BASED UPON CBC, SECTION 1007.1.
20. 
RESTROOM FIXTURE CALCULATION BASED UPON 2019 CPC CODE:
A.   REQUIREMENTS PER 1029 CPC TABLE 422.1.
B.   AREA SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN INCLUDES USABLE SPACES, LESS ACCESSORY AREAS, (HALLWAYS, CIRCULATION, 
      RESTROOM, STAIR ENCLOSURE, UTILITY/STORAGE ROOMS, PER TABLE A EXCEPTION.
C.  OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS USED INCLUDE:
     -    ASSEMBLY: A2, A3 = 1/30
     -    BUSINESS: B = 1/200
21. 
ALL REQUIRED OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS FOR THE FUTURE MIXED OCCUPANCY ZONES TO BE DETERMINED DURING THE 
FUTURE TI SCOPE OF WORK.
KEY NOTE SYMBOL USED ON DRAWINGS
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 1
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
BIKE STORAGE
B
301 SF
100
4
ELECTRICAL ROOM
B
1556 SF
300
6
OFFICE
B
13554 SF
100
136
OFFICE LOBBY
A3
1780 SF
15
119
RESTROOMS
B
587 SF
100
6
RETAIL 1
M
1768 SF
RETAIL 2
M
1641 SF
50
33
RETAIL 3
M
2144 SF
50
43
RETAIL 4
M
2444 SF
50
49
RETAIL 5
B
4086 SF
100
41
TRANSFORMER ROOM
B
262 SF
300
1
TRANSFORMER ROOM
B
262 SF
300
1
TRASH ROOM
B
1142 SF
300
4
31529 SF
443
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
BASEMENT CODE PLAN
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Basement
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
MPOE
B
424 SF
300
2
OPEN PARKING
B
35307 SF
100
354
PLUMBING WATER
ROOM
B
451 SF
300
2
36182 SF
358

--- page 29 ---
22' - 4"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4 1/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
UP
295' - 7 9/16"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
121' - 7"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
295' - 7 9/16"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
121' - 7"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
PATH OF EGRESS ROUTE
MAX DIAGONAL DISTANCE
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION, CBC SECTION 1007.1.1, EXCEPTION 2
ILLUMINATED EXIT SIGN WITH 
DIRECTIONAL ARROWS (WHERE 
SHOWN)
1/
OFFICE
Occupancy
15
150 SF
100
1
ROOM TYPE
OCCUPANCY TYPE
CODE ROOM TAG
LOAD FACTOR
ROOM AREA
NO. OF REQD EXITS
CALCULATED OCCUPANCY LOAD
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT WITH ADA COMPLIANT SIGNAGE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET - RECESSED MOUNTED, UON
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SEPARATION  - ACCESS RADIUS 
RANGE OF 75" MAXIMUM
NTS
R = 75'
1 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL, (MAX 100 FEET PER CBC 
TBL1006.3.2(2)
REQUIRED POINT OF EGRESS
E
ER
ESD
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT ROUTE" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:   " EXIT STAIR DOWN" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
171
26"
72"
OPENING OR  STAIR (WHERE INDICATED)
OCC LOAD SERVED
REQD WIDTH
PROVIDED WIDTH
[PH]
PANIC HARDWARE REQUIRED FOR  NON-RATED DOORS
[PHR]
PANIC HARDWARE - RATED REQUIRED FOR RATED DOORS
AE
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE ROUTE (MAX 300 FEET 
PER CBC TBL 1017.2)
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
(SEE EXIT WIDTH CALCS AT POINT OF EGRESS CHART)
OP-XX
CR
ELECTRONIC CARD READER DEVICE
TI AREA NON-RATED
NEW PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
1 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
2 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPES
TRAVEL ROUTE AND DISTANCE TO NEAREST FEC (MAX 75')
EXIT ROUTE SIGNAGE
A
B
C
OCCUPANT LOAD SIGN TO BE MINIMUM 8-1/2 “X 11” WITH CONTRASTING 
BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS NOT LESS THAN 3/4” HIGH AND 1/16” STROKE. 
SIGN SHALL INDICATE USE OF ROOM AND ADDRESS OF OCCUPANCY 
D
2 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
OPEN TO BELOW
1/
31169 SF
OFFICE
B
311
100
3
1/
232 SF
STAIR 3
B
3
100
1
1/
235 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
234 SF
STAIR 2
B
1
100
1
1/
453 SF
RESTROOM
B
5
100
1
ELEVATOR LOBBY
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
106
16"
36"
OPENING
106
21"
60"
STAIR
106
16"
36"
OPENING
106
21"
60"
STAIR
106
16"
36"
OPENING
106
21"
60"
STAIR
2
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1/
235 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
232 SF
STAIR 3
B
3
100
1
1/
234 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
1/
30944 SF
OFFICE
B
309
100
3
1/
453 SF
RESTROOM
B
5
100
1
ELEVATOR LOBBY
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
105
16"
36"
OPENING
105
21"
60"
STAIR
105
16"
36"
OPENING
105
21"
60"
STAIR
105
16"
36"
OPENING
105
21"
60"
STAIR
2
TOTAL STAIR WIDTH
TOTAL EGRESS WIDTH
FACTOR = 0.15
FACTOR = 0.2
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXITS
OCCUPANT LOAD
LEVEL
REQUIRED
316 OCC
FLR 2
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
48"
108"
63"
180"
3
3
NOTES:
1.
CALCULATIONS IN THIS TABLE ARE BASED ON 2019 CBC SECTION 1005.3 
2.
EGRESS WIDTHS BASED ON CBC SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2
3.
EGRESS WIDTH MEETS CBC SECTION 1005.5 FOR DISTRIBUTION OF MINIMUM WIDTH AND REQUIRED CAPACITY
314 OCC
FLR 3
48"
108"
63"
180"
3
3
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:17 AM
As indicated
A0.4
SECOND AND THIRD
FLOOR CODE PLANS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATION
EXIT WIDTH CALCULATION
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
KEYNOTES
1. 
SHEET NOTES AND KEY NOTES ARE FOR THE C+S SCOPE OF WORK AND ARE SPECIFIC TO THIS SHEET ONLY, UON
THE ITEMS BELOW ARE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY. ALL 2019 CBC REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE ADHERED TO.
2. 
THE OCCUPANCIES FOR THE TENANT SPACES WERE CALCULATED PER CBC TABLE 1004.1.2.
3. 
REQUIRED EXITS ARE PLACED AT LEAST 1/3 THE CALCULATED DISTANCE FROM THE FARTHEST POINTS OF THE NEW 
SPACE. (CBC SECTION 1007.1.1 EXCEPTION 2).
4. 
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE IS 250'-0" FOR A OCCUPANCY AND 300'-0" FOR B OCCUPANCY; CBC TABLE 1017.2.
5. 
EGRESS WIDTH CALCULATIONS FOR OPENINGS AND STAIRS IS BASEB UPON CBC, SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2. 
6. 
EXCEPTION 1
- EXIT OPENING WIDTH FACTOR  = 0.15 X OCCUPANT LOAD
- STAIR WIDTH FACTOR 
    = 0.2 X OCCUPANT LOAD
7. 
EGRESS WIDTH AND EXIT COMPONENTS IS BASED UPON CBC SECTION 1005.3.
8. 
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED EXITS IS BASED UPON CBC TABLE 1006.2.1.
9. 
REFER TO DOOR SCHEDULE FOR DOOR AND FRAME TYPES, RATINGS, SIZE AND HARDWARE TYPES.
10. 
ALL DOORS SHALL HAVE CLEAR WIDTH NOT LESS LESS THAN 32" PER CBC SECTION 1010.1.1, UON.
11. 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR C+S SCOPE OR WORK. LOCATE A MAXIMUM OF 75 FEET FROM ANY 
12. 
LOCATION WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA AND 100 FEET BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL FEC UNITS; 3,000 SF PER CABINET. LOCATE 
UNITS WHERE SHOWN OR AS DIRECTED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CBC 
SECTION 906 AND TABLE 906.3.1. FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO BE MOUNTED ON FREE STANDING PEDESTALS. LARSEN'S MP5 WITH RATING 2A 10B:C, 5 LBS CAPACITY.
13. 
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-703 FOR SIGNAGE.
14. 
PROVIDE SYMBOL OF ACCESSIBILITY AT FRONT ENTRANCE.
15. 
PROVIDE STAIRWELL TACTILE EXIT SIGNAGE PER CODE REQUIREMENT.  REFER TO TACTILE SIGNAGE NOTES (2019 CBC
SECTION 1023.9 AND 11B-504.8). REFER TO ENLARGED STAIR PLANS.
16. 
ALL INTERIOR TACTILE EGRESS SIGNAGE TO BE PROVIDE DURING FUTURE TI PHASE.
17. 
ALL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND ROOMS CONTAINING CONTROLS FOR AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, SPRINKLER
RISERS AND VALVES, OR OTHER SUPPRESSION OR CONTROL ELEMENTS SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY APPROVED SIGNAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PER SECTION 509, 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE. COORDINATE SIGNAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS WITH LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL JURISDICTION.
18. 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
19. 
THE MAXIMUM REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION IS BASED UPON CBC, SECTION 1007.1.
20. 
RESTROOM FIXTURE CALCULATION BASED UPON 2019 CPC CODE:
A.   REQUIREMENTS PER 1029 CPC TABLE 422.1.
B.   AREA SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN INCLUDES USABLE SPACES, LESS ACCESSORY AREAS, (HALLWAYS, CIRCULATION, 
      RESTROOM, STAIR ENCLOSURE, UTILITY/STORAGE ROOMS, PER TABLE A EXCEPTION.
C.  OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS USED INCLUDE:
     -    ASSEMBLY: A2, A3 = 1/30
     -    BUSINESS: B = 1/200
21. 
ALL REQUIRED OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS FOR THE FUTURE MIXED OCCUPANCY ZONES TO BE DETERMINED DURING THE 
FUTURE TI SCOPE OF WORK.
KEY NOTE SYMBOL USED ON DRAWINGS
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 2
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
OFFICE
B
31169 SF
100
312
RESTROOM
B
453 SF
100
5
31622 SF
317
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 2 CODE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
LEVEL 3 CODE PLAN
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 3
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
OFFICE
B
30944 SF
100
310
RESTROOM
B
453 SF
100
5
31397 SF
315

--- page 30 ---
22' - 4"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4 1/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
295' - 7 9/16"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
121' - 7"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
DN
DN
UP
295' - 7 9/16"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
121' - 7"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
PATH OF EGRESS ROUTE
MAX DIAGONAL DISTANCE
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION, CBC SECTION 1007.1.1, EXCEPTION 2
ILLUMINATED EXIT SIGN WITH 
DIRECTIONAL ARROWS (WHERE 
SHOWN)
1/
OFFICE
Occupancy
15
150 SF
100
1
ROOM TYPE
OCCUPANCY TYPE
CODE ROOM TAG
LOAD FACTOR
ROOM AREA
NO. OF REQD EXITS
CALCULATED OCCUPANCY LOAD
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT WITH ADA COMPLIANT SIGNAGE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET - RECESSED MOUNTED, UON
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SEPARATION  - ACCESS RADIUS 
RANGE OF 75" MAXIMUM
NTS
R = 75'
1 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL, (MAX 100 FEET PER CBC 
TBL1006.3.2(2)
REQUIRED POINT OF EGRESS
E
ER
ESD
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT ROUTE" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:   " EXIT STAIR DOWN" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
171
26"
72"
OPENING OR  STAIR (WHERE INDICATED)
OCC LOAD SERVED
REQD WIDTH
PROVIDED WIDTH
[PH]
PANIC HARDWARE REQUIRED FOR  NON-RATED DOORS
[PHR]
PANIC HARDWARE - RATED REQUIRED FOR RATED DOORS
AE
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE ROUTE (MAX 300 FEET 
PER CBC TBL 1017.2)
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
(SEE EXIT WIDTH CALCS AT POINT OF EGRESS CHART)
OP-XX
CR
ELECTRONIC CARD READER DEVICE
TI AREA NON-RATED
NEW PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
1 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
2 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPES
TRAVEL ROUTE AND DISTANCE TO NEAREST FEC (MAX 75')
EXIT ROUTE SIGNAGE
A
B
C
OCCUPANT LOAD SIGN TO BE MINIMUM 8-1/2 “X 11” WITH CONTRASTING 
BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS NOT LESS THAN 3/4” HIGH AND 1/16” STROKE. 
SIGN SHALL INDICATE USE OF ROOM AND ADDRESS OF OCCUPANCY 
D
2 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1/
235 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
234 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
1/
232 SF
STAIR 3
1/
27027 SF
OFFICE
B
269
100
3
1/
453 SF
RESTROOM
B
5
100
1
ELEVATOR LOBBY
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1/
3214 SF
TERRACE
A2
217
15
4
197
30"
36"
OPENING
197
39"
60"
STAIR
197
30"
36"
OPENING
197
39"
60"
STAIR
197
30"
36"
OPENING
164
39"
60"
STAIR
1/
844 SF
TERRACE
A2
57
15
2
1/
667 SF
TERRACE
A2
45
15
1
2
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
501
STAIR 1
502
STAIR 2
503
STAIR 3
504
OFFICE
505
RESTROOM
506
ELEVATOR LOBBY
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1/
1061 SF
TERRACE
A2
71
15
2
1/
841 SF
TERRACE
A2
56
15
2
134
20"
36"
OPENING
134
27"
60"
STAIR
134
20"
36"
OPENING
134
27"
60"
STAIR
134
20"
36"
OPENING
134
27"
60"
STAIR
1/
235 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
234 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
1/
232 SF
STAIR 3
B
3
100
1
1/
27027 SF
OFFICE
B
269
100
3
1/
453 SF
RESTROOM
B
2
TOTAL STAIR WIDTH
TOTAL EGRESS WIDTH
FACTOR = 0.15
FACTOR = 0.2
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXITS
OCCUPANT LOAD
LEVEL
REQUIRED
491 OCC
FLR 4
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
35.4"
900"
NA
NA
2
13
NOTES:
1.
CALCULATIONS IN THIS TABLE ARE BASED ON 2019 CBC SECTION 1005.3 
2.
EGRESS WIDTHS BASED ON CBC SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2
3.
EGRESS WIDTH MEETS CBC SECTION 1005.5 FOR DISTRIBUTION OF MINIMUM WIDTH AND REQUIRED CAPACITY
147 OCC
FLR 5
22.05"
72"
29.4"
120"
2
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:23 AM
As indicated
A0.5
FOURTH AND FIFTH
FLOOR CODE PLANS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATION
EXIT WIDTH CALCULATION
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
KEYNOTES
1. 
SHEET NOTES AND KEY NOTES ARE FOR THE C+S SCOPE OF WORK AND ARE SPECIFIC TO THIS SHEET ONLY, UON
THE ITEMS BELOW ARE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY. ALL 2019 CBC REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE ADHERED TO.
2. 
THE OCCUPANCIES FOR THE TENANT SPACES WERE CALCULATED PER CBC TABLE 1004.1.2.
3. 
REQUIRED EXITS ARE PLACED AT LEAST 1/3 THE CALCULATED DISTANCE FROM THE FARTHEST POINTS OF THE NEW 
SPACE. (CBC SECTION 1007.1.1 EXCEPTION 2).
4. 
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE IS 250'-0" FOR A OCCUPANCY AND 300'-0" FOR B OCCUPANCY; CBC TABLE 1017.2.
5. 
EGRESS WIDTH CALCULATIONS FOR OPENINGS AND STAIRS IS BASEB UPON CBC, SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2. 
6. 
EXCEPTION 1
- EXIT OPENING WIDTH FACTOR  = 0.15 X OCCUPANT LOAD
- STAIR WIDTH FACTOR 
    = 0.2 X OCCUPANT LOAD
7. 
EGRESS WIDTH AND EXIT COMPONENTS IS BASED UPON CBC SECTION 1005.3.
8. 
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED EXITS IS BASED UPON CBC TABLE 1006.2.1.
9. 
REFER TO DOOR SCHEDULE FOR DOOR AND FRAME TYPES, RATINGS, SIZE AND HARDWARE TYPES.
10. 
ALL DOORS SHALL HAVE CLEAR WIDTH NOT LESS LESS THAN 32" PER CBC SECTION 1010.1.1, UON.
11. 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR C+S SCOPE OR WORK. LOCATE A MAXIMUM OF 75 FEET FROM ANY 
12. 
LOCATION WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA AND 100 FEET BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL FEC UNITS; 3,000 SF PER CABINET. LOCATE 
UNITS WHERE SHOWN OR AS DIRECTED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CBC 
SECTION 906 AND TABLE 906.3.1. FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO BE MOUNTED ON FREE STANDING PEDESTALS. LARSEN'S MP5 WITH RATING 2A 10B:C, 5 LBS CAPACITY.
13. 
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-703 FOR SIGNAGE.
14. 
PROVIDE SYMBOL OF ACCESSIBILITY AT FRONT ENTRANCE.
15. 
PROVIDE STAIRWELL TACTILE EXIT SIGNAGE PER CODE REQUIREMENT.  REFER TO TACTILE SIGNAGE NOTES (2019 CBC
SECTION 1023.9 AND 11B-504.8). REFER TO ENLARGED STAIR PLANS.
16. 
ALL INTERIOR TACTILE EGRESS SIGNAGE TO BE PROVIDE DURING FUTURE TI PHASE.
17. 
ALL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND ROOMS CONTAINING CONTROLS FOR AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, SPRINKLER
RISERS AND VALVES, OR OTHER SUPPRESSION OR CONTROL ELEMENTS SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY APPROVED SIGNAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PER SECTION 509, 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE. COORDINATE SIGNAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS WITH LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL JURISDICTION.
18. 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
19. 
THE MAXIMUM REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION IS BASED UPON CBC, SECTION 1007.1.
20. 
RESTROOM FIXTURE CALCULATION BASED UPON 2019 CPC CODE:
A.   REQUIREMENTS PER 1029 CPC TABLE 422.1.
B.   AREA SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN INCLUDES USABLE SPACES, LESS ACCESSORY AREAS, (HALLWAYS, CIRCULATION, 
      RESTROOM, STAIR ENCLOSURE, UTILITY/STORAGE ROOMS, PER TABLE A EXCEPTION.
C.  OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS USED INCLUDE:
     -    ASSEMBLY: A2, A3 = 1/30
     -    BUSINESS: B = 1/200
21. 
ALL REQUIRED OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS FOR THE FUTURE MIXED OCCUPANCY ZONES TO BE DETERMINED DURING THE 
FUTURE TI SCOPE OF WORK.
KEY NOTE SYMBOL USED ON DRAWINGS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 4 CODE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
LEVEL 5 CODE PLAN
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 4
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
OFFICE
B
27027 SF
100
271
RESTROOM
B
453 SF
100
5
TERRACE
A2
3214 SF
15
215
TERRACE
A2
844 SF
15
57
TERRACE
A2
667 SF
15
45
32206 SF
593
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 5
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
OFFICE
B
27027 SF
100
271
RESTROOM
B
453 SF
100
5
TERRACE
A2
1061 SF
15
71
TERRACE
A2
841 SF
15
57
29383 SF
404

--- page 31 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:23 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.6
RENDERINGS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
12" = 1'-0"
1
CORNER OF 4TH & B

--- page 32 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:23 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.7
RENDERINGS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
12" = 1'-0"
1
CORNER OF 5TH & B

--- page 33 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:24 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.8
RENDERINGS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
12" = 1'-0"
1
B STREET ELEVATION

--- page 34 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:24 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.9
RENDERINGS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
12" = 1'-0"
1
5TH STREET ELEVATION

--- page 35 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:24 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.10
RENDERINGS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
12" = 1'-0"
1
4TH STREET ELEVATION

--- page 36 ---
PROPOSED COMMERCIAL BUILDING
CALTRAIN TRACKS
RESTAURANT
RESTAURANT
COMMERCIAL
RESTAURANT
COMMERCIAL
5TH AVE
S B STREET
4TH AVE
RESIDENTIAL
COMMERCIAL IN CONSTRUCITON
PLANNED MIXED USE
3
4
5
7
8
10
12
1
6
9
11
2
1. RESTAURANT
3. PLANNED MIXED USE
2. COMMERCIAL
4. PLANNED MIXED USE
7. PARKING LOT
8. PARKING LOT/PLANNED RESIDENTIAL
5. RESIDENTIAL
6. COMMERCIAL
11. COMMERCIAL
12. RESTAURANT
9. PARKING LOT/PLANNED GARAGE
10. COMMERCIAL
PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
PARKING LOT/PLANNED GARAGE
PARKING LOT/PLANNED 
RESIDENTAIL
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
S RAILROAD AVE
PARKING LOT
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:25 AM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.11
NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022

--- page 37 ---
SOUTH B STREET
E 4TH AVENUE
E 5TH AVENUE
S RAILROAD AVE
1
1
1
1
2
3
3
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:25 AM
1" = 10'-0"
A1.0
EXISTING SITE PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
KEYNOTES
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
EXISTING BUILDING TO BE REMOVED
2
EXISTIN PAVEMEMENT AND PARKING AREA TO BE REMOVED
3
EXISTING CURB TO BE MODIFIED PER CIVIL DRAWINGS

--- page 38 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
16
UP
UP
UP
357 SF
YOUTH ROOM
268 SF
MAINT.
809 SF
STORAGE
595 SF
TRASH ROOM
251 SF
STAIR 1
303 SF
MENS
303 SF
WOMENS
437 SF
ELECTRICAL ROOM
433 SF
PREP KITCHEN
435 SF
SELF HELP OFFICES
408 SF
HICAP OFFICES
207 SF
LEASING OFFICE
726 SF
LOBBY
88 SF
ELEV CONTROL ROOM
662 SF
CORRIDOR
144 SF
STAIR
387 SF
RESIDENT SERVICES
662 SF
CORRIDOR
2,053 SF
DINING
74 SF
ELEVATOR
UP
UP
RR
4TH AVENUE
5TH AVENUE
S B STREET
S RAILROAD AVE
1
PROPOSED BUILDING FOOTPRINT
35,394 SF
PROPOSED RESIDENTAIL BUILDING
SEE AR SERIES
2
3
4
4
4
4
5
5
CL
25' - 1 3/4"
44' - 6"
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:27 AM
1" = 10'-0"
A1.1
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
1" = 10'-0"
1
SITE PLAN
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
KEYNOTES
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
PROPOSED BUILDING
2
PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, SEE AR SERIES
3
PROPOSED OUTDOOR PLAZA
4
PROPOSED PLANTING AREAS. REFER TO LANDSCAPE AND CIVIL DRAWINGS
5
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS TO PUBLIC R.O.W. REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS

--- page 39 ---
FEC
FEC
10 SPACES
26 SPACES
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
C
HC
HC
HC
C
C
C
HC
C
C
C
C
C
C
HC
ELEV
STAIR
STAIR
STAIR
POSSIBLE STACKER LOCATION
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
001
PLUMBING WATER ROOM
508
MPOE
1
1
2
3
4
5
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:28 AM
As indicated
A2.0
BASEMENT PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
BASEMENT PLAN
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
MECHANICAL VEHICLE STACKING SYSTEM
2
PUBLIC ACCESS STAIR & ELEVATOR TO STREET LEVEL
3
COMPACT PARKING STALL, TYP.
4
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL, TYP.

--- page 40 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
16
UP
UP
UP
357 SF
YOUTH ROOM
268 SF
MAINT.
809 SF
STORAGE
595 SF
TRASH ROOM
251 SF
STAIR 1
303 SF
MENS
303 SF
WOMENS
437 SF
ELECTRICAL ROOM
433 SF
PREP KITCHEN
435 SF
SELF HELP OFFICES
408 SF
HICAP OFFICES
207 SF
LEASING OFFICE
726 SF
LOBBY
88 SF
ELEV CONTROL ROOM
662 SF
CORRIDOR
144 SF
STAIR
387 SF
RESIDENT SERVICES
662 SF
CORRIDOR
2,053 SF
DINING
74 SF
ELEVATOR
UP
UP
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
101
RETAIL 2
102
RETAIL 3
103
RETAIL 4
104
OFFICE LOBBY
105
RETAIL 5
106
OFFICE
107
ELECTRICAL ROOM
108
TRANSFORMER ROOM
109
TRANSFORMER ROOM
110
STAIR 3
111
TRASH ROOM
112
STAIR 1
113
BIKE STORAGE
114
HALL
115
STAIR 2
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
116
GARAGE STAIR
117
RESTROOMS
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
118
RETAIL 1
1
1
1
1
3
2
2
3
4
5
CL
69' - 4 5/8"
CL
40' - 8 1/8"
CL
40' - 4 1/4"
CL
55' - 10 1/4"
CL
53' - 2 1/4"
CL
4' - 1 3/4"
6
2
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:30 AM
As indicated
A2.1
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
3
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
OUTLINE OF FLOOR ABOVE
6
PUBLIC ACCESS STAIR & ELEVATOR TO BASEMENT LEVEL

--- page 41 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
UP
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
OPEN TO BELOW
204
OFFICE
203
STAIR 3
201
STAIR 1
202
STAIR 2
205
RESTROOM
206
ELEVATOR LOBBY
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
1
1
1
1
3
2
2
3
4
2
5
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:32 AM
As indicated
A2.2
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
3
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
TENANT TERRACE

--- page 42 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
301
STAIR 1
303
STAIR 3
302
STAIR 2
304
OFFICE
305
RESTROOM
306
ELEVATOR LOBBY
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
1
1
1
1
3
2
2
3
4
2
5
5
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:35 AM
As indicated
A2.3
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
3
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
TENANT TERRACE

--- page 43 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
401
STAIR 1
402
STAIR 2
403
STAIR 3
404
OFFICE
405
RESTROOM
406
ELEVATOR LOBBY
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
1
3
2
2
3
4
2
5
5
5
5
2
2
2
5
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:37 AM
As indicated
A2.4
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
3
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
TENANT TERRACE

--- page 44 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
DN
DN
DN
UP
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
501
STAIR 1
502
STAIR 2
503
STAIR 3
504
OFFICE
505
RESTROOM
506
ELEVATOR LOBBY
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
1
3
2
2
3
4
2
5
5
5
2
2
2
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:40 AM
As indicated
A2.5
FIFTH FLOOR PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
3
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
TENANT TERRACE

--- page 45 ---
DN
FEC
FEC
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.1
1
________
A3.1
2
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
1
2
3
4
4
4
2
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
EXISTING PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION 
EXISTING FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET A9.1
EXISTING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
EXISTING DOOR ASSEMBLY
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
FINISH TRANSITION
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:20:41 AM
As indicated
A2.6
ROOF PLAN
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
ROOF PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
2
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
3
MIN. 5KW SOLAR ARRAY (FINAL AREA AND LAYOUT TO BE DETERMINED)
4
ROOF PARAPET AND SOFFIT BELOW

--- page 46 ---
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1
A4.0
__________
GL-1
GL-4
WD-1
BR-1
GL-1
GL-1
MT-2
RC-1
GL-1
GL-4
CP-1
2
3
MT
RC-1
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
2
A4.0
__________
?
RC-1
WD-1
GL-4
GL-1
RC-1
BR-1
GL-1
GL-1
MT
2
3
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
EXTERIOR BRICK:
CEMENT PLASTER:
BR-1
CP-1
BUTT-JOINT CURTAINWALL GLAZING:
DARK-FRAMED STOREFRONT:
WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT:
GL-3
GL-1
GL-2
GLASS GUARDRAIL:
EXPOSED WOOD:
GL-4
WD-1
ROOF CANOPY:
RC-1
METAL PANEL:
MT-1
METAL PANEL:
MT-2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:21:23 AM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A3.0
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
S. B STREET - WEST ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
E 4TH AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
MATERIAL PALETTE

--- page 47 ---
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
2
A4.0
__________
RC-1
GL-1
RC-1
MT-1
RC-1
CP-1
BR-1
WD-1
GL-4
GL-1
GL-1
2
3
MT-1
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
1
A4.0
__________
RESIDENTIAL SEE AR SERIES
RC-1
GL-1
RC-1
MT-1
CP-1
GL-12
MT
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
2
EXTERIOR BRICK:
CEMENT PLASTER:
BR-1
CP-1
BUTT-JOINT CURTAINWALL GLAZING:
DARK-FRAMED STOREFRONT:
WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT:
GL-3
GL-1
GL-2
GLASS GUARDRAIL:
EXPOSED WOOD:
GL-4
WD-1
ROOF CANOPY:
RC-1
METAL PANEL:
MT-1
METAL PANEL:
MT-2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:22:00 AM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A3.1
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
E 5TH AVENUE - SOUTH ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
S RAILROAD AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
MATERIAL PALETTE

--- page 48 ---
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
BASEMENT
-18' - 0"
J
I
H
G
F
K
E
D
C
B
A
2
A4.0
__________
45° BULK MASS BOUNDARY
2
3
4
1
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
FLOOR 1
0"
FLOOR 2
18' - 0"
FLOOR 3
32' - 0"
FLOOR 4
46' - 0"
FLOOR 5
60' - 0"
ROOF
74' - 0"
BASEMENT
-18' - 0"
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
1
A4.0
__________
45° BULK MASS BOUNDARY
2
3
4
1
3
MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
88' - 0"
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
6/23/2022 9:22:03 AM
3/32" = 1'-0"
A4.0
BUILDING SECTIONS
Project Status
Issue Date
0000000.00
Checker
Author
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
4TH & B ("Bespoke")
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
NORTH-SOUTH SECTION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
EAST-WEST SECTION
KEYNOTES
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
ROOFTOP MECHANICAL PENTHOUSE
2
ROOF OVERHANG
3
GLASS RAILING AT BALCONY
4
EXPOSED TIMBER COLUMN

--- page 49 ---
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
(E) ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
(E) PROPERTY LINE
0
10'
20'
40'
NORTH
C1.00
EXISTING
CONDITIONS
 
 
 
1" = 20'
 
PC
 
EL
21-034.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034.2_DTSM_Talbots\03_Design\01_CAD\01_Pre-App\C1.00 EXISTING CONDITIONS.dwg
,C1.00,Piper Crawford,6/22/2022 3:45:23 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
1/6/2022 2:25:27 PM
Project Status
Issue Date
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
APN:  (ADD APN HERE IF
APPLICABLE)
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
LEGEND
2

--- page 50 ---
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
D
H
F
E
G
10.27
12.00
18.00
16.00
22.00
135.00
22.00
R10.00
R20.00
R10.00
R20.00
R20.00
R10.00
R20.00
R10.00
R20.00
R25.00
5.50
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
TREE TO BE REMOVED, TYP
STREET LIGHT TO BE
RELOCATED, TYP
RELOCATED STREET
LIGHT, TYP
R12.00
R12.00
24.00
24.00
5.50
12.71
(P) DRIVEWAY
(P) DRIVEWAY
10FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
1.79
3.21
TC 99.98
FL 99.48
FS 99.87
TC 99.61
FL 99.11
TC 98.37
(FL 97.87)
TC 97.20
(FL 96.70)
TC 96.91
FL 96.41
TC 96.53
FL 96.03
TC 96.65
FL 96.15
TC 97.27
(FL 96.77)
TC 97.53
FL 97.03
TC 97.80
FL 97.30
TC 97.70
FL 97.20
FS 97.85
TC 97.94
FL 97.44
TC 98.43
FL 97.93
TC 99.19
(FL 98.69)
TC 100.07
FL 99.57
TC 100.50
FL 100.00
TC 100.59
FL 100.09
TC 99.86
FL 99.36
FS 100.09
TC 99.68
FL 99.18
TC 99.43
FL 98.93
TH 99.94
FS 99.66
0.8%
0.5%
1.1%
1.4%
1.4%
1.5%
1.3%
1.0%
0.5%
0.5%
0.5%
0.6%
0.8%
1.3%
1.2%
1.3%
1.5%
0.5%
1.0%
FS 98.52
FS 97.39
FS 97.34
FS 97.60
FS 98.11
TH 97.91
FS 98.76
TH 98.35
TH 99.42
TH 97.53
TH 101.20
1.5%
TH 101.01
1.5%
TH 100.30
TH 100.00
TH 99.85
TH 99.70
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
TH 99.77
TH 99.95
FS 100.23
TH 97.25
TH 97.21
TH 97.14
TH 97.07
TH 99.12
TH 99.19
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
TH 96.98
FS 96.72
TH 98.35
TH 97.28
1.5%
SD
SD
SD
(P) HYDRODYNAMIC SEPARATOR
(P) STORM DRAIN PIPE
(E) DRAINAGE INLET
(P) POC
SD
(P) SD MANHOLE
(P) LANDSCAPE
(P) TREATMENT AREA
(P) BACK OF CURB
(P) FACE OF CURB
(P) TREE
(P) DETECTABLE WARNING
SURFACE
(P) CURB RAMP
(E) ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
(E) PROPERTY LINE
(P) PERMEABLE PAVEMENT
(P) EDGE OF SIDEWALK
HARDSCAPE SLOPE
SPOT ELEVATION
1.0%
FG 100.00
GRADE BREAK
0
10'
20'
40'
NORTH
NOTES
1.
PROPOSED GRADES SHOWN ARE CONCEPTUAL. FINAL GRADES TO BE DEVELOPED DURING THE
DESIGN PHASE.
2.
FUTURE GRADING WILL CONFORM TO EXISTING CONDITIONS AT THE PROJECT PERIMETER.
3.
ALL GRADING SHALL COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE PERMITS, LOCAL ORDINANCES AND
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
C2.00
CONCEPT GRADING
AND DRAINAGE
 
 
 
1" = 20'
 
PC
 
EL
21-034.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034.2_DTSM_Talbots\03_Design\01_CAD\01_Pre-App\C2.00 CONCEPT GRADING AND DRAINAGE.dwg
,C2.00,Piper Crawford,6/22/2022 3:45:57 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
1/6/2022 2:25:27 PM
Project Status
Issue Date
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
APN:  (ADD APN HERE IF
APPLICABLE)
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
LEGEND
2

--- page 51 ---
E
E
E
COMM
COMM
(P) ELECTRIC TRENCH
(P) TELECOM TRENCH
(P) WATER LINE
FW
FW
IRR
IRR
W
W
W
(P) FIRE WATER LINE
(P) IRRIGATION WATER LINE
(P) WATER METER
W
SS
SS
(P) SANITARY SEWER LINE
(P) POINT OF CONNECTION (POC)
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
COMM
(P) ELEC POC
(P) WATER SERVICES
(P) ELEC POC
(P) TELECOM POC
1
(P) IRR POC
2
(P) DOMESTIC AND
FIRE WATER POC
4
3
3
3
(P) ELEC
SERVICE
(P) TELECOM
SERVICE
1
3
3
(P) ELEC
SERVICE
1
3
SS
SSCO
(P) SS POC
2
(P) SS
1
SS
SSCO
W
W
W
FW
FW
IRR
IRR
(P) WATER SERVICES
(P) DOMESTIC AND
FIRE WATER POC
(P) IRR POC
4
2
COMM
COMM
(P) TELECOM POC
3
(P) TELECOM
SERVICE
3
(P) SS POC
2
(P) SS
1
W
W
FW
FW
IRR
IRR
SD
(P) SD POC
2
(P) SD
1
SD
(P) SD POC
2
(P) SD
1
CONNECT TO EXISTING MAIN
SEE PLUMBING PLANS FOR CONTINUATION
SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS FOR CONTINUATION AND
DETAILS
SEE IRRIGATION PLANS FOR CONTINUATION
1
2
3
4
CONNECT TO EXISTING MAIN
SEE PLUMBING PLANS FOR CONTINUATION
1
2
0
10'
20'
40'
NORTH
NOTES
1.
PROPOSED UTILITIES SHOWN ARE CONCEPTUAL. FINAL UTILITIES TO BE COORDINATED WITH MEP.
2.
UTILITY SERVICE SIZES TO BE DETERMINED BY MEP.
LEGEND
UTILITY KEYNOTES
C2.50
CONCEPT UTILITIES
 
 
 
1" = 20'
 
PC
 
EL
21-034.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034.2_DTSM_Talbots\03_Design\01_CAD\01_Pre-App\C2.50 CONCEPT UTILITIES.dwg
,C2.50,Piper Crawford,6/22/2022 3:46:16 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
1/6/2022 2:25:27 PM
Project Status
Issue Date
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
APN:  (ADD APN HERE IF
APPLICABLE)
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
2
2
2
2

--- page 52 ---
DMA 1
DMA 2
BMP 2A
PLANTER BOX IN COURTYARD
BMP 1A
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 2
BMP 1B
STREET LEVEL
BMP 1C
STREET LEVEL
BMP 1D
STREET LEVEL
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
LANDSCAPE
TREATMENT PLANTER
DRAINAGE AREA BOUNDARY
PROPERTY LINE
HARDSCAPE
AREA OUTSIDE OF CALCULATIONS
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
DMA 1
DMA 2
DMA 3
DMA 4
BMP 1A
BMP 2A
BMP 2B
BMP 3A
EXISTING CONDITIONS TALBOTS ON-SITE: RESIDENTIAL +
COMMERCIAL
DMA
IMPERMEABLE
AREA
PERMEABLE
AREA
TOTAL AREA
TREATMENT
AREA REQUIRED
SF
SF
SF
SF
1 (COMMERCIAL)
37400
0
37400
1496.00
2 (RESIDENTIAL)
12563
637
13200
502.52
TOTAL
49963
637
50600
1998.52
North
0
10'
20'
40'
LEGEND
C3.00
CONCEPT
STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT
PLAN
 
 
 
1" = 20'
 
PC
 
EL
21-034.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034.2_DTSM_Talbots\03_Design\01_CAD\01_Pre-App\C3.00 CONCEPT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.dwg
,C3.00,Piper Crawford,6/22/2022 3:46:36 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
30  E  Santa Clara St.
Suite  200
San Jose
California  95113
Office
408 294-8000
Fax
408 294-1747
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
1/6/2022 2:25:27 PM
Project Status
Issue Date
445 S B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA, 94401
APN:  (ADD APN HERE IF
APPLICABLE)
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
PROPOSED CONDITIONS TALBOTS ON-SITE: RESIDENTIAL + COMMERCIAL
DMA
ROOF
HARDSCAPE
SOFTSCAPE
(LANDSCAPE)
TOTAL AREA
METHOD OF
SIZING
METHOD OF
TREATMENT
REQUIRED
TREATMENT
AREA
PROVIDED
TREATMENT
AREA
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
1 (COMMERCIAL)
34,504
1216
1,680
37400
COMBINATION
BIORETENTION
1080
1,680
2 (RESIDENTIAL)
12,440
228
532
13200
COMBINATION
BIORETENTION
383
532
TOTAL
46,944
1,444
2,212
50,600
1,463
2,212
NOTE: REQUIRED TREATMENT AREAS CALCULATED PER SAN MATEO WATER POLLUTION PROGRAM AND ASSUMED 7-IN PONDING DEPTH.
ON-SITE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
SCALE: 1"=20'
OFF-SITE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
SCALE: 1"=20'
EXISTING CONDITIONS TALBOTS OFF-SITE
IMPERMEABLE
AREA
PERMEABLE
AREA
TOTAL AREA
TREATMENT
AREA REQUIRED
SF
SF
SF
SF
30238
288
30526
1209.52
PROPOSED CONDITIONS TALBOTS OFF-SITE
DMA
HARDSCAPE
SOFTSCAPE
(LANDSCAPE)
TOTAL AREA
METHOD OF
SIZING
METHOD OF
TREATMENT
REQUIRED
TREATMENT
AREA
PROVIDED
TREATMENT
AREA
SQFT
SQFT
SQFT
SQFT
SQFT
1
8483
530
9,013
COMBINATION
BIORETENTION
218.3
131
2
8434
754
9,188
COMBINATION
BIORETENTION
217.6
449
3
7371
354
7,725
COMBINATION
BIORETENTION
189.4
201
4
4601
0
4,601
COMBINATION
117.7
0
TOTAL
28889
1638
30527
743.00
781
NOTE: REQUIRED TREATMENT AREAS CALCULATED PER SAN MATEO WATER
POLLUTION PROGRAM AND ASSUMED 12-IN PONDING DEPTH.
2
2
2
2
2
2

--- page 53 ---
B STREET
4th AVE
5th AVE
RAILROAD AVE.
2
2
2
2
16
2
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
Q1
G2
K4
G1
C2
C3
C1
G1
G2
P2
C4
A1
C2
G2
G1
Q1
K4
P1
P1
S2
S2
S2
G1
K3
Q2
R1
R1
Q1
G3
G2
S2
S2
S2
G1
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
27 'O.C.TYP
28' O.C. TYP
30' O.C. TYP
16.00
10.30'
12.00
5.50
SIDEWALK WIDTH EXPANDED BY 6'
(EXISTING CONDITIONS IS 11.85')
25 FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25 FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25 FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
25 FT SIGHT TRIANGLE
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
UP
UP
UP
UP
UP
A1
B1
C1
H1
K2
K3
G1
G2
G3
G4
K4
P1
P2
P3
Q1
Q2
R1
K5
R2
P4
S1
S2
C2
C3
C4
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER, CITY STANDARD
VEHICULAR CONCRETE
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 1
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 2
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 3
PERMEABLE  PAVERS (FURNISHING ZONE ON B)
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
PLANTER, CURBS
AT GRADE PLANTING AREA
RAISED PLANTING AREA
GREEN WALL
RAISED STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
PERMEABLE PAVING
CURB CUT
CURB EXTENSION
BULB-OUT
BALLAST BORDER
BUILT-IN BENCH
MOVEABLE FURNITURE
(TBD BY TENANT)
BIKE RACK(14 SPACES)
GARAGE ENTRY
UTILITIES
LOADING & DROP OFF ZONE
EXISTING CURBLINE
PROPERTY LINE
SITE FURNISHINGS, PARKING
EXISTING TREE
PROPOSED TREE
SITE FURNISHINGS, PARKING
STORMWATER PLANTER
PLANTING AREA
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
401-445 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
401-445 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
1/31/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
L.1.0
LANDSCAPE PLAN,
GROUND LEVEL
N
0
5
10
20 FT
1" = 10' - 0"

--- page 54 ---
2
RAISED STORMWATER PLANTER
2
2
RAISED PLANTING AREA
PLANTER BOXES AT RAILING
RAISED PLANTING AREA
PLANTER BOXES AT RAILING
PLANTER BOXES AT RAILING
PLANTER BOXES AT RAILING
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
401-445 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
401-445 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
1/31/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
L.1.1
LANDSCAPE
PLAN-DIAGRAMS, 2ND,
3RD, 4TH & 5TH FLOORS
2ND FLOOR
3RD FLOOR
4TH FLOOR
5TH FLOOR

--- page 55 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
UP
UP
UP
B STREET
4th AVE
5th AVE
RAILROAD AVE.
16
203 SF
238 SF
135 SF
339 SF
25
49
44
35
131
879 SF
UP
UP
OPEN SPACE CALCULATIONS
PER SMMC 27.38.090 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
OPEN SPACE TO HAVE 25'-0" MIN WIDTH
TOTAL OFFICE AREA:
REQUIRED OPEN SPACE (1% OF OFFICE AREA):
(50% OF REQUIRED) OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETWEEN NOON
AND 2PM ON THE SPRING AND FALL EQUINOX PER SMMC
27.38.090:
PROVIDED OPEN SPACE THAT IS COVERED
TOTAL OPEN SPACE PROVIDED (1.11% OF OFFICE AREA)
TOTAL OPEN SPACE THAT IS ABOVE REQUIRED
161,480 SF
1615 SF
1354 SF
339 SF
1794 SF
179 SF
COVERED OPEN SPACE
OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETWEEN NOON AND 2PM THE SPRING
AND FALL EQUINOX PER SMMC 27.38.090
OPEN SPACE AT CORNER PLAZA & RETAIL STOREFRONTS
TOTAL OPEN SPACE
OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETWEEN NOON AND 2PM ON THE
SPRING AND FALL EQUINOX PER SMMC 27.38.090
1794 SF
1354 SF
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
401-445 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
401-445 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
1/31/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
L1.2
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM

--- page 56 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
401-445 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
401-445 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
1/31/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY
L2.0
ILLUSTRATIVE
RENDERINGS
CORNER PLAZA AT 4TH AVE & S. B STREET.  GREENWALL ON NORTH FACADE WITH PLANTING AT UPPER
TERRACES.  PALMS LINK THE LARGE CORNER PLANTER TO THE UPPER LEVELS WITH VEGETATION.
CORNER PLAZA AT 4TH AVE & S. B STREET.  LARGE CORNER PLANTER RECHARGES GROUNDWATER.
BULBOUT AND CURB EXTENSIONS ALLOW FOR ENHANCED PLANTING AND ALCOVES FOR SEATING.
(BIRDSEYE)
LOOKING WEST FROM CORNER PLAZA.  SCULPTURAL STONE WALL ECHOES THE MOUNTAINS IN THE
DISTANCE.  SPECIALTY PAVING DEMARKATES THE ENTRY TIES IN WITH THE PUBLIC SEATING ALCOVES IN
CURB EXTENSIONS.
CORNER PLAZA AT 4TH AVE & S. B STREET.  LARGE CORNER PLANTER RECHARGES GROUNDWATER.
BULBOUT AND CURB EXTENSIONS ALLOW FOR ENHANCED PLANTING AND ALCOVES FOR SEATING.

--- page 57 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
401-445 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
401-445 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
1/31/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY
L2.1
ILLUSTRATIVE
RENDERINGS
CORNER PLAZA AT 4TH AVE & S. B STREET.  SCULPTURAL FEATURE WALL AND PLANTING AREA RECHARGES
GROUNDWATER AND SUPPORTS LARGE PALMS.
ENLARGED TREE WELLS AND WIDENED ROW ALONG SOUTH B STREET.
LOOKING NORTH ON B STREET
MIDBLOCK COMMERCIAL ENTRY ON SOUTH B STREET WITH SPECIALTY PAVING.

--- page 58 ---
APPLICANT / OWNER:
DTSM TALBOTS VENTURE, LLC180
GRAND AVENUE, SUITE 1400
OAKLAND, CA 94612
CONTACT:
PRESTON O'CONNELL
(510) 466-1485
ARCHITECT:
BDE ARCHITECTURE
934 HOWARD STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
CONTACT:
NATALIE SHOVLIN
(330) 283 - 3662
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:
PLACE
735 NW 18TH AVENUE
PORTLAND, OR 97209
CONTACT:
CHARLES BRUCKER
(503) 334 - 2080
HOUSING:
ALTA
3460 W BAYSHORE RD SUITE 104
PALO ALTO, CA 94303
CONTACT:
JENNIFER WONG
(650) 219 - 2687
AR0.01
PROJECT INFORMATION
AR1.00
SITE PLAN
AR2.01
FLOOR 1
AR2.02
FLOOR 2
AR2.03
FLOORS 3-7
AR3.00
BLOCK ELEVATIONS
AR3.01
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
AR3.02
PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
AR3.10
MATERIAL BOARD
AR3.20
BUILDING SECTIONS
AR3.21
STREET WALL SECTION EXHIBITS
SITE
THE PROPOSED PROJECT IS AN 100% AFFORDABLE, FAMILY-FRIENDLY 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WITH SUBTERRANEAN PARKING, GROUND FLOOR 
CIVIC SPACE FOR THE LOCAL NON-PROFIT, "SELF-HELP FOR THE 
ELDERLY.” THE PROJECT CONSISTS OF THE ELEMENTS DESCRIBED 
BELOW: 
• 60 RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS (SEE STATISTICS FOR MORE 
INFORMATION)
• ALL RESIDENTIAL UNITS ARE ADAPTABLE (ACCESSIBLE PER CHAPTER 
11A). UNITS ABOVE AND BELOW THE GROUND FLOOR ARE ACCESSIBLE 
VIA ELEVATOR.
• SELF-HELP FOR THE ELDERLY PROGRAM ON GROUND FLOOR WITH A 
FLEXIBLE OPEN AREA, ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES, AND OTHER SUPPORT 
SPACES.
• PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING IS 5-STORIES OF TYPE IIIA WOOD 
FRAMED CONSTRUCTION OVER 2-STORIES OF TYPE IA CONCRETE 
PODIUM.
• ALL PUBLIC AREAS AND CORRIDORS ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CHAPTER 
11A.
• ALL PORTIONS OF THE PROJECT ARE FULLY SPRINKLERED PER 903.3.1.1 
/ NFPA 13. ALL REFERENCES TO "AUTOMATIC SPRINKLERS SYSTEM" MEAN 
"PER 903.3.1.1 / NFPA 13."
• SUBTERRANEAN PARKING LEVEL IS ENCLOSED AND MECHANICALLY 
VENTILATED (PARKING LEVEL IS PART OF OFFICE BUILDING PORTION OF 
THIS SUBMITTAL)
• AMENITY SPACES FOR RESIDENTS ARE LOCATED ON LEVELS 1 AND 2, 
INCLUDING A YOUTH ROOM, LAUNDRY ROOM, AND LARGE LANDSCAPED 
TERRACE WITH SEATING AREAS, PLANTINGS AND PLAY STRUCTURES
• PROJECT INCLUDES RELEVANT SITE WORK, INCLUDING EXCAVATION, 
GRADING, PAVING, LANDSCAPING, AND UTILITY CONNECTIONS AS 
REQUIRED FOR A COMPLETE PROJECT. 
2
PROJECT TEAM
1
SHEET INDEX
4
SITE MAP
1" = 1'-0"
3
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
1" = 1'-0"
6/13/2022 11:42:33 AM
AR0.01
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
PROJECT
INFORMATION
4TH & RAILROAD
Terrace
3,048
3,048
Landscape Amenities
Total Gross
0
11,637
9,158
9,158
9,158
9,158
9,158
9,158
0
66,585
HiCap Offices
408
408
Self Help Offices
435
435
Women's Restroom
303
303
Men's Restroom
303
303
Prep Kitchen
433
433
Dining Room
2,053
2,053
Self Help for the Elderly
0
Elevator Control Room
88
Laundry
373
373
Amenity Room
777
777
Storage
809
809
Trash Room
595
595
Maintenance
268
268
Youth Room
357
357
Resident Services Office
387
387
Leasing Office
207
207
Lobby
726
726
Residential Amenities
0
Gross area by floor (footprint minus net rentable, excl decks)
0
4,265
222
1,143
1,143
1,143
1,143
1,143
0
10,202
Net rentable Residential by floor (excl decks)
0
7,786
8,015
8,015
8,015
8,015
8,015
0
47,861
Net rentable residential area is measured center of demising wall, ext face of stud of ext wall, ext face of stud of corridor wall, excl decks
TOTAL UNITS
Avg SqFt
798
0
12
10
10
10
10
10
0
60
100%
47,861
3 BDRM SUB-TOTAL
0
2
3
3
3
3
3
0
17
28%
19,627
C3.0
3 BDRM/ 2 BATH
1,229
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
6,145
C2.1
3 BDRM/ 2 BATH
1,123
1
1
2%
1,123
C2.0
3 BDRM/ 2 BATH
1,120
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
5,600
C1.1
3 BDRM/ 2 BATH
1,129
1
1
2%
1,129
3 BEDROOM
C1.0
3 BDRM/ 2 BATH
1,126
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
5,630
2 BDRM SUB-TOTAL
0
2
3
3
3
3
3
0
17
28%
13,806
B3.1
2 BDRM/ 1 BATH
834
1
1
2%
834
B3.0
2 BDRM/ 1 BATH
760
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
3,800
B2.1
2 BDRM/ 1 BATH
852
1
1
2%
852
B2.0
2 BDRM/ 1 BATH
847
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
4,235
2 BEDROOM
B1.0
2 BDRM/ 1 BATH
817
1
1
1
1
1
5
8%
4,085
1 BDRM SUB-TOTAL
0
3
2
2
2
2
2
0
13
22%
8,288
A2.0
INSIDE CORNER 1 BDRM
654
1
1
1
1
1
1
6
10%
3,924
A1.1
INSIDE CORNER 1 BDRM
512
1
1
2%
512
1 BEDROOM
A1.0
INSIDE CORNER 1 BDRM
642
1
1
1
1
1
1
6
10%
3,852
STUDIO SUB-TOTAL
0
5
2
2
2
2
2
0
13
22%
6,140
S1.2
STUDIO
408
2
2
3%
816
S1.1
STUDIO
408
3
3
5%
1,224
STUDIO
S1.0
STUDIO
410
2
2
2
2
2
10
17%
4,100
1ST
2ND
3RD
4TH
5TH
6TH
7TH
ROOF
Total
by Type
UNIT TYPE
NAME
DESCRIB
Unit Net Rentable
Unit
Rentable Area
FLOORS:
5 WOOD OVER 2 CONCRETE
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
TYPE IIIA O/ TYPE IA
Date 02/10/2022
UNIT AND AREA SUMMARY
JOB:  4th & Railroad, San Mateo
4th & railroad - affordable housing project
4TH & S RAILROAD AVE
san mateo, ca 94401

--- page 59 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
UP
UP
2
AR3.20
____________
1
AR3.20
____________
3
AR3.20
____________
DN
S. RAILROAD AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
YOUTH ROOM
MAINT.
STORAGE
TRASH ROOM
STAIR 1
MENS
WOMENS
ELECTRICAL
ROOM
PREP KITCHEN
SELF HELP
OFFICES
HICAP OFFICES
LEASING OFFICE
LOBBY
ELEV CONTROL
ROOM
CORRIDOR
STAIR
RESIDENT
SERVICES
CORRIDOR
E. 5TH AVENUE
S. B STREET
DINING
OFFICE BUILDING
ELEVATOR
1
AR3.21
____________
2
AR3.21
____________
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
TRUE
0'
16'
32'
0'
32'
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
1/16" = 1'-0"
6/13/2022 4:15:25 PM
AR1.00
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
SITE PLAN
4TH & RAILROAD
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
SITE PLAN - FLOOR 1 PLAN
2
2
2

--- page 60 ---
UP
UP
RAMP DN
S. RAILROAD AVENUE
E. 4TH AVENUE
357 SF
YOUTH ROOM
268 SF
MAINT.
809 SF
STORAGE
595 SF
TRASH ROOM
251 SF
STAIR 1
303 SF
MENS
303 SF
WOMENS
437 SF
ELECTRICAL ROOM
2
AR3.20
____________
433 SF
PREP KITCHEN
435 SF
SELF HELP OFFICES
408 SF
HICAP OFFICES
207 SF
LEASING OFFICE
726 SF
LOBBY
88 SF
ELEV CONTROL ROOM
1
AR3.20
____________
3
AR3.20
____________
662 SF
CORRIDOR
144 SF
STAIR
387 SF
RESIDENT SERVICES
662 SF
CORRIDOR
2,053 SF
DINING
AR3.01
2
AR3.01
1
70' - 4"
17' - 6"
31' - 0"
118' - 10"
47' - 2"
6' - 0"
86' - 10"
25' - 0"
134' - 10"
5' - 9"
103' - 1"
108' - 9"
GARAGE ACCESS GATES
1' - 0"
AR3.00
2
AR3.00
1
74 SF
ELEVATOR
REMOVABLE 
PARTITION WALL
TRASH ROOM 
PARTITION
1
AR3.21
____________
2
AR3.21
____________
5' - 0"
6' - 0"
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
TRUE
0'
8'
16'
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
3/16" = 1'-0"
6/13/2022 4:16:13 PM
AR2.01
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
FLOOR 1
4TH & RAILROAD
3/16" = 1'-0"
1
PLANNING - BUILDING PLAN - FLOOR 1
2
2
2

--- page 61 ---
UP
UP
UP
S1.1
408 SF
S1.1
408 SF
AMENITY
ELEVATOR
B2.1
852 SF
S1.1
408 SF
B3.1
834 SF
2
AR3.20
____________
1
AR3.20
____________
3
AR3.20
____________
A1.1
512 SF
C1.1
1,129 SF
S1.2
408 SF
S1.2
408 SF
STAIR 2
C2.1
1,123 SF
AR3.01
2
AR3.01
1
STAIR 1
TRASH CHUTE
99' - 6"
64' - 8"
108' - 9"
64' - 8"
34' - 10"
44' - 1"
8' - 10"
21' - 8"
5' - 7"
5' - 6"
31' - 0"
8' - 9"
OPEN TO BELOW
LAUNDRY
CORRIDOR
1' - 0"
AMENITY TERRACE
AR3.00
2
AR3.00
1
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
TRUE
0'
8'
16'
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
3/16" = 1'-0"
2/9/2022 5:40:56 PM
AR2.02
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
FLOOR 2
4TH & RAILROAD
3/16" = 1'-0"
1
FLOOR 2 - PLAN
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022
2

--- page 62 ---
UP
1
A4.0
__________
C3.0
1,229 SF
S1.0
410 SF
S1.0
410 SF
C1.0
1,126 SF
C2.0
1,120 SF
B2.0
847 SF
2
AR3.20
____________
1
AR3.20
____________
3
AR3.20
____________
TRASH CHUTE
AR3.01
2
AR3.01
1
STAIR 1
ELEVATOR
STAIR 2
99' - 4"
64' - 6"
108' - 7"
64' - 6"
34' - 10"
44' - 1"
21' - 6"
5' - 6"
5' - 6"
30' - 9"
CORRIDOR
A1.0
642 SF
B3.0
760 SF
A2.0
654 SF
1' - 2"
19' - 5"
AR3.00
2
AR3.00
1
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
B1.0
817 SF
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
TRUE
0'
8'
16'
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
3/16" = 1'-0"
2/9/2022 5:40:57 PM
AR2.03
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
FLOORS 3-7
4TH & RAILROAD
3/16" = 1'-0"
1
FLOORS 3-7 - PLAN

--- page 63 ---
219/2022 5:41:00 PM

ABB

=

call

i
=
BEeeee

3D=

ARCHITECTURE
934 Howard Street

‘San Francisco, CA
94103

P. (415) 677-0966

(UENT: (

HARVEST

© PROMETHEUS
PROJECT NAME &ADORESS

4TH & RAILROAD

4TH & RAILROAD

1 i] { ia San Mateo, CA
ISSUE Proj Sate
\SSUEDATE tee Dae
REVSONS
A DescRIeTON are
1 PREAPPLCATION waz
2. PREAPPLCATION RESLEMSSON oaozcz

BLOCK ELEVATION - RAILROAD AVENUE 2
3/32" = 1'-0"

soa
PROLECT NUMBER 2108
ORANNY: Xs

(CHECKED By:

STAMP:

SHEET NAME:

BLOCK
ELEVATIONS

TRUE

BLOCK ELEVATION -E 4TH AVENUE 1

‘SHEET NUMBER

3/82" = 10"

AR3.00


--- page 64 ---
WINDOW & STOREFRONT 
'ARCH BRONZE'
DRAGON'S BREATH BM 1547
PAINT - SHORELINE OR SIM.
BM 1471
PAINT - KITTY GRAY OR SIM.
BM 1589
A
B
C
1
BRICK VENEER, COLOR: LIGHT 
TAN / WHITE OR SIM. @ 4TH & 
RAILROAD ELEVATIONS ONLY
2
METAL PANELS
COLOR: BLACK OR SIM. 
CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND
(SAMPLE FOR TEXTURE ONLY)
3
RECESSED VINYL NAIL FIN 
WINDOWS
COLOR: BLACK OR SIM.
4
MTL AWNING, PAINTED 
BUILDING ADDRESS SIGNAGE
STOREFRONT TO MATCH VINYL 
WINDOW COLOR
7
9
GARAGE ACCESS
RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCE
DOWNWARD LIT BUILDING SCONCE
FIBER CEMENT TRIM, PTD, OR SIM.
MTL SPANDREL PANEL, OR SIM.
GLASS RAILING
DARK CASTED CONCRETE
10
11
12
5
6
8
13
14
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 2
16' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 3
26' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 4
36' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 5
46' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 6
56' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 7
66' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
ROOF
76' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
16' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
1
2
C
3
11
B
8
9
7
B
3
C
12
4
5
1
6
13
14
2
5' - 0"
81' - 0"
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 2
16' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 3
26' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 4
36' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 5
46' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 6
56' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 7
66' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
ROOF
76' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
16' - 0"
1
2
C
3
11
C
3
8
7
B
3
C
12
4
5
1
9
7
B
6
5' - 0"
81' - 0"
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
TRUE
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
As indicated
2/9/2022 5:41:03 PM
AR3.01
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
4TH & RAILROAD
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
ELEVATION - RAILROAD AVENUE
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
ELEVATION - E 4TH AVENUE
1
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
2
2
8
2
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
06/10/2022

--- page 65 ---
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
2/9/2022 5:41:03 PM
AR3.02
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
4TH & RAILROAD
E 4TH AVENUE 1
RAILROAD & E 4TH AVENUE 2
RAILROAD AVENUE 4
RAILROAD & E 4TH AVENUE 3
1
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
2
3
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
4

--- page 66 ---
WINDOW & STOREFRONT 
'ARCH BRONZE'
DRAGON'S BREATH BM 1547
PAINT - SHORELINE OR SIM.
BM 1471
PAINT - KITTY GRAY OR SIM.
BM 1589
A
B
C
1
BRICK VENEER, COLOR: LIGHT 
TAN / WHITE OR SIM. @ 4TH & 
RAILROAD ELEVATIONS ONLY
2
METAL PANELS
COLOR: BLACK OR SIM. 
CEMENT PLASTER, SMOOTH SAND
(SAMPLE FOR TEXTURE ONLY)
3
RECESSED VINYL NAIL FIN 
WINDOWS
COLOR: BLACK OR SIM.
4
MTL AWNING, PAINTED 
BUILDING ADDRESS SIGNAGE
STOREFRONT TO MATCH VINYL 
WINDOW COLOR
7
9
GARAGE ACCESS
RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCE
DOWNWARD LIT BUILDING SCONCE
FIBER CEMENT TRIM, PTD, OR SIM.
MTL SPANDREL PANEL, OR SIM.
GLASS RAILING
DARK CASTED CONCRETE
10
11
12
5
6
8
13
14
1
C
3
3
B
4
8
2
5
7
11
10
C
12
B
6
7
1
B
6
8
10
5
7
4
2
11
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
TRUE
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
12" = 1'-0"
2/9/2022 5:41:04 PM
AR3.10
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
MATERIAL
BOARD
4TH & RAILROAD
12" = 1'-0"
1
PERSPECTIVE - E 4TH AVENUE
12" = 1'-0"
2
PERSPECTIVE - E 4TH AVENUE

--- page 67 ---
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 2
16' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 3
26' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 4
36' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 5
46' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 6
56' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
UPPER ROOF
85' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
BASEMENT
-18' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 7
66' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
ROOF
76' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
2
AR3.20
____________
3
AR3.20
____________
S1.0
S1.1
DINING
STAIR
LOBBY
CORRIDOR
B2.1
B2.0
A1.1
ELEVATOR
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
16' - 0"
18' - 0"
94' - 0"
TYPE I-A
TYPE III-A
S1.0
S1.0
S1.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
RESIDENT SERVICES
GARAGE
GARAGE
STAIR 2
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 2
16' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 3
26' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 4
36' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 5
46' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 6
56' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
UPPER ROOF
85' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
BASEMENT
-18' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 7
66' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
ROOF
76' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
1
AR3.20
____________
16' - 0"
18' - 0"
103' - 0"
TYPE III-A
TYPE I-A
A1.1
C2.0
YOUTH ROOM
LOBBY
MAINT.
SELF HELP OFFICES
9' - 0"
C2.1
C2.0
C2.0
C2.0
C2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
GARAGE
FLOOR 1
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 2
16' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 3
26' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 4
36' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 5
46' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
FLOOR 6
56' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
UPPER ROOF
85' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
BASEMENT
-18' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
FLOOR 7
66' - 0"
T.O. SUBFLOOR
ROOF
76' - 0"
T.O. PLATE
1
AR3.20
____________
STAIR 2
AMENITY
GARAGE
MENS
STAIR
LOBBY
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 2
S1.2
B3.0
A2.0
B1.0
B3.0
B1.0
B3.0
B1.0
B3.0
B1.0
B3.0
GARAGE
A2
A2
A2
A2.0
STAIR 2
B1.0
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
3/32" = 1'-0"
2/9/2022 5:41:06 PM
AR3.20
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
BUILDING
SECTIONS
4TH & RAILROAD
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
BUILDING SECTION
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
BUILDING SECTION
3/32" = 1'-0"
3
BUILDING SECTION
2
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
1
RAILROAD AVE.
E 4TH AVE
3

--- page 68 ---
SIDEWALK
12' - 6"
AT E 4TH AVENUE
70' - 0" ROW
E 4th AVENUE
MIDPOINT OF ROW
35' - 0"
MIDPOINT OF ROW TO FACE OF BUILDING
47' - 6"
47' - 6"
45°
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
32' - 10 3/4"
32' - 9 3/4"
SIDEWALK
5' - 0"
AT S RAILROAD AVENUE
20' - 0" ROW
S RAILROAD 
AVENUE
MIDPOINT OF ROW
10' - 0"
MIDPOINT OF ROW TO FACE OF BUILDING
15' - 0"
45°
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
AMENITY
UNIT
15' - 0"
71' - 0"
71' - 0"
1/27/2022 11:45:41 AM
Project Status
Issue Date
2126
NS
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
1
PRE-APPLICATION
02/10/2022
SCALE:
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
SHEET SIZE:
ALL DRAWINGS AND WRITTEN MATERIAL 
APPEARING HEREIN CONSTITUTE ORIGINAL, 
AND UNPUBLISHED WORK OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND MAY NOT BE DUPLICATED, 
USED OR DISCLOSED WITHOUT THE 
WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
30 x 42
STAMP
3/32" = 1'-0"
3/18/2022 4:51:14 PM
AR3.21
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
STREET WALL
SECTION
EXHIBITS
4TH & RAILROAD
3/32" = 1'-0"
1
STREET WALL EXHIBIT - E 4TH AVENUE
3/32" = 1'-0"
2
STREET WALL EXHIBIT - S RAILROAD AVE

--- page 69 ---
2
RAILROAD AVE
G2
P1
P2
B2
P2
R1
P1
G2
B2
P2
R1
P2
B1
Q1
C1
B3
G3
P2
T1
A1
G1
T1
P2
S1
T1
620 SF OF DESIGNATED PLAY AREA
PROPOSED SMALL TREE, TYP.
T1
A1
B1
G1
G2
G3
P1
P2
Q1
R1
T1
B2
C1
B3
S1
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER, CITY STANDARD
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 1
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 2
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 3
RUBBERIZED SURFACING
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
PLANTER
AT GRADE PLANTING AREA
RAISED PLANTING AREA
RAISED STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
BUILT-IN BENCH
MOVEABLE FURNITURE
(TBD BY TENANT)
SCULPTURAL PLAY EQUIPMENT ( OVER 600SF PLAY AREA)
CANVAS AWNING SUSPENDED ON CABLES
EGRESS
SITE FURNISHINGS, EGRESS
PROPOSED TREE
TREE
STORMWATER PLANTER
PLANTING AREA
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
2/11/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
TRUE
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
4TH & RAILROAD
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
LR1.0
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL 2
AMENITY TERRACE
3/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 70 ---
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
2/11/2022
2202017.00
CB
TH
TRUE
4TH & RAILROAD
San Mateo, CA
4TH & RAILROAD
934 Howard Street
San Francisco, CA
94103
P. (415) 677-0966
PRE-APPLICATION RESUBMISSION
6/10/2022
2
LR2.0
LANDSCAPE
RENDERINGS
LEVEL 2  TERRACE
LOOKING PLAN SOUTH, TOWARDS SCULPTURAL PLAY AREA, WITH SEATING AREA
LOOKING PLAN SOUTH, AT LIVING ROOM AREA WITH FREESTYLE SEATING, GREENWALL AND SUSPENDED SHADE CANOPY
THAT HELPS TO PROVIDE PRIVACY FROM UPPER LEVELS.
LOOKING PLAN NORTH, TOWARDS SCULPTURAL PLAY AREA, WITH SEATING AREA
LOOKING PLAN NORTH, WITH FREESTYLE SEATING, GREENWALL AND SHADE CANOPY THAT
HELPS TO PROVIDE PRIVACY. MURAL ALONG LONG BLANK FACADE TO PLAN EAST.
FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY

--- page 71 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
 
 
 
June 24, 2022 
Ms. Julia Klein 
City of San Mateo 
Department of Community Development 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: 
Request for Density Bonus Consistent with Government Code Section 65915 
for Proposed 445 South B Street Project 
Dear Ms. Klein: 
On behalf of DTSM Talbots Venture, LLC (“Applicant”), this letter serves as a 
request for a density bonus, waivers, and concessions, and application of reduced parking 
standards consistent with State Density Bonus Law (Gov. Code § 65915) for the proposed 100% 
affordable 60-unit horizontal mixed use development including separate residential and 
commercial structures (“Project”) located at 445 South B Street (APNs 034-179-010, 020, 030, 
040, 050, 060) (“Property”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”).  
All of the Project’s proposed 60 units (other than the manager’s unit) would be 
restricted to lower income households (80% Area Median Income (AMI) or less) with a target 
average AMI of 60% or less (the “Affordable Units”).  The Property is located within ½ mile of 
at least one major transit stop (the Caltrain Station).  The Affordable Units and the Project 
location therefore qualify the Project for an eighty percent (80%) density bonus and four 
concessions. (Gov. Code §§ 65915(d)(2)(D); 65915(f)(3)(D)(i).)  In addition, State Density 
Bonus Law provides that the Project does not need to provide parking for its residential units, 
inclusive of visitor parking.  (Gov. Code § 65915(p)(3)(A).)   
 
Government Code Section 65915(e)(1)— Requested Density Bonus 
The Project qualifies for an eighty percent (80%) density bonus. (Gov’t Code § 
65915(f)(3)(D)(i).)  The Project site is 1.16 acres and its CBD/R zoning district permits 50-units 
per acre.  Thus, the base project would be 58 units.  The Project requests a 3% density bonus for 
a total of up to 60 units residential units. 
 
Government Code Section 65915(e)(1)— Requested Waivers of Development Standards 
Government Code Section 65915(e)(1) provides, in part, that “in no case may a 
city, county, or city and county apply any development standard that will have the effect of

--- page 72 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 2 
 
 
physically precluding the construction of a [density bonus project] at the densities or with the 
concessions or incentives permitted by this section.”  The right to waivers has been broadly 
interpreted by the courts. (Wollmer v. City of Berkeley (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1346–
1347.)   
The Applicant is requesting waivers from the following development standards 
that physically preclude the development of the proposed density bonus project:  
 Street Wall on the Building Height and Bulk Plan (§ 27.42.010).  
Compliance with the bulk limitations found in Section 27.42.010 would 
result is the loss of a substantial portion of the residential and commercial 
components of the project (see insert below) and would physically 
preclude the development of the proposed density bonus project.  The 
building mass will be mitigated by utilizing varying materials and massing 
breaks and enhancing the pedestrian experience via increased sidewalk 
widths and street scape.

--- page 73 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 3 
 
 
Commercial Structure:

--- page 74 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 4 
 
 
Residential Structure:

--- page 75 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 5 
 
 
 Floor Area Ratio (FAR) (§ 27.62.160).   The proposed density bonus 
project requires a FAR of 4.5 which exceeds the otherwise applicable FAR 
of 3.0.  Application of the 3.0 FAR limitation would result in the loss of at 
least one story to both the residential and commercial structures.  This 
would result in both the loss of affordable housing units and the 
commercial square footage intended to help subsidize the affordable 
housing units.  The increase in FAR is very similar to the FAR increase 
granted for the 400 E. 5th Avenue and 480 E. 4th Avenue project where 
additional FAR was needed to accommodate affordable housing units and 
a public parking garage.  The additional FAR is necessary to prevent the 
physical preclusion of the density bonus project. 
 
 Dwelling Standards - Minimum Size (§ 27.22.110). The affordable 
housing project will not meet the City’s required minimum unit size (see 
plan set submitted concurrently with this letter).  Several, but not all, of 
the one-bedroom and two-bedroom floor plans are below the required 
minimum dimensions but are in-line with the unit sizes similar affordable 
housing projects in the Bay Area.  Increasing the unit sizes proposed 
would result in the loss of residential units.  The requested waiver is 
therefore required to avoid physically precluding development of the 
density bonus project. 
 
 Above 55’ exceeds maximum dimensions (§ 27.40.030).  For the same 
reasons that a waiver is needed from the City’s street wall standards, the 
Project also requires a waiver from for maximum building dimension of 
150 lineal feet and maximum diagonal dimension of 170 lineal feet for 
portions of structures above 55’in order to not be physically precluded. 
The Project proposes an overall dimension for the commercial structure of  
223’x 204’ that broken down by different steps in the top floor of 
170’x83’, 111’x98’, and 65’x44’ to reduce the massing of the Project.   
 
 Residential Height.  The seven-story residential structure would have a top 
of upper roof of approximately 76’.  The structure’s elevator requires a 12’ 
11”mechanical penthouse.  The roof plate of the mechanical penthouse 
would be 88’ 11”.  This exceeds the Property’s height limit of 55’-75’.  
Heights of up to 75’ are available when a project provides public benefits 
or amenities that are substantially greater than code requirements.  The 
Project is 100% affordable which provides a critical public benefit in 
excess of standard code requirements.  The Project also will provide 
approximately 5,000 sq. ft. of ground floor community-serving non-profit 
space at an extremely below market rent to provide a permanent home for 
Self-Help for the Elderly.  This provides a public benefit of improving the 
quality of life for the elderly residents of the City that is not required by 
the code.  The Project requires a minimum of 13’ 11”of additional height 
to not be physically precluded and may require additional height as the 
Project design is refined during processing.

--- page 76 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 6 
 
 
 
 Ground Floor Retail.  The Project proposes to locate the community space 
for the Self-Help for the Elderly within a portion of the Property located in 
the Required Retail Frontage zone.  The 4th street frontage for this 
community serving non-profit would be more accessible from public 
transit and with easier access to retail facilities than the project’s 5th street.  
Self-Help for the Elderly’s space will serve as a complimentary use for the 
residential building. While the details will be further coordinated with the 
organization, the event and dining space at Self-Help for the Elderly on 
the ground floor will be shared with the residents as flexible spaces for 
recreation and gathering after hours. Strict application of the Required 
Retail Frontage requirements would physically preclude the development 
of the Density Bonus Project.  (See Wollmer v. City of Berkeley (2011) 
193 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1346–1347 “Standards may be waived that 
physically preclude construction of a housing development meeting the 
requirements for a density bonus, period. The statute does not say that 
what must be precluded is a project with no amenities, or that amenities 
may not be the reason a waiver is needed.”) 
 
Government Code Section 65915(d)— Requested Concessions  
A concession or incentive is a “reduction in site development standards or a 
modification of zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements . . . or other 
regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the developer . . . that result in identifiable and 
actual cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs.” (§ 65915(k).)  A city “shall grant 
the concession or incentive requested by the applicant unless the city . . . makes a written 
finding, based upon substantial evidence, of any of the following: 
 
(A) The concession or incentive does not result in identifiable and actual cost 
reductions, [], to provide for affordable housing costs . . . . 
 
(B) The concession or incentive would have a specific, adverse impact . . . upon 
public health and safety or the physical environment or on any real property that is listed 
in the California Register of Historical Resources . . . . 
 
(C) The concession or incentive would be contrary to state or federal law.”   
(§ 65915(k).) 
Since 2017, the Density Bonus Law no longer requires a showing that a requested 
concession is required to make a project economically feasible.  (Stats. 2016, ch. 758, § 1.) 
The Project qualifies for four (4) concessions under Density Bonus Law.  The Applicant requests 
the following one concession:

--- page 77 ---
089642\14407171v7 
 
 
Page 7 
 
 
 Commercial Height.  The five-story commercial structure would have a 
top of upper roof of approximately 74’. The structure requires a 
14’mechanical penthouse for a total height of 88’. Heights of up to 75’ are 
available when a project provides public benefits or amenities that are 
substantially greater than code requirements.  The Project is 100% 
affordable which provides a critical public benefit in excess of standard 
code requirements.  The Project also will provide approximately 5,000 sq. 
ft. of ground floor community-serving non-profit space at an extremely 
below market rent to provide a permanent home for Self-Help for the 
Elderly.  Therefore, the Project would appear to qualify for 75’ of height. 
The Project requests a concession of 13’ above the 75’ height limit.  The 
additional 13 feet of height would permit an additional story of 
commercial uses.  The revenue generated by the additional square footage 
permitted by this concession would subsidize the Project’s affordable 
housing costs and would be in scale with the Project’s residential 
structure.   
 
 
The Applicant may amend this Density Bonus request as the Project is refined through 
processing.  Please feel free to call me if you have any questions and we look forward to working 
with you to activate this entire block of San Mateo. 
 
Yours Sincerely, 
 
Preston O’Connell 
Partner 
 
Harvest Properties, Inc.

--- page 78 ---
1 
 
Harvest Properties  
PA22-023 407 - 445 S. B St. (Bespoke/Talbots) 
   
  Summary of Pre-Application Community Meeting 
Date: 
September 1, 2022 
Time: 
7:00 pm - 8:00 pm  
Location: 
 Virtual Zoom 
Meeting 
Community Attendees: David Light, Frank Garritano, Drew, Pat & Janet Wentworth, Daniel, Judith Paton,        
Christine, Laurie Watanuki, Maxine Terner, Janet Wentworth, Vicky Wong, Debbie Soon, Bruce Beiser, 
Shirley, GH, Christine, Keith Weber, Marcus Gilmour, Frances Liu, Francie Souza, Steve DeAndre,  Maggie 
Mui, Lorenzo, Maurine Killough (CCHT), Lola 
City Staff Attendees: Julia Klein, Manira Sandhir, Kathy Kleinbaum, Eloiza Murillo-Garcia 
Applicant Attendees: Preston O’Connell, Tyler Issadore, Claire Wang, Danielle Friend, Evan Fraser, Ryan 
Stone, Charlie Brucker, Chris Jew, Jonathan Stone, Don Peterson, Anni Chung, Jennifer Wong, Carlos 
Castellanos  
 
Community Feedback 
 
Question/Comment: 
I like the senior center, the low-income housing, and the sustainability aspect of the project, but the 
building looks to me like another steel and glass building. Does the City have an overall vision for 
buildings being developed in San Mateo? Can the façade fit in with the neighborhood context a little 
more? 
 
Harvest Response: 
One of the things we are very excited about is that there isn’t going to be much steel in the building. 
The whole building including the structural elements are actually constructed with wood which 
creates very warm and natural tones and aesthetics. Mass timber is also a highly sustainable and 
regenerative building material. In terms of the design process, we are in the pre-application stage 
and will be going in front of the Planning Commission on October 11th. That’s when we start a longer 
dialogue with the City about what design elements might need to be revised to reference some other 
design vernacular in the area and how we can make sure this project will be a very exceptional 
building in the downtown.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Will there be any solar panels on the building? 
 
Harvest Response: 
As part of our efforts to achieve LEED Gold, Carbon Neutral Design, WELL-Ready Certification, and 
other sustainability certifications, we are working with solar panels and various other technologies to 
help reduce the building energy loads ie. efficient air handling units, potential operable windows, 
solar panels etc. We will dive deeper into those different technologies and measures in the Major 
Application stage to make a very cutting-edge project in terms of sustainability and wellness 
initiatives.

--- page 79 ---
2 
 
 
Question/Comment: 
Appreciate the excellent presentation. Some of the things I personally really appreciated are the 
thoughtful approach with the setbacks, the widened sidewalks to encourage and facilitate pedestrian 
use, traditional materials such as the bricks and the wood, the way the building was designed, the 
corner plaza, curb extensions and the inclusion of the affordable housing. It might be beneficial to 
increase the number of residential parking stalls for the 60 units even given the transit-oriented 
location.    
 
Harvest Response: 
We are providing 37 stalls in our garage specifically dedicated to the residents and additionally the  
project site is one block away from the new 5th Avenue Garage which will have about 500 new stalls . 
We will also be doing a parking demand study for the project to understand exactly what the parking 
needs are as future steps of the analysis.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Is there an overarching plan that currently exist for B Street that will unify the multiple developments 
that are in progress for the area? 
 
City Response: 
The City doesn’t have a plan of that nature; but does have the Downtown Retail Core Design 
Guidelines which is available on the City’s website. The City is working with the developers and 
sharing that information with the development team. The input received from this meeting and at 
the Planning Commission Study Session will all be taken into consideration as part of the City’s review 
process.  
 
 
Question/Comment: 
This building will be a great bookend to the South B Street and its future pedestrian expansion. The 
project should take into consideration of sound insolation on the Railroad track side with the 
potential of the tracks becoming elevated maybe 20 years from now. The sidewalks along the 
Railroad Avenue will likely be used for the grade separation which could become problematic for the 
garage entrance. The sidewalks could be widened a little more along Railroad Avenue. Some 
variations could be added to the residential façade.  
 
Harvest Response: 
Thank you and acknowledged.  
 
 
Question/Comment: 
What are the plans for noise abatement given the current proximity of Caltrain? 
 
Harvest Response: 
One of the studies required as part of the CEQA/environmental review is a noise study which happens 
during the formal Planning Application process to make sure that the decibel level within the 
residential and working spaces are within the appropriate range.  
 
Question/Comment:

--- page 80 ---
3 
 
Will the project include solar panels, electrical vehicle charging, heat pump heating vs gas heaters/air 
conditioning? Any moderating plans for the homeless people in the common areas? 
 
Harvest Response: 
The project will include solar panels, electrical vehicle charging, no gas per the San Mateo reach code 
which requires MEP systems to be all electrical. We will work within the City’s guidelines to make 
sure that the common spaces are managed and used appropriately so everyone feels welcome, safe 
and open to everyone.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Really appreciate the use of noble materials and the exposed timber but the building looks similar to 
some of the other buildings being built in San Mateo in the recent years. Understand that it needs to 
be a modern building, but it would be nice if it can be further melded in with the buildings in San 
Mateo while being more differentiated from some of the other more recent developments.  Will the 
parking space be available to the public other than the 37 exclusive residential stalls? How would they 
be priced? What’s the height limit? 
 
Harvest Response: 
We will continue to explore ways to harmonize the building more with the downtown fabric and will 
continue as we go through the Planning Commission and more community meetings.  
We will conduct a parking demand study to understand true demands which considers the project 
specific conditions and proposed uses. We are really early in the process to determine the costs and 
management of the parking. Opening up the parking to the public during off hours is definitely 
something we will put a lot of thoughts into at the right stage.  
 
City Response: 
75’ is the height limit under the current zoning for the commercial portion and residential may be 
permitted to go above 75’ under provisions of the State Density Law.   
 
Question/Comment:  
San Mateo is rapidly becoming a food desert. There aren’t many choices for families in the area with 
no cars and I hope the retail component will address this need.  
 
Harvest Response: 
Thank you and we hope so to.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Is bike parking planned for? 
 
Harvest Response: 
Absolutely. We will have extensive bike parking throughout the residential and commercial buildings.   
 
Question/Comment: 
The architectural style should assimilate better with some of the downtown historic buildings. The 
entrances/exists for the garage should be located on 4th Avenue to mitigate traffic on residential 
streets and preserve street parking. What are the other incentives you are going to provide so that 
the office tenants will take Caltrain?

--- page 81 ---
4 
 
Harvest Response: 
As part of the planning application process, we are working on a Traffic Demand Management plan 
(TDM) which is a combination of services, incentives, facilities, and actions that reduce single-
occupant vehicle (SOV) trips to help relieve traffic congestion, parking demand, and air pollution 
problems. As part of that plan, we work with the office tenants to implement voucher systems, 
educational programs, carpooling systems, and promote the use of bikes/public transit to provide a 
whole menu of options to incentivize people to take the alternative modes of transportation to 
reduce traffic in the area.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Very much in support of the affordable housing building but would like to increase parking for the 
residents. Really like many things about this project ie. the widened sidewalks to encourage more 
street and pedestrian activities. At the corner plaza, will there be any restaurants or coffee shops? 
Consider pushing the building more into the corner plaza, widening the sidewalk with direct access to 
the future retail. I like that there will be a variety of businesses. We want small businesses. Glazing is 
concentrated in the corner that’s closer to the historic buildings. The affordable housing building 
needs to look more attractive; the façade feels very flat but it is wonderful to have the 60 affordable 
housing units going in there. If the building does need to be glassy, make the lower floors more 
opaque, so we don’t see the backs of computers and office desks. Love the wider sidewalks.  
 
Harvest Response: 
Thank you and acknowledged.  
 
Question to the Community: 
Will there still be street parking or only in parking lots/garages? 
 
Harvest Response: 
Yes, there will be street parking.  
 
Question to the Community: 
Is there any plan to make use of the rooftop space to do something, such as public gardens or other 
types of public space? 
 
Harvest Response: 
On the commercial side we will have the elevated terraces available for the tenants. The affordable 
housing has a lot of its private amenity spaces on an elevated terrace as it’s exclusive for the 
residents. The residential outdoor amenity space includes children’s play areas for different age 
groups and landscaped seating areas.  The challenge with having public assembly spaces on the upper 
levels is that it requires a lot of additional emergency egress and fire protections. It can start to limit 
the functional spaces within the building and the building becomes very expense. We are trying to 
find the balance between having a lot of great amenities but also making sure the project stays 
competitive for state and federal and other public sources of financing so that we could maximize the 
affordable housing opportunities.

--- page 82 ---
From: anne spanier

Sent: Tuesday, February 1, 2022 12:01 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: New building on on 4th Street

As a resident of the Stratford I am writing to ask for consideration of a modification of your new
building. Please consider reducing the number of floors to no more than 5 and create an attractive roof
garden for both the future residents and their neighbors. It will pay off in the end.

Anne Spanier

Sent from my iPhone


--- page 83 ---
From: Maxine Terner <
>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 4:26 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Talbots project 
 
Please add me to the contact list for this project at 445 S. B st.  
 
Also, please answer these questions: 
1) is the entire housing project only 60 units 
2) are all the housing units affordable 
3) what level of affordability 
4) will there be units with 3+ bedrooms for families 
 
Thank you.

--- page 84 ---
From: Julia Klein  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 12:20 PM 
To: Hannah Hughes <hannah@lozeaudrury.com> 
Subject: RE: 445 South B Street, Bespoke Pre-Application 
 
Hi Hannah, 
 
The Pre-Application is intended to gather input for a potential project at its conceptual stage and 
provide the applicant opportunity to factor the input as they further develop the project design. As such, 
the Pre-Application is not subject to CEQA.  
 
When the developer submits a formal Planning Application for a development, then city staff would 
review per the provisions of CEQA. 
 
I hope the above is helpful, let me know if you have further questions. 
 
-Julia 
 
 
Julia Klein 
Principal Planner 
City of San Mateo  
650.522.7216 
 
 
From: Hannah Hughes <hannah@lozeaudrury.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 11:50 AM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 445 South B Street, Bespoke Pre-Application 
 
Good afternoon Julia,  
 
What is the CEQA status of 445 South B Street, Bespoke Pre-Application? 
 
Thank you in advance for your time.  
 
 
Best,  
 
Hannah Hughes (she/her) 
Paralegal 
Lozeau | Drury LLP 
1939 Harrison Street, Suite 150 
Oakland, California 94612 
(510) 836-4200 
(510) 836-4205 (fax) 
Hannah@lozeaudrury.com

--- page 85 ---
From: DA <
>  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 12:54 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 445south B 
 
Hello Ms Klein, 
I’m writing in regards to this project. My concerns are that the architecture is very similar to the near by 
buildings built or being built. It would be nice if San Mateo preserves some architectural features that 
have more substance then just glass and brick on these new buildings. What makes San Mateo unique is 
the different styles and materials used on buildings. it’s a not that hard to come up with a more 
historical design. After all once this is gone, there is no reason to have historical guidelines. 
Thank you 
Dino Antoniazzi

--- page 86 ---
From: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 6:37 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; Robert Harker 
 
Cc: Kathy Kleinbaum <kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org>; Stone, Jonathan 
<JStone@prometheusreg.com>; Jennifer Wong <jwong@altahousing.org>; Tyler Issadore 
<tissadore@harvestproperties.com>; Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: RE: 4TH & B Bespoke project will impact housing by 283 housing units (math included) 
 
Robert – Thank you for submitting your feedback regarding our project and I wanted to follow up to 
Julia's email to provide some additional context. I also removed some people off the email chain to be 
mindful of their inbox. As a local Bay Area real estate firm, we pride ourselves on being transparent with 
the City and Community and aim to propose projects that meet the goals and needs of the 
City/Community. We apologize if certain aspects of our application seemed disingenuous as that most 
definitely was not our intent and we would be happy to provide whatever project information you need. 
Additionally, we would welcome the opportunity to sit down and discuss our project as I think it might 
clarify a few of the issues you raised.   
 
The jobs-housing imbalance is something our partnership takes very seriously as we are one of the 
largest residential developers in the Peninsula. We are constantly trying to find creative ways to produce 
housing. For example, we recently broke ground on a project in San Mateo that will demolish 225,000 
square feet of office space and deliver 290 for-sale residential units that will cater to first time home 
buyers and provide 10% of the units to low-income. These are mostly 2-4 bedroom units that are bigger 
than typical apartments and harder to find opportunities to develop. This project alone will do a lot to 
help reverse the jobs housing imbalance in San Mateo.   
 
We will be hosting a community outreach meeting via zoom for the project on September 1s to share 
additional information about the project as well as receive feedback from the community.  If you would 
like to attend, we would be happy to forward the zoom link details.  
 
Lastly, we would welcome the opportunity to meet individually to further discuss the project. 
 
We look forward to connecting.  
 
Best, 
Preston 
 
 
Preston O’Connell | Partner 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
 
direct | 510.466.1485 
main | 510.594.2050 
contact | vCard  
 
180 Grand Avenue | Suite 1400 | Oakland, CA 94610 
 
HarvestProperties.com

--- page 87 ---
From: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Friday, August 19, 2022 10:52 PM 
To: Robert Harker 
 
Cc: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Kathy Kleinbaum <kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org>; Preston O'Connell 
<poconnell@harvestproperties.com>; Stone, Jonathan <JStone@prometheusreg.com>; Jennifer Wong 
<jwong@altahousing.org> 
Subject: RE: 4TH & B Bespoke project will impact housing by 283 housing units (math included) 
 
Hello Mr. Harker, 
 
I appreciate your interest in this project and taking the time to reach out to the city. I'd like to take this 
opportunity to respond to a few of the points/questions raised in your email. 
 
First, the project is at the Pre-Application stage which is intended to provide an early look at a project 
while the project is still in its conceptual stage. The goal is to gather early input from the community and 
Planning Commission before the project is fully designed. The project team would factor the input as 
they further develop the project and prepare to submit for a formal Planning Application. 
 
The Pre-Application stage is comprised of a Neighborhood Meeting and a Planning Commission study 
session. Both are opportunities to learn about the project and share comments, concerns and ideas for 
improving the project. 
 
Regarding the quality of the Pre-Application plans, at the conceptual stage the project plans do not 
contain the level of detail that would typically be seen in a formal Planning Application. However, I see 
there is interest in some project data and will reach out to the applicant team to provide a summary 
data sheet, and will post it online when it's ready. 
 
Second, I believe there may be a misunderstanding regarding this project and the parties involved. The 
project is a public-private partnership, and the development team was selected through a competitive 
process that included multiple City Council public meetings. 
 
It may be helpful to know that the parties involved in the partnership include the City a property owner 
(for a portion of the project site) and a team of three partner developers (Alta Housing, a non-profit 
housing developer, Harvest Properties and Prometheus). 
 
Third, it should be noted that the City, in its role as a property owner, has required the project to 
maximize housing units on the city-owned portion of the block. The project site comprises the entire 
block from South B Street to Railroad Avenue, between 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue including the 
former Talbot's and City-owned 4th Avenue parking lot sites. The proposed 60-unit affordable housing 
building would be located on the City-owned parking lot portion of the block. 
 
Fourth, as the project is at the Pre-Application or conceptual stage, a detailed analysis and technical 
studies has not yet been completed. For example, a project specific parking demand study would be 
done during the formal Planning Application stage. As such, some of the questions below would need to 
wait until the formal Planning Application stage to be addressed.

--- page 88 ---
I hope the above information is helpful. Please let me know if you would like to schedule a call or 
meeting to discuss further. And let me know if you'd like to be added to the Interested Parties List for 
this project. 
 
Thank you, 
Julia 
 
 
Julia Klein 
Principal Planner 
City of San Mateo 
650.522.7216 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Robert Harker 
 
Sent: Thursday, August 18, 2022 4:04 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Julia Klein 
<jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; poconnell@harvestproperties.com 
Subject: 4TH & B Bespoke project will impact housing by 283 housing units (math included) 
 
I consider myself an amateur urban planner having been interested in the subject for over 50 years. I 
find the pre-application for the 4TH & B ("Bespoke") project PA_2022-023 very disingenuous. What are 
the developers trying to hide? My personal opinion is that they are hiding the imbalance between office 
space and housing of this project and how much worse it will make the housing crisis. 
 
Why are the plans disingenuous? Normally on a set of project plans for a mixed use development the 
first page includes useful summary information. Sq. Ft. of office space, number of residential units, 
number of parking spaces. The first page of this project plan shows parking spaces and a not very useful 
set of square footage information. A total for both office space and residential space combined. After 
looking through 20 or so pages, I never found useful summary information. 
 
I did find office square footage on the planning department's web page, 155,000 Sqft. I found floor plans 
for the residential building on pages AR2.02-AR2.03 ([age35 of 45) and counted 60 units. So I will use 
those numbers. 
 
So my question is "What are the developers trying to hide?" My personal opinion is that they are hiding 
the imbalance between office space and housing of this project. I am sure someone will claim the 
project is doing something about the housing crisis. Which it is. The project is making the housing crisis 
worse by somewhere between 198 and 283 housing units. 
 
How did I come up with these numbers? Simple planning metrics. In most office developments a parking 
space is required for every employee based on 300 Sqft of office space per employee. 
 
So: 
155,000 / 300 = 516.7 employees.

--- page 89 ---
These employees need a place to live. So assuming 2 working adults per housing unit: 
516 / 2 = 258 housing units required for the employees. 
 
But not all employees live to working adults per unit. Single parent households, people who prefer to 
live alone in a studio apartment, etc. Also the project will employ other people not included in the office 
worker count. Security guards, janitors, gardeners, food workers, etc. So a more reasonable metric is 1.5 
working adults in each unit or 2/3 of a housing unit per office worker. So: 
516 * 0.666 = 343 housing units required for the employees. 
 
So this development project is going to make the housing crisis in the City of San Mateo worse by 
somewhere between 198 and 283 housing units. 
 
The old argument that the worker will live "somewhere else" no longer holds water because the 
available housing is in the central valley. The high paying office workers will displace slightly lower paid 
workers who will displace workers paid less. The end result is that somewhere between 198 and 283 
households will be forced to move to the central valley or double up, triple up, quadruple up in a single 
family home. This leads to houses that have 4 families living in them. 
 
Is there a mistake in my math? Is there a flaw in my assumptions about per worker housing 
requirements? Please tell me because I see this project making the City of San Mateo housing crisis 
significantly worse. 
 
Finally, why is the housing next to the railroad tracks and the office space on the nicer B street? Are the 
residents expected to be second class people? Office space is empty at night and residents sleep at 
home at night where the frequent trains keep people awake. 
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
RLH 
 
Robert Harker 
email preferred 
, landline 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 90 ---
From: Maurine Killough 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 3:25 PM 
To: Michael 
; poconnell@harvestproperties.com 
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
Well said, Michael. It is sensible to consider the style of our downtown so that it can 
continue to thrive. 
 
Maurine Killough 
You are not IN the Universe you ARE the universe—an intrinsic part of it.  
Ultimately you are not a person, but a focal point where the universe is becoming conscious of itself. 
What an amazing miracle.—Eckhart Tolle 
Smilingeyestribe.com 
Iwritemyself.worpress.com 
 
From: Michael 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 01, 2022 2:45 PM 
To: poconnell@harvestproperties.com 
Cc: Klein, Julia <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
I'm writing regarding the application for the Talbot's/Tomatina block of downtown San Mateo. I'd like to 
echo the sentiments of Keith Weber, in that while I completely support the construction of especially 
affordable housing on this site, this particular site sits right near the core of our crown jewel - our 
historic downtown. Unfortunately this project is just another bland, generic building that does a 
disservice to our unique historic district. I'm asking you as a resident of Central who spends a lot of time 
downtown and who moved here specifically for it along with my family, to take this opportunity to make 
a statement with this project. Create something bold, but one that scales down and back to meet the 
downtown buildings towards the corner of 4th and B, and with a design that people 100 years from now 
will stop and admire. No more square ice cubes, please - not here! Mr. Weber's thoughtful response 
provides many excellent examples of stunning architecture - go back to the drawing board and come up 
with something you and San Mateo will both be proud of for generations. 
 
Thanks - Michael Weinhauer

--- page 91 ---
From: Maurine Killough i:

Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 6:25 PM

To: poconnell@harvestproperties.com; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023)

| am a longtime resident on 4" Avenue near downtown San Mateo. | understand there is
an application for development of the Talbot's/Tomatina block of downtown San Mateo.
San Mateo has done a lot to add additional housing. We have a lot of construction going
on right now and | think we need to be mindful of new projects to ensure it fits in with the
small town feel our unique downtown has.

For those of us who live and work here, we use downtown a lot. We bring visitors and
guests to this downtown. | do not want it to lose its character. | would think this would be
important to the planners and the council members.

Thank you for re-thinking this project and taking into consideration a development that
would be an asset to our downtown and community.

--Maurine Killough

San Mateo, a



--- page 92 ---
From: Lorenzo Freschet <
>  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 8:45 PM 
To: dtsm@harvestproperties.com; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: B St Development 
 
Hello Preston & Julia, 
 
Our family owns the downtown San Mateo property caddy-corner across 4th & B from your 
development.  Our tenants are T-Mobile & Pausa Restaurant.  We have deep roots in the area and our 
family has been part of San Mateo since before 1920.   
 
Thanks very much for the opportunity to hear about the new proposal.  This is quite a massive project.  
While we’re not developers ourselves, we certainly appreciate how a well designed property can 
transform a city.  We look forward to hearing how yours progresses.   
 
Please put me on the Interested Parties List for this project.  And if the opportunity presents itself, let 
me know if you can meet for coffee or lunch sometime.   
 
Regards, 
 
Lorenzo Freschet

--- page 93 ---
From: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>  
Sent: Thursday, September 1, 2022 4:27 PM 
To: Keith Weber <
> 
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: RE: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
Mr. Weber,  
  
We really appreciated receiving your incredibly thoughtful letter as it shows how much you care about 
our neighborhood and preserving its architectural character.   Your letter clearly articulates the 
importance of respecting the Downtown area’s historic fabric while creating a unique architectural 
statement that will tie into the established neighborhood context. Thank you for providing the detailed 
examples of the mixed-use projects that have done this successfully in the past.  
 
We agree with you. It is our top design priority to create an architecture that mediates between the 
historic vernacular and contemporary demands for the interior space while staying consistent with the 
City’s Downtown Retail Core design guidelines and the General Plan’s vision and intent. The extensive 
use of brick is intended to relate in scale and materiality to the traditional architecture in the 
neighborhood. The building façade is carefully designed and articulated to better align and compliment 
some of Downtown’s more outstanding buildings as you suggested.  The broader expanses of glazing are 
oriented away from the existing residential area and are meant to showcase the natural beauty and 
warmth of the timber structure while minimal materials at the glazed facades reduce visual impact. The 
goal is to make the commercial building construction of mass timber which is not only highly sustainable 
given the regenerative nature of wood and its associated carbon sequestration but also architecturally 
significant.  
 
We would very much appreciate the opportunity to sit down with you to discuss our project and learn 
more about how you think we can better combine contemporary needs and contextual design. I’m 
including Claire Wang on this email too. Claire works with me on the project and can help provide any 
additional information. Her email address is cwang@harvestproperties.com.  
 
Thank you again for taking the time to write this letter, and we look forward to hearing back from you. 
Also please feel free to refer to me as Preston.  
  
Best regards, 
 
Preston 
 
Preston O’Connell | Partner 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
 
direct | 510.466.1485 
main | 510.594.2050 
contact | vCard  
 
180 Grand Avenue | Suite 1400 | Oakland, CA 94610 
 
HarvestProperties.com

--- page 94 ---
From: Keith Weber <
>  
Sent: Monday, August 29, 2022 11:09 AM 
To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
Mr. O'Connell, 
Please accept the attached letter regarding Harvest Properties proposed project on the 400 block of B 
St. 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber

--- page 95 ---
August 29, 2022 
Preston O’Connell 
Harvest Properties 
180 Grand Ave., Suite 1400 
Oakland, CA 94612 
Via email: poconnell@harvestproperties.com 
SUBJECT: 401-445 South B Street Pre-Application (PA-2022-023) 
Dear Mr. O’Connell, 
I am writing in regards to your proposed development of an entire block in downtown San 
Mateo.  As you know, it is a very prominent site and the project will have a large presence in 
the downtown.  It is also an opportunity to create a distinctive architectural statement that will 
compliment some of Downtown’s more outstanding buildings and add to the sense of place 
established along B Street and parts of Third Avenue. 
I respectfully request that you consider a more traditional design style of architecture for the 
project. Highlighted below some examples of very successful mixed use projects built recently 
that combine contemporary needs and contextual design. 
 
Greystar Corporate Headquarters, Charleston, SC   
The five-story, 82,000-square-foot building introduces 
a modern, mixed-use development into a historical 
urban context. Bob Faith, Chairman and CEO of 
Greystar said, “the result is an intuitively designed 
property that thoughtfully integrates architectural 
relevance with modern, progressive design.” 
https://www.greystar.com/about-greystar/newsroom/
greystar-building-hq 
The Metropolitan Lofts, Morristown, NJ 
A new traditional style mixed use rental and retail 
expands the design vision of the town’s historic 
Central Business District.   
https://www.mhsarchitects.com/architecture/
metropolitan-lofts/

--- page 96 ---
Kenyon Square, Washington, DC 
Mixed use condominium and retail.  The architecture of 
the building reflects the varied styles of Washington, 
D.C.  The southern facade is a deco style with large 
expanses of glass and wonderful views of the city.  The 
northern portion of the building is designed in an 
Italianate style, echoing the design of Grand Washington 
apartment houses. 
https://tortigallas.com/portfolio/kenyon-square 
State Street Village, Redlands, CA 
Residential and commercial over retail.  Through the use of a 
variety of exterior finishes and architectural styles, this new 
block forms a strong relationship to the existing downtown. 
https://tortigallas.com/portfolio/state-street-village 
 
It is my sincere hope that you take advantage of this development opportunity and create a 
lasting and memorable work of architecture that will stand the test of time.  I would be happy 
to discuss this in more detail at your convenience. 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo
Sobrato Headquarters, Mountain View, CA

--- page 97 ---
From: Daniel Shefer 
>  
Sent: Tuesday, September 6, 2022 7:46 AM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Feedback on the Talbot lot development project 
 
Julia, 
 
Please confirm receipt of this email and forward it to the commission. If you feel it 
is appropriate, you can forward it to the developer as long as you remove my 
contact info.  
I will do my best to attend the planning committee in person on the 13th. 
 
Here is my feedback on the design of the project planned on the current Talbot 
plot. 
1. The combination of the large glass panes at street level and exposed brick 
are very similar to the proposed building on Kelly Moore lot and are out of 
character for the downtown area. Please change the design to better fit in 
with the buildings that give downtown its unique character such as the Ben 
Franklin Hotel, the Medical Arts buildings and the low slung buildings around 
them. I don't expect an Art Deco building but I'm confident that the design 
can be improved to better fit in. 
2. The design of the residential building on the plot shows a non-
descript rectangle with small equidistant windows that makes it look like an 
ugly office building or possibly a parking structure. We have enough eye 
sores like the Romel building, Ryan Towers, Union Bank and the Lesley 
Towers buildings. Please don't add to them. 
3. Limiting the number of parking spots available to residents to less than 1 per 
unit will increase pressure on downtown parking. Please reconsider. 
Thank you. 
 
Daniel Shefer

--- page 98 ---
From: Tyler Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com>

Sent: Thursday, September 8, 2022 6:13 PM

To:

Cc: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023)

Hi Maurine — Hope you are doing well. Thank you for the below email. We definitely agree with your
statement regarding designing buildings to fit within the context of the downtown. The extensive use of
brick is intended to relate in scale and materiality to the traditional architecture in the neighborhood.
Additionally, we are currently at our pre-application stage of the project which is used to gather
feedback from the community and city and then the next stage will be to incorporate this feedback to
create the best possible project for the City and community. Lastly, we are very focused on delivering a
project that helps enhance and activate the public realm experience through increased sidewalk widths
and a corner plaza condition at 4th and B Street to create places for gathering as well as highly curated
retail on the ground-floor.

Please don’t hesitate to reach out with any additional feedback.

Thank you,
Tyler

Tyler Issadore | Director

Harvest Properties, Inc.
direct | 510.808.5212

Begin forwarded message:

From: Maurine Killough

Date: September 2, 2022 at 7:56:06 AM PDT

To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>, jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
Subject: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023)

| am a longtime resident on 4" Avenue near downtown San Mateo. | understand there is
an application for development of the Talbot's/Tomatina block of downtown San Mateo.
San Mateo has done a lot to add additional housing. We have a lot of construction going
on right now and | think we need to be mindful of new projects to ensure it fits in with the
small town feel our unique downtown has.

For those of us who live and work here, we use downtown a lot. We bring visitors and
guests to this downtown. | do not want it to lose its character. | would think this would be
important to the planners and the council members.

Thank you for re-thinking this project and taking into consideration a development that
would be an asset to our downtown and community.

--Maurine Killough


--- page 99 ---
From: Michael Weinhauer 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 8, 2022 6:53 PM 
To: Tyler Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com> 
Cc: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
Great to hear Tyler - look forward to seeing the changes. Appreciate the update and your support here - 
it’s an important project in a key location so well worth some extra attention and investment up front to 
get it right. Thanks - Mike 
 
From: Tyler Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com> 
Sent: Thursday, September 8, 2022 6:09:23 PM 
To: 
 
Cc: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>; jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
<jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023)  
  
Hi Michael – Hope you are doing well. Thank you for the below email. As long-term owner’s and 
stakeholders within the City, we absolutely want to build a project that the community and ourselves 
can be proud of for a very long time. We greatly appreciate the thoughtful letter Mr. Weber provided as 
well as the feedback received during the community meeting. We have relayed the feedback to our 
design team and look forward to incorporating potential design ideas as part of our major application to 
put forward a project that can be a staple for the downtown while maintaining ties into the established 
neighborhood.   
  
Please don’t hesitate to reach out with any additional feedback. 
  
Thank you, 
Tyler 
  
Tyler Issadore | Director 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
direct | 510.808.5212 
  
From: Michael 
 
Date: September 2, 2022 at 7:56:27 AM PDT 
To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Cc: "Klein, Julia" <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 401-445 B St. (PA-2022-023) 
 
I'm writing regarding the application for the Talbot's/Tomatina block of downtown San Mateo. I'd like to 
echo the sentiments of Keith Weber, in that while I completely support the construction of especially 
affordable housing on this site, this particular site sits right near the core of our crown jewel - our 
historic downtown. Unfortunately this project is just another bland, generic building that does a 
disservice to our unique historic district. I'm asking you as a resident of Central who spends a lot of time 
downtown and who moved here specifically for it along with my family, to take this opportunity to make 
a statement with this project. Create something bold, but one that scales down and back to meet the

--- page 100 ---
downtown buildings towards the corner of 4th and B, and with a design that people 100 years from now 
will stop and admire. No more square ice cubes, please - not here! Mr. Weber's thoughtful response 
provides many excellent examples of stunning architecture - go back to the drawing board and come up 
with something you and San Mateo will both be proud of for generations. 
  
Thanks - Michael Weinhauer

--- page 101 ---
From: Michael Nash

Sent: Wednesday, September 14, 2022 11:56 AM
To: Zachary Dahl <zdah|@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fwd: Harvest Properties Proposed Projects

There has been substantial agreement among my contacts that this is a great letter that expresses the
views of many San Mateans. | wanted to pass it on to be sure you are aware of this concern.

Thanks

Michael Nash

Begin forwarded message:

From: Keith Weber ie

Subject: Fwd: Harvest Properties Proposed Projects
Date: September 13, 2022 at 2:33:51 PM PDT

To: Mike Nash , Lisa Vande Voorde

, Dianne
aurie Watanuki
, Laurie Hietter

Dino Antoniazzi

, Maxine Terner

wocennene= Forwarded message ---------
From: Keith Weber
Date: Tue, Sep 13, 2022 at 2:30 PM

Subject: Harvest Properties Proposed Projects

To: <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>

Cc: Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com>, Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi Preston,

Thank you for your 9/1/22 response to my letter regarding your project on the Talbot's site. My
comments express the sincere concerns of most San Mateans who care about downtown and are
equally applicable to your "Donut Delight" project and the flurry of other similarly designed projects by
other developers. Currently there are at least eight projects either built, under construction or
proposed in the downtown that, except for a subtle rearrangement of materials, all look the same. Why
is that?

There was a time, not too long ago, that new buildings were built in the spirit of downtown,
complementing the historic architecture, using traditional architectural vocabularies while serving
contemporary demands, and all with individually distinct architectural personalities. Here are a few
current examples from San Carlos, Redwood City, San Bruno and San Jose that continue this tradition.


--- page 102 ---


--- page 103 ---
Now, for whatever reason, downtown San Mateo has been presented with an overabundance of 
sameness, buildings that look more like brick and glass massing diagrams than distinguished or creative 
architecture.

--- page 104 ---
al

=]
——-

at eT



--- page 105 ---
I attended the virtual  Neighborhood Meeting and noticed that there were many people expressing the 
same concern about the architecture.  And there are many more who did not attend who also feel that 
the architecture we are getting in San Mateo is not of the quality it could or should be.   
 
I sincerely hope that you will be willing to take your two downtown San Mateo projects back to the 
drawing board and come up with different designs that are more compatible with the diverse 
architectural styles, detailing and craftsmanship we have in downtown - Art Deco, Spanish Colonial 
Revival, Greek Revival, Italian Renaissance.  This is all we ask.  It is not a request to "mimic" older styles, 
but to be inspired by them, to converse with them, and to respect them and the greater San Mateo 
community through the language of architecture.   
 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber

--- page 106 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 15, 2022 10:28 AM 
To: poconnell@harvestproperties.com; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San 
Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Harvest Properties Proposed Projects 
 
Good morning, 
 
The city is adding high-rise buildings at a rapid pace, which is changing the look of our downtown and 
decimating small businesses. Please review the thoughtful email below regarding concerns about the 
architectural style of the buildings. I completely agree with Mr. Weber that the architecture does not 
reflect the quality of our downtown buildings and that our city deserves better. 
 
101 S. Ellsworth is a good example of architecture that better fits in with the downtown buildings.  
 
101 S. Ellsworth 
 
Please reconsider the architecture of the downtown buildings to include more traditional architectural 
elements and include ground-floor retail.  
 
Thank you, 
Laurie Hietter 
 
 
 
 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Keith Weber 
 
Date: Tue, Sep 13, 2022 at 2:34 PM 
Subject: Fwd: Harvest Properties Proposed Projects 
To: Mike Nash 
, Lisa Vande Voorde 
, Dianne Whitaker 
, Keith Weber 
, Laurie Watanuki 
, Ruthmary Cradler 
, Laurie Hietter 
, Maxine Terner 
, Dino Antoniazzi 
 
 
 
The linked image cannot be displayed.  The file may have been moved, renamed, or deleted. Verify that the link points to the correct file and location.

--- page 107 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 15, 2022 7:34 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown Development 
 
Dear Julie Klein,  
 
I am seriously concerned about the rapid and what I think is reckless development of downtown San 
Mateo and the lack of your public outreach on its future.   It's all about building location, quality, 
aesthetics, size, setbacks, and blending of old with the new style of architecture that is being 
proposed.  Classic and contemporary transitions need to be seamless.    For example, I think the 
proposal for the Talbots block is cold, unpleasant to look at, just walls, no setbacks and a bad attempt at 
being some sort of Spanish style.  
 
 
Several years ago, when doing volunteer work for the city, I helped put together a really nice foldout 
"Historic Walking Guide tour of Downtown San Mateo" complete with color pictures.  The classic 
buildiings and architecture in it date from 1893 -1940.   I don't think we want to loose that heritage and 
destroy it for the sake of progress.  Shouldn't we consider taking a step back to look at the whole 
picture.  Do we want a historic district and a new district?   Or can we blend buildings together so that 
the transitions are pleasing to the eye and not an eyesore.   Once built it will be too late.  What about a 
conceptual maping of the future of downtown with different, creative and beautiful arthitecture 
style possibilites, heights and density. 
 
I hope to hear from you on this subject 
 
Best 
Gary Isoardi 
San Mateo 
 
PS - if you would like a copy the the Historical walking guide I would be happy to provide it.

--- page 108 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Judith Paton 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 11, 2022 8:44 AM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New high rises downtown  
 
Please take this opportunity to establish design standards for our downtown that add to the historic 
look, rather than allowing developers to build utilitarian façades that clash with it. In the long run it’s 
good for business because people are drawn to neighborhoods that are attractive. You have already 
received several pictures of attractive buildings, of which the 101 Ellsworth project is one example.  
With this many new proposals in the works, this is the time to choose to make our downtown beautiful.  
Thank you  
Judith Paton 
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 109 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Francie 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 11, 2022 11:14 AM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Building concerns-Planning Meeting 
 
Dear Planning Commission,  
 
I am a resident of San Mateo with concerns about the many new large developments that are coming to 
our downtown.  
 
The Tomatina-Talbot’s lot building has not enough parking, the design is not consistent with historical 
features of downtown - we have enough new modern square glass buildings - and the impact on traffic 
in the area is worrisome.  Then there is the Donut Delite building…perhaps by the same developer with 
similar stark modern design features. Please try to support some of the beautiful features of downtown 
San Mateo. We don’t need to be another Redwood City or industrial work complex!  
 
Another comment about all of the important small businesses that are being pushed out. If we value 
those services…and I use many…the city could provide relocation service assistance while new buildings 
are being built and ensure business rent control is in place so they could actually afford to move in to a 
new space. We don’t need another Station Park Green with only 2 viable business using the available 
ground floor biz space. 
 
 It’s very sad to see what’s happening. Please be mindful of all the impacts these new projects have for 
years to come for city residents and businesses.  
 
Frances Souza 
 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 110 ---
Planning Commission 
Study Session
445 S. B Street Pre-Application
(PA-2022-023)
October 11, 2022
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
1

--- page 111 ---
PROJECT LOCATION
➢General Plan Land Use: 
Downtown Retail Core
➢Zoning: CBD/R (Central Business 
District/Residential Overlay)
➢Lot Size: 1.16 acres
➢Uses on Site: 4th Ave Parking 
Lot, restaurant, retail, former 
Talbot’s Toy Store 
2

--- page 112 ---
PROJECT SITE
3
City owned
Privately owned
East 4th Ave
South B St
East 5th Ave
Railroad Ave
South B St Elevation
East 4th Ave Elevation

--- page 113 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4
➢Total Floor Area: 227,965 sq ft
➢Total FAR:  4.6
➢Building 1:  
o 7-story (76 ft).
o Ground floor non-profit use, 60 units above
o (total: ~66,585 sq ft)
➢Building 2:  
o 5-story (74 ft).
o Ground floor commercial uses, offices above 
(total: ~161,390  sq ft)
➢Underground garage: 
o 37 residential spaces, mechanical puzzle lifts.
o 128 spaces for commercial/office uses

--- page 114 ---
SURROUNDING USES
5
7-story Multifamily (Kiku)
5-level 5th Ave Garage
2-story Draeger’s Market
6-story Multifamily
1-story Retail
1 & 3-story restaurants, salons, architect’s office, cleaner
1-story Fitness, Restaurants, 
Market, etc.

--- page 115 ---
APPLICABLE CODES AND POLICIES 
6
➢General Plan 
➢Downtown Area Plan
➢Zoning Code
➢Central Parking Improvement District (CPID)
➢Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines
➢Pedestrian Master Plan 
➢Bicycle Master Plan 
➢State Density Bonus Law
➢AB1763 is applicable

--- page 116 ---
REQUIRED PLANNING APPROVALS
➢Special Use Permit - non-profit use in required retail 
frontage area. Findings include:
o Use will not adversely affect general health, safety & 
welfare of community.
o Use will not cause injury or disturbance to adjacent 
property traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor or 
noxious gas, dust, glare, heat or fumes, or industrial waste. 
7

--- page 117 ---
REQUIRED PLANNING APPROVALS
➢Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) - new buildings, site 
improvements & no on-site loading space. Findings include:
o Structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with 
the neighborhood.
o Conforms with General Plan, meets applicable requirements including 
Density Bonus Law.
➢Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) – removal of trees. 
Findings include:
o All concerns regarding landscaping and tree removal are addressed, 
including effect upon the visual relationships with other development in 
the vicinity of the site;
8

--- page 118 ---
POTENTIAL ISSUES
➢Architectural design of both buildings 
➢Location of residential open space
➢Driveway location on Railroad Ave
➢Changes in the public right-of-way: sidewalks, on-
street loading, street-lights, street trees, etc.
➢Density Bonus Request 
9

--- page 119 ---
Architectural Design - Renderings
10
East 4th Avenue
South B Street
East 5th Avenue
Railroad Avenue

--- page 120 ---
East 4° Avenue and B Street

i -
7" : ‘ J
4 * AS

3 ll fl ii py at
8 : :



--- page 121 ---
South B Street and 5" Avenue



--- page 122 ---
Railroad Avenue



--- page 123 ---
METAL PANEL
METAL PANEL
EXTERIOR BRICK
CEMENT PLASTER
ROOF CANOPY
EXPOSED WOOD
4th Ave & B St
14
DARK FRAMED 
STOREFRONT
WOOD-CLAD 
STOREFRONT
BUTT-JOINT CURTAIN 
WALL GLAZING
GLASS GUARD 
RAIL
4th Avenue
South B Street

--- page 124 ---
5th Ave & Railroad Ave
15
Railroad Avenue
5TH Avenue

--- page 125 ---


--- page 126 ---
RAILRUAU AVE.

COVERED OPEN SPACE

Open Space -
Commercial/Office

OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETWEEN NOON AND 2PM THE SPRING
‘AND FALL EQUINOK PER SMMC 27.33.090

(OPEN SPACE AT CORNER PLAZA & RETAIL STOREFRONTS:

‘TOTAL OPEN SPACE mes
OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETWEEN NOON ANDZPMONTHE © 13545F
‘SPRING AND FALL EQUINOX PER SMMC 27 38.080

(OPEN SPACE CALCULATIONS

PER SMMC 27 38.090 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:

(OPEN SPACE TO HAVE 25-0" MN WIDTH
TOTAL GFFICE AREA: ‘161 AB SF
REQUIRED OPEN SPACE (1% OF OFFICE AREA: IS SF

(Bl OF REQUIRED) OPEN SPACE IN SUN BETINEEN NOON
‘AND 2PM ON THE SPRING AND FALL EQUINOX PER SMMC TSF
Tee

PROWIDDED OPEN SPACE THAT IS COVERED: ms

TOTAL OPEN SPACE PROVIDED (1.11% OF OFFICE AREA) TF

TOTAL OPEN SPACE THAT IS ABOVE REQUIRED ar

5th AVE

ise

B STREET

CITY OF



--- page 127 ---
i we ,
pen space — ! °
f '
/ \ '
e e | sid sta st B34 Soo Sy |
cll 408 SF 408 SF 408 SF 204 SF ony é
1129 5F —
aon f
<9 A i
| ~ ||| a \ a Hy
\ é iA \
| CORRIDOR 7 Ne LL. N |
= 2 — ay o
la —= Oe
STAR 277 \
I \
| st.2 iS f |
408 SF Hi evayer LAUNDRY AMENITY ‘ / / |
fo yy 5 \/ / |
é ~ =
Se |
408 SF - a Vg
| 5-0 —— im <r ae
| !
| : I
&
| a
| t
NN
| Opento
C24
| 123SF /
| garage
TRASH CHUTES | = below
| ="
| as
° *
| il | | |
| a'-8 _
i)

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————



--- page 128 ---
Residential - Level 1

9 G §. RAILROAD AVENUE

T+ LJ
§. RAILROAD AVENUE : vn 1 |
H ve
A ‘PREP KITCHEN
«! ame \ ~ sete
I :
4
4
} <
a
wl
) OFFICE BuLOWNG
i
Jt
| Open to
z 5
Ir
garage
§.B STREET
i
Pes py (ee ~] = iM.
* a LAL an
+ /
gre” a” ee _} -
* _ _ a s
4 oe ’ j ‘ tomy PLANNING -BUNLDING PLAN -FLOCRA 4



--- page 129 ---
Residential - Levels 2 & 3 - 7

10 540 et

|
|
|
r J oo | |
: / 5 | |
L |
i a | |
2] | !
YF ed
f 2-8 i
A ( |
| 41 SF | | |
! a
| | |
| | |
: 1 ot
a ___]

FLOOR 2-PLAN 4
meee FLOORS 37-PLAN 4
oa



--- page 130 ---
Residential — Street Wall Waiver

STREET WALL EXHIBIT -E 4TH AVENUE 4
wrete

STREET WALL EXHIBIT -$ RAILROAD AVE 2
nrete



--- page 131 ---
Levels 1 & 2

ICE -

ial/Off

Commerc

(LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
=

¥

| | it itliv ii
= - 1 - a - — a ae - “h -
r | | |
ie — bp I | ee bs — —e te
|
:

' eu
-_ ihe ns bs __ : he 4
fr
; i = n fe]: :
oF rl 7 a
ori i
i 7 ik | Ik _

LEVEL 1 FLOGR.PLAN
ae



--- page 132 ---
Commercial/Office- Peer e tee ge
Street Wall Waiver mt i



--- page 133 ---
Underground Garage = i A ae | A

1
' 1

_—— —e_

— — —— =

I I H H
I | 1 I i
| ee rr es or es _
a a

eq p or r r- - tt-

oO



--- page 134 ---
Public Right-of-Way

Uamiine,

:
yo

‘WERAR

Ponemen  Avenidal
famarin os \e p
= A

sks

SEB Ave

4



--- page 135 ---


--- page 136 ---
PEDESTRIAN MASTER PLAN
27
Proposed:
• 4th & 5th Ave –
maintain existing 
widths.
• B St – expand 
sidewalk into 
parking area.
• Railroad Ave –
increase to 6 ft.

--- page 137 ---
BICYCLE MASTER PLAN

Legend
Bike Facility

=== Completed Bicycle Boulevard
=== Completed Bike Lane

=== Completed Buffered Bike Lane
**## Proposed Bicycle Boulevard
**** Proposed Bicycle Route

*##« Proposed Bike Lane

sees Proposed Buffered Bike Lane
sees Proposed Separated Bike Lane

###8 Proposed Shared Use Path

Bagels 0” ‘eo lb
gels, ASHI
County of San Mateo, California, Bureau o... @" 21) ')\



--- page 138 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING & COMMENTS
29
➢Neighborhood Meeting - September 1, 2022 (26 attendees) 
➢Areas of Concern: 
o Building Design
o Insufficient Parking 
o Garage entrance on Railroad Ave (interface with potential future grade separation 
project) 
o Interest in maximizing housing units
o Pedestrian and Bike Improvements.

--- page 139 ---
QUESTIONS TO CONSIDER
30
1. Building Design – Architectural design and detailing, building articulation, 
massing, materials, and colors of the two building.
a. Do the designs provide enough distinction from recent projects in the area? 
b. Should one or both building designs take inspiration from or otherwise relate 
to buildings in the nearby Downtown Historic District? 
c.
Usability of roof top terrace for residents (such as noise from railroad)?
2. Site Plan – Location of access driveway, usability of ground level open 
space area, public realm improvements including sidewalk widths, 
landscaping/trees, streetlights, etc.
3. Any Other?

--- page 140 ---
Thank You and Questions
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
Community Development Department
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7203
31
Kathy Kleinbaum 
Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7153 
Julia Klein, Project Planner
Community Development Department
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7216

--- page 141 ---
32
Source: General Plan 2040 (www.strivesanmateo.org)
Project Site

--- page 142 ---
Downtown Plan — Sub-areas

DOWNTOWN

SUB-AREAS
FIGURE 2

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

0 200 400 600 800
==

TRAIN STATION
LIBRARIES

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SUBSURFACE)

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SURFACE)

PARKS

Project Site

DOWNTOWN SUB-AREAS:
[7] CENTRAL CLAREMONT

[9] DOWNTOWN RETAIL
CORE

[9 aateway

NORTH B
TILTON AVENUE
(EGG) SOUTH CLAREMONT

PROPERTY BOUNDARY GE) WEST EL CAMINO

Mmm DOWNTOWNPLAN
STUDY AREA

[) CENTRAL PARK


--- page 143 ---
Downtown Plan – Required Retail Frontage area
34
Project Site

--- page 144 ---
Central Parking Improvement District
35
Project Site

--- page 145 ---
| —
k. 4 | af

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————



--- page 146 ---
Bespoke – Planning Commission Study Session                                                            
October 11, 2022
445 S. B STREET (4TH & B BLOCK)
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO
HARVEST PROPERTIES

--- page 147 ---
Partnership Overview
• Local Bay- Area developer founded in 
2003
• Decades of experience owning and 
operating Bay Area real estate with a 
thoughtful and proactive approach to 
supporting the local community
• Recently entitled 290 entry level homes, 
with 10% dedicated to low-income buyers, 
across 15 acres in San Mateo, replacing 
225,000 sf of non-transit served office 
space
• Harvest and their Partners have 
their headquarters based in San 
Mateo and have owned apartment 
buildings on the Peninsula since the 
1960s
Landscape  
Architect
Commercial 
Architect 
Civil 
Engineer
Residential  
Architect 
• Local Bay-area affordable housing 
developer working on the Peninsula 
since 1970.
• The properties Alta Housing built are 
well designed, well managed and 
integrate well with the surrounding 
community.
• Provide Resident Services that help 
residents pursue goals, maintain 
stable housing, overcome barriers to 
success that improve overall quality 
of life.
• Since 1966, Self-Help for the Elderly 
has provided assistance and support 
to seniors in the San Francisco area
• Provide trustworthy and devoted care 
for seniors to promote their 
independence, dignity and self-worth
• Help guide seniors to wellness and 
happiness
• Contribute to longer, healthier, more 
purposeful lives for seniors
• Services and programs include 
CHAMPSS, Senior Lunch Program, 
Home & Health Care, Employment 
Services, Senior Housing, Cleaning 
Services, Activity Centers, Social 
Services etc.

--- page 148 ---
What We Have Heard
▪
Provide 60 units of Affordable family-friendly housing(30% -80% AMI) and 
contribute significant Commercial Linkage Fees
▪
Dedicated space to "Self-Help for the Elderly" as permanent location 
▪
Implement hyper-focused retail strategy & energized pedestrian experience 
▪
Infill within existing transit-served, amenity-rich locations. Consistent with 
the General Plan which contemplates adding  14,990-15,430 jobs.  
▪
Implement Best-in-Class TDM Plan & traffic calming measures
▪
Mitigate disruption during construction process
▪
Design beautiful projects that enhance the existing neighborhood
▪
Utilization of architectural features that serve to break down the mass of   the 
buildings to align with the scale of the neighborhood buildings
▪
Generate substantial Impact Fees and incremental real estate revenue
How did we solve it:
What did we hear:
We have been actively participating in the General update and  following other major projects within the community, understanding the 
City’s major policy goals and listening to what the community is saying. 
▪
Create an Active Retail Environment 
▪
Provide Affordable Housing 
▪
Concentrate Jobs around Transit 
▪
Mitigate Traffic Concern
▪
Limit Noise Pollution
▪
Maintain the Fabric of the Neighborhoods 
▪
Height and Density
▪
Increase revenues for the City
▪
Champion Local Non-profit Organization
Please let us know what we’ve missed here and what we can do better!

--- page 149 ---
Project Overview  
TRAIN STATION
N
GRAMERCY ON 
THE PARK
(6 stories)
B STREET
SOUTH
(5 stories)
KIKU CROSSING
(7 stories)
SITE

--- page 150 ---
Vision
Site History, Inspiration and Attributes:
•
Former use as Talbot’s Toys and Cyclery was beloved in the 
community since 1953 until its closure in 2020. The rest of the site 
is comprised of retail, restaurants and a surface parking lot. 
•
Historically bookends the S. B Street corridor, located at the 
southern edge of the Downtown
Design Attributes:
•
The entire City block presents a unique opportunity to hand curate 
24/7 destination retail catered towards a mix of uses such as 
restaurants, music/arts, & other community-serving businesses 
•
The mixed-use complex is comprised of two buildings, one 7-story 
100% affordable housing project with 60 units and one 5-story 
commercial building
•
Continue the use of mass timber to provide architectural and visual 
diversity to adjacent redevelopment area with extensive 
greenscape to enhance the neighborhood feel and soften 5th
Street 
•
Provide expansive ground plane to create a large public plaza at 4th
Avenue & B Street to curate a lively street presence and 
“endpoint” of the historic Downtown.
•
Stepped architecture respects scale of Downtown while providing 
outdoor user space
•
Continue to execute City’s vision for S. B Street to enhance public 
realm 
Neighborhood Toy Store
Sidewalk Seating and Differentiated Storefronts
Independent Bookstore
Inspirational Imagery
Neighborhood Cafe
Neighborhood Fitness Store

--- page 151 ---
Community/ 
residential Space
Retail Frontage
Project Overview 
03
03
Activated
Streetfront
A Defined Edge of A Book-Ended Downtown
4th & B Block – San Mateo, CA
Construction:
Mass timber or concrete
Lot Size:
50,600 SF
Size (rentable SF): 
Community Services: ~5,000 SF  (Self-Help for the Elderly) 
Residential: 61,585 SF (60 units of 100% affordable units)
Subtotal: 66,585 SF 
Retail: 12,056 SF
Office: 143,609 SF
Subtotal: 161,380 SF
Total: 227,965 SF
FAR:
4.5 proposed FAR, State Density Law Exception 
Zoning District:
Commercial Business District
Open 
Space/landscaping:
9,634 SF – Total 
1,794 SF Plaza, 7,660 SF Terraces 
Sidewalk Width:
16’ (currently 10’ on B Street)
Parking:
1 level underground 
128 Stalls for Office, Retail and Residential 
Of which 37 exclusive stalls for Residential 
With after hour parking open to the community 
Height:
Residential – 7 stories l 76’
Commercial – 5 stories l 74’

--- page 152 ---
Enhanced Public Realm
Community-Focused Retail
Parklet on B Street
Open Air Restaurant/Cafe
Self-Help for the Elderly
Residential
& Self-Help 
for the 
Elderly
Commercial
& Retail
Corner Plaza

--- page 153 ---
Alta Housing Properties & Resident Services

HOUSING

™ i

mgt

an “a

2821 El Camino Real, Redwood City

950 W El Camino Real, Mountain View


--- page 154 ---
Affordable Housing – Overview 
▪
60 Apartments ranging from Studios to 3-bedroom
o
100% affordable residential units 
o
Family-friendly providing a minimum of 50% of the units 
as 2-3 bedrooms
o
Multi-generational and work force housing  30 -80% 
AMI
o
Aimed to maximize units that fits within the site 
constraints
▪
Dedication of ground floor retail space to Self-Help for the 
Elderly as their permanent location
▪
37 parking spaces (mechanical) will be dedicated to the 
residents’ exclusive use
▪
On City-owned land - long-term ground lease
▪
The City is contributing $2,000,000 plus potentially funding 
additional dollars that may be resulted from the increase of 
the 8 units
▪
Alta Housing will leverage the full range of state, federal, and 
other housing programs to minimize financial support 
necessary from the City

--- page 155 ---
Amenity Terrace (Level 2) 
Seating, greenwall and shade canopy for tenants (looking north)
Sculptural play area with seating for residents  (looking south)
Sculptural play area with seating for residents (looking north)
Seating, greenwall and shade canopy for tenants (looking south)
S. RAILROAD AVENUE
S. B STREET
E. 4TH AVENUE
E. 5TH AVENUE

--- page 156 ---
Commercial Component – Housing Contribution 
The commercial component helps support the ability to deliver 
100% affordable housing units and subsidize space for Self-Help 
for the Elderly
▪
Our proposal would generate approximately $4.3 million in 
Commercial Linkage fee to be paid to the City and applied to 
potential affordable housing projects at the City’s discretion
▪
The commercial component will contribute equity up to 
$2,900,000 as a Developer Community Benefit Contribution 
to help cover any potential shortfall 
▪
The Harvest team was able to densify the proposed 
affordable residential building from 52 units originally 
proposed in the City RFP to 60 units by taking advantage of 
our aggregate private land assemblage 
▪
The commercial component will subsidize the subterranean 
parking structure to ensure the affordable housing project 
remains competitive for securing state and federal financing

--- page 157 ---
seat

iti

LI: ae
Ln ae

t al
om

|

Corner of 4" Avenue and S. B Street


--- page 158 ---
——

N
t
4
‘
|
"
Q
a
Q

Corner plaza at 4" Avenue and S. B Street



--- page 159 ---
Corner plaza at 4" Avenue and S. B Street


--- page 160 ---
Corner plaza at 5" Avenue and S. B Street


--- page 161 ---
——==

4‘ Avenue frontage


--- page 162 ---
Vv
Loe)
©
~
c
fe)
S—_
=
~
to)
oO
S_
~
17)
co
7)



--- page 163 ---
Midblock Commercial Entry on South B Street



--- page 164 ---
Sustainability and Wellness Initiatives 
How can we develop a healthy workplace?
Our goal is to design and deliver high-quality, sustainablebuildings that enhance occupant 
wellbeing and minimize impacts to carbon emissions and climate change.
Sustainability Goals
•
Carbon Neutral Design 
•
LEED Zero and / or LEED GOLD
•
WELL-Ready Certification
•
Drought-resistant landscaping
•
All electric building with EV charging stations
The Advantages of Mass Timber
•
Significant Reduction in Carbon Emissions 
o
39% of global emission attributes to the 
building industry 
o
Mass timber buildings represents a reduction of 
70-76% reduction in global warming potential 
(GWP) compared to steel and concrete 
structural system due to the natural ability of 
mass timber to sequester carbon
o
Mass timber is a highly regenerative material  
•
Remarkably good performants in fire and earthquakes 
•
Durability of exterior application 
•
Allows buildings to be constructed faster, with less waste
•
The use of natural material creates a warm aesthetic and 
connection to nature 
111 East Grand Avenue, Des Moines, IA
Source: Platte Fifteen Life Cycle Assessment by KL&A Engineers and Builders, 
Adolfson & Peterson – Provided by WoodWorks

--- page 165 ---
DONUT 
DELITE
FROM
MAJOR TRANSIT
(REDUCING TRAFFIC)
1/4*
miles
* Approximately
Summary of Project Benefits
DEDICATES
SPACE TO SELF-HELP FOR 
THE EDLERLY AS 
PERMANET LOCAITON
ENHANCED
RETAIL, PEDESTRIAN & 
PUBLIC REALM 
EXPERIENCE
PROVIDES
100% AFFORDABLE 
FAMILY-FRIENDLY
HOUSING
60
units
PROVIDES
CUTTING EDGE 
SUSTAINABILITY AND 
WELLNESS SOLUTION
PROVIDES
EXPANDED RETAIL 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE 
COMMUNITY

--- page 166 ---
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
Contact us at dtsm@harvestproperties.com

--- page 167 ---
DONUT DELITE
Appendix
* N o t  p a r t  o f  t h e  p r e s e n t a t i o n

--- page 168 ---
Existing Building vs. Proposed 
Corner of S B Street and 5th Ave

--- page 169 ---
Shared Vison with the City’s Design Guidelines        
and Community Feedback
✓Activate Downtown San Mateo
✓Respect B Street Corridor Vision
✓Provide Community-Focused Retail
✓Create an Energized Pedestrian 
Experience and Vibrant Public Realm
✓Build Affordable Housing
✓Focus on Transit-served Core Urban 
Office
✓Be a Conscientious Neighbor
✓Deliver Timeless Architecture
✓Implement Environmentally-Conscious 
Design Strategies

--- page 170 ---
Neighborhood Context

MAX HEIGHT: 73’

BUILDING HEIGHT

4TH STREET

TALBOTS SITE STH STREET



--- page 171 ---
Te \™

i

Lhe tus ey

14 EV Rr

B Street Elevation


--- page 172 ---
= ~ ~[ama —_—
— = it. é ——————
. “gy, Rats = a ‘
= > ,
re .

Ve a
Wee

si2.i,

Lo:
ne

fe
i

a he) ame

5h Avenue Elevation



--- page 173 ---
ea

Railroad Avenue and 4* Avenue


--- page 174 ---
4th Avenue Elevation


--- page 175 ---
S. B Street Vision
Widening the sidewalk from the current 10’ to 16’ will create vibrant and energized public realm experiences as 
illustrated below vs. the existing conditions of 10’ sidewalk or carving back into the parcel. The proposed 
enhancement along S. B Street are informed by the pedestrian master plan and design guidelines of the City of San 
Mateo.

--- page 176 ---
Enhanced Public Realm
Current site condition – looking down S B St. 
towards E 4th (8’ sidewalk)
JW Marriot Restaurant, Austin
Benefits of an Enhanced Public Realm
•
Enhance pedestrian experience with widened sidewalk, curb 
extensions, parklets and planting opportunities
•
Advocate and support city design guidelines meant to revitalize 
and enhance the pedestrian experience.  These include: widening 
sidewalks, creating curb extensions and parklets which allow for 
enhanced landscape and stormwater planting areas
•
Added public plaza, public seating and gathering areas to enhance 
vibrancy at the ground plane
•
Permanent planters seamlessly integrated into the building 
architecture and upgraded hardscape
Proposed site condition – 16’ sidewalk

--- page 177 ---
THE EXTRA 3-5'OF THE

WIDER SIDEWALK PROVIDES
THE OUTDOOR SEATING

AND PROGRAMING THAT
ARE CURRENTLY MISSED
OPPORTUNITIES ON B STREET

STREET SECTION COMPARISON

38’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.

16.0- i

BURLINGAME AVE

_ AFFECTSTHEVIBRANCY OFTHE
PUBLIC REALM EXPERIENCE AND
_ RETAILSUCCESS

50’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.

12.0 x—12.0- x 18.0 4 12.0



--- page 178 ---
2022 San Mateo County Income & Rent Limits

Income Limits by Family Size ($)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
$ 17,450 $ 19900 $ 22400 $ 24900 $ 26900 $ 28900 $ 30900 $ 32,850
$ 65,250 $ 74600 $ 83,900 $ 93,200 $100,700 $108,150 $115600 $123,050

HERA Special VLI (50% AMI) *** $ 69,700 $ 79,650 $ 89600 $ 99,550 $107,550 $115,500 $123,450 $131,450

$ 104.400 $119,300 $134,200 $149,100 $161,050 $173,000 $184,900 $196,850

Maximum Affordable Rent Payment ($)
Income Catego SRO *+ Studio 1-BR 2-BR 3-BR 4-BR

ery Low * $ 1,631 ‘1,748 2,097 $ 2423 $ 2,703

High HOME Limit (65%)* $ 2101 2.253 2704 $ 3,116 $ 3,456

HERA Special Limit (60% AMI) *** 2,091 2.240 2688 $ 3,106 $ 3,465
Low** 2,610 2,797 3,356 $ 3,878 $ 4,326
HUD Fair Market Rent (FMR) 2,115 2,631 3,198 $ 4111 $ 4,473



--- page 179 ---
Basement Plan (Parking)
Exclusive 
Residential 
Stalls
128 Stalls for Office, Residential and Retail 
37 exclusive Residential Stalls (mechanical parking)

--- page 180 ---
E. 4TH AVENUE

aed 108 -

-o

Residential Ground Floor Plan



--- page 181 ---
Self-Help for the Elderly
▪Since 1966, Self-Help for the Elderly has provided assistance 
and support to seniors to help guide seniors to wellness 
and happiness in the San Francisco area. 
San Mateo Senior Center
▪
Serving seniors and adults with disabilities since 1992.
▪
Serving over 40,000 meals through congregate, home 
delivered, and COVID meal services. 
▪
Providing activities to keep ours seniors active and socially 
engaged. 
▪
Partnering with other agencies such as Second Harvest of 
Silicon Valley, 
▪
Kaiser Permanente, San Mateo Office of Community 
Affairs, League of 
▪
Women Voters, et al. to provide additional services to our 
community.
Services at San Mateo 
Serving seniors and adults with disabilities since 1992.
▪
Congregate Meals Program
▪Home Delivered Meals Program
▪Information & Assistance Program
▪Recreation Activities and Classes 
▪HiCAP Counseling and Community Education
▪Senior Escort Services

--- page 182 ---
Self-Help for the Elderly
A New Permanent Location to Call Home
▪The building Self-Help for the Elderly is currently located in 
San Mateo Central Park (50 East 5th Avenue) will be 
demolished in a few years and the organization is in need 
of a new permanent location to call home
▪On the ground floor of the residential building, Harvest will 
provide space as a long-term home for Self-Help for the 
Elderly and design this space with the organization’s needs, 
convenience and amenities in mind