source: packet.pdf
sha256: db473354865e34b0cf7eb236331ef582a8e8212e0de0f5ab427b4fc03c46d468
pages: 431
ocr_pages: 41
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
June 22, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
Vacant
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 22, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 894 5738 6664
Passcode: 399308
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of April 27, 2021 and May 11, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 SPAR Modification (PA-2020-053)
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification and Tentative Map for Bay
Meadows Phase II Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3, and adopt an Addendum to the certified Final Environmental Impact
Report to assess the environmental impacts of the project.
STUDY SESSION
3.
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way Office Medical Building Pre-Application (PA-2020-078)
Review the proposed project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments and provide input to the applicant
and staff pertaining to the following project elements: 1. The building design, building materials, and articulation;
2. The site plan design
NEW BUSINESS
4.
Election of Officers
Election of Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4735
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 22, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of April 27, 2021 and May 11, 2021. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Minutes 04.27.21
Att 2 - Regular Minutes 05.11.21
STAFF CONTACT
Erin Fellers, Assistant to the City Clerk
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7066

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 4/27/2021
Page 1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
Mike Etheridge
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, April 27, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Roll Call
Remote: Chair Mallory, Vice Chair Maldonado, Commissioners: Etheridge, Williams
Absent:    Ebneter
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of March 9, 2021 and March 23, 2021.
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:     Mallory, Maldonado, Etheridge, Williams
Noes:     None
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Review (Years 14 & 15), 2600 S. Delaware Street (PA-2020-065)
Acting Planning Manager Julia Klein provided background information and highlighted the Planning Commission 
requirement to undertake an annual review of the 18-block development area to determine whether the developer 
continues to comply with the terms of the Development Agreement. Klein outlined the Phase II Specific Plan and two-
year review period of December 20, 2018 through December 21, 2020.
The applicant provided a presentation on the framework of the Bay Meadows Master Plan and background, historical 
context of the Phase II Development Agreement, and a general update on the project. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment: There were no speakers.
Adopt a Resolution finding that Bay Meadows Main Track Investors LLC has complied in good faith with the terms of 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement for the two annual review periods beginning in December 20, 
2018 and ending December 21, 2020.
Moved: Etheridge, Seconded: Maldonado

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 4/27/2021
Page 2
Ayes:     Mallory, Maldonado, Etheridge, Williams
Noes:     None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Julia Klein announced the upcoming Kiku Crossing modification item for the next meeting and the upcoming virtual 
make-up session for the Housing Element introduction workshop. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:52pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Ellen Mallory, Commission Chair                                            Erin Fellers, Planning Admin

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/26/2021
Page 1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
Mike Etheridge
John Ebneter
Margaret Williams
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, May 11, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Roll Call
Remote: Chair Mallory, Vice Chair Maldonado, Commissioners: Ebneter Williams
Absent:    Etheridge
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
PUBLIC HEARING
1.
Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage - Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification (PA-2021-013)
Associate Planner Phillip Brennan presented an overview of the project site and background. Brennan summarized 
proposed modifications, including building setbacks, landscaping and open space design, floor area, floor plan, and 
exterior design changes to the residential building, and exterior design changes to the parking garage. The MidPen 
Housing project design team presented an overview of the proposed modifications. Brennan announced that the 
designs were reviewed by Cannon Design Group and no recommended design changes were made aside from 
suggestions for alternative cornice designs.  Brennan outlined the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
Modification amendments to previously approved conditions. Brennan introduced the additional conditions meant to 
provide added clarity and technical information to the previously approved conditions.
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment: Diana Pettit commented on the removal of heritage trees along South Claremont to Fifth Avenue; 
Sheraden J. Nicholau, Bay Area Office of the State Council on Developmental Disabilities, spoke in support of the site 
plan and architectural review modification as it serves low-income families and people with developmental 
disabilities; Laurie Watanuki commented on the floor plan changes and impact on square footage of the units, 
concerns that the name “Fifth Avenue Garage” might encourage more drivers to use Fifth Avenue as a direct route to 
the freeway, and the need for proper lighting and traffic calming for safety. 
Recommend City Council adoption of a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification, 
including revised and additional Conditions of Approval, to the multi-family residential building located at 480 E. 4th 
Avenue and to the parking garage located at 400 E. 5th Avenue.
Commissioners asked questions and provided comments. 
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Ebneter

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/26/2021
Page 2
Ayes:     Mallory, Maldonado, Ebneter, Williams
Noes:     None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Julia Klein announced Mike Etheridge’s resignation and subsequent Planning Commission vacancy. Klein announced 
possible meeting cancellations, upcoming agenda items, community workshops, and Brown Act training.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:00pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Ellen Mallory, Commission Chair                                            Erin Fellers, Assistant to the City Clerk

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4701
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Julia Klein, Acting Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 22, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 SPAR Modification (PA-2020-053)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification and Tentative Map for Bay Meadows 
Phase II Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3, and adopt an Addendum to the certified Final Environmental Impact Report to assess 
the environmental impacts of the project.
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Meadows Phase II development is an 83-acre transit-oriented development with a range of land uses, including 
residential, commercial, educational, and public park uses that redeveloped the former Bay Meadows Racetrack. Bay 
Meadows Phase II serves as the City’s largest development project thus far that implements the Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan. The City Council originally approved the Bay Meadows Phase II development in November of 
2005 in adopting the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, Environmental Impact Report, and the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Development Agreement, which govern the development over an 18-year long timeframe, through 
December of 2023.
Bay Meadows Phase II is subdivided into 18 development blocks: five office blocks,  four mixed-use blocks, and nine 
residential blocks. The original designs for each development block were approved through a series of three Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) planning applications in April of 2008. Over the course of the Phase II buildout, the developer 
has proposed revisions to the approved SPAR designs and submitted SPAR Modifications for formal approval of those 
revisions. Most recently, the Planning Commission approved a SPAR Modification to the final two office block stations 
(STA) 1 and 5 in 2018, which are currently under construction.
This subject SPAR Modification would modify the previously approved designs to the final two mixed-use blocks at Bay 
Meadows Phase II originally approved in SPAR #1: Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3. The Planning Commission last reviewed the 
subject project in a Study Session on June 23, 2020. The Planning Commission provided comments on the proposed office 
and residential land use mix in response to the applicant’s request to reduce the number of residential units and increase 
office uses when compared to the originally approved designs. The Planning Commission also provided input on the 
proposed building designs, which have since been refined and reviewed by the City’s design review consultant. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site
The subject blocks are identified as Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3 (MU2 and MU3 respectively)  in the Bay Meadows Phase II 
Specific Plan Amendment. MU2 and MU3 are immediately adjacent to each other and are bound by E. 28th Avenue, W. 
Kyne Street, Landing Avenue, and S.  Delaware Street, with Derby Avenue bisecting the blocks.  MU2 and MU3 are 
approximately 1.75 and 1.51 acres in size respectively. Both blocks are currently vacant and were used for temporary

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
construction storage and staging purposes for other blocks within the Phase II area. A location map showing the specific 
project sites in their immediate vicinity is included as Attachment 2. 
Originally Approved SPAR (PA-2007-054)
As indicated previously, each block’s design were originally approved through a series of three SPAR planning applications 
in 2008. MU2 and MU3 were approved in “SPAR #1” that included approvals for office uses, retail/commercial uses (also 
known as “active uses” in the Specific Plan Amendment), and residential units. The table below summarizes the originally 
approved program from the SPAR #1 planning application:
Originally Approved Building Programs
MU2
MU3
Combined
Residential Units
88
76
164
Active Uses (Square-Feet)
14,814
12,361
27,175
Office uses (Square-Feet)
15,482
12,906
28,388
Both MU2 and MU3 were originally approved with either a four or five-story residential building along W. Kyne Street and 
a two-story commercial building along S. Delaware Street. 
Proposed SPAR Modification
In the subject SPAR Modification, both the MU2 and MU3 blocks are generally larger in size when compared to the 
originally approved SPAR designs from SPAR #1. MU2 consists of a four-story commercial building comprised of 
approximately 182,000 square-feet of office uses and approximately 8,600 square-feet of ground floor active uses along S. 
Delaware Street. 
MU3 is divided into two buildings, one being a four-story commercial building consisting of approximately 120,000 square-
feet of office uses and 5,600 square-feet of active uses along S. Delaware Street. The second building is along W. Kyne 
Street and consists of a 67-unit residential building four-stories in height plus one loft level. Each block includes a 
subterranean parking garage accessible along Derby Avenue for MU2 and Landing Avenue for MU3.
Since the June of 2020 Study Session, the applicant has reduced the floor area devoted to office uses at both MU2 and 
MU3. The applicant also increased the number of residential units from 57 units to 67 units and increased the floor area 
devoted to active uses in response to Planning Commission and public input. The table below summarizes the program 
proposed currently:
Proposed Building Programs
MU2
MU3
Combined
Residential Units
0
67
67
Active Uses (Square-Feet)
8,606
5,618
14,224
Office uses (Square-Feet)
182,836
120,142
302,978
It should be noted that while the modification results in a reduction of residential units when compared to the original 
designs from SPAR #1, the proposed project would still cause the Phase II development to exceed the minimum number of 
residential units required in the Specific Plan Amendment. In addition, the Phase II development overall would still be 
below the maximum office floor area established by the Specific Plan Amendment despite the modification’s increase in 
office uses. A more detailed discussion of the aggregate limits of the Specific Plan Amendment is included in the Applicable 
Code and Policy Review section of this report.
Of the 67 residential units proposed at MU3, the applicant is required to devote 10% of the total units to the moderate or 
lower income category in conformance with the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement. Within the development 
agreement, the developer agreed to devote 10% of all residential units within the development in addition to facilitating 
the development of the all-affordable MU1 block (now known as “Montara”) which exceed the minimum affordable 
housing requirements in place at the time the development agreement was adopted.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The project also includes a Tentative Map for each block to merge a total of four parcels into two. The Tentative Map also 
includes mapping the MU3 residential units for condominium purposes as well as a pedestrian passage easement through 
the center of MU3, which is required by the Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines & Development Standards.
Project plans for MU2 and MU3 showing all proposed building and site improvements are included as Attachment 3 and 
Attachment 4 respectively. A detailed list of applicable development standards and the project’s conformance to them is 
included as Attachment 5.
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Rail Corridor Plan
The General Plan Land Use Designation for both MU2 and MU3 is Transit-Oriented Development (TOD). A goal of the 
General Plan is to promote intensification of mixed-uses in areas adjacent to Caltrain stations. Projects within these 
transit-adjacent areas must implement the applicable policies identified in the City’s Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan). The Rail Corridor Plan includes policies to intensify uses around Caltrain stations, to 
provide a circulation system that accommodates multiple modes of transit, and to promote pedestrian-focused 
improvements.
The proposed project is consistent with the applicable goals and policies of both the General Plan and Rail Corridor Plan in 
that both blocks together intensify the recently constructed office uses, ground floor active uses, and multifamily 
residential units within the Bay Meadows Phase II development area which is directly adjacent to the recently-relocated 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station. MU2 and MU3 specifically further improve bicycle and pedestrian facilities in their inclusion of 
available bicycle parking spaces and publicly-accessible open spaces.
The project is also substantially consistent with the City’s 2020 Climate Action Plan (CAP). Sustainability features 
incorporated into the building design and site plans for both MU2 and MU3 are summarized in their CAP Checklists, 
included as Attachment 6.
Zoning Code, Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, and Design Guidelines & Development Standards
Both MU2 and MU3 are zoned BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific Plan), which defers to the Bay Meadows Specific Plan and 
Specific Plan Amendment in Municipal Code Chapter 27.88. The Specific Plan Amendment, approved in 2005, amended the 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan from 1997 and serves as a guiding document for the vision, layout, and overarching design 
principles of the Phase II area. Applicable development standards for sites within the Phase II area are found in the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines & Development Standards document approved in 2006. Excerpts of the Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards are included in Attachment 7, which list the applicable design and development 
criteria specific to MU2 and MU3.
As indicated previously, the developer entered into a development agreement with the City in 2005, which vested the 
Phase II development project to the standards set forth in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment and the 
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines & Development Standards. The Specific Plan Amendment contains a 
development range which provides for a combined limit of 1,250 residential units, 1,250,000 square-feet of office uses and 
150,000 square-feet of commercial (“active use”) uses throughout the entire Phase II area.
The Specific Plan Amendment also establishes a minimum number of residential units and office/commercial uses. In total, 
the developer is required to provide a minimum of 1,000 residential units and 500,000 square-feet of office/commercial 
uses. The Specific Plan Amendment does not identify a minimum retail floor area; however, it does call out specific areas in 
which retail or active uses are to be provided on the ground floor along S. Delaware St. 
As proposed, the project would result in conformance with the aggregate development range of the Specific Plan 
Amendment as summarized in the table below:

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Aggregate Development Building Program (Including MU2 and MU3)
Minimum
Maximum
Proposed
Residential Units
1,000
1,250
1,048
Office Uses (Square-Feet)
500,000
1,250,000
1,217,826 
As provided in the Implementation chapter, the Specific Plan Amendment provides for overall aggregate limits of uses in 
the Phase II development area. It also affords flexibility in the precise allocation of density and type of development in 
anticipation of changes in market conditions over the course of the 18-year Phase II buildout. As a phased development, 
the distribution of density and type of use block-by-block has been accounted for in each block’s SPAR approval. The City 
and developer have then maintained a running tabulation of each block through each Final Map to ensure that buildout of 
the development meets the aggregate range of uses specified above.
Parking Management Plan and Traffic Management Plan
Another set of regulatory documents on the development of the Phase II area are the Bay Meadows Phase II Parking 
Management Plan (PMP) and Traffic Management Plan (TMP). The PMP and TMP analyze the full development’s traffic 
impacts and parking demand. As part of any request to modify approved designs, the applicant’s transportation 
consultant, Kimley-Horn, has updated and modified the PMP and TMP to reflect not only the proposed modifications but 
also the actual transportation conditions as the development’s buildout has progressed.
The modifications to the MU2 and MU3 building programs are subject to a “trip budget” that bases thresholds and limits 
of the Phase II development buildout on the construction status of the required Caltrain track grade-separations. The TMP 
establishes the trip budget for reach block and identifies how the trip generation of each block is expected to stay within 
traffic limits and meet trip reduction goals. The TMP also outlines a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) strategy 
in the form of a menu of TDM strategies implemented incrementally as the trip reduction goals increase over time. The 
various TDM strategies aim to maximize alternative modes of transportation such as public transit, bicycle, and pedestrian 
travel to reduce vehicle trips. The TMP concludes that the projected vehicle trips generated by the proposed project will 
comply with the applicable trip caps and trip reduction goals. The TMP estimates that, including the subject SPAR 
Modification, the Phase II development would generate 2,026 trips (543 trips less than the limit of 2,569 trips) and will 
achieve the 25% trip reduction goal at buildout.
The PMP analyzes the parking demand for the overall Phase II development consistent with the Specific Plan Amendment 
requirements. Based on the full Phase II development program, the PMP concludes that the Phase II development area 
overall supplies sufficient parking to meet the demand during peak periods. Specific to the subject SPAR Modification to 
MU2 and MU3, the PMP concludes that minimum parking ratios for the subject SPAR Modification to MU2 and MU3 are 
2.5 spaces per 1,000 gross square-feet for office uses, and 4.0 spaces per 1,000 gross square-feet for active/retail uses. As 
noted in the PMP, State Density Bonus provisions govern minimum parking ratio for residential uses at 0.5 spaces per unit. 
The project plans show that MU2 exceeds the on-site parking requirements outlined in the PMP. MU3 exceeds the parking 
requirements outlined in the PMP through provision of parking both on-site and shared use of excess parking spaces at 
adjacent office blocks.
The updated PMP and TMP by Kimley-Horn as part of this SPAR Modification are included as Attachment 8 and 
Attachment 9 respectively. The City’s transportation consultant, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, reviewed  the 
updated PMP and TMP for accuracy and conformance to applicable Conditions of Approval and prior planning applications. 
Hexagon’s peer review memorandum is included as Attachment 10, which concludes that no further corrections to the 
PMP and TMP are necessary.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant conducted a virtual neighborhood meeting to review the MU2 and MU3 modifications on June 2, 2020. The 
meeting was attended by 21 community members. Public comments and questions related to the proposal to increase 
office uses and reduce approved residential units. Comments and requests were also shared for additional and higher 
quality retail uses to serve the nearby residents.  A summary of the neighborhood meeting submitted by the applicant are 
included as Attachment 11.  Written public comments that have been submitted to staff are included as Attachment 12.

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Any public comments submitted to staff after publishing of this report will be provided to the Planning Commission prior 
to the scheduled Public Hearing.
PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION:
The Planning Commission last reviewed the modifications to MU2 and MU3 in a Study Session on June 23, 2020. As 
mentioned above, the Planning Commission provided input on the project’s building design as well as its proposed 
exceptions to the Design Guidelines. The Planning Commission’s comments on the building design included:

Encouragement to preserve the residential character 

Introduce more wood elements

Improve breakdown of glass and metal panels

Design feels stark and should include more color

Design does not respond to the transitional nature of these parcels

Use of glass, metal, and concrete do not fit with the existing residential uses
The Planning Commission also expressed concern over the proposed increase in office uses and decrease in residential 
units. As discussed previously in the Applicable Code and Policy Review section of this report, the Phase II development 
remains in compliance with the aggregate range of the Specific Plan Amendment despite the reduction in residential units 
and increase in office uses to MU2 and MU3. As noted in the prior Applicable Code and Policy Review section of this report, 
the Phase II development would be within the allowed range of office uses (500,000 to 1,250,000 square-feet) and 
residential units (1,000 to 1,250 units) as a result of this SPAR Modification. Meeting minutes from the June 23, 2020 
meeting are included as Attachment 13.
BUILDING DESIGN:
Design Review
The proposed, overall architectural character of MU2 and MU3 is contemporary in their inclusion of glass curtain walls, 
metal exterior panels, and other composite exterior panels. Following the June 23, 2020 Study Session, the City’s Design 
Review Consultant, Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group, conducted design review and provided recommendations to 
refine the design in various design review letters. 
The applicant has incorporated many recommendations from Larry Cannon’s review letters. At MU2, the applicant 
incorporated warm-colored metal framing to relate to the terracotta materials at the adjacent STA 2 building across S. 
Delaware Street. The applicant also articulated the southern side of MU2 into smaller window frames. At the ground level, 
the building design now recess the active use storefronts and continues the use of warm-colored metal panels. At MU3, 
the applicant incorporated a broader roof overhang to relate to adjacent office blocks across S. Delaware Street. Similar to 
MU2, the applicant also incorporated metal panels along the northern side of the S. Delaware Street façade. Along W. 
Kyne Street, the MU2 building design includes projecting wall elements that mimic bay window modules of the MU3 
residential building and on adjacent residential buildings across Landing Green Park. This results in breaking up the large 
glass walls which was a stated concern of the Planning Commission. 
The final design review letter included as Attachment 14 recognizes that the changes have been focused on addressing the 
Planning Commission’s concerns and concludes with no further recommendations. 
Design Guidelines Exceptions
The Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards articulates overall design vision and objectives 
that would apply as the development is built out over time and that subsequent SPAR planning applications are reviewed 
for conformance.   The Design Guidelines, however, do allow for exceptions, or deviations from certain guidelines, and 
state that projects may be approved even if certain guidelines are not met. The Design Guidelines state that the applicant 
shall demonstrate how the design is consistent with the overall intent of the Design Guidelines and Specific Plan 
Amendment when requesting deviations. The Design Guidelines go on to clarify that certain standards are mandatory 
while others are preferred and not mandatory. Both the original SPAR planning applications and subsequent modifications 
were approved with some exceptions to the Design Guidelines.

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The applicant has revised the list of exceptions to the Design Guidelines in consideration of the input from the June 23, 
2020 Planning Commission Study Session and Cannon Design Group. The updated list and diagrams showing requested 
exceptions for MU2 and MU3 are included in Attachment 15 and Attachment 16 respectively. The requested exceptions 
include deviations to building placement, curb cuts, and build-to-zones. The final design review letter by Cannon Design 
Group states that with the design changes the project has incorporated, the exceptions to the Design Guidelines are 
reasonable.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS:
As part of the City’s negotiations in the Phase II Development Agreement, the developer agreed to both physical 
improvements and financial contributions that exceeded City requirements and were in addition to the City’s impact fees 
at the time the development received approvals. The community-serving benefits that the Phase II development 
contributed include:

Construction and dedication of 15 acres of public park and open space, including Bay Meadows Park and Linear 
Park;

Construction and dedication of right-of-way improvements, including streets, sidewalks, and bike paths;

Financial contribution of $250,000 to neighborhood traffic-calming in excess of the City’s required traffic impact 
fees;

Land dedication for an affordable housing development, now constructed at the  MU1 block called “Montara”;

Financial contribution toward improvements to Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood; and

Financial contribution toward improvements to Fiesta Gardens common areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council certified the Final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Transit-Oriented 
Development Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, in compliance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) on April 18, 2005. The City Council then approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment, re-certified the Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and statement of overriding 
considerations on November 7, 2005.
The Final EIR states that applications for subsequent Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) would not require 
preparation of subsequent environmental documentation, unless otherwise required by CEQA Section 21166. Section 
21166 stipulates that when an EIR has been prepared for a project pursuant to this division, no subsequent or 
supplemental EIR shall be required unless one or more of the following events occurs: 
(a) Substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the environmental impact 
report.
(b) Substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is being undertaken which 
will require major revisions in the environmental impact report. 
(c) New information, which was not known and could not have been known at the time the environmental impact 
report was certified as complete, becomes available. 
Staff has determined that a new EIR is not required because none of the circumstances listed above occur as part of this 
project. Rather, an Addendum to the Final EIR has been prepared, which is included as Attachment 17.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans (MU2)
Att 4 – Project Plans (MU3)
Att 5 – Project Data
Att 6 – Climate Action Plan Consistency Checklist
Att 7 – Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards Excerpts
Att 8 – Parking Management Plan, Kimley-Horn and Associates (June 14, 2021)
Att 9 – Traffic Management Plan, Kimley-Horn And Associates (June 14, 2021)
Att 10 – Peer Review Memorandum, Hexagon Transportation Consultants (June 15, 2021)
Att 11 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 12 – Public Comments
Att 13 – Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of June 23, 2020
Att 14 – Design Review Letter, Cannon Design Group (May 14, 2021)
Att 15 – Design Guidelines Exceptions (MU2)
Att 16 – Design Guidelines Exceptions (MU3)
Att 17 – Final EIR Addendum #6
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner
lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 333-0248

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
APPROVING THE SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) MODIFICATION AND TENTATIVE MAP TO 
CONSTRUCT 67 RESIDENTIAL UNITS, TWO COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS, ASSOCIATED PARKING FACILITIES, 
LANDSCAPING, AND OPEN SPACE AREAS, AND ADOPT AN ADDENDUM TO A FINAL EIR 
 
WHEREAS, on April 18, 2005, the City Council certified a Final Environmental Impact Report (“EIR”) for the 
San Mateo Rail Transit-Oriented Development Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan 
Amendment, in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”); 
 
WHEREAS, on November 21, 2005, Wilson Meany (“Applicant”) entered into a development agreement 
with the City, which vested the standards set forth in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment and 
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines & Development Standards; 
 
WHEREAS, the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment establishes a range of development of 
500,000 square-feet to 1,250,000 square-feet of commercial uses and 1,000 to 1,250 residential units; 
 
WHEREAS, on April 21, 2008, the City Council approved a Site Plan and Architectural Review (“SPAR”) for 
88 residential units and 30,296 square-feet of commercial uses at Mixed-Use Block 2 (“MU2”); and 76 residential 
units and 25,267 square-feet of commercial uses at Mixed-Use Block 3 (“MU3”); 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Applicant has requested to modify the previously approved SPAR for MU2 and MU3, 
(“Project”); 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission reviewed the Project at a design-focused Study Session on June 20, 
2020;  
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies, including the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment development range of 
commercial and residential uses; 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15162, the proposed modifications do not substantially 
change the information or conclusions of the Final EIR adopted by the City Council on April 18, 2005, and therefore, 
an Addendum to the Final EIR has been prepared; 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on June 22, 2021 duly noticed, 
at which all public comments were considered; 
 
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that: 
 
1. 
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no 
substantial evidence that the project will have a significant effect on the environment and the 
Addendum to the Final EIR reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis. 
 
2. 
The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding 
upon which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City 
Hall, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California.

--- page 16 ---
3. 
The Addendum to the Final EIR for this Project is adopted.   
 
4. 
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that: 
i. The building designs, building materials, landscaping, park, open space, and 
pedestrian amenities contribute to the transit-oriented, Bay Meadows Phase II 
neighborhood in San Mateo by providing a mixture of uses, pedestrian and bicycle 
linkages and building designs which promote and facilitate the use of transit as an 
alternative to vehicle trips; 
ii. The Project incorporates high quality architectural design and materials with 
massing, scale, proportion, materials, articulation, and detailing that is appropriate 
to the proposed style; 
iii. The Project provides active uses directly accessible to the pedestrian level that 
further contributes to the active use corridor of S. Delaware Street   
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City 
in that: 
i. The Project is consistent with the General Plan, the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan, the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, 
and the overall design intent and goals of the Bay Meadow Phase II Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards; 
ii. The project has a General Plan Land Use designation of Transit Oriented 
Development and is zoned Bay Meadows Specific Plan; 
iii. The project fulfills the goals of focusing growth near the transit corridor to maximize 
the use of public transit; 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The development of commercial and residential uses on the project sites represent 
an improvement of the property and would not result in any significant impacts 
regarding public health, safety, or welfare as conditioned.  
ii. The Project is in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and the City’s 
Building Security Code. 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. The Project 
also meets all applicable standards of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. The Project 
also is consistent with the overall design intent and goals of the Bay Meadows Phase II 
Design Guidelines and Development Standards, although certain, specified exceptions to 
certain guidelines to improve the Project overall. 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of 
Approval.

--- page 17 ---
5. 
The Tentative Map (Municipal Code Section 26.48.060) application and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a. The proposed map is consistent with applicable general and specific plan in that the project 
site is designated for commercial uses. 
b. The design or improvement of the proposed lot merger is consistent with applicable general 
and specific plans in that it meets all the applicable development standards for BMSP (Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan) zoning district.   
c. That the site is physically suitable for the type of development in that existing paving will be 
removed to make way for the development, and the foundation elements will be designed 
to account for fluctuations in soil water content and to accommodate earthquake 
vibrations. 
d. That the site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development in that the site 
can be adequately served by all required utilities and public services. 
e. That the design of the lot merger and the proposed improvements are not likely to cause 
substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or 
their habitat in that it redevelops a site located in an urban setting which has been 
previously improved with paving. 
f. That the design of the lot merger and the proposed improvements is not likely to cause 
serious public health problems in that City ordinances reduce potential air quality and noise 
impacts during construction, and the project will also contribute to public improvements 
roadways and public facilities and will otherwise not constrain the delivery of public 
services. 
g. That the of the lot merger and the proposed improvements will not conflict with easements, 
acquired by the public at large, for access through or use of, property within the proposed 
lot merger. 
 
6. 
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element, Circulation Element, 
Housing Element, Urban Design Element, Conservation and Open Space Element, and Noise 
Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to policies LU 1.10, LU 1.15, LU 3.4, and PA 7.3 in that the Project 
proposes mixed land uses in a transit-oriented development setting. The Project also 
contributes to the existing office, retail, and residential uses that currently exist at the Bay 
Meadows Phase II development area and still conforms to the maximum floor area or 
residential units listed in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. 
b. The Project conforms to policies C 2.4, C 2.11, C 3.4, and C 4.9 in that the Project is part of 
the Bay Meadows Phase II development area that has paid a traffic impact fee 
proportionate to its fair share of costs for roadway improvements. A Traffic Management 
Plan has also been updated for this Project, which include current proposals for 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) programs. The Project incorporates the major 
concepts of transit-oriented development including a mixture of high density office, retail 
and residential uses near the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain Station, pedestrian 
amenities such as wide sidewalks, appropriate lighting, and active ground floor uses. A 
public pedestrian connection is also provided through MU3 to link S. Delaware Street with 
the Linear Park. 
c. The Project conforms to policies C/OS 6.6 and C/OS 6.8 in that the Project will include the 
protection of existing street trees already planted with the Bay Meadows Phase II Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards. The street trees planted as part of the Bay 
Meadows Phase II development have been adequately sited and selected to ensure a safe 
location.

--- page 18 ---
d. The Project conforms to policy H2.4 of the Housing Element in that the project provides new 
affordable housing opportunities in conformance with the City’s below-market-rate 
requirements. 
e. The Project conforms to UD 1.7, UD 2.4, UD 2.6, and UD 2.9 in that the Project improves two 
vacant sites along S. Delaware Street by adding active uses and pedestrian-scaled 
storefronts. Parking facilities for the Project are located below-grade and are thus not visible 
from the street. 
f. The Project conforms to N 1.1, N 1.2, N 2.2, N 2.3 and N 2.5 of the Noise Element in that an 
independent noise analysis has been prepared for the residential portion of the project with 
recommendations to ensure compliance with all General Plan noise standards. The 
recommendations in the analysis are required as Conditions of Approval to be incorporated 
into the building permit plans for the project. During the construction period, the project 
will conform to the City’s requirements regarding hours of construction and reduction of 
sound produced by construction equipment. 
 
7. 
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan. 
a. The Project conforms to policies 5.4 and 5.8 in that the Project includes residential and 
commercial uses in conformance with the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. 
The Project would also increase the office use intensity to promote continued transit usage 
by employees. 
b. The Project conforms to policies 6.12 and 6.13 in that the Project building design 
contributes to the existing variety of building designs and styles that exist at the Bay 
Meadows Phase II development area. The building style of the Project is contemporary but 
still acknowledges the residential character of the residential blocks east of the project sites. 
c. The Project conforms to policies 6.16, 6.17, and 6.18 in that the Project locates the buildings 
close to the property lines to define the street with its building facades. The remaining areas 
between the property line and building is used for landscaping and other open space 
facilities. 
d. The Project conforms to policy 6.19 in that the Project provides ground floor active uses 
along S. Delaware Street to further a mixed-use retail district that is inviting and easily 
accessible to pedestrians, provides convenience to the area’s residents and employees and 
commuters coming from or going to the train station.  
e. The Project conforms to policy 6.33 in that the project provides a street wall along S. 
Delaware Street and W. Kyne Street with composed building facades that identify distinctive 
places and frame the streets and parks. 
f. The Project conforms to policies 7.17, 7.18, 7.19, 7.21, and 7.24 in that a Traffic 
Management Plan has been updated as part of this Project, which establishes a trip budget 
for each block. The Traffic Management Plan also includes updated Transportation Demand 
Management strategies that are to be ongoing for the life of the full Bay Meadows Phase II 
development.  A Parking Management Plan has been updated as part of this Project, which 
has been tailored to reflect the location, uses, and trip reduction strategies of the Project.

--- page 19 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2020-053  
(PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PA-2007-054),  
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II MODIFICATION SPAR #1 MU2 AND MU3 
 
PARCEL # 040031230, 040031240, 040031220, 040031210 
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 22, 2021 
(ORIGINALLY APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON APRIL 21, 2008) 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional languae within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be satisfied 
prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is specified in a 
condition, at that time. 
 
1. CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AND SPECIFIC PLAN - All building 
permit application plans and details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform 
with the approved planning application and Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendments 
and “Project Approvals,” including: drawings, plans, materials samples, the written project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. No 
signage is approved as part of the planning application; signage is governed by the City’s Sign 
Ordinance, pursuant to the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement. Documentation 
of any changes to the approved Planning Application plan set shall be provided at the time of 
Building Permit application submittal. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning 
application must be reviewed by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator. 
Modifications to Building Permit plans must be approved prior to construction of the 
modified improvements. The Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator shall determine 
whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application for a modification of a previously approved 
planning application is required to be submitted to permit the proposed project 
modifications, as required by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. 
(PLANNING) 
 
2. GENERAL – These Conditions of Approval apply to the Bay Meadows Phase II Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) Planning Application #1, covering the following nine blocks: STA 
1, STA 2, STA 3, STA 4, STA 5, MU 2, MU 3, MU 4 and RES 7, the Town Square, western portion 
of the View Corridor, and the Linear Park. Additional Conditions of Approval that may also 
apply to this Planning Application are hereby incorporated by reference and include 
applicable conditions in the Conditions of Approval of the following Planning Applications: 
Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment and Master Tentative Map (PA 02-105) and 
Bay Meadows Phase II Site Development Permit and Vesting Tentative Subdivision Map 
(“Project Tentative Map”) (PA 07-037). In addition, other conditions concerning public 
benefits and timing may be specified in the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement

--- page 20 ---
("Development Agreement").  To the extent that a Condition of Approval is modified by the 
approval of a subsequent Planning Application on that same block, the modified condition 
(i.e. the most recently approved condition adopted in connection with an application on that 
block) shall govern.  In addition, in the case of a conflict between the Development 
Agreement and any Condition of Approval, the Development Agreement shall govern and 
control.  Compliance with Citywide codes concerning construction, fire and building 
requirements in effect at the time building permits are reviewed shall be required. 
(PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, PARKS AND RECREATION, PUBLIC WORKS, CITY 
ATTORNEY) 
 
3. EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL – This Planning Application approval is valid until the latter of 
expiration of the Development Agreement Term or the maximum applicable time provided 
for under City Law, whichever is greater. (PLANNING) 
 
4. * MITIGATION MONITORING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #4, the 
applicant and property owner (including subsequent owners) shall be responsible for 
compliance with the mitigation measures adopted as part of the Final Environmental Impact 
Report (FEIR) for the project, as specified in the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program, approved by the City Council on November 7, 2005.  The Mitigation Monitoring and 
Reporting Program identifies the time frame and responsible party for implementation and 
monitoring of each mitigation measure adopted by the San Mateo City Council; and is hereby 
incorporated into the conditions of approval in accordance with California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Section 21081.6.  In the event that a specific condition of project approval, 
as adopted by the City Council with respect to any project related impact, is different than 
the mitigation measure specified in the FEIR, the condition of approval shall take precedence. 
(PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, PARKS AND RECREATION PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan 
Amendment COA #4 
 
5. PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE - A pre-construction conference shall be held at a time 
and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose of reviewing Conditions 
of Approval and construction-site procedures.  The building owner/developer shall be 
represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any relevant sub-contractors 
as deemed necessary by the applicant.  Departments having conditions of approval for the 
project will represent the City. (PLANNING, BUILDING, FIRE, POLICE, PARKS AND RECREATION 
PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
6. CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – Final permit plans shall include all the Conditions of Approval 
as a sheet or sheets within the plan set.  (PLANNING)  
 
7. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT INSERT SHEET – Final plans shall include the City’s Stormwater 
Management Insert Sheet as a sheet within the plan set. (PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS, 
BUILDING) 
 
8. NOTICE OF PROJECT RESTRICTIONS – The property owner at the time of this SPAR approval 
shall record a Notice of Project Restrictions in the official records of the County of San Mateo 
and provide proof of such recordation to the City prior to issuance of any City permit, allowed 
special use of the property, or Final Map, as applicable. The Notice of Project Restrictions

--- page 21 ---
shall provide a description of the subject property, shall identify the Planning Application 
name and number and any accompanying subdivision or parcel map, including book and page 
and recorded document number, if any, and be signed and notarized by each property owner 
of record and shall state the following: 
 
“This Notice of Project Restrictions is for the purpose of informing interested persons of the 
fact that development approvals have been given by the City of San Mateo regarding the 
herein described property and that such approvals are conditioned upon compliance with 
certain restrictions that run with the land and are binding upon subsequent owners of the 
property. For more information about the restrictions applicable to this property, contact the 
Planning Division of the City of San Mateo regarding PA 07-054 Bay Meadows II SPAR #1.”    
 
For purposes of determining the record owner of the property, the applicant shall provide 
the City with evidence in the form of a report from a title insurance company indicating that 
the record owner(s) are the person(s) who have authority to sign the Notice of Project 
Restrictions. (PLANNING) 
 
9. REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT – Building or business owners shall be responsible for obtaining 
separate building permits for all signage that is issued through the Building Division.  All signs 
shall conform to the standards delineated in the Sign Code and Bay Meadows Phase II Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards. The applicant shall apply for approval of a Planned 
Signing District. (PLANNING) 
 
10. MECHANICAL VENTILATION - All mechanical ventilation for subterranean garages shall be 
incorporated into the building architecture, structure, or landscape areas to be shown on the 
building permit plans subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator or his 
designee. (PLANNING)  
 
11. ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND DEVICES - All ground level utilities, equipment, 
and other project related operational devices shall be designed and located as delineated on 
the approved planning application drawings, pending final location approval by the relevant 
utility provider.  These project utilities shall be incorporated into the design of the project 
and screened from public view by a solid wall or solid fence, and/or perimeter landscaping, 
or other material subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator or his designee.  
All parties acknowledge that utility providers may make changes to the design from time to 
time and any such changes, along with the associated screening, shall be incorporated into 
the final plans. (PLANNING) 
 
12. SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment 
must be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall, in conformance with the approved 
planning application. Rooftop screening materials shall be aesthetically compatible with the 
building exterior, to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator or his designee. 
(PLANNING)  
 
13. LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS - All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 27.71 of the 
Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on project plans: 
a) All planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic with an

--- page 22 ---
approved barrier (a six-inch high vertical concrete curb) designed to withstand 
reasonable impact from vehicles. 
b) An automatic irrigation system shall be provided to adequately water all proposed 
plantings. Backflow prevention devices shall be located in areas approved as part 
of the planning application, screened by landscaping and/or incorporated into the 
design of the project. 
c) A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting areas 
except in areas of turfgrass or annuals. 
d) The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape 
contractor or General Contractor for a ninety (90) day Plant Establishment 
Maintenance Period for all proposed landscape areas.  All landscaped areas shall 
be maintained free of litter, debris and weeds.  All plantings shall be permanently 
maintained in a healthy growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with 
equivalent plant materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans.  
(PLANNING) 
 
14. ALLERGENIC, TOXIC, AND INVASIVE PLANTS SPECIES - No plants which are cited on a City-wide 
list of allergenic, toxic, and invasive plants species shall be installed in any Park or public 
easement area including the Town Square, View Corridor or the required pedestrian passage 
on MU 3.  In the absence of a City-wide list, all plant material lists will be reviewed with the 
City Landscape Architect to identify and preclude commonly recognized allergenic, toxic, and 
invasive plant species. (PLANNING/ PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
15. FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR LANDSCAPING - For any building permit involving on-site 
landscaping on a Block, the applicant shall submit a cost estimate and financial securities in a 
form and amount satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator sufficient to ensure the installation 
of all approved landscape improvements including all new trees. The applicant shall request 
a follow-up inspection by the Planning Division in accordance with Section 27.71.060 of the 
Municipal Code in order to reclaim financial securities for landscaping. (PLANNING) 
 
16. LANDSCAPE SOIL TESTING - For any building permit involving on-site landscaping on a Block, 
the applicant must submit a soils report prepared by a Soil Testing Laboratory.  The report 
must analyze the existing soil and recommend any corrective action or soil amendment 
necessary to make the soil suitable to support the proposed plantings.  Any proposed 
corrective action or soil amendments shall be incorporated into the landscape plans. 
(PLANNING) 
 
17. BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) UNITS – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval 
#8, pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 41 (1999), and subject to 
the Development Agreement, Prior to issuance of any building permits for residential units 
on a Block, the residential developer shall execute a BMR agreement between the applicant 
and the City specifying how the BMR requirement will be satisfied for the proposed 
residential development.  City development fees may be reduced for the BMR units in 
accordance with the City of San Mateo Below Market Rate Program.  (PLANNING) Specific 
Plan Amendment COA #8 
 
18. UNIFIED CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT FOR SPAR VERTICAL DEVELOPMENT – The land

--- page 23 ---
developer shall provide for a unified construction management program (“Program”) of the 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment area (the “Project”).  The land developer shall be the 
person or entity responsible for constructing the public infrastructure, streets, utilities, and 
similar “horizontal” development.  The Program shall include responsibility for the operation 
and maintenance of common areas including common parking, common driveways, 
landscaping, lighting, signage, security, and similar matters of concern during construction.  
The Program shall provide for a person to act as the Project wide construction manager 
(“Manager”), and such person shall be the point of contact for the land developer in resolving 
overall site coordination issues with the City with respect to construction of the development 
as shown in the Project area.  This includes coordination of the various potential multiple 
Block builders who will be constructing buildings and other “vertical” improvements within 
the Project. 
 
 
 
A letter shall be submitted to the Building Official by the land developer designating the 
Manager prior to the issuance of the first City permit under this, or subsequent, planning 
applications.  This person or a designee shall be on-site at all times that construction activities 
are underway.  Should that designated person change during any phase of construction, the 
land developer shall submit a new letter to the City giving notification of change and 
designating a new person to act as the single point of contact.  It is acknowledged that this is 
a phased Project and a full time on-site person may not be continually required.  This 
condition can be modified over the course of the Project with the approval of the Director of 
Public Works Director or Building Official or their designees.  The land developer shall have 
no obligation to coordinate construction activities with respect to (a) the construction of the 
Community Park, (b) the one (1) acre of land dedicated to the City for a Below Market Rate 
housing project, or (c) any activities associated with the potential JPB garage construction.  
This condition is not intended to limit the land developer to the use of only one contractor 
for purposes of development of the project, but simply to ensure that all contractors are fully 
coordinated.    
 
 
The Manager shall designate an employee or agent as the construction impacts 
coordinator, to be responsible for receiving calls from residents or businesses regarding 
specific construction related complaints, including but not limited to noise, dust, vibration, 
and ground shaking.  The coordinator shall be responsible for taking appropriate measures to 
reduce or eliminate the construction impacts if related to the land development or to 
coordinate with the Block developer (as described below) to mitigate the complaint.  A log of 
complaints and responses shall be kept on file for review by the City. The construction impact 
coordinator shall act as a liaison between the residents in the vicinity of the construction and 
the contractor, so perceived issues are addressed as soon as possible. This coordinator shall 
be available during all phases of construction and for six months after completion of 
construction. A letter shall be submitted to the City by the land developer designating this 
person prior to the issuance of the first City permit. Should that designated person change 
during any phase of construction, the owner shall submit a new letter to the City giving 
notification of the change and designating a new person to act as the construction impact 
coordinator.   
 
 
The developer of each individual Block (the “Block Developer”), or the developer of a 
parcel on a multiple parcel Block, shall designate a Block construction manager (“Block

--- page 24 ---
Manager”).  That person shall be responsible for meeting with the City’s Building Inspector 
and lead Planner, managing all required testing performed during construction activities, 
providing all testing results to the City, and be the point of contact for any dialogue between 
the City and the Block Developer.  The Block Developer shall also be responsible to report to 
and coordinate with the overall Manager (as defined above).  The Block Manager shall 
respond promptly when contacted by the Manager of any site related construction or 
coordination issues and shall be required to attend overall site coordination meetings as 
needed.  When requested by Manager, the Block Manager shall also provide input to the 
Project’s public newsletter and Project web site (as described below).  The Block Manager 
shall also be required to submit a construction schedule to the Manager that shall be updated 
as needed.  A letter shall be submitted to the Planning Division and the Manager by the Block 
Developer designating the Block Manager prior to the issuance of the first building permit 
relating to any vertical construction on a Block.  This person or a designee shall be available 
at all times that construction activities are underway.  Should that designated person change 
during any phase of construction, the Block Developer shall submit a new letter to the City 
and the Manager giving notification of change and designating a new person to act as the 
single point of contact.  This condition is not intended to limit the Block Developer or land 
developer to the use of only one contractor for purposes of development of the project, but 
simply to ensure that all contractors are fully coordinated. (BUILDING) 
 
19. PUBLIC NEWSLETTER AND PROJECT WEB SITE – The Project wide construction manager 
(“Manager”) shall produce a quarterly construction update newsletter to be distributed to 
the surrounding neighborhoods affected by the project construction, as directed by the 
Building Official or his designee.  The newsletter shall also be distributed to an interested 
parties list maintained by the Manager. The newsletter shall include a summary of the 
progress of construction, significant activities to date, what is expected to take place over the 
next quarter, and any public notices necessary due to work outside the typical working hours 
or conditions.  The newsletter shall include the name and phone number for the construction 
coordinator and be submitted, reviewed and approved by the Building Official and Zoning 
Administrator, or their designees prior to the distribution to the neighborhood. The applicant 
shall prepare a communication plan to be reviewed and approved by the Building Official and 
Zoning Administrator, or their designees. 
 
The Manager shall also maintain a project web site for the development construction.  The 
site shall include the quarterly newsletter, project schedules, meeting notices, general project 
information, and contact information should anyone need to contact the Manager, impact 
coordinator or his/her staff.  Persons requesting to be placed on the interested parties mailing 
list for the newsletter shall be able to submit this request through the website. The site may 
also provide a video feed from the project site showing real-time views of the construction 
zone.  The site shall be updated and maintained on a regular basis to the approval of the 
Building Official and Zoning Administrator, or their designees. (BUILDING, PLANNING)   
 
20. *INTERIOR NOISE ANALYSIS – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #51, prior 
to the issuance of any building permits, the project sponsor shall implement the following 
measures: *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM3 
 
A. An acoustical analysis, prepared by a licensed acoustical consultant, shall be

--- page 25 ---
submitted with any building permit for construction of buildings containing 
residential uses. The analysis shall include recommendations to ensure that the 
interior noise levels do not exceed 45 dB DNL where the exterior noise levels 
would exceed 60 dB DNL and any other noise requirements contained in the City’s 
General Plan.  Noise control measures shall be designed according to the type of 
building construction and specified sound rating for each building element. The 
analysis shall be submitted to the City prior to issuance of any building permit. The 
implementation of this Condition shall be monitored and verified by the Building 
Division.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for buildings containing 
residential uses, the applicant shall submit a letter prepared by the person/firm 
who prepared the acoustical analysis for the project, verifying that all 
recommendations contained in the analysis have been incorporated into the 
building permit plans. (BUILDING)  *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM3a 
B. Based upon existing and projected future noise levels, sound-rated windows and 
wall constructions shall be incorporated into any buildings containing residential 
uses to achieve an acceptable interior noise level of 45 dB DNL.  Construction 
methods may include resilient channels, staggered studs, double-stud walls, 
acoustic doors and acoustic widows.  If the windows must remain closed to obtain 
the required noise reduction, mechanical ventilation shall be installed in these 
units. Building permit plans shall demonstrate compliance with acoustical 
mitigation. The implementation of this condition shall be monitored and verified 
by the Building Division. (BUILDING) *Mitigation Measure Noise-BM3; Specific 
Plan Amendment COA #51 
 
21. *NOISE ANALYSIS NEAR CALTRAIN TRACKS - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #52, an acoustical analysis, prepared by a licensed acoustical consultant, shall be 
submitted with any building permit for buildings containing sensitive uses (defined in the 
City’s General Plan Noise Element) within 530 feet of the centerline of the Caltrain tracks. The 
results of that analysis shall be used by the project sponsor to implement measures that 
would ensure interior noise levels would be no higher than 45 dBA.  The City shall not issue a 
building permit for any building containing sensitive uses on the project site where the 
interior noise level standard of 45 dBA would be exceeded.  The analysis shall be submitted 
to the City prior to issuance of any building permit. The implementation of this condition shall 
be monitored and verified by the Building Division.  (BUILDING)   *Mitigation Measure Noise-
BM7; Specific Plan Amendment COA #52 
 
22. SITE SURVEY - Provide site survey of entire parcel stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor 
licensed by the State of California.  The survey shall include, but not be limited to the 
following:  location and dimensions of property line, location of streets and easements, 
existing buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc.  
The purpose of the site survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback 
dimensions, heights of buildings from established contours, compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance, etc. (BUILDING) 
 
 
23. FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES AND PUBLIC POOLS AND SPAS - All projects including food service 
or public pools or spas shall be checked and approved by the County of San Mateo Health 
Department prior to submittal for a building permit. (BUILDING)

--- page 26 ---
24. SHORING/SCAFFOLDING - A separate building permit shall be required for all shoring and 
scaffolding work.  Shoring /scaffolding plans, calculations, etc., shall be reviewed and 
approved by Building Division.  The applicant will be required to obtain an encroachment 
permit from the Public Works Department for scaffolding erected within the public right-of-
way that has been accepted by the City. (BUILDING) 
 
25. CITY FEES – Subject to the Development Agreement Section 3.8 “No Further Exactions”, all 
subsequent development or processing fees paid to the City will be those in effect at the time 
the Building Permit Application is received.  (BUILDING) 
 
   
 
 
26. CALGREEN – The building shall be designed to include the green building measures specified 
as mandatory in the application checklists contained in the California Green Building 
Standards Code.  The applicant shall incorporate the checklist along with a notation on the 
checklist to specify where the information can be located on the plans, details, or 
specifications, etc. (BUILDING) 
 
27. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – Applicants of commercial projects over 10,000 sq. ft. of 
either:  a) new commercial development, b) addition of square footage to existing 
commercial development, and/or c) commercial tenant improvements requiring a planning 
approval shall be required to comply with City Council Resolution No. 88 – (2005).  The final 
fee will be based on the square footage of the entire project and is to be paid at time of 
building permit issuance.  It shall be paid into the Child Care Development Fund and will be 
determined based on the approved project and construction drawings.  This condition shall 
be met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first.  Section 3.8 of the Bay Meadows Development Agreement 
provides for a credit against the child care development impact fee in the event that a child 
care facility is installed.  Licensing of a child care facility on site will occur after construction 
of the project.  Therefore, in the event that a child care facility is licensed by the appropriate 
state agency and installed after the Child Care Development Fee has been paid and within 
two years of issuance of a final inspection, temporary certificate of occupancy, or certificate 
of occupancy, whichever occurs first, the applicant is entitled to  a credit/refund per Section 
3.8 of the Development Agreement. (BUILDING) 
 
28. *SOILS REPORT - A soil investigation report satisfactory to the Building Official shall be 
submitted containing design recommendations at the time of building permit application.  
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of materials disclosed 
by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations.  Additional studies may be necessary 
to evaluate soil strength, the effect of moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, 
compressibility, liquefaction, seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and 
expansiveness. 
Additionally submit a letter from the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared 
the soil investigation stating the following (signed and stamped): 
a. 
The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in the 
soil investigation. 
b. 
The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepare the soil investigation has 
been retained to provide soil site observation and provide periodic and final reports

--- page 27 ---
to the City of San Mateo. 
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer 
who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating the completed pad, 
foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform to the approved plans, 
specifications and investigations. (BUILDING)  Mitigation Measure Geology-BM5 
 
29. *CULTURAL RESOURCES - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #19, the 
project sponsor shall implement a monitoring and response procedure during construction 
of the proposed project in order to avoid adverse effects on potentially significant 
archaeological resources on the project site.  Specific steps in the procedure are described 
below.  The implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction 
and verified by the Planning Division and Public Works Department. (PLANNING, PUBLIC 
WORKS) *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1 
 
A. 
Prior to construction, the construction contractor and subcontractors shall be 
informed of the legal and regulatory consequences of knowingly destroying 
cultural resources or removing artifacts, human remains, bottles, and other 
significant cultural materials from the site.  Significant cultural materials include 
but are not limited to: aboriginal human remains; chipped stone; groundstone; 
shell and bone artifacts; concentrations of fire-cracked rock; ash and charcoal; 
shell; bone; and historic features such as privies or building foundations.  The 
implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction and 
verified by the Planning Department and Public Works Department. *Mitigation 
Measure Cultural-BM1a 
 
B. 
If, during any phase of project construction, archaeological resources or human 
remains are discovered, work shall be halted within a 50-foot radius of the find.  
Work shall not be resumed until the find has been evaluated and potential 
significance determined by a qualified professional archaeologist. The 
implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction and 
verified by the Planning Department and Public Works Department. *Mitigation 
Measure Cultural-BM1b 
 
C. 
If the qualified archaeologist determines that any finds are significant, then 
representatives of the construction contractor, the project sponsor, the City of 
San Mateo, and the qualified archaeologist shall determine the appropriate 
course of action.  In the event that human remains are discovered, the provisions 
outlined in CEQA Guidelines Appendix K shall be implemented.  This would require 
consultation with the Native American Heritage Commission, if the remains are 
Native American.  The implementation of this condition shall be monitored 
throughout construction and verified by the Planning Department and Public 
Works Department. *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1c 
D.  
All artifacts or samples collected as part of the initial discovery, monitoring, or 
mitigation shall be properly preserved, cataloged, analyzed, evaluated, and 
curated along with the associated documentation in a professional manner 
consistent with current archaeological standards.  The implementation of this 
condition shall be monitored throughout construction and verified by the Planning 
Department and Public Works Department. *Mitigation Measure Cultural-BM1d  
 
Specific Plan Amendment COA #19

--- page 28 ---
30. ACCESS DURING CONSTRUCTION – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #12, 
connection through the site for pedestrians and bicyclists, and in particular access to the 
Hillsdale Train Station from completed portions of the project, shall be maintained through 
the Phase II project area during construction to the extent that it can be safely provided.  The 
access plan included in the site development permit plans may be modified by future SPAR, 
Site Development Permit or Building Permit application as needed subject to the approval of 
the Director or Public Works or his designee. (PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan 
Amendment COA #12 
 
31. AESTHETICS DURING CONSTRUCTION – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval 
#11, the developer shall screen from public view (at street level) portions of the property 
during construction.  If the sidewalks adjacent to the project site are being utilized by the 
public to access previously occupied portions of the development site, the applicant shall 
maintain the pedestrian access, providing adequate ADA clearance and pedestrian protection 
from overhead construction activities. Individual blocks or portions of blocks within the 
project site that are actively under construction shall be screened with a six-foot high 
galvanized chain link fence with green vinyl slats located at the back of the sidewalk, or other 
appropriate location to allow active construction of the block.  
 
Such screening is intended to control dust and maintain the aesthetic look of the 
undeveloped portions of the site. The fencing shall remain in place and be maintained in good 
condition until completion of development of applicable sites. A temporary fence plan shall 
be submitted with each building permit plan for final approval by the Director of Public Works 
and Zoning Administrator, or their designees, prior to construction. (PUBLIC WORKS, 
PLANNING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #11 
 
32. * PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of 
Approval #45, the owner is hereby informed that permits may be required by one (1) or more 
of the following: Army Corps of Engineers, Fish and Game, the JPB and Caltrans, and Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD).  If project is within jurisdiction of any of these 
agencies, verification of permit or waiver of permit must be given to the Public Works 
Department prior to issuance of any required City permits.  If the City is required to be a party 
to the permit application and a fee is required, the owner shall reimburse the City for its cost.  
(PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS)  * Mitigation Measures Traffic - BM4, BM5, and BM12; Specific 
Plan Amendment COA #45

--- page 29 ---
33. TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – Per Specific Plan 
Amendment Condition of Approval #40, in conformance with this Condition, the Applicant 
has prepared a Transportation Demand Management Program (Transportation Management 
Plan).  This document has been approved by the Planning Commission as part of this Project 
Approval. This program is to be implemented using a selection of programs from the Corridor 
Plan and the City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) to the approval of the Director 
of Public Works and the Zoning Administrator and their designees.  These programs, once 
implemented, must be on-going for the occupied life of the development, unless they are 
altered, exchanged or discontinued in consultation with the City and shall be required of each 
Block developer through recorded CC&R documents.  It shall be a requirement that the 
applicant participate in the Corridor Transportation Management Agency (TMA) who will 
oversee compliance with the TDM Program. (PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING) Specific Plan 
Amendment COA #40 
 
34. BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES – At the time of building permit submittal, Bicycle Parking 
Facilities shall be provided in each parking garage that comply with the following 
requirements:  
a) Size. A minimum of one bicycle parking facility shall be provided in parking lots 
and parking structures containing from thirty (30) to one hundred (100) parking 
stalls with another such facility being provided for each additional one hundred 
(100) parking stalls or fraction thereof.  
b) Access. Facilities shall be designed to provide access to each bicycle, to public 
streets, and access easements. Facilities may be divided and provided at multiple 
locations on-site. Each bicycle shall be provided a minimum of eighteen (18) inch 
side clearance from the centerline of adjacent bicycles and ten (10) inch clearance 
both front and rear. 
c) Security. Facilities shall be provided for securing bicycles such as racks or fixed 
lockers. Outdoor facilities shall be highly visible from the principal use and public 
streets. 
d) Safety. Bicycle and automobile parking areas shall be separated by location, or 
physical barrier. Ground surface shall be finished or planted to avoid mud and 
dust. (PLANNING/ PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
35. RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE PARKING – A physical device to enable bicycle parking (such as a ring 
installed in concrete or a heavy cable) may be installed in front of the parking spaces in 
residential parking garages stalls so long as the installation and use does not cause the parking 
as designed on the SPAR drawings to be in conflict with City code. These physical devices may 
be located in areas where the parking stall abuts a wall or wherever else deemed to be 
feasible. This device shall be shown on building permit plans, subject to the review and 
approval of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of Public Works, or their designees. 
The covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) for the residential portion of the project 
shall not preclude the use of such physical device for bicycle parking, provided that access to 
required parking spaces is maintained, and there is no conflict with applicable City Codes.   
(PLANNING/CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 30 ---
36. RESTAURANT USE CC&Rs - The CC&Rs for any Block that could contain a restaurant use shall 
include a provision requiring the operator of any restaurant to use commercially reasonable 
efforts to minimize odors, noise, and privacy impacts occasioned by the proximity of the 
restaurant and residential uses.  The commercially reasonable efforts shall include 
appropriate installation of grease interceptors, and development of procedures to be 
followed by the grease removal contractor providing services to the restaurant.  The CC&Rs 
shall also provide appropriate notifications to the potential residential users of the potential 
impacts resulting from the possibility of restaurant uses on the ground floor.  Specific CC&R 
language addressing this issue shall be submitted for the review and approval of the Director 
of Public Works, City Attorney and Zoning Administrator or their designees. (PLANNING, CITY 
ATTORNEY, PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
37. PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN AND PARKING OPERATIONS PLAN – All future building permit 
plans and operations at the project site shall comply with the “Bay Meadows II Parking 
Management Plan” dated April 11, 2008 and amended from time to time, prepared by 
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. Modifications to this document shall be submitted for the 
review and approval of the Director of Public Works and Zoning Administrator or their 
designees. Each Block developer shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Parking 
Management Plan through CC&Rs to be recorded against the property.  
 
 
The applicant shall prepare a Parking Operations Plan addressing, but not limited to, the 
following topics: 
a) Methods to insure that employee parking would not use on-street spaces in the 
residential blocks. 
b) Time period restrictions on streets and enforcement.  
c) Directional signage to off-street parking garages 
d) Spillover problems 
The Parking Operations Plan shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a building permit for 
non-residential buildings (defined as any building on the Station Blocks, the retail/office 
buildings on Mixed Use Blocks 2, 3 and 4, and the retail/residential buildings on Blocks MU 4 
and Residential 7). The Plan shall be subject to the review and approval of the Director of 
Public Works and Zoning Administrator or their designees. Modifications to this plan shall be 
submitted for the review and approval of the Director of Public Works and Zoning 
Administrator or their designees. (PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
38. FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #27, finish 
floor elevations for all habitable structures shall be at an elevation of 104.7 feet or greater 
(San Mateo Datum), or other flood protection measures shall be incorporated into the design.  
These improvements, if necessary, shall be shown on the project construction drawings. 
(PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #27

--- page 31 ---
39. *GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS: The applicant shall conduct detailed geotechnical 
investigations for each of the structures proposed at the site.  Subsurface conditions should 
be explored and laboratory tests conducted on selected soil samples to establish strength 
parameters for foundation design and perimeter slope stability.  Based on recommendations 
developed for foundation support for each component of project construction, the applicant 
shall design building foundations to resist the potential differential movements and, if 
required, employ ground improvement techniques such as over-excavation and 
recompaction, pressure grouting and soil mixing. 
 
Where determined necessary by the City and recommended by the project Civil Engineer, the 
applicant shall also employ engineering methods to minimize the potential for damage from 
liquefaction by reworking the existing fills within areas of new construction.  The existing fills 
would be removed and reworked where buildings are supported on the fill materials.  The 
depth and extent of fill removal will vary depending primarily on the nature of the structural 
loads of each proposed building.  The removed fill shall later be used as new fill provided it is 
compacted to engineering standards.  The actual extent of fill removal shall be determined in 
the field by the project Geotechnical Engineer. 
 
The project sponsor shall engineer project buildings to minimize risks posed by expansive 
soils to a less than significant level.  Engineering methods available to designers include: soil 
treatment, mat foundations, pile foundations, and removal of expansive soil.  Selection of the 
specific mitigation would be dependent on factors specific to the proposed building and the 
soils on which it would be located.  A determination that appropriate engineering has been 
conducted shall occur as part of the San Mateo Building Department’s building permit 
process, which would require the project sponsor to submit site-specific soil and geotechnical 
reports as a condition of approval. (BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS)  Mitigation Measure Geology-
BM3 & -BM5 
 
40. * COMPLIANCE WITH GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER RECOMMENDATIONS – For each building, 
the project Geotechnical Engineer, who shall be professionally licensed with a G.E. or P.E. 
certificate furnished by the State of California), shall review the construction plans for 
conformance with the recommendations found within his project Geotechnical report, and 
addendums, and shall provide a letter to the Building Official and City Engineer stating that 
the reviewed plans are indeed in conformance. Prior to construction, a letter shall be 
submitted by the applicant to the City Engineer, confirming the firm who shall act as the 
“Geotechnical Engineer of Record” for the building.  The Geotechnical Engineer of Record 
shall be professionally licensed with a G.E. or P.E. certificate furnished by the State of 
California.  The Geotechnical Engineer of Record shall monitor on-site grading, excavation, 
and foundation construction in compliance with those recommendations.  At the conclusion 
of each phase, the Geotechnical Engineer of Record shall submit a written verification to the 
Building Official and City Engineer stating that work has been completed in conformance with 
the recommendations found within the project Geotechnical report.  If modifications to the 
final project Geotechnical report are necessary, the Geotechnical Engineer of Record shall 
submit a written report to the City’s Building Official and City Engineer for approval prior to 
completion of the grading, excavation or roadway construction.  The Geotechnical Engineer 
of Record shall also comply with all of the requirements as specified by these conditions of 
approval. (PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING) *Mitigation Measures Geology – BM6

--- page 32 ---
41. * OBLIGATIONS BY OTHER AGENCIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval 
#46, the owner is hereby informed that obligations are required by outside agencies including 
Cal Water and San Mateo-Foster City School District (SMFCSD) pursuant to the MMRP 
approved for the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment. (PUBLIC WORKS, 
BUILDING) * Mitigation Measures Utilities – BM1b, and Public Services – BM6b; Specific 
Plan Amendment COA #46 
 
42. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE - The applicant must obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) year 
warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way associated with the encroachment 
permit. An encroachment permit shall be obtained prior to issuance of the superstructure 
building permit or prior to any work being done in the City's right-of-way. The applicant shall 
have public improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way by a licensed 
civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement 
plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit submittal. All design 
assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project specifications shall be included for 
review. Quantities for items below are provided only to   estimate  bonding requirements for 
the encroachment permit. The quantities and location of the items below shall match the 
approved planning application plans to the maximum extent possible. Exact locations and 
quantities shall be determined during the building permit phase. The encroachment permit 
shall include, at a minimum, the following items: 
 
(A) 
TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way, including any lane or sidewalk closures. 
The traffic control plans shall comply with the most recent version of the California 
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements. The applicant shall also submit site logistics plans for each phase of 
construction. The site logistics plans, at a minimum, shall detail the scope and location of 
applicable construction activities, equipment, and construction fencing proposed for the 
site. The traffic control and site logistics plans shall also include estimated timeframes for 
implementation.  
 
(B)     STREET MARKINGS - The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a 
material and design approved by the City Engineer, and replace any that are damaged 
during construction. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, painted 
curbs and handicap markings.  All permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic.  
Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval 
by the City Engineer.  Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no longer required 
shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, the 
applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any red curb within the proposed City 
right-of-way with a City seal.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 33 ---
(C)     SIDEWALK - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
impacted by the project development surrounding the project site.  Sidewalk replacement 
shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A (or 3-1-141B).  At the time the 
planning application was filed, for MU2 project development  approximately Seven 
Hundred Ninety Two (792) square feet and for MU3 project development   approximately  
Nine Hundred Eighty Four (984) square feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. The 
figures above are  estimates provided only to determine  the estimated bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(D)     CURB AND GUTTER - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb 
and gutter impacted by the project development surrounding the project site.  New curb 
and gutter shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A (or 3-1-141B).  At the 
time of the planning application was filed, for MU2 project development   approximately 
Seventy Two (72) linear feet and for MU3 project development  approximately Sixty Five 
(65) linear feet of curb and gutter will need to be replaced.  The figures above are 
estimates provided only to determine the estimated bonding requirements for the 
encroachment permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(E)     DRIVEWAY APPROACH(ES) - The applicant shall install Four (2 for MU2 and 2 for 
MU3) City Standard Commercial  driveway approaches as shown on the approved plans.  
The new commercial driveway approach shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 
3-1-148.  (PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
(F)     DRIVEWAY REMOVAL - As part of MU3 project development, the applicant is to 
remove the existing driveway approach located  Derby Avenue as shown on the approved 
planning application plans, and replace it with sidewalk, curb and gutter per City Standard 
Drawing 3-1-141A (or 3-1-141B).  Public Works estimates that approximately One 
Hundred Forty Four (144) square feet of sidewalk and Twenty Four (24) lineal feet of curb 
and gutter will be necessary to replace the existing driveway approach.  These amounts 
are in addition to the amount of sidewalk, curb and gutter that are required to be 
removed and replaced as defined by the separate Sidewalk, and Curb and Gutter 
conditions.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
43. RECYCLING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #31, development in the 
Specific Plan Amendment area shall strive to achieve a 50 percent waste diversion rate in 
accordance with identified City standards and regulations upon the establishment of 
measurement and monitoring standards by the Public Works Department and as approved 
by the project Waste Management Plan.  (PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA 
#31 
 
44. RECYCLING COLLECTION AREA REQUIREMENTS – The applicant shall be required to construct 
and maintain recycling collection areas on the property in accordance with City regulations 
and Standards (Municipal Code §27.86).  The areas and dimensions for recycling collection 
areas shall meet the standards established by the local recycling collection provider. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)

--- page 34 ---
45. WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN – All future building permit plans and operations at the project 
site shall comply with the “Planned Waste and Recycling Systems for the Bay Meadows Phase 
II” dated February 26, 2008 prepared by American Trash Management. In the event of 
discrepancies between the Plan text and Appendix text, the Plan text shall govern. 
Modifications to this document shall be submitted for the review and approval of the Director 
of Public Works or his designee. All building permit submittals shall include a letter 
documenting how the proposed waste disposal systems and rooms inside the buildings 
comply with the approved Plan. Applicant will continue to work in good faith with the City to 
continue to develop and implement this program.  (PUBLIC WORKS)   
 
46. TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – Per Specific Plan Amendment 
Condition of Approval #42, a TMA has been established for projects in the Corridor Plan area.  
All development within the Specific Plan Amendment area is required to participate in the 
TMA and fund their fair share of the cost of the TMA.  This requirement shall be stated in the 
individual project CC&R documents.  The TMA will develop TDM measures and make them 
available to both existing and future development within the Corridor Plan area, including 
Bay Meadows.  (PUBLIC WORKS) Specific Plan Amendment COA #42 
 
47. *DEMAND SIDE WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES – Each building permit submittal shall 
provide evidence of compliance with the Demand Side Water Management Plan.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS)  *Mitigation Measure Utilities BM1A 
 
48. INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – All interior floor drains shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary 
sewer system, and shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the County’s 
C.3 Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
49. STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS - Per the County’s C.3 Stormwater Pollution 
Prevention Program requirements, the applicant shall mark with the words “No Dumping! 
Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, using methods approved by the City standards on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project parcel.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
50. FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT CLEANING – Per the County’s C.3 Stormwater Pollution 
Prevention Program requirements, and in compliance with applicable Health and Safety 
Codes associated with food preparation and cooking, the applicant of any food service 
facilities must agree to have any sink or other floor mat, container, and equipment cleaning 
area, connected to a grease interceptor prior to discharging to the sanitary sewer system.  
The cleaning area shall be large enough to clean the largest mat or piece of equipment to be 
cleaned.  The cleaning area shall be indoors or in a roofed outdoor area; either areas being 
plumbed to the sanitary sewer.  Outdoor cleaning areas shall be designed to prevent 
stormwater run-on from entering the sanitary sewer and to prevent stormwater run-off from 
carrying pollutants to the site storm drains.  Signs shall be posted indicating that all food 
service equipment washing activities shall be conducted in this area.  Regular maintenance 
and cleaning of the grease interceptor is required.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 35 ---
51. UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE - The applicant shall design a system that 
discharges, by gravity, treated water that is pumped from the underground parking garage 
sump pump to the face of curb along the project frontage.  The system shall also prevent any 
nuisance or ground water from collecting or continually running in the gutter.  Said system 
shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of any building permits.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
52. PARKING LOTS - The applicant shall submit plans for all required off-street parking lots 
showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, and parking dimensions in conformance 
with City parking standards.  Underground parking ramp widths are permitted at 22’ wall-to-
wall dimension, with approval of the Director of Public Works or his designee, but preferred 
at 24’ wall-to-wall.  Any existing underground parking ramps on the SPAR plans that are less 
than 22’ shall be redesigned for the building permit plan to provide a 22’ wall-to-wall 
dimension, with any impact to parking minimized.  Two (2) Ten (10’) foot wide garage doors 
may be used to screen the garage or ramp openings to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or his designee. These plans shall be subject to review and approval of the Director of 
Public Works and the Zoning Administrator, or their designees.  All driveway ramps shall 
provide a minimum of 8 feet 2 inches vertical clearance.  No head-in parking at the end of 
any dead-end parking aisle will be permitted, except as agreed to by the Director of Public 
Works or his designee.  Internal loading zones shall provide a minimum vertical clearance of 
fourteen (14’) feet.  The plans shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or his 
designee prior to the issuance of the first building permit on any Block.  (PUBLIC WORKS, 
PLANNING)   
 
53. TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – Landscaping and permanent structures located within the 
10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of visibility at any 
uncontrolled intersection, shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or be less than 
3' in height.  This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)     
 
54. BICYCLE RACKS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY – Site Development Permit permit plans shall be revised 
to relocate bicycle parking racks on STA Blocks 2, 3, and 4 to disperse the bicycle racks in the 
right-of-way with two racks located mid-block and two racks on the corners along Delaware 
Street. There need not be an increase in the total number of racks on STA Blocks 2, 3, and 4 
on Delaware Street. One rack per Block shall be added on STA Blocks 1 and 5 proximate to 
the office lobby entrances. One rack per Block shall be added on Blocks MU 2, MU 3, MU 4 
and RES 7 proximate to the main residential lobby entrances. Final location of these racks 
shall be subject to review and approval by the Director of Public Works or his designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 36 ---
55. CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES - Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be $15,000.00 per development block or sub-
block.  Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans 
cannot proceed until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be required to increase 
the deposit, or be billed monthly at the discretion of the City, for any costs in excess of the 
deposit.  If billed monthly, invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 30 days 
of receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full.  The City will refund any 
portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
56. ADDRESS PLAN - The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final address 
plan.  The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the address plan approved with the 
planning application.  Said submittal shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to the 
submittal of plans for the Foundation (or first) Building Permit for each block or portion of 
block with a building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
57. *STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition 
of Approval #48, the owner must obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) 
Construction permit for each phase of the development or when the disturbance of the area 
is greater than the amount specified by the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB), 
paying the required fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work associated with 
the stormwater pollution prevention program (SMMC 7.39). In addition, the project owner 
shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water Resources Control Board to obtain 
coverage under the State General Construction Activity NPDES Permit.  Proof of permit, with 
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) must be provided to the Public Works 
Department prior to issuance of the STOPPP Construction permit.  The fee amount shall be 
based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is 
made.  The permit shall be issued prior to issuance of the first building permit. 
 
 
A separate SWPPP and NOI shall be provided for the drainage network connecting to the 
community park drainage facility and its subsequent discharge to the Borel Creek (19th 
Avenue Channel).  Additional SWPPP and NOI shall be provided for each development phase 
that connects to the storm drainage network. 
 
 
The Owner shall follow all Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) regulations and 
procedures for discharging waste water, including dewatering discharge, as detailed in the 
project’s SWPPP.  In addition, the Owner shall follow all Best Management Practices (BMP) 
for subsurface excavation, drilling and construction included in the SWPPP.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
*Mitigation Measures Hydrology and Water Quality -BM2, BM3, BM4, BM8; Specific Plan 
Amendment COA #48

--- page 37 ---
58. * UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – All new utilities shall be installed underground in accordance 
with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. All public utilities shall be installed within 
the proposed public right-of-way or a public utility easement.  Joint utility trenches shall be 
run along the lip of gutter unless otherwise approved by the Director of Public Works or his 
designee.  No utilities shall be permitted to run longitudinally under any landscape median, 
island or sidewalk unless otherwise authorized by the Public Works Director, or his designee.  
Gravity utility lines shall be constructed from the low point in an upstream direction.  
 
Underground utilities shall be placed in sandy fill materials or appropriately treated clayey fill 
materials.  Treatment of clayey soils could include using lime, lime-cement, or other 
admixtures.  If it is impractical to place utilities within less corrosive materials, the utilities 
would need to be composed of corrosion resistant material or protected with appropriate 
coatings.  A corrosion specialist should be consulted for the design and construction of 
utilities, and other structures as necessary. The implementation of this condition shall occur 
prior to issuance of each building permit for each phase and monitored by the Public Works 
Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Geology – BM7 
 
59. DRAINAGE - The requirements for storm and sanitary sewer drainage improvements to be 
constructed within the project site Blocks shall be as follows:   
 
A. 
STORM – Based on the approved Storm Drainage Design Criteria on file with the 
City dated March, 2005 and as further detailed therein, and based on the final 
project drainage study dated February, 2008, all storm runoff drainage shall be 
directed to drainage inlets with a minimum grade of one (1) per cent over 
landscaped areas and one-half (1/2) per cent over paved areas unless otherwise 
approved by the Public Works Director, or his designee.  In addition, discharge and 
design requirements must conform to any non-point source permit issued by the 
Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB).  
 
 
The post-construction peak stormwater discharge rate from the project to 
the 19th Avenue Channel (Borel Creek) shall be equal to or less than the pre-
construction peak stormwater discharge rate for an equivalent storm event, as 
determined by the hydraulic model approved by the City ("Hydraulic Model").  The 
discharge rate shall be determined through future detailed modeling using the 
Hydraulic Model.  The City will use its best efforts to ensure efficient coordination 
between the owner and the City (and its consultants) with respect to future use 
of the Hydraulic Model.  The use of passive stormwater treatment features (e.g. 
swales in street medians) shall be considered throughout the project and 
implemented where feasible and effective.

--- page 38 ---
The construction of the project stormwater system shall be phased with 
project build-out.  The Owner may utilize any combination of existing, temporary 
and permanent stormwater facilities so long as the Owner demonstrates to the 
satisfaction of the City, using the Hydraulic Model, before the City issues any 
permits associated with any given SPAR, that the development contemplated by 
that SPAR application shall not cause the project stormwater to exceed the pre-
construction peak stormwater discharge rate (as determined by the Hydraulic 
Model). 
 
 
Before the City issues any permits associated with any given SPAR 
application, the Owner shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City, through 
the City’s use of its Hydraulic Model, that the development contemplated by that 
SPAR application will not increase the risk of flooding of the areas drained by the 
42 inch diameter stormwater pipe in Saratoga Drive between McLellan Avenue 
and the outfall to the 19th Avenue Channel (Borel Creek), including the Franklin 
Campus.  The owner shall be responsible for any reasonable cost incurred by the 
City in the use of its Hydraulic Model. 
 
B. 
* SANITARY – Based on the approved Sanitary Sewer System Design Criteria on file 
with the City dated March, 2005 and as further detailed therein and any approved 
supplemental study, and based on the final project sewer study dated March, 
2005, all sanitary sewer pipes shall be seamless to the last property cleanout to 
prevent rainfall dependent inflow and infiltration (RDI/I) and root intrusion.  The 
sanitary sewer lines shall be sloped such as to achieve a minimum pipe flow 
velocity of V=2.0 feet per second (fps) when flowing 1/2 full under gravity flow 
conditions.  The sanitary sewer lines shall be constructed upstream from site low 
point 
 
 
The Owner shall be responsible for payment of the Waste Water 
Treatment Plant Impact Fee.  This condition shall be implemented prior to 
issuance of building permit for each phase and monitored by the Public Works 
Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Utilities-BM2a, BM2b 
 
 
60. LOADING DOCKS – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements, the applicant shall cover loading docks to minimize run-on to and run-off from 
the loading area.  Roof downspouts shall be positioned to direct stormwater away from the 
loading area.  Water from covered loading dock areas shall be drained to the sanitary sewer.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
61. SEPARATE WATER METERS - When a development includes multiple uses, with one area 
designated as restaurant space, there shall be a separate water meter or submeter for the 
restaurant space and a separate water meter for the other development use(s).  This will 
facilitate the accurate assessment of the Sewer Service Charge, which is based on water use 
and customer class.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 39 ---
62. FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY – The applicant 
shall locate all project fencing and foundation of a permanent nature within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way whenever possible.  If located within the City right-
of-way, the applicant shall have a license agreement recorded against the owner’s property 
that indemnifies and holds harmless the City.  The license agreement shall also include 
language in which the applicant agrees to allow access to any utility company wishing to have 
access to the public right-of-way for existing or new utility installation.  The license agreement 
shall also include language that requires the removal of the fence and foundation, at the 
owner’s expense, should the City desire to use the right-of-way for street, sidewalk or other 
purposes identified by the City Engineer.  The license agreement shall be approved as to form 
by the City Attorney’s Office and shall be recorded against the owner’s property prior to the 
issuance of any City encroachment permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
63. SUBDIVISION MAP – For both MU2 and MU3, if a condominium map is filed, the applicant 
shall have a subdivision map, prepared by a person authorized to practice land surveying in 
California, delineating all parcels created or deleted and all changes in lot lines in 
conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 26.52. The Final Subdivision Map shall 
be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded by the County Recorder’s 
Office prior to the first building permit issuance unless a Parcel Map has been recorded in 
conformance with Condition of Approval #64 “PARCEL MAP”.  A map guarantee shall be 
submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to release of the map to the title 
company for recordation.  Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title company, 
the applicant may, at the discretion of the City Engineer, be required to submit to the City an 
electronic copy of the map in the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of 
recordation.  It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company and the 
County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map recorded after 
City approval. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
64. PARCEL MAP – It shall be the applicant's responsibility to have a parcel map, prepared by a 
person authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or 
deleted and all changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
26.56.  The parcel map, or other mechanism lawful under the San Mateo City Subdivision 
Code, shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded with the County 
Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of any City permits.  A parcel map guarantee shall be 
submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to release of the parcel map to 
the title company for recordation.  Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title 
company, the applicant may, at the discretion of the City Engineer, be required to submit to 
the City an electronic copy of the map in the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the 
time of recordation.  It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company and 
the County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map recorded after 
City approval. This Condition shall only apply to MU2 should no condominium map be 
proposed at MU2. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
65. FINAL RED STRIPING AND HYDRANT LOCATIONS- The Site Development Permit permit plans 
and all future SPAR building permit plans shall incorporate the red striping location and fire 
hydrant locations shown on the “Preliminary Fire Hydrant Layout” plan prepared by ARUP 
dated February 29, 2008, as approved by the San Mateo Fire Department. (FIRE).

--- page 40 ---
66. ROOF LADDERS - If roof elevations are different by 3 feet or more and where the slope is at 
or exceeds 1 in. rise over 4 in. run, stationary, interconnected ladder and footpath systems 
to the roof top shall be provided on building permit plans. The design of these ladders is 
subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal. (FIRE) 
 
67. FIRE CONTROL ROOM - An approved fire control room shall be provided for each building.  
There shall be direct access to the room directly from the exterior of the building.  Refer to 
local ordinance for details. The fire control room shall be indicated on the building permit set 
of plans submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to 
the issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
 
68. FIRE ASSEMBLIES AND APPLIANCES - The final location of private hydrant locations, fire 
service backflow preventers, fire department connections and the juncture of fire service 
lines to the water main grid shall be documented on the Fire Sprinkler plans. (FIRE) 
 
69. CODE CONFORMANCE - The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. The 
building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee prior to issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
 
70. SUBMITTALS - The applicant shall submit all fire plans in conjunction with the superstructure 
building permit plans. The plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee prior to issuance of the superstructure building permit plans.  (FIRE) 
 
71. FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler 
system throughout each building in accordance with NFPA 13. Fire sprinkler plans shall be a 
deferred submittal. The fire sprinkler plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of a fire sprinkler permit.  (FIRE) 
 
72. FIRE FLOW - The project shall meet the fire flow rate and duration requirements of the 
California Fire Code. The fire flow information shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or 
his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
 
73. PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT - The building permit application plans for 
the superstructure shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting 
fixtures and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her 
designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for 
the entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The point-by-point 
photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to exceed five feet by five feet 
across the entire site.  Each point shall report the illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  
Photometric calculations including maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum 
foot-candles, average to minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be 
included on the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided 
on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS.  
(POLICE)

--- page 41 ---
74. SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL - The building permit application 
plans shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of telephone entry pads 
(TEPs), wireless “click to enter” systems, and/or other approved access methods at the main 
exterior building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  These 
access systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the 
building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to 
secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system placement location is 
subject to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the 
approval of the first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided 
by the Chief of Police or his/her designee at the time of installation (POLICE) 
 
75. PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS –The building permit application 
plans for the residential portion of MU3 shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC 
“23.54.020  CITY COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the 
following allowances for the placement of emergency communications equipment on the 
building permit plans: 
 
a) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked 
server room that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to be a fire 
control room); 
 
b) One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof.  The conduit 
shall be provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull 
string and ring; 
 
c) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof.  The maximum allowable distance 
from the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 
feet; 
 
d)  One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator.  An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if 
the building is not provided with an emergency generator;  
 
e) 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and, 
 
f) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to supply a 
functional emergency responder radio coverage system. (POLICE) 
 
76. VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT - The building permit application plans for 
the superstructure shall include a plan showing the installation of cameras and approximate 
viewing fields of surveillance cameras to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or 
his/her designee.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by VIDEO 
SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and storage 
equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  (POLICE)

--- page 42 ---
77. SITE FURNITURE- The building permit application plans for the superstructure shall show 
permanent site furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult 
from laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing elevation 
changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site furniture shall be secured 
at the close of each business day.  (POLICE) 
 
78. PARKING GARAGE REQUIREMENT FOR MU 2-3- The police department, in the interest of 
public safety, requires that cameras be placed at the vehicular entrances and exits to all 
parking garages in an effort to prevent auto burglaries, auto theft, and other associated 
crimes that tend to take place in enclosed garages.  This Condition shall apply only to the 
parking garages located on Mixed Use Blocks 2-3. The system shall capture the front and rear 
of all entering and exiting vehicles that use the garage.  The picture quality shall be sufficient 
to identify the make/model of vehicle, clearly read a front/rear license plate, and obtain clear 
facial recognition through the front windshield.  The system does not need to be monitored 
but the captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through 
some form of facility management during regular business hours.  The information shall be 
maintained and retrievable for seven days.  
 
The following requirements also apply:  
a) Parking spaces should not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers. 
b) All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have 
doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly 
and automatically upon exit. (POLICE) 
 
79. SECURITY STANDARDS - Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #53, the 
applicant shall comply with the City’s Security Standards Ordinance in effect at the time of 
each building permit submittal.  (POLICE) Specific Plan Amendment COA #53 
 
80. APPROVED STREET TREE REMOVAL PERMIT - Prior to the issuance of any building permits, an 
approved Street Tree Removal Permit shall be submitted to the Building Department. 
Removal or transplanting of Street Trees (living or dead) requires an approved Street Tree 
Removal permit. An application without the signature of the Managing Arborist is not 
acceptable. (SMMC 13.35.080) The permit can be obtained from the Parks and Recreation 
Dept. 650-522-7420. (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for BUILDING 
SUPERSTRUCTURE PERMIT and/or shall be met prior to the issuance of said permit. 
 
81. WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
PHASE II IMPACT FEE - – Subject to the Development Agreement and in order to meet the 
increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant 
shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as determined under the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit 
application is made.  The final fee shall be calculated pursuant to Section 3.8 and Exhibit D of 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement. The fee shall be paid prior to issuance 
of the first superstructure building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Measures Utilities-
BM2a, BM2b

--- page 43 ---
82. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – Subject to the Development Agreement, the 
applicant of each Block shall pay a fee proportional to the project's share of transportation 
improvements needed to serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo.  The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made.  Individual Block fee amounts are available from the Public Works 
Department upon request.  The final fee shall be calculated from the final plans using the rate 
schedule in effect at the time of the building permit application.  The fee shall be paid prior 
to issuance of the superstructure building permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans and/or shall be met prior 
to RELEASE OF UTILITIES or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. 
 
83. PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall be responsible for notifying the 
project planner for inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and 
other site improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior to the 
requested time for inspection.  (PLANNING) 
 
84. VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – Prior to the Planning Division permit final for 
any building with on-site landscaping, the applicant shall submit a letter prepared by the 
project landscape architect stating that all landscape improvements (including trees, shrubs, 
and irrigation systems) for the building(s) which is being finaled have been installed in 
compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the City for construction.  
(PLANNING) 
 
85. PRE-OCCUPANCY INSPECTION – A minimum of 10 days prior to anticipated occupancy, the 
applicant shall have scheduled inspections by all Departments requiring conditions of approval. 
(BUILDING) 
 
86. VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – Prior to the issuance of a 
Certificate of Occupancy for any building that required submittal of an Acoustical Analysis, 
the applicant shall submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical 
analysis for the subject building(s), verifying that all requirements contained in the analysis 
have been incorporated into the construction of the building(s). (BUILDING) 
 
87. *NOISE CONTROL -  Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #50, the project 
sponsor shall implement noise control measures for any mechanical equipment and truck 
loading docks on the Bay Meadows project site as needed to reduce noise levels to DNL of 60 
dB at the property line of adjacent or nearby residences, per the City’s Noise Element.  At a 
minimum, the following measures shall be implemented:  
 
A. All proposed development shall be designed so that loading areas face away from the 
residences to minimize potential noise levels at the nearby residences. 
B. All proposed development, as feasible, shall specify equipment that meets the City’s 
noise standard of 60 dB at the nearest receptor without special enclosures or 
mufflers.   
C. Mechanical equipment shall be located as far away from nearby residential land uses

--- page 44 ---
as feasible.   
D. As necessary a separate noise barrier or enclosure shall be constructed around 
mechanical equipment to block line-of-sight between the equipment and nearby 
residences.   
 
The implementation of this condition shall be prior to issuance of any Certificate of 
Occupancy for each phase and monitored by the Building Division. (BUILDING) *Mitigation 
Measure Noise – BM2; Specific Plan Amendment COA #50 
 
88. SHARED OR OFF-SITE PARKING AGREEMENTS – Where shared or off-site parking is provided 
for in the “Bay Meadows II Parking Management Plan” dated April 11, 2008 and amended 
from time to time, prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., parking agreements 
between parcels and parking garages shall be to the approval of the Director of Public Works, 
Zoning Administrator and the City Attorney’s Office, and shall be recorded with the County 
prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the first building.   
 
To the extent parking for a particular Block is proposed to be located off-site, as a condition 
to the granting of any certificate of occupancy for that Block, a covenant to provide the 
parking, in a form acceptable to the City Attorney and Zoning Administrator shall be recorded 
as to both the affected blocks. It is acknowledged that as the project builds out, parking can 
be provided on an interim basis in surface lots, to be replaced by parking in parking structures.  
Thus, the covenants should be able to be modified over time to reflect ongoing developments 
at the site.  So long as required parking (either on an interim or permanent basis) is provided 
for all uses consistent with the Parking Management Plan, this condition shall be satisfied. 
(PLANNING, PUBLIC WORKS, CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
89. RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – The applicant shall be responsible for repairing damage to the 
roadway and damage to the existing public works improvements (i.e., sidewalk, curb and 
gutter, street lights, fire hydrants, water meters, junction boxes, etc.) caused by the 
construction of either/both of Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3, as reasonably determined by the 
Public Works Director or designee.  The Public Works Director shall approve any required 
roadway repair prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first.  Any work shall result in a clean and consistent appearance 
with no patches or uneven surfaces evident to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director 
or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
90. WATER – The applicant shall remove the unused water stubs to the site and capped them at 
the main to avoid any future leakage. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
91. RECORD DRAWINGS - The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings and 
construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public Works.  
All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in the field.  
The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in the 
AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the work. This condition 
shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first.  (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 45 ---
92. EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE - An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this building.  Testing should occur prior to construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. A third party testing grid 
report shall be provided to the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department before the final 
inspection.  (FIRE) 
 
The following conditions shall be MET PRIOR TO THE APPROVAL OF THE FINAL MAP OR PARCEL 
MAP. 
 
93. DEDICATIONS - The applicant or owner shall agree to dedicate a sidewalk easement for any 
public sidewalk located on private property.  The applicant shall also dedicate a twenty (20’) 
foot maximum pedestrian access easement as shown on the site plan for Block MU 3 as 
required by the adopted Specific Plan Amendment.  This easement will be governed by a 
separate easement agreement to be reviewed and approved by the City Attorney and Public 
Works Director or his designee.  Said easements shall be dedicated on the project final map 
to the approval of the Director of Public Works or his designee.  (PUBLIC WORKS, CITY 
ATTORNEY) 
 
94. AIR RIGHTS FOR OFFICE BUILDINGS -. The SPAR building designs call for certain facades of the 
office buildings on Station Blocks 1, 2 and 4 to extend a maximum of four (4) feet in the 
airspace above the right-of-way.  To accommodate the design feature, the dedication of the 
street right-of-way shall be modified such that the portion of the airspace above the right-of-
way to be occupied by the buildings shall be reserved from the public dedication of the 
applicable streets as shown on the approved tract map The final parameters of the 
reservation and the dedication shall be approved by the Director of Public Works, City 
Attorney and Zoning Administrator or their designees prior to the recordation of the final 
map.(PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING, CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
95. SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – If the applicant wishes to have the final project 
map approved prior to the completion of the project’s public improvements, the applicant 
shall enter into a subdivision improvement agreement with the City per Gov. Code Section 
66462(a), and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining public improvements to be 
completed.  The agreement will be forwarded to the City Council for approval with final map.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT. 
 
96. *CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #49, the 
following provisions to control traffic congestion, noise and dust shall be followed during site 
excavation, grading and construction: 
 
Building Permit Work Hours: The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be 
waived or modified through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 
23.06.017, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds that: 
 
1) The following criteria are met:

--- page 46 ---
a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or 
 
b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require acceptance by the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health 
and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining 
requirements outlined below. 
 
2) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the City 
to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial occupants 
of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction activity which 
may impact the area.  This notification must be provided three days prior to the start of 
the construction activity. 
 
4) The approved hours of construction activity and contact information will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested 
member of the public. 
 
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or owner of the 
property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is determined that the peace, 
comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are 
impaired because of the location and nature of the construction.  The waiver application must 
be submitted to the Building Official ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of 
waiver.  
 
Public Works Permit Work Hours:  Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public 
Works permit shall be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  Please 
note, however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City public right-of-way 
after 5:00 p.m.  In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works 
encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been 
granted by Public Works.  Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including 
truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday 
hours of 4:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.  Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous 
locations on site.  The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction 
hours.  The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times.  Contact the Public Works Department 
to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.

--- page 47 ---
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified through 
an exemption, for limited periods, if the and Public Works Director or his designee finds that: 
 
1) The following criteria are met: 
 
 
a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or 
 
 
b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design 
or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require acceptance by the City of San 
Mateo.  
 
 
c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct 
an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public 
health and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining 
requirements outlined below. 
 
2) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
3) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area.  This notification must be provided three days 
prior to the start of the construction activity. 
 
4) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in 
a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public. 
 
The Public Works Director or his designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential 
or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of the 
construction.  The waiver application must be submitted to the Public Works Construction 
Inspector, ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.  (PUBLIC WORKS, 
BUILDING) Specific Plan Amendment COA #49 
 
97. INSPECTIONS - The applicant shall notify the Department of Public Works' Inspection Division 
at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to starting any work pertaining to on-site drainage 
facilities, grading, or paving; and all work in the City's right-of-way.  The applicant shall notify 
the Building Inspection Division at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the need for building 
inspection.  Failure to do so will result in rejection of work that proceeded without inspection.  
(PUBLIC WORKS, BUILDING)

--- page 48 ---
98. *CONSTRUCTION NOISE CONTROL – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #49, 
the following provisions to control noise shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction to reduce potential noise impacts of the project to a less than significant level: 
 
a) All diesel equipment shall be operated with closed engine doors and should be 
equipped with factory-recommended mufflers. 
 
b) Pile-driving activities shall be restricted to between 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, to limit the intrusiveness of pile driving during the 
morning and evening hours.  This measure is suggested only for construction sites 
that would use pile drivers within 2,000 feet of residential or sensitive land uses. 
 
c) Stationary construction equipment shall be kept beyond 100 feet of existing 
residences outside of the Bay Meadows Phase II project boundary. 
 
d) Noise attenuation techniques will be employed as needed and feasible to reduce 
noise levels below 100 dBA Leq in commercial/industrial areas and below 80 dBA 
Leq at exterior locations in residential areas.  Such techniques may include the use 
of sound blankets on noise generating equipment and the construction of 
temporary sound barriers between construction sites and affected uses.  Noise 
attenuation techniques will be verified through measurement of noise levels. 
  
e) Whenever feasible, electrical power should be used to run air compressors and 
similar power tools. 
 
f) Contractors shall use "quiet" models of any conventionally noisy construction 
equipment such as air compressors, jackhammers and other impact tools, as 
feasible. 
 
g) Contractors shall designate an employee as the construction noise coordinator 
and provide an on-site sign that will identify the person and provide a contact 
number.  The coordinator would be responsible for receiving calls from residents 
or businesses regarding specific construction noise-related complaints.  The 
coordinator would then be responsible for taking appropriate measures to reduce 
or eliminate noise levels as appropriate.  Complaints and the response should be 
logged and kept on file for review by the City.  The construction noise coordinator 
would act as a liaison between the residents in the vicinity of the construction and 
the contractor, so perceived noisy activities are addressed as soon as possible.  
The implementation of this condition shall be monitored throughout construction 
and verified by the Public Works Department and Building Division. (PUBLIC 
WORKS, BUILDING)  *Mitigation Measure Noise - BM1; Specific Plan Amendment 
COA #49 
 
99. *AIR QUALITY – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval  #53, to mitigate air 
quality impacts, the following applicable BAAQMD Basic and Enhanced and Optional Control 
Measures shall be implemented for all components of construction related to the proposed 
project site:

--- page 49 ---
A. 
Water all active construction areas at least twice daily, or as necessary. 
 
B. 
Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, and other loose materials or require all trucks 
to maintain at least two feet of freeboard. 
 
C. 
Pave, apply water three times daily, or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers on all 
unpaved access roads, parking areas and staging areas at the construction sites as 
necessary. 
 
D. 
Sweep daily (with water sweepers) all paved access roads, parking areas and 
staging areas at the construction site, or if visible soil material is carried onto 
adjacent streets. 
 
E. 
Hydroseed or apply (non-toxic) soil stabilizers to inactive construction areas 
(previously graded areas inactive for ten days or more). 
 
F. 
Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply (non-toxic) soil binders to exposed 
stockpiles (dirt, sand, etc.). 
 
G. 
Limit traffic speeds on unpaved roads to 15 mph. 
 
H. 
Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible. 
 
I. 
Install wheel washers for all trucks, or wash off the tires or tracks of all trucks and 
equipment leaving the site. 
 
 
J. 
Install wind breaks, or plant trees/vegetative wind breaks at windward side(s) of 
construction areas. 
 
K. 
Suspend excavation and grading activities when winds (continuous gusts) exceed 
25 mph and there is evidence of dust being carried by the wind. 
 
L. 
All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. Stationary construction equipment 
shall be prohibited within 100 feet of existing residences outside of the Bay 
Meadows Phase II project boundary. 
 
M. 
Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood 
dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be 
allowed. 
 
N. 
Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.  (PUBLIC 
WORKS)  
*Mitigation Measure Air Quality-BM1; Specific Plan Amendment COA #53

--- page 50 ---
100. 
GENERAL ACTIVITIES - All public improvements shall be made in accordance with the 
latest adopted City Standard Drawings and the Standard Specifications for Public Works 
Construction, 2006 Edition with supplements.  All work shall conform to the applicable City 
ordinances.  Good housekeeping practices shall be observed at all times during the course of 
construction.  Public right-of-way adjacent to the project site shall be kept clear at the end of 
each day of all job related dirt and debris.  Pedestrian access shall be maintained at all times 
unless otherwise approved.  Dirt and debris shall not be washed into storm sewers.  The 
storing of goods and materials on the sidewalk and/or street will not be allowed unless a 
special permit is issued therefore.  The owner's representative in charge shall be at the job 
site during all working hours.  Failure to maintain the public right-of-way in accordance with 
this paragraph may result in revocation of permit or the City performing the required 
maintenance at the applicant's expense.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
101. 
RESTORATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS - The applicant shall repair or replace all 
existing improvements not designated for removal which are damaged or removed as a result 
of his operations for a period of one (1) year after acceptance of the roadway improvements 
under the Improvement Agreement. Improvements such as, but not limited to, curbs, gutters, 
sidewalks, driveways, pavements, raised pavement markers, thermoplastic pavement 
markings, or signs shall be repaired and replaced to a condition equal to or better than the 
original condition.  Existing improvements to be repaired or replaced shall be at the direction 
of the Public Works inspector.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
102. 
MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – For material delivery 
vehicles larger than a two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) as defined by FHWA Standards, 
the applicant shall use either of the following truck hauling route, as determined through 
discussions with the City Engineer, unless an alternate is approved by the City Engineer: Hwy. 
101 to Hillsdale Boulevard to Saratoga Drive to Franklin Parkway to Site, or Hwy. 101 to 
Route 92 to Delaware Street to Site.  A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to 
use the identified hauling route, and designating all on-site haul routes, shall be submitted, 
for approval, to the Department of Public Works prior to the issuance of any City permits.  All 
material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, 
hours of operation, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant.  No on-site hauling will be permitted across the San Mateo County Expo Center 
property without written approval from the County being submitted to the Public Works 
Department.  Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed.  The applicant 
must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on-site.  Any 
job-related dirt and/or debris that does impact the public right-of-way shall be removed 
immediately.  All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City 
ordinances and conditions of approval.  Violation of such may be cause for suspension of 
work.   
 
 
The applicant shall provide a construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect of 
construction worker parking in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number 
of workers that will be present on the site during the various phases of construction and 
indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-
site material deliveries.  Said plan shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of

--- page 51 ---
City permits and shall be enforced during construction.  Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
103. 
GROUND WATER DISCHARGE- In accordance with the City’s Municipal Code, Discharge of 
Ground Water (SMMC 7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the discharge of 
ground waters to the sanitary sewer only when such source is deemed unacceptable by State 
and Federal authorities for discharge to surface waters of the United States, whether 
pretreated or untreated, and for which no reasonable alternative method of disposal is 
available.  Following the verification of the applicable local, state and/or federal approvals, a 
Discharge Plan will be approved and monitored by the Public Works Department. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
104. 
ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper.  For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at:  
 
flowstobay.org/files/newdevelopment/flyersfactsheets/ArchitecturalcopperBMPs.pdf   
 
(PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING) 
 
105. 
DEMOLITION - Building(s) under construction or demolition shall comply with the 
California Fire Code Ch. 33 during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE) 
 
106. 
ADDRESS NUMBERS - The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road during 
all phases of construction of the project.   (FIRE) 
 
107. 
STANDPIPES - In buildings required to have standpipes by Section 905.3.1, not less than 
one standpipe shall be provided for use during construction or demolition.  (FIRE) 
 
108. 
EGRESS - Adjacent buildings/properties shall not have their required egress restricted or 
compromised at any time during the construction of this project.  (FIRE) 
 
109. 
BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS - The installation or use of barricades, 
fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction shall have prior 
approval of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Chief, or his/her designee.  (FIRE) 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
110. 
OUTDOOR SEATING – Plans for outdoor seating areas for restaurants and cafes on private 
property, including the Town Square, shall be submitted to the Planning Division or the 
Building Division if a building permit is required, for review and approval of seating area, to 
assure consistency with the Bay Meadows Phase II “Design Guidelines and Development 
Standards”. (PLANNING)

--- page 52 ---
111. 
MAXIMUM RESTAURANT FLOOR AREA- The maximum amount of restaurant uses on  
blocks STA 1, STA 2, STA 3, STA 4, STA 5, MU 2, MU 3, MU 4 and RES 7 shall not exceed 17,808 
square feet of interior Gross Floor Area as defined in the Zoning Code and 8,140 square feet 
of outdoor seating area in compliance with the “Bay Meadows II Parking Management Plan” 
dated April 11, 2008 prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. Restaurant uses shall 
include any use where food, including the serving of alcoholic and/or non-alcoholic 
beverages, is provided for consumption on premises where tables, counters, benches, or 
other public seating facilities are provided, such as a cafe, bakery, coffee shop, delicatessen, 
drive-in stand, tearoom and dining room. Any employee cafeteria or lunchroom facility within 
the Station Blocks shall not count towards this restaurant cap. All building permits for 
restaurant uses shall clearly list the total floor area consistent with the Zoning Code 
definition. The Planning Division shall maintain a running log of the approved restaurant floor 
area to be subtracted from the total permitted restaurant Floor Area. If the total amount of 
restaurant floor area would be exceeded through a building permit, that permit shall not be 
issued. (PLANNING) 
 
112. 
STATION INTEGRATION PLAN - The land developer, the owners and developers of the 
Station Blocks, or portions thereof, representatives from impacted businesses, and 
representatives from the master homeowner's association for Phase II Specific Plan shall be 
asked to participate as stakeholders in the development of a Station Integration Plan. This 
Plan will address items such as appropriate wayfinding signage, fence and gate locations, 
station drop-off/pick-up locations, and other items related to the smooth functioning of the 
future station once the station design becomes more developed.  In no event shall the land 
developer or any Block developer or any property owner or stakeholder be required to alter 
improvements or designs in a way that would compromise the use of the private parking 
garages, private streets, or increase the cost or timing of design, construction, or occupancy 
of the improvements contemplated in the approved SPAR documents.  (PLANNING,  PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
113. 
NO RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM – As this project has made special 
provisions for residential visitor parking to be provided on-street, the City Public Works 
Department shall at no time in the future entertain a request from the residential 
developments within the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Area for a residential parking permit 
program. (PUBLIC WORKS)   
 
114. 
TRASH/ RECYCLING BIN STAGING ON PUBLIC STREETS - A maximum of six bins (three for 
recycling and three for solid waste) shall be temporarily placed within a dual parking/loading 
zone on the public street to allow for limited stacking of bins only during times of service. This 
loading zone shall be unique in that the specified loading time period and days shall be based 
on the anticipated time period and days of the week of service. The spaces will be available 
for public parking during times other that those posted for bin loading activities. The loading 
zone shall be located as close as possible to the garage exit, with the exact location and length 
and time period/days subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public Works or 
his designee. The loading zone area shall be shown on building permit plans. The bins shall 
be placed on the public street by the Master HOA a maximum of 30 minutes prior to service, 
and shall be removed from street by the Master HOA no more than 30 minutes after service.

--- page 53 ---
In the event that the local franchise hauler offers subterranean bin retrieval service, even if 
this service is at an additional cost, the Master HOA shall immediately change to this type of 
service and contact the Public Works Department to arrange for removal of the special 
loading spaces. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
115. 
POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the 
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 
7.38.020), and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) by 
reference, the applicant shall: 
 
A. 
Owner/occupant shall inspect private storm drain facilities at least two (2) times 
per year and sweep parking lots immediately prior to and once during the storm 
season. 
 
B. 
The applicant shall deposit a performance bond on a yearly basis for cost 
associated with, but not limited to, biannual inspection of the private storm drain 
facilities, emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or 
watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment 
facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated.  The 
annual bond shall be in the amount of five thousand ($5,000) and shall increase 
by CPI on an annual basis. 
 
C. 
Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – 
Drains to Bay”, (by stenciling, branding or plaques) to alert the public to the 
destination of storm water and to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the 
storm drain.  Template ordering information is available from the Department of 
Public Works. 
 
All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for storage 
outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
116. 
*TDM MONITORING – Per Specific Plan Amendment Condition of Approval #43, the short-
term, mid-term and long-term trip reduction goals shall be in compliance with the adopted 
Traffic Management Plan dated March 17, 2008 prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, 
Inc., and shall be monitored and verified by the City or TMA.  (PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING)  
*Mitigation Measures Traffic and Circulation - BM11, BM14; Specific Plan Amendment COA 
#43

--- page 54 ---
117. 
CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES - All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall substantially conform at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises with the approved planning application, including:  
drawings, plans, materials samples, the written project description, and other items 
submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the 
approved planning application must be reviewed by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning 
Administrator. The Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator or designee shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application for a modification of a previously 
approved planning application is required to be submitted to permit the proposed project 
modifications, as required by San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. 
(PLANNING) 
 
118. 
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS  - The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements: 
 
a) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  
The captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel 
through some form of facility management during regular business hours.  The 
applicant shall provide proof of registration of the video surveillance camera 
system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web 
form (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134) or substantially 
equivalent successor system. 
b) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and 
entrances and exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside 
mixed-use parking garages, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended 
to require Applicant to install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to 
view these areas may be installed on the building facing out.  
c) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall 
be capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project 
completion.  Cameras viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage 
onto the sites and/or garages shall additionally be capable of capturing the front 
and rear of all entering and exiting vehicles that use the sites and/or garages, and 
be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model of vehicles accessing the 
site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of vehicles, and clearly depict 
faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE)

--- page 55 ---
119. 
SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS- Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060) 
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall comply with the requirement of an 
average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a 
uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of 
producing a “bright white” light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a 
color rendering index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting standard is 
applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and 
grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit light 
spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site.  (POLICE) 
 
120. 
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY - The 
applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety 
communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times that 
the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises.  If the City installs radio 
equipment, applicant shall take reasonable measures to secure and safeguard City equipment 
from theft or vandalism.  (POLICE) 
 
* MITIGATION MEASURE - This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in the 
environmental document.  Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of approval.  
A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental document, and a 
new or amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 56 ---
LOCATION MAP 
 
 
 
PA-2020-053 
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPAR #1 MU2 AND MU3 SPAR MODIFICATION 
 
Address: 
No Site Addresses 
Parcel Number: 
040-031-210, -220, -230, -240

--- page 57 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
*
08
04/16/2021
&29(5
FORMAL PLANNING APPLICATION
SHEET NUMBER
SHEET NAME
 ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  09.25.2020
REVISION A: ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  02.26.2021
REVISION B: ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  04.16.2021

G00-00
COVER
X
X
X
G00-01
MU2 BUILDING RENDERINGS
X
X
X
G00.10
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA & ZONING ANALYSIS
X
X
X
A1.00
OVERALL SITE PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.10
MU2 ACCESSIBLE ROUTES
X
X
X
O-A0.11
MU2 OFFICE EXITING PLANS
X
X
X
O-A0.21
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.22
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.23
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.24
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.25
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.26
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.27
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A0.28
MU2 OFFICE - ROOF LEVEL AREA PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.01
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.02
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.03
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.04
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01  PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.04A
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 ALTERNATE PLAN
X
O-A1.05
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 02  PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.06
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03  PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.07
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04  PLAN
X
X
X
O-A1.08
MU2 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF  PLAN
X
X
X
O-A2.01
MU2 OFFICE -- BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
O-A2.02
MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
O-A2.10
MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING SECTIONS
X
X
X
O-A2.20
MU2 OFFICE - EXTERIOR MATERIALS
X
X
X
C1.0.1
MU2 OVERALL SITE PLAN, LEGEND
X
X
X
C1.1.1
MU2 GRADING AND  DRAINAGE PLAN
X
X
X
C1.1.2
MU2 SITE PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
X
X
X
E1.1.1
SITE PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
X
X
X
E1.1.2
SITE PRELIMINARY PHOTOMETRIC LIGHTING PLAN
X
X
X
L1.0.1
ILLUSTRATIVE SITE PLAN
X
X
X
L1.1.0
MATERIALS SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
X
X
X
L1.1.1
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL AND PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
X
X
X
L1.1.1A
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL AND PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
ALTERNATE
X
L1.2.1
LAYOUT PLAN-SITE LEVEL
X
X
X
L1.3.0
PLANTING SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
X
X
X
L1.3.1
TREE PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
X
X
X
L3.1.0
VIEWS
X
X
X
L3.1.1
DETAILS
X
X
X
PROJECT DIRECTORY
OWNER
Bay Meadows Main Track Investors
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3300
San Francisco, CA 94111
OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE
Wilson Meany
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330
San Francisco, CA 94111
Phone: 415.905.5300
Email: www.wilsonmeany.com
Contact: Emily Lesk
ARCHITECT
Perkins & Will
2 Bryant Street, 3rd Floor
San Francisco, CA
Phone: 415.856.3000
Email: www.perkinswill.com
Contact: Daniel Lam
CIVIL ENGINEER
ARUP
560 Mission Street Suite 700
San Francisco CA 94105
Phone:415.957.9445
Email: www.arup.com
Contact: Jack Mong
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
CMG LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
444 Bryant Street, 
San Francisco, CA 94107
Phone: 415.495.3070
Email: www.cmgsite.com
Contact: Nico Wright
LIGHTING DESIGNER
ARUP
560 Mission Street Suite 700
San Francisco CA 94105
Phone:1 415 957 9445
Email: www.arup.com
Contact: Jack Mong
PARKING CONSULTANT
INTERNATIONAL PARKING DESIGN
560 14th Street, Suite 300, Oakland CA 94612
Phone: 1 510.473.0300
Email: www.ipd-global.com
Contact: Raju Nandwana
%$<0($'2:63+$6(,,63$568%0,77$/
352-(&7'(6&5,37,21
A
A
A
B

--- page 58 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
*
08
04/16/2021
08%8,/',1*5(1'(5,1*6
A
RENDERINGS REPRESENT BASELINE ARCHITECTURE ONLY.  ADDITIONAL 
IMAGERY SHOWING SIGNAGE, FURNITURE AND OTHER ACTIVATION 
ELEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED PRIOR TO PLANNING COMMISION HEARING.
B
B

--- page 59 ---
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, 
RESIDENTIAL, RETAIL)
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT IV-8, TABLE IV-1
FLOOR AREA RATIO/ FAR:
2.5
2.5 
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-23, TABLE IV-6
HEIGHT *
55'-0" MAXIMUM (EXTG GRADE TO T/ OF PLATE)
VARIES, 55'-0" MAX (SEE ELEVATIONS) 
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-24, TABLE IV-6
ALLOWED
PROVIDED
REFERENCE
FLOOR AREA (SF)
SITE ADDRESS:
APN: 040031210, 040031220
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
SITE AREA (ACRES): 1.758
SITE AREA (SF) : 76,578
USE:
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS (SQ FT)
PARKING REQUIREMENTS *:
BICYCLE PARKING:
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL 
CODE 27.64.262 BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES 
OUTSIDE DOWNTOWN AREA USES (OFFICE)
191,445 SQ FT
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER 27.04.200
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-56
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, RETAIL)
27.64.262-F(2): OFFICE SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 20,000 SF.  RETAIL SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES 
REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 2,000 SF.  27.64.262-3(I): SHORT TERM PARKING MUST BE ALONG BUILDING FRONTAGE AND WITHIN 50 FT OF THE MAIN 
ENTRANCE TO THE BUILDING OR COMMERCIAL USE UP TO 100 FT WHERE EXISTING CONIDITIONS DO NOT ALLOW PLACEMENT WITHIN 50 FT. 
27.64.262-F(2): OFFICE LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 10,000 SF.  RETAIL LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES 
REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 12,000 SF.  27.64.262-3(H): LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SHALL BE COVERED AND SHALL BE LOCATED ON SITE OR WITHIN  
200 FT OF THE MAIN BUILDING ENTRANCE.
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES PROVIDED:
OFFICE FLOOR AREA (GSF)
: 182,836 SF
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 182,836/ 20,000 = 9
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 182,836/ 10,000 = 18
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL (GSF)
: 8,518 SF
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 8,518/ 2,000 = 4
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 8,518/12,000 = 1
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES PROVIDED
: 26 (13 BIKE RACKS)
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES PROVIDED
: 24 
ACCESSIBLE PARKING : 2% OF TOTAL FOR 501-1000 TOTAL NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES PROVIDED.
ACCESSIBLE VAN PARKING : FOR EVERY 6 ADA PARKING SPACES, AT LEAST 1 SHALL BE A VAN PARKING SPACE.  2 REQUIRED.
ACCESSIBLE EV CHARGING SPACE PER TABLE 11B-228.3.2.1
CBC 2019, CHAPTER 11B TABLE 11B-208.2
CBC 2019, 11B-208.2.4 VAN PARKING SPACES
EV CHARGING SPACES REQUIREMENT:
1) 201 AND OVER, 6% OF TOTAL PER CGC TABLE 5.106.3.3
2)  5% LEVEL 2 EVSE, 10% FUTURE EVSE PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE 23.70.040
CLEAN AIR (LOW-EMITTING/ FUEL EFFICIENT/ CARPOOL/ VAN POOL) PARKING:
201 AND OVER, AT LEAST 8% OF TOTAL PER CGC TABLE 5.106.5.2 
** FUTURE CHARGING SPACES CAN BE DESIGNATED AS CLEAN AIR VECHICLE SPACES PER CGC 2019, 5.106.5.3.5
CGC 2019, TABLE 5.106.3.3,
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND 
MUNICIPAL CODE 23.70.040 EV CHARGING FOR 
NEW NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION, TABLE 
A5.106.5.3.2
CGC 2019, TABLE 5.106.5.2
191,354 SQ FT
REGULAR 
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
           ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV)
       CLEAN AIR
89
REGULAR
41
10 
3
1
2 
STANDARD (S)
VAN (V) ADA (S) ADA (V)
1
B1
111
42
10
B2
AMBULATORY
3
FUTURE  EV
45 REQ.
LEVEL
OFFICE PARKING
16
4
01
4
3
111
45
10
B3
18
ZONING FLOOR AREA:
132
17
18
1
COMPACT
327 
56 REQ.
2
56
56 **
34 REQ.
12 REQ.
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN (BMSP)
LOT SIZE:
12 
3
1
3
25
OFFICE FLOOR AREA (SF)
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL FLOOR AREA (SF)
182,836 SQ FT
8,518 SQ FT
* BUILDING HEIGHT PER SMMC 27.04.08: HEIGHT MEASURED TO TOP OF PLATE FROM LOWEST EXISTING GRADE AT BUILDING BUILDING PERIMETER. SEE SMMC 27.02.60 FOR SPECIFIC PERMITTED 
STRUCTURES ABOVE HEIGHT LIMIT.
REFERENCE
FLOOR AREA (SF)
PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
ACTIVE USE
2.5
4.0
458
35
PARKING RATIO
182,836
8,518 
TOTAL
191,354
493
TOTAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED:  561
A
1
A
A
PLUMBING FIXTURE TABULATIONS:
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
1. TABLE A: OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR:
OCCUPANCY: GROUP B, OFFICE OR PUBLIC BUILDINGS (AREA ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC), OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR: 200
OCCUPANCY: ASSEMBLY, OCCUPANY LOAD FACTOR: 30
LEVEL
2. PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS PER TABLE 422.1, A-3 AND B OCCUPANCY:
OCCUPANT LOAD: GSF/200 OR GSF/30
GSF**
PER GENDER
WATER CLOSETS
URINALS LAVATORIES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
MALE
FEMALE
TOTAL
MALE
FEMALE
FUTURE ROOF TERRACE
(A-3)
MALE
FEMALE
3,479 SF
MALE
FEMALE
LEVEL 2 AND 3 OFFICE ***
5,039 SF
MALE
FEMALE
LEVEL 1 OFFICE
LEVEL  1 ACTIVE USE (S)
(BY FUTURE TENANT)
4,751 SF
80
80
56,385 SF
282 OCC
141
LEVEL  1 ACTIVE USE (N)
(BY FUTURE TENANT)
3 REQ.
2 REQ.
2 REQ.
2 REQ
8 REQ.
NA.
3 REQ.
159 OCC
1 REQ.
3 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
116 OCC
168 OCC
58
58
84
84
1 REQ.
3 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
3 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
24,547 SF
123 OCC
62
LEVEL 4 OFFICE****
(B)
36,995 SF
185 OCC
MALE
FEMALE
93
93
2 REQ.
4 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
NA.
NA.
NA.
NA.
NA.
2 REQ.
2 REQ.
2 REQ.
4 REQ.
1 REQ.
2 REQ.
2 REQ
1 REQ
**  SEE O-A0.11 FOR AREA
***  BASED ON LEVEL 3, FLOOR WITH HIGHEST OCCUPANT LOAD
**** INCLUDING SMALL TERRACE (LESS THAN 49 OCC.)
1 REQ
MALE
FEMALE
54
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
LEVEL 4 TERRACE
(A-3)
3,197 SF
107 OCC
3 REQ.
1 REQ.
NA.
3. PLUMBING FIXTURE PROVIDED
LEVEL 4 OFFICE AND TERRACE ON LEVEL 4 
(INCLUDING FUTURE TERRACE)
LEVEL 2 AND 3 OFFICE *
LEVEL 1 OFFICE AND FUTURE TERRACE ON ROOF
WATER CLOSETS
URINALS LAVATORIES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
FEMALE
FEMALE
FEMALE
MALE
MALE
MALE
NA.
NA.
NA.
4
8
4
8
3
8
3
4
2
6
6
6
6
2
6
4
4
4
54
141
62
* FINAL ON-SITE PARKING TOTAL MAY VARY BY UP TO 10 ADDITIONAL OR 10 FEWER SPACES.  ACTIVE USE PATRON PARKING PROVIDED ON 
STREET, PURSUANT TO THE APPROVED BAY MEADOWS PHASE II PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN.
PARKING MAXIMUMS ARE PER THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE II PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 2.75 - 3.25 PER 1000 SF.
RETAIL PARKING RATIO UP TO 4 SPACES PER 1000 SF.
RESIDENTIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 1.75 - 2.25 PER RESIDENT UNIT. 
REFERENCE
B
B
B
B
&2'(6$1'5(*8/$7,216
APPLICABLE CODES AND AND REGULATIONS:
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE
AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT ACCESSIBILITY AND GUIDELINES
NFPA AS REFERENCED IN CALIFORNIA BUILDING AND FIRE CODE.
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
*
08
04/16/2021
'(9(/230(17352-(&7'$7$	
=21,1*$1$/<6,6
BUILDING SUMMARY
MU2 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA 
1.  GENERAL BUILDING DESCRIPTION:
A) OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS:
1.  GROUP B: OFFICE
2.  GROUP A, M OR B: ACTIVE USE ZONES
3.  GROUP S-2:
ENCLOSED PARKING STRUCTURE
B)  OCCUPANCY SEPARATION: NON-SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES.
C) OFFICE CONSTRUCTION TYPE:  1B
1.  ALLOWABLE AREA (TABLE 506.2)
OCCUPANCY GROUP B - UNLIMITED
OCCUPANCY S-2 (SM)- 237,000 SF (BASE ALLOWABLE)
D)  FULLY SPRINKLERED BUILDING
2.  FIRE RESISTIVE CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
A) FIRE RESISTIVE REQUIREMENT:
1.  TABLE 601:
1.1.  PRIMARY STRUCTUAL FRAME
: 2 HRS 
1.2.   BEARING WALLS
: 2 HRS 
1.3.   NONBEARING WALLS AND PARTITION
: NR
1.4.   FLOORS
: 2 HRS
1.5.   ROOF
: 1 HR
1.6    EXTERIOR WALLS (TABLE 602):
i) 0 FT < 30 FT
: 1 HR
ii) > 30 FT
: NR
6.  SHAFT ENCLOSURES
: 2HRS (SECTION 713)
7.  EXIT ENCLOSURES
: 2HRS 
8.  EXIT PASSAGE
: 2 HRS (SECTION 1024)
9.  HORIZONTAL EXITS
: 2 HRS (SECTION 1026)
10.  STORAGE ROOMS
: SMOKE PARTITIONS (SECTION 710)
B) OPENINGS:
1. TABLE 716.1 (2)
1.1  2 HR SHAFT OR FIRE BARRIER
: 90 MINS
1.2  1 HR FIRE BARRIER
: 45 MINS
2.  TABLE 705.8 MAX. AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENINGS (FULLY SPRINKLERED)
2.1  0 FT < 3 FT
NOT PERMITTED
2.1  3 FT < 5 FT
15% UNPROTECTED 
2.2  5 FT < 10 FT
25%
2.3  10 FT < 15 FT
45%
2.4  15 FT < 20 FT
75%
2.5  20 FT < 25 FT 
NO LIMIT
2.6  25 FT < 30 FT
NO LIMIT
2.7  30 FT OR GREATER
NO LIMIT 
3.  ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT AND STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANE:
A) BUILDING HEIGHT - 180 FT  PER TABLE 504.3.
B) NUMBER OF STORIES - 12 STORIES PER TABLE 504.4
LEVEL 01
37,483 SF
LEVEL 02
57,921 SF
LEVEL 03
57,438 SF
LEVEL 04
37,781 SF
ROOF
731 SF
191,354 SF
MINIMUM PLUMBING FACILITIES TABLE 422.1
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
B

--- page 60 ---
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
DN
UP
4#/2«&0





























































X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
UF
UF
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
G
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
VU
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WRUN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VU
VU
WR
VU
E
WR
W
VU
UF
Y
UN
UN
UN
E
VU
UF
VT
DT
DT
9
9
9
9
*
9
*
*
*
*
*
*
9
*
*
9
9
*
*
*
9
*
9
9
*
9
4#/2«&0


2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
,55
%)3
LEGEND
BUILDING PRIMARY ENTRANCE
GARAGE ENTRY
SERVICE ENTRY
PROPERTY LINE
LOT DIMENSION
082)),&(
082)),&(
085(6,'(17,$/
LOADING/TRASH
PARKING
LOADING/ 
TRASH
PARKING
219.49' LOT DIMENSION
299.98' LOT DIMENSION
299.98' LOT DIMENSION
219.49'  LOT DIMENSION
LONG TERM 
BICYCLE PARKING
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING,
SEE LANSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR 
LAYOUT
355.69' LOT DIMENSION
219.49'  LOT DIMENSION
PROPOSED LOADING ZONE AND WASTE PICK UP.  
DAILY TRASH PICKUP ANITICIPATED TO OCCUR 
AS FREQUENTLY AS EACH WEEK DAY.  
221.63'  LOT DIMENSION
343.89' LOT DIMENSION
EXISTING LOADING ZONE
TO REMAIN
EXISTING
LOADING 
ZONE TO BE 
REMOVED
WEST KYNE STREET
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVENUE
LANDING AVENUE
EAST 28TH AVENUE
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING,
SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR LAYOUT
LANDSCAPE SCREENING AT 
BACKFLOW PREVENTER
TRASFORMER
ROOM
GAS METER
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
T
R
C
T
R
C
GARBAGE TRUCK (12' X 29') SHOW DASHED.
SIGHT TRIANGLE
LOADING AREA TRUCK TURNING RADIUS.
PATH OF TRAVEL OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION  
CONTAINERS TO COLLECTION SITE SHOWN DASHED.
B
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
64'
32'
16'
As indicated
$
08
04/16/2021
29(5$//6,7(3/$1
1/32" = 1'-0"
1 .OVERALL SITE PLAN
1
NOTES:
1) SEE O-A1.04 TO O-A1.07 FOR SETBACK, BUILD-TO-ZONE REQUIREMENTS, DRIVE WIDTHS AND DISTANCE 
BETWEEN CURB CUTS.
2) LANDSCAPE SCREENING WILL BE PROVIDED AT EXPOSED ABOVE GRADE UTILITIES, SEE L1.1.1.
3) SEE L1.3.1 TREE PLANTING PLAN INCLUDING EXISTING STREET TREES AND PROPOSED REMOVALS.
4) SEE DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT OF SHORT TERM BICYCLE SPACES ON L1.2.1.
5) SEE DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT OF LONG TERM BICYCLE SPACES ON O-A1.04.
A
A
A

--- page 61 ---
:
;


;
&9
[
[




































X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
E
UN
UN
UN
VU
VU
KT
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
G
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
VU
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WR
UN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VU
VU
WR
VU
E
WR
W
VU
UF
Y
UN
UN
UN
E
VU
UF
9
*
*
*
9
*
*
9
9
*
*
*
9
*
9
9
*
9
%7$
64)7
%7$
64)7
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
8
'8§8#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#/$
8
123$5.,1*
'8§#/$
('8%5
'8§#/$
123$5.,1*
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%
DN
28TH AVENUE
DERBY AVENUE
S DELAWARE AVENUE
WEST KYNE ST
OPEN OFFICE
ACTIVE USE SPACE
ACTIVE USE SPACE
PARKING
TRANSFORMER
MAIN ELEC.
PARKING 
ENTRY/ EXIT
LOADING
ELEVATOR ACCESS 
TO UPPER FLOORS
BUILDING
ENTRANCE
BUILDING 
ENTRANCE
DOOR 
OPERATOR
DOOR OPERATOR
ACCESSIBLE STREET 
PARKING
FOR ACTIVE USE
ACCESSIBLE PATH TO AND FROM 
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION
AND SAM TRANS (SEE KEY MAP ABOVE)
A
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
A
A
A
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
A
A
5' - 0"
9' - 0"
MIN. 18'-0"
18' - 11 3/4"
MPOE
WATER METER
BOH STORAGE
ELEC RM 2
ELEC RM 1
ACCESSIBLE PARKING, TYP.
ELEVATOR TO
OFFICE LOBBY
TRUNCATED DOMES 
WARNING SYSTEM
TRUNCATED DOMES 
WARNING SYSTEM
TRUNCATED DOMES 
WARNING SYSTEM
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
BUILDING EXIT
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
64'
32'
16'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
08$&&(66,%/(5287(6
1/32" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 SITE ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
1/32" = 1'-0"
2 MU2 B1 PARKING ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
TRUNCATED DOMES 
WARNING SYSTEM
B

--- page 62 ---
4#/2«72


123$5.,1*
'3
UP
DN
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




123$5.,1*
UP
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
DN






























X
G
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
VU
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WR
UN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VU
VU
WR
VU
E
WR
W
VU
UF
Y
UN
UN
UN
E
VU
UF
9
*
9
*
4#/2«&0


OCC. LOAD: 348
69566 SF : 1/ 200SF
PARKING GARAGE
OCC. LOAD: 2
445 SF : 1/ 300SF
SUMP
OCC. LOAD: 1
89 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
63 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
67$,5
67$,5
DIAGONAL DIST.
394' - 7 3/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
214' - 8"
OCC. LOAD: 350
69898 SF : 1/ 200SF
PARKING GARAGE
OCC. LOAD: 1
89 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 2
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
63 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
67$,5
DIAGONAL DIST.
394' - 7 3/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
214' - 8"
OCC. LOAD: 331
67250 SF : 1/ 200SF
PARKING GARAGE
OCC. LOAD: 2
576 SF : 1/ 300SF
MPOE
OCC. LOAD: 1
272 SF : 1/ 300SF
WATER METER
OCC. LOAD: 6
1602 SF : 1/ 300SF
STR
OCC. LOAD: 1
89 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 2
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
63 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
DIAGONAL DIST.
394' - 7 3/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
214' - 8"
OCC. LOAD: 232
3479 SF : 1/ 15SF
ACTIVE USE SPACE
OCC. LOAD: 336
5039 SF : 1/ 15SF
ACTIVE USE SPACE
OCC. LOAD: 78
15077 SF : 1/ 200SF
PARKING GARAGE
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 3
640 SF : 1/ 300SF
TRANSFORMER RM
OCC. LOAD: 3
644 SF : 1/ 300SF
MAIN ELEC. RM
OCC. LOAD: 164
24547 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 5
1344 SF : 1/ 300SF
LOADING DOCK
DIA DISTANCE
180' - 3"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
87' - 4 1/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
81' - 10"
67$,5
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
141' - 0 1/4"
5' - 6"
DIAGONAL DIST.
218' - 1 1/2"
8' - 0"
METAL GATE
METAL GATE
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
65' - 0"
DIAG. DIST.
133' - 5"
DIAG. DIST.
111' - 2 1/2"
DIAGONAL DIST.
229' - 9 3/4"
OCC. LOAD: 376
56385 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
OCC. LOAD: 1
234 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
142 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
146 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
67$,5
DIAGONAL DIST.
250' - 8 3/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
116' - 7"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
119' - 11"
OCC. LOAD: 376
56385 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
OCC. LOAD: 1
234 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
146 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 2
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
142 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
67$,5
DIAGONAL DIST.
395' - 6 3/4"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
236' - 6"
OCC. LOAD: 242
36284 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
235 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
67$,5
67$,5
DIAGONAL DISTANCE
95' - 1"
OCC. LOAD: 143
2139 SF : 1/ 15SF
TERRACE 1
OCC. LOAD: 48
716 SF : 1/ 15SF
TERRACE 2
OCC. LOAD: 71
1058 SF : 1/ 15SF
TERRACE 3
> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
75' - 0"
OCC. LOAD: 1
146 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
142 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
DIAGONAL DIST.
162' - 2 1/2"
DIAGONAL DIST.
243' - 10 1/4"
B OCCUPANY (LESS THAN 50 OCCUPANTS)
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
111' - 10"
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST.
124' - 5"
OCC. LOAD: 9
2679 SF : 1/ 300SF
MEP
OCC. LOAD: 26
7566 SF : 1/ 300SF
MEP
> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
89' - 11"
OCC. LOAD: 317
4751 SF : 1/ 15SF
FUTURE TERRACE
OCC. LOAD: 4
537 SF : 1/ 150SF
ELEV LOBBY
DIAGONAL DIST.
99' - 2 3/4"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN
GENERAL NOTES
1.  CBC TABLE 1004.5: MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCE 
PER OCCUPANT/ OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR:
A) ACCESSORY STORAGE AREAS, MECHANICAL 
    
    EQUIPMENT ROOM
  : 300 GSF/ OCC
B) ASSEMBLY WITHOUT FIXED SEATS:
    UNCONCENTRATED
  : 15 NET/ OCC
C) BUSINESS AREAS
  : 150 GSF/ OCC
D) MECANTILE
  : 60 GSF/ OCC
    STORAGE, STOCK, SHIPPING AREA : 300 GSF/ OCC
E) PARKING GARAGE
  : 200 GSF/ OCC
2.  EGRESS COMPONENT CAPACITY FACTOR:
A) STAIR WAY EGRESS CAPACITY FACTOR: 0.3"/ OCC
B) DOOR EGRESS CAPACITY FACTOR: 0.2"/ OCC
3.  CBC TABLE 1006.3.2: MINIMUM NUMBER OF EXITS OR 
ACCESS TO EXITS PER STORY:
1-500 OCC
: MIN. 2 
501 - 1000 OCC
: MIN. 3
4.  CBC TABLE 1006.2.1: SPACE WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT 
ACCESS (WITH SPRINKLERED )/ MAX COMMON PATH 
EGRESS DISTANCE:
A) ASSEMBLY, MECANTILE OCCUPANCY : 75 FT
B OCCUPANCY: 100 FT
B)  S OCCUPANCY: 100 FT
5.  CBC TABLE 1017.2: EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE 
(WITH SPRINKLER)
A) ASSEMBLY, MECANTILE : 250 FT
B) BUSINESS OOCCUPANCY: 300 FT
C) S-2 OCCUPANCY: 400 FT
6. STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED: 54"
NO. OF STAIRS:
L1 TO L4 : 3 STAIRS PER FLOOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWED: (54" / 0.3") X 3  = 540
ROOF: 2 STAIRS PER FLOOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWED: (54"/0.3") X 2 = 360
B3 TO B1: 2 STAIRS PER FLOOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWED: (54" / 0.3") X 2 = 360
7. TYPICAL DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 36"
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWED: 36"/ 0.2" = 180
8. PER CBC 1005.6, THE EGRESS DOORS AND PASSAGE WAYS 
FOR CONVERGED OCCUPANT LOAD FROM TWO ADJACENT 
STORIES ARE CALCULATED AS FOLLOWS:
STAIR 1 & 2:
EGRESS CAPACITY AT B1 = 175
EGRESS CAPACITY AT L2 = 127
CONVERGENCE TOTAL AT LEVEL 1 = 302 (BOTH STAIR 1 & 2)
SEE PLAN FOR CORRIDOR AND DOOR WIDTH FOR L1.
  
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&((;,7,1*3/$16
1" = 50'-0"
1 MU2 B3 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
2 MU2 B2 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
3 MU2 B1 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
4 MU2  LEVEL 01 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
5 MU2 LEVEL 02 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
6 MU2 LEVEL 03 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
7 MU2 LEVEL 04 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
8 MU2 ROOF EXITING PLAN
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  352
GARAGE:  348 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
SUMP RM: 2 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 352/2 = 176
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 176 X 0.3" = 52.8"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 176
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 176 X 0.2" = 35.2"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  352
GARAGE:  350 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 352/2 = 176
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 176 X 0.3" = 52.8"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 176
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 176 X 0.2" = 35.2"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  349
GARAGE:  336 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
MPOE RM: 3 OCC
WATER METER: 1 OCC
STORAGE: 7 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 349/2 = 175
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 175 X 0.3" = 52.5"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 175
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 175 X 0.2" = 35"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  166
OPEN OFFICE: 164 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
LOBBY DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF DOORS: 6
OCCUPANTS PER DOOR: 166/ 6 = 27.66
DOOR WIDTH REQUIRED
= 27.66 X 0.2" = 5.6"
EACH LOBBY DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 72"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  380
OPEN OFFICE:  376 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 3
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 380/3 = 127
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 127 X 0.3" = 38.1"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 127
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 127 X 0.2" = 25.4"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  380
OPEN OFFICE:  376 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 3
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 380/3 = 127
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 127 X 0.3" = 38.1"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 127
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 127 X 0.2" = 25.4"
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 3
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 508/ 3 = 170
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 170 X 0.3" = 50.8" 
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 170
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 170 X 0.2" = 34"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  508
OPEN OFFICE:  242 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
TERRACE 1: 143
TERRACE 2: 48
TERRACE 3: 71
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  356
FUTURE TERRACE:  317 OCC
ELEV. LOBBY: 4 OCC
MEP N: 26 OCC
MEP S: 9 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 356/ 2 = 178
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 177 X 0.3" = 53.4"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 178
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 178 X 0.2" = 35.6"
EGRESS DOORS AND 
PASSAGEWAY AT STAIR 1&2:
OCCUPANT LOAD = 302 (127 + 175)
PASSAGEWAY AND DOOR WIDTH 
REQ'D: 302 X 0.2" = 60.4"
PASSAGE WIDTH PROVIDED: 66"
EXIT DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 62"
A
A
A
B
B

--- page 63 ---
4#/2«72


123$5.,1*
'3
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8













B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
E.9

7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL B3 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL B3
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
54' - 5"
339' - 0"
18,444 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
2
76' - 1 1/4"
170' - 5"
12,968 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3
51' - 6"
79' - 6"
4,094 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
4
14' - 0"
23' - 9"
333 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
5
23' - 9"
65' - 6"
1,556 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
6
79' - 6"
95' - 2"
7,566 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
7
105' - 0"
168' - 7"
17,701 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
8
13' - 6"
32' - 0"
432 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
9
18' - 7 1/4"
74' - 4"
1,382 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
10
32' - 0"
60' - 10"
1,947 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
11
16' - 7 1/4"
31' - 2 1/4"
518 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
12
14' - 0"
31' - 2 1/4"
437 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
13
30' - 7 1/4"
63' - 0 3/4"
1,929 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
14
20' - 0"
94' - 3"
1,885 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
71,190 SF
A

--- page 64 ---
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




123$5.,1*
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8















B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F




E.9



7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL B2 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL B2
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
54' - 11"
339' - 0"
18,617 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
2
17' - 7 1/2"
67' - 11 3/4"
1,197 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3
6' - 1 1/2"
11' - 0"
67 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
4
6' - 1 1/2"
6' - 6 3/4"
40 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
5
57' - 11 3/4"
74' - 0 3/4"
4,293 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
6
75' - 7"
96' - 4 1/4"
7,283 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
7
53' - 4"
79' - 6"
4,240 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
8
13' - 11 3/4"
21' - 11 1/4"
307 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
9
21' - 11"
65' - 6"
1,435 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
10
79' - 6"
108' - 3"
8,606 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
11
13' - 1"
18' - 1"
237 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
12
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
13
13' - 1"
25' - 6"
334 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
14
61' - 3"
77' - 7"
4,752 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
15
16' - 1"
31' - 2 1/4"
502 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
16
14' - 0"
31' - 2 1/4"
437 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
17
18' - 9"
47' - 6"
891 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
18
6' - 0"
12' - 5 1/4"
75 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
19
12' - 5 1/4"
41' - 6"
516 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
20
30' - 1"
63' - 0 3/4"
1,897 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
21
47' - 6"
63' - 0 3/4"
2,995 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
22
77' - 6"
155' - 6"
12,051 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
71,190 SF
A

--- page 65 ---
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8










B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F





E.9





7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL B1 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL B1
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
54' - 5"
339' - 0"
18,444 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
2
11' - 6"
74' - 0 3/4"
852 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3
53' - 4"
144' - 1 1/4"
7,685 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
4
6' - 7 1/4"
14' - 7 1/4"
96 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
5
6' - 1 1/2"
6' - 7 1/4"
40 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
6
21' - 11"
57' - 11 3/4"
1,270 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
7
14' - 0"
21' - 11"
307 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
8
21' - 11"
65' - 6"
1,435 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
9
18' - 7 1/4"
109' - 5 1/4"
2,035 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
10
95' - 2"
137' - 0"
13,038 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
11
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
12
50' - 7 1/4"
61' - 3"
3,099 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
13
16' - 7 1/4"
50' - 9"
842 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
14
14' - 0"
50' - 9"
711 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
15
18' - 9"
20' - 0"
375 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
16
6' - 0"
12' - 5 1/4"
75 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
17
12' - 5 1/4"
14' - 0"
174 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
18
30' - 7 1/4"
43' - 6"
1,331 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
19
20' - 0"
63' - 0 3/4"
1,261 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
20
105' - 0"
168' - 7"
17,701 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
71,190 SF
A

--- page 66 ---






























4#/2«&0


('8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8




























BIKE
STORAGE
PARKING
LOADING






B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F







E.9



7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL 01 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 01
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
63' - 0 1/2"
83' - 2"
5,242 SF
2
50' - 6"
80' - 0"
4,040 SF
3
6' - 11 1/2"
47' - 2"
329 SF
4
6' - 11 1/2"
28' - 6 3/4"
199 SF
5
30' - 0"
83' - 2"
2,495 SF
6
29' - 0"
53' - 0"
1,537 SF
7
13' - 4"
19' - 6"
260 SF
8
14' - 0"
32' - 6"
455 SF
9
22' - 0"
66' - 4"
1,459 SF
10
15' - 0"
33' - 0"
495 SF
11
65' - 11"
68' - 4 3/4"
4,508 SF
12
7' - 6"
13' - 1"
98 SF
13
6' - 0"
13' - 1"
79 SF
14
20' - 6 1/4"
26' - 8"
547 SF
14
1' - 0"
1' - 0"
1 SF
15
31' - 0"
85' - 11 3/4"
2,666 SF
16
8' - 6 1/4"
59' - 6"
506 SF
17
32' - 0"
43' - 0"
1,376 SF
18
17' - 0"
20' - 0"
340 SF
19
12' - 0"
16' - 0"
192 SF
20
8' - 0"
49' - 6 3/4"
397 SF
21
1' - 10"
1' - 10"
3 SF
22
1' - 10"
1' - 10"
3 SF
23
3 SF
24
3 SF
25
1' - 10"
1' - 10"
3 SF
40
6' - 11 1/2"
7' - 5 1/4"
52 SF MEP SHAFT
41
14' - 0"
33' - 10"
474 SF STAIR 1
42
13' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
299 SF STAIR 3
43
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF ELEVATOR
44
12' - 0"
32' - 0"
384 SF STAIR 2
45
8' - 0"
12' - 5 1/4"
100 SF MEP SHAFT
50
25' - 6"
116' - 10"
2,979 SF ACTIVE USE
51
15' - 0"
33' - 4"
500 SF ACTIVE USE
52
32' - 2"
156' - 8"
5,039 SF ACTIVE USE
37,483 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 01 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
30
1' - 7"
19' - 7 1/2"
31 SF EXEMPT, BIKE FACILITIES
31
14' - 0 1/4"
31' - 0"
434 SF EXEMPT, BIKE FACILITIES
32
28' - 0"
31' - 0"
868 SF EXEMPT, LOADING
33
20' - 6 1/4"
30' - 4"
622 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
34
48' - 6"
59' - 6"
2,885 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
35
19' - 6"
82' - 6"
1,609 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
36
39' - 6"
62' - 0"
2,449 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
37
48' - 0"
160' - 4"
7,696 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
38
4' - 0"
14' - 0"
56 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
16,650 SF
A
B
B
B

--- page 67 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8






























B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F






E.9





7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL 02 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 02
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
56' - 0"
78' - 6"
4,396 SF
2
54' - 0"
57' - 0"
3,078 SF
3
4' - 7"
8' - 9"
40 SF
4
16' - 0"
49' - 0"
784 SF
5
21' - 0"
22' - 0"
462 SF
6
33' - 0"
37' - 6"
1,238 SF
7
57' - 9 3/4"
105' - 7 1/4"
6,105 SF
8
27' - 6"
67' - 8"
1,861 SF
9
32' - 0"
64' - 1 1/4"
2,051 SF
10
35' - 8"
78' - 1 1/4"
2,785 SF
11
2' - 1 1/2"
5' - 0 1/4"
11 SF
12
6' - 6 3/4"
120' - 0"
788 SF
14
22' - 4 3/4"
62' - 11"
1,408 SF
15
38' - 0"
62' - 11"
2,391 SF
16
8' - 0"
49' - 5"
395 SF
17
3' - 7 1/2"
63' - 5"
229 SF
18
7' - 6"
13' - 1"
98 SF
19
6' - 0"
10' - 7"
64 SF
20
26' - 1 1/2"
150' - 0"
3,917 SF
21
19' - 11 1/2"
146' - 0"
2,912 SF
22
42' - 5 1/4"
80' - 0"
3,395 SF
23
7' - 0 3/4"
8' - 5 1/4"
60 SF
24
2' - 0"
5' - 6"
11 SF
25
27' - 11 1/4"
34' - 0"
950 SF
26
5' - 6"
7' - 11 1/4"
44 SF
27
24' - 6"
66' - 0"
1,617 SF
28
4' - 0"
13' - 6"
54 SF
29
10' - 0"
82' - 6"
825 SF
30
15' - 6"
145' - 0"
2,248 SF
31
82' - 0"
160' - 4"
13,147 SF
33
1' - 10 1/4"
2' - 1 1/2"
4 SF
40
7' - 0"
14' - 0 1/2"
98 SF MEP SHAFT
41
8' - 6"
21' - 0"
179 SF MEP SHAFT
42
8' - 5 1/4"
24' - 11 1/4"
210 SF MEP SHAFT
43
5' - 6"
12' - 0 3/4"
66 SF MEP SHAFT
57,921 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 02 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
50
6' - 11 1/2"
7' - 0"
49 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
51
14' - 0"
32' - 0"
448 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
52
13' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
299 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 3
53
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
54
14' - 0"
32' - 0"
448 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
55
5' - 6"
10' - 0"
55 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
1,718 SF
A

--- page 68 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8
































B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F







E.9



7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL 03 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 03
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
57' - 5 1/4"
110' - 0"
6,318 SF
2
2' - 1 1/2"
5' - 0 1/4"
11 SF
2
21' - 0 3/4"
56' - 0"
1,180 SF
3
1' - 10 1/4"
2' - 1 1/2"
4 SF
4
6' - 8"
8' - 11 3/4"
60 SF
5
18' - 0"
49' - 0"
882 SF
6
20' - 6 3/4"
22' - 0"
452 SF
7
33' - 5 1/4"
36' - 6 3/4"
1,223 SF
8
57' - 11 3/4"
103' - 7 1/4"
6,007 SF
9
28' - 0"
31' - 10"
891 SF
10
31' - 10"
64' - 1 1/4"
2,040 SF
11
35' - 8"
97' - 7 1/4"
3,481 SF
12
6' - 6 3/4"
120' - 0"
788 SF
12
8' - 6"
85' - 1"
723 SF
13
29' - 6"
52' - 10"
1,559 SF
14
10' - 1"
29' - 6"
297 SF
15
7' - 6"
76' - 0"
570 SF
16
22' - 10 3/4"
62' - 11"
1,440 SF
17
3' - 7 1/2"
63' - 5"
229 SF
18
6' - 0"
13' - 1"
79 SF
19
26' - 1 1/2"
84' - 0"
2,194 SF
20
46' - 6"
66' - 0"
3,069 SF
21
22' - 10 3/4"
80' - 0"
1,831 SF
22
45' - 6"
80' - 0"
3,640 SF
23
7' - 6"
8' - 0"
60 SF
24
8' - 0"
36' - 0"
288 SF
25
18' - 11 3/4"
34' - 0"
646 SF
26
4' - 11 3/4"
7' - 11 1/4"
40 SF
27
2' - 0"
4' - 11 3/4"
10 SF
28
25' - 0 1/4"
66' - 0"
1,651 SF
29
15' - 6"
62' - 6 1/2"
969 SF
30
19' - 6"
82' - 6"
1,609 SF
31
4' - 0"
13' - 5 1/2"
54 SF
32
82' - 0"
160' - 4"
13,146 SF
57,438 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 03 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
40
6' - 6 3/4"
20' - 6 3/4"
135 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
41
8' - 0"
20' - 6 3/4"
165 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
42
14' - 0"
31' - 10"
446 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
43
13' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
299 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 3
44
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
45
8' - 0"
22' - 6"
180 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
46
14' - 0"
32' - 0"
448 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
47
4' - 11 3/4"
22' - 0 3/4"
110 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
2,201 SF
A

--- page 69 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8






























B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F





E.9


7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 LEVEL 04 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 04
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
49' - 0"
82' - 10"
4,059 SF
2
50' - 5 1/4"
51' - 0"
2,572 SF
3
20' - 6 3/4"
22' - 6"
463 SF
4
30' - 5 1/4"
37' - 0 3/4"
1,128 SF
5
1' - 10 1/4"
2' - 1 1/2"
4 SF
6
4' - 8"
57' - 11 3/4"
271 SF
7
27' - 6"
78' - 6 1/2"
2,160 SF
8
57' - 11 3/4"
78' - 1"
4,528 SF
9
31' - 10"
64' - 1"
2,040 SF
9
2' - 1 1/2"
5' - 0 1/4"
11 SF
10
34' - 2"
78' - 1"
2,668 SF
11
19' - 6"
45' - 5 1/4"
886 SF
12
8' - 0"
96' - 4 1/4"
771 SF
13
30' - 0"
55' - 10"
1,675 SF
14
10' - 1"
30' - 0"
303 SF
15
7' - 6"
79' - 0"
593 SF
16
22' - 10 3/4"
65' - 11"
1,509 SF
17
3' - 7 1/2"
66' - 5"
240 SF
18
6' - 0"
13' - 1"
79 SF
19
23' - 9 1/4"
137' - 2"
3,261 SF
20
30' - 4"
80' - 0"
2,426 SF
21
38' - 0 3/4"
80' - 0"
3,045 SF
22
20' - 4 3/4"
32' - 0"
652 SF
23
7' - 6"
8' - 0"
60 SF
24
2' - 0"
8' - 0"
16 SF
25
24' - 0"
47' - 4 1/2"
1,137 SF
26
2' - 0"
4' - 11 3/4"
10 SF
27
4' - 11 3/4"
7' - 11 1/4"
40 SF
28
21' - 0 1/4"
56' - 0"
1,177 SF
37,781 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 04 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
4
6' - 6 3/4"
20' - 6 3/4"
135 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
6
8' - 0"
20' - 6 3/4"
165 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
10
14' - 0"
31' - 10"
446 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
21
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR
SHAFT
31
8' - 0"
22' - 6"
180 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
32
14' - 0"
32' - 0"
448 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
35
4' - 11 3/4"
22' - 0 3/4"
110 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
160
13' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
299 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 3
2,201 SF
A

--- page 70 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 2
MEP N
MEP S






B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
E.9
7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( 522)/(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 LOWER ROOF PLAN AREA PLAN
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - ROOF
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
10' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
231 SF
2
10' - 1"
39' - 6"
398 SF
3
7' - 6"
13' - 7"
102 SF
731 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - ROOF EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
10
13' - 1"
22' - 10 3/4"
299 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 3
11
13' - 1"
32' - 0"
419 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
12
12' - 0"
31' - 0"
372 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
1,090 SF
A

--- page 71 ---
4#/2«72


'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
123$5.,1*
'8%5
'8%5
%
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§
'3

§ '3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
ELEC.
RM 2
E.6
F.8
G.8
ELEC.
RM 1
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
SUMP
PARKING
E.9
B
7.9
B
B
B
B
NOTES:
1) PARKING LAYOUT COMPLY WITH SAN MATEO PARKING STANDARDS 
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND PARKING LAYOUTS.  SEE DIMENSIONS ON 
PARKING PLAN FOR DIMESIONS AT CONFINED STALLS AND RESTRICTED 
STALLS.
2) SEE PARKING PLAN FOR MANEUVERABILITY WITHIN GARAGE DRIVE AISLES.
3) SEE SECTION 1/O-A2.10 FOR RAMP PROFILE.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 PLAN
A
A
A

--- page 72 ---
UP
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
123$5.,1*
'8%5
'8%5
%
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§
'3

§ '3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
UP


'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
123$5.,1*
'8%5
'8%5
%
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§
'3

§ '3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
ELEC.
RM 2
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 2
ELEC.
RM 1
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
STAIR 1
PARKING
E.9
B
CONCRETE -  10"
7.9
NOTES:
1) PARKING LAYOUT COMPLY WITH SAN MATEO PARKING STANDARDS 
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND PARKING LAYOUTS.  SEE DIMENSIONS ON 
PARKING PLAN FOR DIMESIONS AT CONFINED STALLS AND RESTRICTED 
STALLS.
2) SEE PARKING PLAN FOR MANEUVERABILITY WITHIN GARAGE DRIVE AISLES.
3) SEE SECTION 1/O-A2.10 FOR RAMP PROFILE.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN
A
A
A
B
B
B
B

--- page 73 ---
DN
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72




12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
8
'8§8#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#/$
8
123$5.,1*
'8§#/$
('8%5
'8§#/$
123$5.,1*
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3

§ '3
'3
'3
#6
§
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3
'3
'3

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
6;2
DN


12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
8
'8§8#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#
'8§#/$
8
123$5.,1*
'8§#/$
('8%5
'8§#/$
123$5.,1*
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
%
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3

§ '3
'3
'3
#6
§
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3
'3
'3

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
6;2
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
MPOE
1
O-A2.10
WATER METER
BOH STORAGE
ELEC RM
2
E.6
F.8
G.8
ELEC RM
1
2
O-A2.10
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
STAIR 1
PARKING
E.9
STAIR 2
B
7.9
NOTES:
1) PARKING LAYOUT COMPLY WITH SAN MATEO PARKING STANDARDS 
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND PARKING LAYOUTS.  SEE DIMENSIONS ON 
PARKING PLAN FOR DIMESIONS AT CONFINED STALLS AND RESTRICTED 
STALLS.
2) SEE PARKING PLAN FOR MANEUVERABILITY WITHIN GARAGE DRIVE AISLES.
3) SEE SECTION 1/O-A2.10 FOR RAMP PROFILE.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
A
A
A
B
B
B
B

--- page 74 ---






























X
G
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
VU
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WRUN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VU
VU
WR
VU
E
WR
W
VU
UF
Y
UN
UN
UN
E
VU
UF
9
*
*
*
9
*
4#/2«&0


('8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
%108':«/+4414
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC.
9
PARKING
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
1
O-A2.10
114' - 3 1/4"
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 3
113' - 1 1/4"
113' - 4 1/4"
113' - 5 1/4"
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
GAS METER 
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
LOADING
2
O-A2.10
BIKE
STOR
113' - 1 1/4"
111' - 11 1/2"
PROPOSED BUILDING 
SIGNAGE
T
R
C
B
D.11
25' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
113' - 3 1/2"
13' - 6"
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STR
STR
STAIR 2
16' - 0"
STAIR 1
E.9
FCC
T
STR
T
112' - 2 1/4"
113' - 4 1/4"
113' - 4 1/4"
OFFICE
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
41' - 6 1/2"
METAL GATE 
METAL GATE
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
18' - 8"
3' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
PROPOSED
12' - 8"
PROPOSED
17' - 4"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
5' - 0"
24' - 0"
5' - 6"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
3' - 6"
7' - 0"
3' - 6"
TYP.
1' - 4"
2' - 0"
TO CURB CORNER
99' - 3 1/4"
20' - 0"
23' - 6"
20' - 0"
TO CURB CORNER
60' - 0 1/4"
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
10' - 10"
B
B
7.9
B
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
28TH AVENUE:  FLOOR 1: MIN. 80 % WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 31.87% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.  
KYNE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 25.72% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 88.29% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE REQUIRED, 81.83% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER:
28TH AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER DOES NOT CURVE TO FOLLOW 28TH AVE PROPERTY LINE.
28TH AVENUE EAST: 20' MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60'-0" MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE EAST: 20'MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER 10'-10" FROM SETBACK LINE.
KYNE STREET: 20'-0" MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN
A
A
A
B

--- page 75 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 3
ELEC.
RM 1
IDF RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
STAIR 2
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
F
IDF RM 2
ELEC RM
2
STAIR 1
E.9
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
89' - 8 1/4"
5' - 0"
ENCROACHMENT
18' - 8"  MINOR
SETBACK
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
PROPOSED
2' - 10"
PROPOSED
10' - 10"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
3' - 0"
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
B
B
B
B
7.9
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
28TH AVENUE:  FLOOR 2 - 3: MIN. 70 % WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 97.85% PROVIDED.
KYNE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 25.72% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 88.29% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE REQUIRED, 81.83% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER:
28TH AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER DOES NOT CURVE TO FOLLOW 28TH AVE PROPERTY LINE.
28TH AVENUE EAST: 20' MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60'-0" MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE EAST: 20'MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER 10'-10" FROM SETBACK LINE.
KYNE STREET: 20'-0" MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE -  LEVEL 02 PLAN
A
A
A

--- page 76 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 3
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
IDF RM 2
OPEN
OFFICE
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
ELEC RM
2
STAIR 1
T
T
T
T
STR
E.9
3' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
89' - 8 1/4"
PROPOSED
10' - 10"
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
18' - 8"
5' - 0"
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
60'-0" MIN.
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
B
B
B
B
7.9
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
28TH AVENUE:  FLOOR 2 - 3: MIN. 70 % WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 97.85% PROVIDED.
KYNE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 25.72% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 88.29% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE REQUIRED, 81.83% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER:
28TH AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER DOES NOT CURVE TO FOLLOW 28TH AVE PROPERTY LINE.
28TH AVENUE EAST: 20' MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60'-0" MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE EAST: 20'MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER 10'-10" FROM SETBACK LINE.
KYNE STREET: 20'-0" MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN
A
A

--- page 77 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
POTENTIAL FUTURE TERRACE/ TENANT IMPROVEMENT SPACE
UNOCCUPIED ROOF
TERRACE
TERRACE
E.6
F.8
G.8
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
IDF
RM 2
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
50' - 2 3/4"
PROPOSED
13' - 2"
10' - 0"
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC 2
T
T
T
T
STAIR 1
STR
E.9
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
20' - 0" HOLD CORNER
MIN. 60'-0"
60' - 0" HOLD CORNER
7.9
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1)  BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
28TH AVENUE:  FLOOR 4-5: MAX. 90 % WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 92.60% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.
KYNE STREET: FLOOR 4-5: MIN 50% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 35.08% PROVIDED, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION.
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 4-5: MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED, 66.07% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE AVENUE: TOP FLOOR: MIN. 70% WITHIN 10' OF PROPERTY LINE REQUIRED, 100% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER:
28TH AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER DOES NOT CURVE TO FOLLOW 28TH AVE PROPERTY LINE.
28TH AVENUE EAST: 20' MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60'-0" MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE WEST: 60' MIN, 60'-0" PROVIDED.
DERBY AVENUE EAST: 20'MIN, SEEKING DESIGN GUIDELINE EXCEPTION: 
  BUILDING CORNER 10'-10" FROM SETBACK LINE.
KYNE STREET: 20'-0" MIN, 20'-0" PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 PLAN
A
A

--- page 78 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
C
D
E
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
1
O-A2.10
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
POTENTIAL FUTURE TERRACE/ 
TENANT IMPROVEMENT SPACE
E.6
F.8
G.8
STAIR 2
MEP N
MEP S
MEP
PROPOSED LOCATION FOR SOLAR PV 
SYSTEM SHOWN DASHED.  +/- 500 SF 
FOR 5KW SOLAR PV SYSTEM.
2
O-A2.10
B
D.11
A
11.9
10.9
9.9
12.9
F
E.9
A
12' - 0"
42' - 0"
7.9
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /2:(5522)3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN

--- page 79 ---
ELEVATIONS REFRESENT BASELINE ARCHITECTURE ONLY. ADOITIONAL

IMAGERY SHONUG SIOMAGE, FURNTURE NO OTHERACTNATION MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES WILSON
ELEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED PRIOR TO PLANNING COMMISION MEANY

MATERIALS LEGEND:

OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL
Es APOATECTUR. FEATIRE ‘i AROOSTECTURN. FEATIBE g
FRAMED FACADE OPEN OPENINGS FRAMED FACATE WET)¢ STAGOER PATTERN DPRESSION ® OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 10 FT.
TWAICHIND RESSDENTIN. SCALE 4

i HART HOWERTON
@) ETAL STOREFRONT 1 SED 580 TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY HEP arvana etalon

Guinan Perkins&Will

(GA) FACADE GLAZED: METAL PANEL
ONES crensiaeD Tee WOk 4 SED 88 Traretten cormenent
(@)_ METAL FIN CAPS
(@) WEI FIicars

wow @

seco ant
oe e

(™) ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
‘SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (HARVEST GOLD) COLOR, 72° X 6X 12"

(7a) ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
~ SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72° X 6X 172"

ne | ci 5 ee eee. x oa (®) SOLO METAL SCREEN MORIN MATRIX SERIES OR SIMILAR g
| + ra Wim, an iat sil S © see :
rae 4 Tr @) PARKLEX PANEL OR SiliLAR, LAMINATED WOOO) WOOO-LIKE EXT PANEL
(48) SWISS PEARL CEMENTPANEL OR SIMILAR 5 iq
Cy 2a w
METAL PANEL SOFFIT w ©
wer = or NOTES: a 5
eoveeceume aimee z 4 2
a w
° Q
FH va
b= Og i
32 06g |
ge #8 2
cin cco —
wee i)
JAI My,
ree =
sy ro}
Leven 0 O«<z 3
eee >
azl
eee 2 3
oie LW 2 j
oO
peat: ene = o |
MU2 WEST ELEVATION - S DELAWARE STREET mH:
ese NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/16/2021
A z


--- page 80 ---
METAL SCREEN ROOF
TOP MEQWRECAL FOUMENT

RLEVATOR AN STAR? RACED —

(2 MU2 SQUTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE

nestor

SUTLLOWESE GAO
Toes 2

Geaesre ariiies Sobbing: HomsetonE fem ORR AGGIE MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
ELEMENTS TO EE PROVIDED PRIOR TO PLANNING COMMISION HEARING.
MATERIALS LEGEND:
a OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL
(4) OFFICE 2 SIDED SSGTYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 10 FT.
S

(1) RETAL STOREFRONT 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY
~~ 40FT,

(2) 4S@EDSSG

FACADE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL
Upanaret gy

ware c
¥ Se CATANAT ‘ (3¢) FACADE GLAZED IN NETAL PANEL
a0 1030 es

(4) OVERSIZED 10-0" wae 4 SIDED SSG

METAL FIN CAPS
(@) METAL FINGAPS

OTHER SYSTEMS:
(7a) ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
“SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADOITIVE (HARVEST GOLD) COLOR, 72° x 6°X 112"

(re) ARCHITECTURAL COUCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72°X 6" X 1/7"

‘SOLID METAL SCREEN MORIN MATRIX SERIES OR SIMILAR
‘SOFFIT SYSTEMS:

Levi ot
ious

.

(m)  PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR, LAMINATED WOOO! WOOO-LIKE EXT PANEL

amor

(w) SWISS PEARL CEMEST PANEL OR SIMILAR
(METAL PANEL SOFFI’
NOTES:
1. PERMITTED ELEVATOR 3ULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL
APPURTENANCES 18° HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPALITEM 27.02 060 USE AND BULK
REGULATIONS.

2X @ 0 3 7

{ uremenee.
wae were
nae =al meer inet
z
ER i,
i;
MU2 EAST ELEVATION - W KYNE STREET
wie = 1"

WILSON
MEANY

Wi HART HOWERTON
EE ew vom san reanosco

Perkins&Will

Prapect Mo 4900.00

SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE Il DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS

As indicated

a
=

° 2

Q<«:

<é!

ws

=i!

g |

N >t:

=) <i|

= MAE

NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/16/2021


--- page 81 ---
— — O08 © QO © oo,

» @ @@,

® ® ®

; = es it i
a a» T er - i

® @©@ © ee.

prs nn a 2 EEA BEYOND
ELEVATOR AERO

oe © ©®

MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES

F CEES
OVERSIZED 10-7" WIDE 4 SIDED SSG

OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL
» OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 10FT.

HH HART HOWERTON
mew YORE Lan FeaNoNCO
(@) easel ‘2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY

9 ancies Perkins&Will

S METAL FIN CAPS
(@) vETA INCAS

@ ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM '
SnICAR WIM CONCRETE ADDITIVE PARVEST GOLD) CORO TERE KA

(a) ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72°X6"X 1/2"

(@) SQUO METAL SCREEN MORIN MATRIX SEREES OR SIMLAR
(@) sore systems:
(a) _PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR, LAMINATED WOO! WOCO-LIKE EXT PANEL
(Ge) S985 PEARL CEMENT PANEL OR SIMILAR
METAL PANEL SOFFIT
NOTES:

‘t, PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD ANO MECHANICAL
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55° HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27 02.060 USE AND BULK
REGULATIONS -

indicated

2
:
2
3
e

SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE || DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

om eI |
Te ea

@ MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING SECTION LOOKING EAST
Wes hor

2
|
Is 4 =
we wee
ep ome a
4 oe i =
—_— oO ;
| ef Potro a <3
us 2 '
= 8!
N > g]
> «2 |
= faa] Fs 2
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021


--- page 82 ---
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 5 FT OR 10 FT.
RETAIL STOREFRONT  2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 
10 FT.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL 
FACADE GLAZED IN METAL PANEL
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
METAL FIN CAPS
METAL FIN CAPS
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR 
SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (HARVEST GOLD) COLOR, 72” X 6” X 1/2”.
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR 
SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72” X 6” X 1/2”.
SOLID METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATRIX SERIES OR SIMILAR
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR, LAMINATED WOOD/ WOOD-LIKE EXT.PANEL
SWISS PEARL CEMENT PANEL OR SIMILAR
METAL PANEL SOFFIT
1A
2
3A
4
7A
7B
8
6A
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
MATERIALS LEGEND:
6B
1B
9
10
11
3C
B
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( (;7(5,250$7(5,$/6
PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR,
NATURAL WOOD/ WOOD LIKE 
EXTERIOR PANEL
2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER,
OR SIMILAR WITH CONC. COLOR 
ADDITIVE (PALOMINO) COLOR, 
72" X 6" X 1/2"
MORIN MATRIX SERIES
SOLID METAL SCREEN OR SIMILAR
FACADE GLAZED IN METAL PANEL
BRIGHT COPPER COLOR OR 
SIMILAR
RETAIL STOREFRONT GLAZING:
SOLARBAN 72 STARSPHIRE OR SIMILAR
2 SIDED SSG, CAPTURED VERTICALLY 
AT EVERY 10 FT
OFFICE FACADE GLAZING:
SOLARBAN 72 ACUITY OR SIMILAR
2 SIDED SSG,  
CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 
10 FT.
4 SIDED SSG, 10 FT WIDE
$
%

$
$
$


METAL PANEL SOFFIT
SILVER GRAY COLOR OR  
SIMILAR

ȃ
METAL FIN CAP
DARK GRAY COLOR
OR SIMILAR
&
ȃ
Ȉ
Ȋ
ȋ
Ȇ
ȃ
Ȉ
ȃȂ
ȅ
ȋ
ȉ
ȅ
Ȉ
ȃ
ȉ
ȅ
ȃ
2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER,
OR SIMILAR WITH CONC. COLOR 
ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 
72" X 6" X 1/2"
%
SWISS PEARL CEMENT PANEL
OR SIMILAR. 

METAL FIN CAP
BRIGHT COPPER 
COLOR OR SIMILAR
Ȉ
A
&
FACADE GLAZED IN METAL PANEL
DARK GRAY OR SIMILAR
B
B

--- page 83 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU2
04/16/2021
 1" = 20"
MU2 OVERALL SITE PLAN;
LEGEND

--- page 84 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU2
04/16/2021
NOTES
REFER TO SHEET C2.0.1 FOR NOTES, LEGEND, AND ABBREVIATIONS.
THE GRADING AND STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SHOWN ON THIS PLAN IS ILLUSTRATIVE AND IS
TO BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAILED DESIGN.
PERMEABLE/IMPERMEABLE AREA CALCULATIONS PROVIDED FOR SPAR PARCEL BLOCK
AREA ONLY. THE WET POND LOCATED IN THE COMMUNITY PARK IS THE PRIMARY
TREATMENT AND DETENTION FACILITY FOR THE ENTIRE PROJECT, WHICH IS SIZED TO
TREAT AND DETAIN RUNOFF FROM ALL PARCEL BLOCK (REFER TO SITE DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMISSION). THE POST-CONSTRUCTION PEAK STORMWATER
DISCHARGE RATE ENTERING BOREL CREEK FROM THE UPSTREAM WATERSHED WILL BE
LESS THAN THE PRE-CONSTRUCTION PEAK STORMWATER DISCHARGE RATE.
STORMWATER QUALITY TREATMENT DEVICES IN THIS BLOCK ARE IN ADDITION TO THE
WET POND.
APPROXIMATELY 77,000 SF OF SOIL DISTURBANCE.
1.
2.
3.
PERMEABLE/IMPERMEABLE SURFACE CALCULATIONS
SURFACE TYPE
AREA (SQ FT)
AREA (% OF TOTAL)
PERMEABLE
8,310
11
IMPERMEABLE
68,290
89
TOTAL
76,600
100
STORMWATER TREATMENT SUMMARY
BMP
QUANTITY
AREA (SQ FT)
TREATMENT AREA (SQ FT)
FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER
2
2,050
29200
BIORETENTION AREA
0
0
0
TOTAL
2
2,050
29200
A
NOT TO SCALE
TYPICAL FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER DETAIL
-
 1" = 20"
MU2 GRADING AND
DRAINAGE PLAN
4.
SHEET NOTES
INSTALL BIO CLEAN INLET FILTER OR EQUALAPPROVED DEVICE FROM SWRCB FULL
TRASH CAPTURE SYSTEM LIST.
1.

--- page 85 ---
NOTES
REFER TO SHEET C1.0.1 FOR NOTES, LEGEND, AND ABBREVIATIONS.
UTILITY CONNECTIONS, FDCS, AND TRANSFORMER LOCATIONS/TYPES SHOWN ARE ILLUSTRATIVE,
TO BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
BACKFLOW PREVENTERS ARE SHOWN ILLUSTRATIVELY.  THE LOCATION OF BACKFLOW
PREVENTERS WILL BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
1.
2.
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU2
04/16/2021
3.
 1" = 20"
MU2 SITE PRELIMINARY
UTILITY PLAN
SHEET NOTES
INSTALL BACKWATER VALVE
1.

--- page 86 ---
KYNE STREET
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X4
X4
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X4
X4
X7
X4
X4
X4
X4
FEVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
X12
X12
X12
(1 RUN) (2 RUNS)
(ONE UP ONE DOWN)
(2 RUNS)
(ONE UP ONE DOWN)
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X7
X16
X16
X15
X16
X15
X15
X15
B
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
A
A
A
E1.1.1
Feet
0
20
40
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
TYPE
IMAGE
MANUFACTURER
DESCRIPTION
SIZE
WATTAGE
LAMP
FIXTURE
RATING
FINISH
NOTES
X2
USAI
Ceiling recessed round
downlights
4" dia x 5.5"
depth
9W
LED
4000K
UL Wet
Fixture finish to
match overhang
finish
X4
B-K Lighting
Exterior spotlight for
plant accent lighting
(with honeycomb baffle)
3" dia x 8"
12W
LED
4000K
IP65 /
IK08 / UL
Listed
Antique brass
powder
X7
Hess
Linear bollard with 180°
distribution
6" x 9.5" x 36" h
11W
LED
4000K
CSA Wet
Anthracite grey
X12
Led Linear
Wall mounted and
integral to signage linear
uplight wallwash, and
wall mounted step light.
Function / application
dependant on location.
0.77" x 1.06" x
lengthperdwg
3.2W/ft
LED
2900K
IP67
Stainless Steel
Fixture with
remote driver (to
be protected in
Nema4X
inclosure or
inside the
building)
X15
AEC
Catenary light fixture
24.6" dia x 14.2"
height
44W
LED
4000K
IP66 /
IK08 / UL
listed
Graphite
Fixture to be
mounted on X16
catenary pole
X16
AEC
5m pole for catenary
system
16'-5" height x 4"
dia
N/A
N/A
N/A
Graphite
Pole base to be
inside the planter
with concrete
footing
SCALE:1"=20'
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU2
04/16/2021
MU2 SITE PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
Fixture Schedule
All luminaires to be for use in outdoor condition, wet location, with limited ingress
permitted.
Project Boundary
Project Boundary
1. FIXTURE TYPES X2  AND X3 ARE MOUNTED TO
THE BUILDING, AND WILL BE INCORPORATED
INTO BUILDING LIGHTING DESIGN /
ENGINEERING DOCUMENTS.
GENERAL SHEET NOTES
FIXTURE TYPE 'X12', LOCATED IN MONUMENT
SIGNAGE LEDGE, PROVIDE REMOTE DRIVER
ENCLOSURE RATED NEMA-4 (IP68) IN
HARDSCAPE DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO LIGHTING
FIXTURE LOCATION.
KEYED NOTES
1
1
A

--- page 87 ---
KYNE STREET
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.8
1.0
1.1
1.4
2.5
4.2
5.3
3.6
3.0
2.8
3.4
4.4
3.8
2.5
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.7
2.5
3.9
5.5
4.2
3.2
3.0
3.5
4.7
4.4
3.2
2.3
2.1
2.7
4.1
5.5
4.5
3.3
3.1
3.6
4.9
4.7
3.6
3.4
4.6
6.0
4.7
3.6
3.4
4.0
5.2
5.7
5.9
6.5
4.8
3.7
3.3
3.7
4.9
4.5
3.3
2.3
2.2
2.7
4.0
5.5
5.0
3.6
3.4
3.8
5.1
5.5
5.6
6.1
5.6
3.7
3.3
3.4
4.5
4.3
3.2
2.0
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.4
1.8
3.0
4.6
5.2
3.2
2.9
3.0
4.1
4.2
3.3
2.1
1.5
1.3
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.4
1.7
2.9
4.4
5.1
3.5
3.3
3.5
3.9
5.0
3.9
2.6
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.8
2.0
2.8
4.3
5.4
4.1
3.5
3.7
4.0
5.3
4.5
3.2
2.3
2.1
2.8
4.2
5.3
4.0
3.3
3.6
3.8
5.2
4.6
3.5
3.5
4.8
5.8
4.2
3.6
3.9
4.2
5.6
5.7
5.9
6.0
4.4
3.6
3.8
3.9
5.2
4.4
3.1
2.3
2.2
2.8
4.3
5.5
4.5
3.6
3.8
4.0
5.5
5.6
5.7
6.0
5.1
3.6
3.6
3.6
4.7
4.4
3.0
1.9
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.9
3.3
4.8
4.7
3.1
3.2
3.2
4.2
4.4
3.2
1.9
1.4
1.2
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.7
1.0
1.4
1.5
1.2
1.2
1.6
1.6
1.3
1.5
2.0
1.9
1.8
2.2
3.3
3.7
4.0
5.0
4.6
4.4
5.0
4.6
3.9
2.7
2.2
2.5
2.5
2.2
2.3
2.7
3.2
3.7
4.0
5.4
4.6
4.5
5.3
5.4
4.0
2.9
2.1
2.1
2.4
3.2
3.4
4.2
3.7
3.8
4.5
4.5
3.5
2.9
2.9
3.8
3.9
4.5
3.9
4.0
4.7
4.9
4.4
4.3
3.9
4.8
4.1
4.1
4.7
4.4
3.4
2.6
2.0
2.1
2.5
3.4
3.7
4.2
3.9
4.0
4.5
4.9
4.4
4.4
4.0
4.4
4.0
3.8
4.1
4.3
3.3
2.4
1.6
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.3
1.4
1.7
2.8
3.5
3.4
3.3
3.3
3.4
4.0
3.5
2.5
1.6
1.2
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.9
2.0
2.8
2.9
2.4
2.5
3.0
3.0
2.5
2.8
3.3
3.2
2.7
3.3
3.9
4.4
5.2
6.9
7.2
6.8
6.0
5.3
4.4
3.5
3.2
3.8
3.8
3.3
3.4
3.9
4.0
3.9
5.5
7.1
7.3
6.7
6.9
5.9
4.4
2.7
1.9
1.7
1.7
2.2
3.3
4.5
4.9
4.9
4.7
3.6
2.6
2.0
2.0
2.4
3.7
4.8
5.0
5.0
4.9
3.7
2.8
2.7
3.8
4.9
5.2
5.1
4.8
3.6
2.5
1.9
1.7
1.7
1.8
2.2
3.4
4.6
5.1
5.2
5.1
4.1
3.0
2.7
3.4
4.5
5.2
5.0
4.8
3.8
2.5
1.6
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.3
1.7
2.5
3.9
4.7
4.6
4.6
3.8
2.5
1.6
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.8
1.2
2.4
3.2
3.4
3.1
3.2
3.5
3.5
3.3
3.4
3.7
3.6
3.5
3.8
4.3
4.7
5.5
6.5
6.9
6.5
6.0
5.2
4.6
4.0
3.8
4.0
4.0
3.8
3.8
4.1
4.4
4.6
5.4
6.7
7.0
6.9
6.5
5.7
4.4
3.0
1.8
1.5
1.6
1.9
2.6
3.6
3.9
4.0
3.7
2.8
1.9
1.5
1.7
2.1
2.8
3.8
4.1
4.1
3.7
2.8
2.2
2.3
2.9
3.8
4.2
4.2
3.8
2.9
1.9
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.5
2.0
2.7
3.9
4.2
4.3
4.0
3.3
2.3
2.3
2.7
3.7
4.1
4.2
3.8
3.1
1.9
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.0
1.5
2.2
3.3
3.9
4.1
3.8
3.2
1.9
1.2
0.9
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
2.7
1.9
1.6
1.6
1.9
2.2
2.5
2.6
2.3
1.9
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.8
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.3
2.0
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.8
0.8
1.0
1.4
1.9
4.0
3.2
1.8
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.6
1.6
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.7
0.9
1.2
2.5
3.0
4.2
3.7
1.9
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.5
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.0
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.7
0.8
1.5
2.9
3.4
4.0
3.0
1.8
1.4
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.2
0.9
0.8
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.6
0.8
1.3
2.6
3.3
3.9
2.6
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.3
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.8
1.7
1.4
1.2
1.1
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.6
0.8
1.2
2.3
3.3
4.1
3.2
1.5
1.1
1.1
1.3
1.6
1.8
1.9
1.8
1.8
1.9
1.9
1.7
1.4
1.1
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.7
1.3
2.8
3.4
4.0
3.1
1.4
1.0
1.0
1.3
1.7
2.1
2.2
2.1
2.0
2.1
2.1
1.9
1.5
1.0
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.7
1.4
2.9
3.5
3.8
2.2
1.3
1.0
0.9
1.1
1.8
2.4
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.1
1.3
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.7
1.1
2.4
3.4
3.9
2.9
1.3
0.9
0.9
1.1
1.9
2.7
3.1
3.1
3.1
3.1
2.9
2.4
1.4
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.1
2.4
3.3
4.0
3.2
1.4
0.9
0.9
1.1
2.1
3.0
3.6
3.9
3.9
3.8
3.4
2.6
1.3
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.6
1.3
2.9
3.4
3.8
2.7
1.3
0.9
0.9
1.1
2.3
3.4
4.4
5.1
5.2
4.8
4.0
2.9
1.4
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.6
1.2
2.7
3.3
3.6
2.3
1.2
0.9
0.9
1.1
2.6
4.1
5.5
6.5
6.6
6.1
4.8
3.4
1.5
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.6
1.0
2.2
3.3
3.9
3.0
1.3
0.9
0.9
1.2
2.9
4.7
6.4
7.7
7.8
7.2
5.6
3.9
1.7
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.6
1.1
2.6
3.3
3.9
2.9
1.2
0.9
0.9
1.3
3.2
5.1
6.9
8.2
8.2
7.7
6.0
4.2
1.8
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.8
0.8
0.6
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.3
2.8
3.4
3.7
2.1
1.2
0.8
0.9
1.3
3.2
5.1
6.7
7.8
7.9
7.4
5.9
4.2
1.8
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.0
1.1
0.9
0.3
0.3
0.6
1.1
2.5
3.3
3.7
2.8
1.2
0.8
0.9
1.3
3.3
5.1
6.5
7.3
7.4
7.0
5.8
4.3
1.9
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.7
1.8
1.3
0.3
0.3
0.6
1.0
2.2
3.3
3.9
3.1
1.3
0.8
0.9
1.2
3.3
5.2
6.6
7.2
7.3
7.0
5.9
4.3
1.8
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.6
2.7
1.9
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.3
2.7
3.4
3.6
2.5
1.1
0.8
0.9
1.4
3.5
5.5
7.0
7.7
7.8
7.5
6.2
4.5
2.0
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.6
3.0
2.0
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.4
2.9
3.5
3.5
2.2
1.1
0.8
0.9
1.4
3.8
6.0
7.7
8.7
8.8
8.3
6.8
4.9
2.0
0.8
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.9
2.4
2.1
0.3
0.4
0.7
1.2
2.5
3.3
2.9
1.6
3.9
2.9
1.2
0.8
0.9
1.5
4.0
6.4
8.4
9.6
9.7
9.2
7.3
5.1
2.1
0.8
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.4
2.2
2.2
0.4
0.4
0.7
1.2
2.5
3.4
3.0
1.7
3.8
2.9
1.2
0.8
0.9
1.4
4.0
6.4
8.5
9.8
9.9
9.3
7.3
5.0
1.9
0.8
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
2.5
3.1
2.7
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.6
3.0
3.6
3.4
2.3
3.6
2.1
1.1
0.8
0.8
1.2
3.8
6.0
8.1
9.5
9.6
8.8
6.9
4.7
1.7
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
2.2
2.7
2.8
0.5
0.6
1.0
1.6
3.0
3.6
3.4
2.3
3.7
2.6
1.1
0.8
0.8
1.1
3.6
5.8
7.8
9.1
9.2
8.4
6.5
4.4
1.6
0.7
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
1.2
1.6
1.7
0.7
0.7
1.1
1.6
2.8
3.9
3.4
1.8
3.9
3.0
1.2
0.8
0.8
1.1
3.6
5.8
7.9
9.2
9.3
8.4
6.4
4.4
1.5
0.7
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.8
0.9
0.9
1.2
1.1
1.6
2.0
3.2
3.8
3.5
2.3
3.6
2.5
1.1
0.8
0.8
1.2
3.6
5.9
8.0
9.2
9.2
8.4
6.4
4.4
1.6
0.7
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.6
0.6
0.6
1.9
1.7
2.3
2.8
3.8
4.1
3.8
2.4
3.6
2.3
1.1
0.8
0.8
1.2
3.4
5.5
7.4
8.5
8.5
7.7
5.9
4.0
1.5
0.7
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.5
0.5
0.5
2.5
2.2
2.7
3.2
4.1
4.1
3.9
3.0
1.2
0.8
0.8
1.2
3.1
4.6
6.1
7.0
7.0
6.4
5.0
3.5
1.4
0.7
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.4
0.4
0.4
2.1
1.9
2.7
3.5
4.2
4.4
3.8
2.9
1.2
0.8
0.8
1.1
2.6
3.8
4.9
5.4
5.4
5.0
4.1
2.9
1.3
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
2.0
2.1
2.7
4.1
4.8
4.5
3.5
2.0
1.1
0.8
0.8
1.1
2.3
3.3
3.9
4.1
4.1
4.0
3.4
2.5
1.2
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
2.2
2.3
3.0
3.6
4.4
4.3
3.6
2.6
1.1
0.7
0.8
1.1
2.1
2.8
3.2
3.2
3.1
3.2
2.9
2.3
1.2
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.9
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
3.1
3.2
3.2
2.7
3.1
3.7
3.7
2.9
1.1
0.7
0.7
1.1
1.8
2.3
2.5
2.4
2.4
2.5
2.4
1.9
1.1
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
2.4
2.1
1.0
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
2.4
2.6
2.6
2.2
3.0
3.6
3.0
2.1
0.9
0.7
0.7
1.1
1.6
1.9
2.0
1.9
1.9
2.0
2.0
1.7
1.1
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.1
2.9
1.8
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.4
1.5
1.7
2.1
3.4
4.0
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.6
0.7
1.0
1.4
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.7
1.4
1.0
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.2
2.9
1.8
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.9
3.3
3.9
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.0
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.6
1.6
1.4
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.2
0.1
2.7
2.4
1.2
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.9
1.1
1.4
1.8
2.9
4.1
2.7
2.4
1.3
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.9
1.2
1.4
1.9
3.2
3.9
3.2
3.0
1.9
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.3
1.1
1.5
1.5
2.0
3.4
3.9
3.2
3.0
1.9
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.0
1.5
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.9
3.4
3.1
2.7
2.4
1.3
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.7
1.9
2.5
2.5
2.3
1.9
2.1
1.8
2.6
2.3
1.2
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.3
1.9
2.2
2.8
2.6
1.8
1.5
1.4
3.2
3.0
1.8
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.1
2.2
2.2
3.2
2.7
1.9
1.6
1.6
3.3
3.0
1.9
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.1
2.2
2.3
3.1
2.4
1.9
2.6
3.0
2.9
2.6
1.4
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
3.0
3.1
3.1
2.3
1.7
2.0
3.2
3.6
2.6
2.3
1.2
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.4
2.6
2.4
1.8
1.3
1.7
3.0
3.5
3.2
2.9
1.8
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
1.4
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.4
2.3
2.9
3.3
3.1
2.0
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.2
1.4
2.3
2.8
3.0
2.7
1.5
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.8
3.1
3.6
2.7
2.3
1.2
0.7
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.3
2.0
3.4
3.8
3.2
3.0
1.8
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.8
3.3
4.3
3.4
3.2
2.1
0.9
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
1.1
1.4
1.4
1.2
1.4
2.0
3.4
4.1
3.1
2.8
1.7
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
1.6
2.0
2.0
1.7
1.5
2.3
3.7
4.1
2.3
2.0
1.3
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
2.1
2.4
2.5
2.3
1.9
2.1
3.5
4.1
3.1
2.8
1.7
1.0
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.5
2.0
2.1
2.8
2.8
2.2
2.0
3.4
4.3
3.6
3.4
2.3
1.2
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.8
2.4
2.1
2.2
3.1
3.0
2.2
2.3
3.6
4.1
3.6
3.4
2.3
1.3
1.3
1.7
1.8
1.2
2.4
2.2
2.4
2.9
2.5
1.9
2.1
3.6
4.0
3.4
3.0
1.8
1.5
1.9
2.5
2.6
1.7
3.2
3.1
3.2
2.5
1.7
1.4
1.7
3.4
4.4
3.5
3.3
2.2
1.8
2.5
3.5
2.5
1.8
2.4
2.6
2.5
2.0
1.3
1.2
1.8
3.3
3.9
3.8
3.6
2.6
2.0
3.0
3.6
2.1
2.0
1.4
1.5
1.5
1.3
1.1
1.2
1.9
3.3
3.8
2.8
3.5
3.5
3.2
3.2
3.4
3.3
3.3
3.2
3.3
3.1
3.0
3.3
3.4
3.3
3.3
3.4
3.3
3.0
3.1
3.3
2.9
1.9
0.9
1.1
2.6
3.3
3.6
3.5
2.4
1.9
2.7
2.8
2.0
2.1
1.1
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.6
3.1
4.1
3.4
3.8
3.2
2.4
2.5
2.8
2.6
2.0
2.5
2.7
2.3
1.9
2.6
2.8
2.3
2.4
2.8
2.6
2.0
2.4
2.7
2.3
1.3
0.9
1.1
2.5
3.4
3.0
2.7
1.7
1.4
1.5
2.4
3.0
2.8
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.1
1.7
3.1
3.8
3.5
3.6
2.4
1.4
1.2
1.3
1.2
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.8
1.1
2.1
3.5
3.2
2.9
1.7
1.2
1.3
2.0
2.5
2.6
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.1
1.9
3.3
3.8
3.6
3.4
2.2
1.1
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
1.1
2.6
3.4
3.5
3.3
2.2
1.2
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.5
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.0
1.6
3.1
3.8
3.6
3.1
1.7
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.3
2.8
3.6
3.4
3.2
2.1
1.1
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
1.0
1.5
3.0
4.1
3.6
3.0
1.5
0.8
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.8
1.3
2.7
3.8
3.2
2.7
1.5
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.7
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
1.0
1.8
3.3
3.8
3.3
3.1
1.9
0.8
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.0
1.6
3.1
4.1
3.8
2.5
2.7
3.0
2.6
2.5
2.9
2.8
2.6
2.9
2.9
2.5
2.6
2.9
2.7
2.6
2.9
2.9
2.6
2.8
3.0
2.7
2.7
2.9
2.7
2.2
2.6
2.9
2.7
2.7
2.9
2.7
1.1
3.2
2.8
1.7
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.6
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.6
3.1
3.9
2.9
2.9
1.6
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.7
1.2
2.6
4.9
4.7
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.4
3.8
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.8
3.5
3.5
3.8
3.5
3.5
3.7
3.6
3.5
3.3
3.3
3.3
3.5
3.7
3.7
3.5
3.4
3.7
3.5
3.6
3.9
3.6
3.7
4.1
3.9
3.7
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.1
1.9
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.2
2.3
3.9
4.4
3.0
2.6
2.7
3.0
2.7
2.6
3.0
2.8
2.4
2.7
2.9
2.6
2.5
2.9
2.8
2.5
2.8
3.0
2.7
2.6
3.0
2.8
2.4
2.8
3.0
2.7
2.5
3.0
2.8
2.4
2.6
2.7
2.1
2.6
1.9
0.9
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.4
3.3
7.4
3.6
3.1
3.1
3.1
3.2
3.0
3.1
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.0
3.0
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.3
3.3
3.4
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.1
2.9
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.1
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.4
3.3
3.0
2.9
3.2
3.2
3.0
3.0
3.1
2.7
1.5
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.0
1.6
3.1
3.7
3.7
3.6
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.7
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.3
3.4
3.4
3.5
3.5
3.4
3.7
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.6
3.4
3.6
3.5
3.5
3.5
3.4
3.5
3.3
3.2
2.7
1.8
0.9
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.3
2.6
4.6
3.9
2.0
1.4
1.9
2.1
1.7
1.7
2.1
2.0
1.5
2.0
2.0
1.5
1.7
2.2
2.0
1.7
2.2
2.2
1.6
1.9
2.1
1.8
1.8
2.2
1.9
1.4
2.0
2.2
1.8
1.8
2.1
1.8
1.5
2.0
2.0
1.6
2.0
2.2
1.8
1.9
2.1
1.7
1.5
2.0
2.1
1.5
1.7
1.9
1.5
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
1.2
2.5
3.3
3.3
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.1
3.1
3.2
3.1
3.1
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.2
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.2
3.1
3.3
3.2
3.0
3.0
3.0
2.4
1.3
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.9
1.5
1.9
1.6
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
1.2
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.7
1.0
1.4
2.1
2.0
1.6
2.0
2.2
1.9
1.7
2.1
2.0
1.4
1.9
2.1
1.7
1.6
2.1
2.1
1.6
2.1
2.3
1.9
1.8
2.3
2.2
1.6
2.2
2.4
2.0
1.7
2.2
2.1
1.5
1.8
2.0
1.5
0.7
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.9
1.0
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
1.2
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.3
1.0
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.9
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.0
0.9
0.9
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.8
1.1
1.9
2.8
1.9
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.9
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.1
1.3
1.4
1.1
1.4
1.3
1.0
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
1.1
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.5
1.2
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.2
1.2
1.0
1.3
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.9
1.3
2.6
5.2
0.9
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.1
1.1
0.9
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
1.0
1.1
0.9
1.2
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.9
1.0
1.0
1.4
2.0
2.2
1.6
2.0
1.9
1.5
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.0
1.7
2.3
2.0
1.8
2.0
1.7
1.2
0.8
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.4
2.1
2.0
1.5
2.0
1.7
1.3
0.9
1.0
1.2
2.2
3.5
2.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.3
1.9
1.8
1.4
1.9
1.6
1.1
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.3
1.9
1.8
1.4
1.8
1.6
1.1
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.9
2.8
3.0
2.0
2.3
2.3
2.1
1.3
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.4
2.4
3.1
2.3
2.0
2.3
2.3
1.7
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
1.1
2.1
2.9
2.6
1.8
2.2
2.3
1.8
1.1
0.9
1.0
1.3
1.5
1.1
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
1.1
2.0
2.8
2.5
1.9
2.2
2.2
1.7
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.1
1.9
2.7
2.5
1.8
2.2
2.2
1.7
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.9
1.3
2.3
3.5
2.5
1.8
1.9
2.7
2.5
1.5
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.7
3.0
3.0
1.8
1.6
2.2
2.6
1.9
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.4
2.7
3.4
1.9
1.6
2.0
2.6
2.2
1.2
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.4
2.7
3.4
1.9
1.6
2.0
2.6
2.1
1.1
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.4
2.6
3.4
2.0
1.7
2.1
2.5
2.1
1.1
0.7
1.4
2.6
3.5
2.2
2.0
2.0
2.9
2.6
1.5
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.9
1.8
3.0
2.5
1.8
1.9
2.2
2.8
1.8
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.6
2.9
3.0
1.8
1.9
2.1
3.0
2.1
1.1
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.7
1.6
3.0
3.0
1.8
1.9
2.1
2.9
2.1
1.1
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.6
3.0
3.2
1.9
1.9
2.1
2.9
2.1
1.1
2.4
2.1
2.2
2.6
1.9
1.1
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.3
1.7
2.5
2.1
2.1
2.7
1.9
1.2
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.2
1.7
2.2
2.2
2.1
2.6
2.2
1.5
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.3
2.1
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.4
2.3
1.6
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.4
2.2
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.3
2.5
1.7
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
0.8
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X4
X4
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
1
1
1
1
1
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
3
2
X4
X4
X7
X4
X4
X4
X4
FEVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
X12
X12
X12
(1 RUN) (2 RUNS)
(ONE UP ONE DOWN)
(2 RUNS)
(ONE UP ONE DOWN)
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X7
B
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
A
A
A
E1.1.2
DESIGN CRITERA
CITY OF SAN MATEO CRITERIA
0.3
4 : 1
1.0
AVG. (FC)
AVG : MIN. 
RATIO
MIN. (FC)
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU2
04/16/2021
MU2 SITE PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
Project Boundary
Project Boundary
Feet
0
20
40
NOTE: REFER TO E1.2.1.B1 FOR FIXTURE SCHEDULE.
1. ALL ILLUMINANCE VALUES ARE IN
FOOTCANDLES.
2. LIGHTING CONTRIBUTION FROM THE STREET
LIGHTS HAS BEEN INCLUDED IN THIS
CALCULATION. EXISTING STREETLIGHT
LOCATIONS ARE APPROXIMATE. PRODUCT
ASSUMED IN THE CALCULATION IS LOUIS
POULSEN KASTRUP 150W METAL HALIDE.
3. PHOTOMETRIC CALCULATIONS INCLUDE
LIGHT CONTRIBUTION FROM FIXTURE TYPES
X1, X2, X7 AND X8 ONLY WITH EXISTING
STREET LIGHT CONTRIBUTION.
4. SIDEWALK LIGHT LEVELS ARE ASSUMED TO
BE MEETING THE LIGHTING CRITERIA AS PART
OF THE PREVIOUS DESIGN WORK.
5. CALCULATION POINTS 10FT BEYOND
PROPERTY LINE ARE FOR INFORMATIONAL
PURPOSES.
STREET LIGHT POLES ARE EXISTING, N.I.S.
THEY HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
CALCULATION FOR INFORMATIONAL
PURPOSES ONLY.
MU2 SOUTH DELAWARE ENTRANCE.
CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT ARE
CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
MU2 W. KYNE STREET ENTRANCE.
CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT ARE
CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
KEYED NOTES
1
2
3
GENERAL SHEET NOTES
AVG. (FC)
MU2 S. DELAWARE ST ENTRANCE
3.8
4:1
AVG : MIN. 
RATIO
MU2 CALCULATION SUMMARY TABLE
AREA
MIN. (FC)
1.0
2
MU2 W. KYNE ST ENTRANCE
1.5
4:1
0.4
3
SCALE:1"=20'

--- page 88 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
L1.0.1
W. KYNE STREET
S. DELAWARE STREET
E. 28TH STREET
DERBY AVENUE
MU2
LOBBY
COURTYARD
ENTRY
PLAZA
ILLUSTRATIVE SITE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 89 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
SITE ELEMENTS
TAG
DESCRIPTION
Entry Plaza Planters
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
Pedestrian Lighting
Planter Wall B
- Stormwater Planters
Precast concrete planter and bench
SITE PAVING
TAG
DESCRIPTION
Concrete Unit Paver - Vehicular
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
Mix of  6"x 12"x4" Precast concrete pavers,  Stepstone/Hanover, or sim. Vehicular rated to 60,000#
loading requirements for exterior building maintenance boom lift.  Epoxy set on CIP concrete subbase.
Grey and tan colors.
CIP Concrete
- Courtyard Paving
CIP Concrete
- Sidewalk & General
P1
P2
P3
P5
Weathering Steel or precast concrete planters, attached bench: wood seat with metal structure.
Stabilized Crushed Stone Paving
LEVEL 1 - MATERIALS SCHEDULE
E1
E2
E3
E4
E5
Entry Sign Wall
CIP Concrete wall with formed recesses and lighting for signage elements
E6
Precast concrete segmented planter wall with integrated wood bench seats, 30" - 36" high from finish
surface, 30" - 42" thick, provide CIP concrete drainage base, waterproofing, drain mat, and planter
drain.
CIP Concrete Planter Wall and drainage base, 42" high from top of substructure, 8" thick, provide
waterproofing and drain mat, drain structure per civil.
Overhead pedestrian lighting, mounted on poles or hung from catenary cables.  See lighting drawings.
CIP concrete paving, 4 1
2" min thickness over lightweight foam fill, medium sandblast retardant finish,
custom aggregate blend, integral color, sawcut joints.
CIP concrete paving, 4 1
2" min thickness over 6" aggregate base.  Finish to match typ. project sidewalks:
medium broom finish with tooled joints, natural grey w/ lamp black admixture.
Gold Path Fines Aggregate with Stabilizing Binder, 3" min thickness over 6" aggregate base.
Bike Rack
In-ground mount, circular, stainless steel rack.  Welle Circular Rack, Round Pipe Model: WCR02-IG-SS
E7
P4
CIP Concrete
- Vehicular
CIP concrete paving, 6" min thickness over 12" aggregate base.  Finish to match typ. project sidewalks:
medium broom finish with tooled joints, natural grey w/ lamp black admixture.
Concrete Unit Paver - Vehicular
P1
CIP Concrete
- Courtyard Paving
P2
CIP Concrete
- Sidewalk & General
P3
P5
Stabilized Crushed Stone Paving
Entry Plaza Planters
E1
Pedestrian Lighting
E2
Precast concrete planter and bench
E4
Example image - see rendered views for design intent
Bike Rack
E7
Shade Canopy Umbrella
Tucci Ocean Master MAX Classic, 10' Square, or similar
E8
E9
Loose Cafe Seating Furniture
Make and model to be determined
Trench Drain
Stainless Steel Trench Drain
ACO Drain MiniKlassic or sim.
P6
Gravel Mulch
Decorative gravel, 3/4" clean graded, type to be determined.
Shade Canopy Umbrella & Loose Cafe
Seating Furniture
E8&9
Entry Wall Sign
E6
E3
Planter Wall B
- Concrete at
Residential Perimeter
MU2  Open Space Table
Type
Area (SQ. FT)
Paved Area
11,675
Planting Area
9,368
Total Open Space Area
21,043
L1.1.0
MATERIAL SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
NTS
A
A
A

--- page 90 ---
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC.
PARKING
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STAIR 3
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
LOADING
BIKE
STOR
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STR
STR
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
FCC
T
STR
T
OFFICE
P2
P3
P5
E4
E3
E3
ENTRY
PLAZA
LOBBY
COURTYARD
E1
E7
P4
P3
P4
P3
PL-3
PL-1
PL-1
PL-2
PL-3
PL-4
PL-2
PL-1
PL-1
T-2
T-1
E6
E7
E8
E9
PL-3
P4
P3
E1
PL-1
PL-1
P3
PL-1
PL-4
PL-4
T-1
P6
P1
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
E 28TH STREET
DERBY AVENUE
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
L1.1.1
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL AND
PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
B
A

--- page 91 ---
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC.
PARKING
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STAIR 3
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
LOADING
BIKE
STOR
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STR
STR
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
FCC
T
STR
T
OFFICE
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
E 28TH STREET
DERBY AVENUE
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
L1.2.1
LAYOUT PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
B
B
B
A

--- page 92 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
1.
Provide complete irrigation system for all planting areas.
2.
1.5" copper mainline at site level to routed from irrigation water meter and backflow preventer to
all planting areas.
3.
Provide booster pump (size TBD) in mechanical room in garage area and route 1.25" copper main
line through building structure to supply irrigation system on roof decks.
4.
Provide drip line system to cover all planting areas, and bubblers for all trees.
5.
Provide remote control valves and quick coupler valves.
Trees
Evergreen, 20'-30' tall, 25'-35' wide, spreading canopy,
part shade
Searsia lancea - African Sumac
L1.3.0
PLANTING SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
NTS
A
A

--- page 93 ---
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC.
PARKING
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STAIR 3
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
LOADING
BIKE
STOR
ACTIVE
USE
SPACE
STR
STR
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
FCC
T
STR
T
OFFICE
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
E 28TH STREET
DERBY AVENUE
T-2
T-1
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
L1.3.1
TREE PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
A

--- page 94 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
L3.1.0
VIEWS
NTS
SCALE: NTS
ENTRY PLAZA AT DELAWARE STREET
1
SCALE: NTS
LOBBY COURTYARD AT KYNE STREET
2
E7
Bike Racks
Concrete Unit Paver - Vehicular
P1
E1
Entry Plaza Planters
E8
Shade Canopy Umbrella
E6
Entry Sign Wall
CIP Concrete - Sidewalk & General
P3
Planter Wall B - Stormwater Planter
E3
Bike Rack
E7 
Stabilized Crushed Stone Paving
P5
CIP Concrete - Courtyard Paving
P2
CIP Concrete - Sidewalk & General
P3
Precast Concrete Planter and Bench
E4
E2
Pedestrian Lights
A

--- page 95 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: PER1902
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU2
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
L3.1.1
DETAILS
SCALE: SEE DETAILS
SCALE: 1/2"=1'-0"
MONUMENT WALL
1

--- page 96 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
*
08
04/16/2021
&29(5
PROJECT DIRECTORY
2:1(5
%D\0HDGRZV0DLQ7UDFN,QYHVWRUV
)RXU(PEDUFDGHUR&HQWHU6XLWH
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
2:1(5
65(35(6(17$7,9(
:LOVRQ0HDQ\
)RXU(PEDUFDGHUR&HQWHU6XLWH
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZZLOVRQPHDQ\FRP
&RQWDFW(PLO\/HVN
$5&+,7(&7 2)),&(
3HUNLQV	:LOO
%U\DQW6WUHHWUG )ORRU
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZSHUNLQVZLOOFRP
&RQWDFW'DQLHO/DP
$5&+,7(&7 5(6,'(17,$/
+DUW+RZHUWRQ
8QLRQ6WUHHW7KLUG)ORRU
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZSHUNLQVZLOOFRP
&RQWDFW&KULVWRSKHU3L]]L
&,9,/(1*,1((5
$583
0LVVLRQ6WUHHW6XLWH
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZDUXSFRP
&RQWDFW-DFN0RQJ
/$1'6&$3($5&+,7(&7
&0*/$1'6&$3($5&+,7(&785(
%U\DQW6WUHHW
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZFPJVLWHFRP
&RQWDFW1LFR:ULJKW
/,*+7,1*'(6,*1(5
$583
0LVVLRQ6WUHHW6XLWH
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZDUXSFRP
&RQWDFW-DFN0RQJ
3$5.,1*&2168/7$17
,17(51$7,21$/3$5.,1*'(6,*1
WK6WUHHW6XLWH
2DNODQG&$
3KRQH
(PDLOZZZLSGJOREDOFRP
&RQWDFW5DMX1DQGZDQD
FORMAL PLANNING APPLICATION
SHEET NUMBER
SHEET NAME
ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  09.25.2020
REVISION A: ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  02.26.2021
REVISION B: ISSUED FOR REVIEW|  04.16.2021
G00-00
COVER
X X
X
G00-01
BUILDING RENDERINGS - OFFICE
X X
X
G00-02
BUILDING RENDERINGS - RESIDENTIAL
X
G-00.50
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA & ZONING ANALYSIS,
OFFICE BUILDING ZONING AND DATA ANALYSIS
X X
X
A10.00
OVERALL SITE PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.50
MU3 OFFICE - ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
X X
X
O-A0.51
MU3 OFFICE - EXITING PLANS
X X
X
O-A0.52
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL B2 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.53
MU3 OFFICE- LEVEL B1 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.54
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.55
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.56
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.57
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A0.58
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL - ROOF AREA PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.51
MU3 OFFICE PARKING -  B2 PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.52
MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.53
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.54
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.55
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.56
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04  PLAN
X X
X
O-A1.57
MU3 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN
X X
X
O-A2.51
MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
O-A2.52
MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
O-A2.61
MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING SECTIONS
X X
X
OA2.71
MU3 OFFICE - EXTERIOR MATERIALS
x
X
X
R-A0.00
MU3 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA, RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING DATA AND ZONING ANALYSIS
X X
X
R-A0.01
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - RENDERINGS
X
X
R-A0.02
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXITING PLANS
X X
X
R-A0.03
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXITING PLANS
X X
X
R-A0.04
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - AREA PLANS
X X
X
R-A0.05
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - AREA PLANS
X X
X
R-A0.06
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ACCESSIBLE ROUTES
X
X
R-A2.00
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - PARKING B1 LEVEL PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.01
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - GROUND FLOOR AREA PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.02
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - SECOND FLOOR PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.03
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - THIRD FLOOR PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.04
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.05
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - FOURTH FLOOR LOFT PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.06
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ROOF PLAN
X X
X
R-A2.08
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ENLARGED LOBBY PLAN
x
X
X
R-A2.51
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A2.52
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A2.53
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A2.54
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A2.55
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A2.56
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
X X
X
R-A3.01
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
R-A3.02
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
x
X
X
R-A3.03
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
R-A3.04
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
R-A3.05
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
R-A3.06
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X X
X
R-A3.51
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING SECTIONS
X X
X
R-A3.52
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING SECTIONS
X X
X
R-A3.53
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING SECTIONS
X X
X
R-A5.01
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - BUILDING DETAILS
X X
X
R-A5.02
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXTERIOR MATERIALS
X X
X
R-A5.03
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXTERIOR PERSPECTIVES
X X
X
C2.0.1
MU3 OVERALL SITE PLAN, LEGEND
X X
X
C2.1.1
MU3 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
X X
X
C2.1.2
MU3 SITE PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
X X
X
E2.1.1
SITE PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
X X
X
E2.1.2
SITE PRELIMINARY PHOTOMETRIC LIGHTING PLAN
X X
X
L1.0.1
ILLUSTRATIVE SITE PLAN
X X
X
L1.1.0
MATERIAL SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
X X
X
L1.1.01
MATERIAL SCHEDULE - ROOF LEVEL
X X
X
L1.1.1
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL & PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
X X
X
L1.1.2
LANDSCAPE MATERIAl & PLANTING PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
X X
X
L1.2.1
LAYOUT PLAN - SITE LEVEL
X X
X
L1.2.2
LAYOUT PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
X X
X
L1.3.0
PLANTING SCHEDULE
X X
X
L1.3.1
TREE PLANTING  PLAN - SITE LEVEL
X X
X
L3.1.0
VIEWS
X X
X
%$<0($'2:63+$6(,,63$568%0,77$/
352-(&7'(6&5,37,21
A
A
A
A
A
B

--- page 97 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
*
08
04/16/2021
%8,/',1*5(1'(5,1*6 2)),&(
A
RENDERINGS REPRESENT BASELINE ARCHITECTURE ONLY.  ADDITIONAL IMAGERY 
SHOWING SIGNAGE, FURNITURE, AND OTHER ACTIVATION ELEMENTS TO BE 
PROVIDED PRIOR TO PLANNING COMISSION HEARING.
B

--- page 98 ---
HEIGHT *
55'-0" MAXIMUM (EXTG GRADE TO T/ OF PLATE)
MAX 55'-0" (SEE ELEVATIONS) 
ALLOWED
PROVIDED
REFERENCE
SITE ADDRESS:
APN: 040031230, 040031240
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SF)
.
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN (BMSP)
SITE AREA (ACRES):  1.511
FLOOR AREA RATIO/ FAR:
3.0 
2.94 
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-23, TABLE IV-6
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-24, TABLE IV-6
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS (SF): OFFICE BUILDING
125,760
OFFICE PLUMBING FIXTURE TABULATIONS:
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
1. TABLE A: OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR:
OCCUPANCY: GROUP B, OFFICE OR PUBLIC BUILDINGS (AREA ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC) OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR: 200
OCCUPANCY: ASSEMBLY, OCCUPANY LOAD FACTOR: 30
2. TABLE 422.1
LEVEL
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS
OCCUPANT LOAD: GSF/ 200 OR GSF/ 30
GSF*
PER GENDER
WATER CLOSETS
URINALS LAVATORIES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
MALE
FEMALE
TOTAL
MALE
FEMALE
FUTURE ROOF 
TERRACE (A-3) 
MALE
FEMALE
3,053 SF
MALE
FEMALE
OFFICE (TYP)**
2,565 SF
MALE
FEMALE
LEVEL 1 OFFICE
LEVEL  1 ACTIVE USE (S)
(BY TENANT)
2,688 SF
45
33,111 SF
* SEE O-A0.51 FOR AREA.
** BASED ON LEVEL 2 AND 3, FLOOR WITH HIGHEST OCCUPANT LOAD
166 OCC
83
83
LEVEL  1 ACTIVE USE (N) 
(PART OF OFFICE)
2 REQ.
1 REQ.
2 REQ.
2 REQ
4 REQ.
NA.
2 REQ.
90 OCC
1 REQ.
2 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
102 OCC
86 OCC
43
1 REQ.
3 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
2 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
13,230 SF
67 OCC
34
1 REQ.
3 REQ.
NA.
NA.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
1 REQ.
NA.
OFFICE BICYCLE PARKING:
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL 
CODE 27.64.262 BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES 
OUTSIDE DOWNTOWN AREA USES (OFFICE)
27.64.262-F(2): OFFICE SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 20,000 SF.  RETAIL SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES 
REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 2,000 SF.  27.64.262-3(I): SHORT TERM PARKING MUST BE ALONG BUILDING FRONTAGE AND WITHIN 50 FT OF THE MAIN 
ENTRANCE TO THE BUILDING OR COMMERCIAL USE UP TO 100 FT WHERE EXISTING CONIDITIONS DO NOT ALLOW PLACEMENT WITHIN 50 FT. 
27.64.262-F(2): OFFICE LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 10,000 SF.  RETAIL LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SPACES 
REQUIREMENT: 1 PER 12,000 SF.  27.64.262-3(H): LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SHALL BE COVERED AND SHALL BE LOCATED ON SITE OR WITHIN  
200 FT OF THE MAIN BUILDING ENTRANCE.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING : FOR 151 - 200 PARKING SPACES, 6 MIN.  REQUIRED ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES.
ACCESSIBLE VAN PARKING : FOR EVERY 6 ADA PARKING SPACES, AT LEAST 1 SHALL BE A VAN PARKING SPACE.  1 REQUIRED.
ACCESSIBLE EV STALLS PER TABLE 11B-228.3.2.1.
CBC 2019, CHAPTER 11B TABLE 11B-208.2
CBC 2019, 11B-208.2.4 VAN PARKING SPACES
OFFICE EV CHARGING SPACES REQUIREMENT:
TOTAL SPACES 151-200,   NUMBER OF EV CHARGING SPACES : 10 REQUIRED PER CGC TABLE 5.106.5.3.3.
5% LEVEL 2 EVSE, 10% FUTURE EVSE PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE 23.70.040
CLEAN AIR VEHICLE (LOW-EMITTING, FUEL EFFICIENT, CARPOOL/ VAN POOL VEHICLES):
TOTAL SPACES 151-200,NUMBER OF CLEAN AIR PARKING: 16 REQUIRED PER CGC TABLE 5.106.5.2 
** FUTURE CHARGING SPACES CAN BE DESIGNATED AS CLEAN AIR VECHICLE SPACES PER CGC 2019, 5.106.5.3.5.
CGC 2019, TABLE 5.106.3.3,
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL 
CODE 23.70.040 EV CHARGING FOR NEW NON-
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION, TABLE A5.106.5.3.2
CGC 2019, TABLE 5.106.5.2
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-56
OFFICE FLOOR AREA (GSF)
: 120,142 SF
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 120,142/ 20,000 = 6
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 120,142/ 10,000 = 12
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL (GSF)
: 5,618 SF
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 5,618/ 2,000 = 3
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
: 5,618/12,000 = 1
SITE AREA (SF): 65,819 
FLOOR AREA (SQFT):
197,457 
DENSITY:  OFFICE
N.A
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
50 DU/ ACRE
44.34 DU/ ACRE
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-23, TABLE IV-6
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-9, TABLE IV-3
* 
BUILDING HEIGHT PER SMMC 27.04.08: HEIGHT MEASURED TO TOP OF PLATE FROM LOWEST EXISTING GRADE AT BUILDING BUILDING PERIMETER. SEE SMMC 27.02.60 FOR SPECIFIC PERMITTED 
STRUCTURES ABOVE HEIGHT LIMIT.
** 
PARKING MAXIMUM PER BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 2.75 - 3.25 PER 1000 SF
RETAIL PARKING RATIO OF UP TO 4 SPACES PER 1000 SF
RESIDENTIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 1.75 - 2.25 PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT
ZONING FLOOR AREA:
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE  27.04.200 FLOOR AREA.
REGULAR  COMPACT    ACCESSIBLE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CLEAN AIR
17
REGULAR
3
5 
1
1
1 
STANDARD (S)
VAN (V)
ADA (S) ADA (V)
2
B1 
105
21
B2
PARKING SPACES PROVIDED: 181
AMBULATORY
1
10 
FUTURE EV
19**
LEVEL
PARKING **
TOTAL LONG TERM BICYCLE SPACES PROVIDED:
TOTAL SHORT TERM BICYCLE SPACES PROVIDED:
257
ALLOWED
PROVIDED
REFERENCE
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES PROVIDED: 12 (6 RACKS)
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SPACES PROVIDED: 18
1 REQ.
3.0 FIXTURES PROVIDED:
PER GENDER
WATER CLOSETS
URINALS
LAVATORIES
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
MALE
FEMALE
MALE
LEVEL 2, 3 AND 4
LEVEL 1
3
3
3
6
2
8
2
4
6
4
NA.
FEMALE
4
NA.
4
OFFICE PARKING: 
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:  
76 (67  RESIDENTIAL UNITS)
OFFICE BICYCLE SPACES: 
RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE  SPACES: 
OFFICE BICYCLE SPACES: 
RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE  SPACES: 
82
14
68
16
9 
19
5
10 REQ.
6 REQ.
122
24
6 
SUB TOTAL
18 REQ.
16 REQ.
OFFICE BUILDING FLOOR AREA (SF):
120,142
67,431
193,191
N.A
197,475 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING FLOOR AREA (SF): 
6 REQUIRED
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL BICYCLE SPACES: 
3 REQUIRED
6 REQUIRED
68 REQUIRED
13 REQUIRED
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL BICYCLE SPACES: 
BY FUTURE TENANT
1 REQUIRED
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-56
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL PARKING: 
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL FLOOR AREA (SF):
5,618
82 REQUIRED
15 REQUIRED
7
1
1
1
OFFICE PARKING REQUIREMENT:
OFFICE BUILDING FLOOR AREA (SF):
120,142
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL FLOOR AREA (SF):
5,618
10
BY FUTURE TENANT
6 
FLOOR AREA (SF)
OFFICE
ACTIVE USE
TOTAL
PARKING RATIO REQUIRED
PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
120,142
5,618
2.5
4.0
301
23
125,760
324
181
REQUIRED: 301 (RATIO: 2.5) 
REQUIRED: 23 (RATIO: 4.0) 
REQUIRED: 69 (1 PER BEDROOM)  
TOTAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED 
TOTAL: 324 
USE:
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, RETAIL,  
RESIDENTIAL)
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, RETAIL,
RESIDENTIAL)
A
A
A
A
A
A
45
34
43
51
51
MU3 FINAL ON-SITE PARKING TOTAL MAY VARY BY UP TO 10 ADDITIONAL OR 10 FEWER SPACES.  ACTIVE USE PATRON 
PARKING PROVIDED ON STREET, PURSUANT TO THE APPROVED BAY MEADOWS PHASE II PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN.  
PARKING MAXIMUMS ARE PER THE  BAY MEADOWS PHASE  PHASE II PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 2.75 - 3.25 PER 1000 SF
RETAIL PARKING RATIO OF UP TO 4 SPACES PER 1000 SF
RESIDENTIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 1.75 - 2.25 PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT
B
B
B
B
&2'(6$1'5(*8/$7,216
APPLICABLE CODES AND AND REGULATIONS:
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE
AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT ACCESSIBILITY AND GUIDELINES
NFPA AS REFERENCED IN CALIFORNIA BUILDING AND FIRE CODE
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
*
08
04/16/2021
'(9(/230(17352-(&7'$7$	
=21,1*$1$/<6,62)),&(%8,/',1*
=21,1*$1''$7$$1$/<6,6
MU3 OFFICE BUILDING SUMMARY
MU3 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA
1.  OFFICE GENERAL BUILDING DESCRIPTION:
A) OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS:
1.  GROUP B: OFFICE
2.  GROUP A, M OR B: ACTIVE USE ZONES
3.  GROUP S-2:
ENCLOSED PARKING STRUCTURE
B)  OCCUPANCY SEPARATION: NON-SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES.
C) OFFICE CONSTRUCTION TYPE:  1B
1.  ALLOWABLE AREA (TABLE 506.2)
OCCUPANCY GROUP B - UNLIMITED
OCCUPANCY S-2 (SM)- 237,000 SF (BASE ALLOWABLE)
D)  FULLY SPRINKLERED BUILDING
2.  OFFICE FIRE RESISTIVE CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
A) FIRE RESISTIVE REQUIREMENT:
1.  TABLE 601:
1.1.  PRIMARY STRUCTUAL FRAME
: 2 HRS 
1.2.   BEARING WALLS
: 2 HRS 
1.3.   NONBEARING WALLS AND PARTITION
: NR
1.4.   FLOORS
: 2 HRS
1.5.   ROOF
: 1 HR
1.6    EXTERIOR WALLS (TABLE 602):
i) 0 FT < 30 FT
: 1 HR
ii) > 30 FT
: NR
1.7.  SHAFT ENCLOSURES
: 2HRS (SECTION 713)
1.8.  EXIT ENCLOSURES
: 2HRS 
1.9.  EXIT PASSAGE
: 2 HRS (SECTION 1024)
1.10.  HORIZONTAL EXITS
: 2 HRS (SECTION 1026)
1.11.  STORAGE ROOMS
: SMOKE PARTITIONS (SECTION 710)
B) OPENINGS:
1. TABLE 716.1 (2)
1.1  2 HR SHAFT OR FIRE BARRIER
: 90 MINS
1.2  1 HR FIRE BARRIER
: 45 MINS
2.  TABLE 705.8 MAX. AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENINGS (FULLY SPRINKLERED)
2.1  0 FT < 3 FT
NOT PERMITTED
2.1  3 FT < 5 FT
15% UNPROTECTED 
2.2  5 FT < 10 FT
25%
2.3  10 FT < 15 FT
45%
2.4  15 FT < 20 FT
75%
2.5  20 FT < 25 FT 
NO LIMIT
2.6  25 FT < 30 FT
NO LIMIT
2.7  30 FT OR GREATER
NO LIMIT 
3.  OFFICE ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT AND STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANE:
A) BUILDING HEIGHT - 180 FT  PER TABLE 504.3.
B) NUMBER OF STORIES - 12 STORIES PER TABLE 504.4
LEVEL 01 OFFICE
25,748 SF
LEVEL 02
33,724 SF
LEVEL 03
33,606 SF
LEVEL 04
31,763 SF
LOWER ROOF
919 SF
125,760 SF
OFFICE BUILDING DATA:
MU3 OFFICE BUILDING PROJECT DATA
SEE R-A0.00 F0R MU3 MULTI-FAMILY PROJECT DATA INFORMATION
MINIMUM PLUMBING FACILITIES TABLE 422.1
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
B
B
B
B

--- page 99 ---
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
4#/2«&0





























































X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
UF
UF
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
G
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
UF
VU
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WR
UN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VU
VU
WR
VU
E
WR
W
VU
UF
Y
UN
UN
UN
E
VU
UF
9
9
9
9
*
9
*
*
*
*
*
*
9
*
*
9
9
*
*
*
9
*
9
9
*
9
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
8QNXQ«('«Z«('5«4«*%/
,55
%)3
082)),&(
082)),&(
0808/7,)$0,/<
LOADING/
TRASH
PARKING
LOADING/ 
TRASH
PARKING
219.49' LOT DIMENSION
299.98' LOT DIMENSION
299.98' LOT DIMENSION
219.49'  LOT DIMENSION
SHORT TERM 
BICYCLE PARKING
LONG TERM 
BICYCLE PARKING
355.69' LOT DIMENSION
219.49'  LOT DIMENSION
BUILDING
SEPARATION
PROPOSED LOADING ZONE AND WASTE PICK UP.
DAILY OFFICE PICKUP ANTICIPATED TO OCCUR 
AS FREQUENTLY AS EACH WEEKDAY.  
221.63'  LOT DIMENSION
343.89' LOT DIMENSION
EXISTING LOADING ZONE FOR MULTI-FAMILY 
MOVE-IN PARKING, MAIL CARRIER PARKING, 
DELIVERY VEHICLE PARKING ZONE 
LONG TERM 
BICYCLE PARKING
WEST KYNE STREET
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVENUE
LANDING 
AVENUE
EAST 28TH AVENUE
MIN.
20' - 0"
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
T
R
C
R
C
T
GARBAGE TRUCK (12' X 39') SHOWN DASHED.
GARBAGE TRUCK (12' X 39') SHOWN 
DASHED.
T
C
R
PROPOSED LOADING ZONE AND 
WASTE PICK UP.  RESIDENTIAL 
TRASH PICKUP ANTICIPATED TO 
OCCUR WEEKLY. 
SIGHT TRIANGLE
SIGHT TRIANGLE
5(6
CENTERLINE OF MU3 MULTI-FAMILY MID-BLOCK 
PASSAGE ALIGN WITH  CENTERLINE OF RES 4 
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE
LANDING GREEN PARK
LOADING AREA TRUCK TURNING RADIUS.
PATH OF TRAVEL OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CONTAINERS 
FROM B1 TO COLLECTION SITE SHOWN 
DASHED.  ALSO SEE DRAWING R-A2.00 FOR 
LOCATION OF TRASH ROOM.
PATH OF TRAVEL OF OFFICE SOLID WASTE 
COLLECTION CONTAINERS  TO COLLECTION 
SITE SHOWN DASHED.  
LEGEND
BUILDING PRIMARY ENTRANCE
GARAGE ENTRY
SERVICE ENTRY
PROPERTY LINE
ADJUSTED MID-BLOCK PASSAGE EASEMENT
LOT DIMENSION
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
64'
32'
16'
As indicated
$
08
04/16/2021
29(5$//6,7(3/$1
1/32" = 1'-0"
1 OVERALL SITE PLAN.
1
NOTES:
1) SEE O-A1.53 TO O-A1.56 FOR SETBACK, BUILD-TO-ZONE REQUIREMENTS, DRIVE WIDTHS AND DISTANCE 
BETWEEN CURB CUTS.
2) LANDSCAPE SCREENING WILL BE PROVIDED AT EXPOSED ABOVE GRADE UTILITIES, SEE L1.1.1.
3) SEE L1.3.1 TREE PLANTING PLAN INCLUDING EXISTING STREET TREES AND PROPOSED REMOVALS.
4) SEE DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT OF SHORT TERM BICYCLE SPACES ON L1.2.1.
5) SEE DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT OF LONG TERM BICYCLE SPACES ON O-A1.53 FOR OFFICE BUILDING, AND 
R-A2.01 FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
A
A
A
A
B

--- page 100 ---
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
,55
%)3
4#/2«&0


&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9



































X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
UF
UF
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
UN
E
VU
UN
VU
E
WR
W
WR
WR
UN
W
G
E
GX
UN
VT
DT
DT
9
9
9
9
*
9
*
*
*
*
*
*
9
9
UP
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72



2)),&(3$5.,1*63$&(6
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
UP
LANDING AVENUE
DERBY AVENUE
S DELAWARE AVENUE
WEST KYNE ST
PARKING 
ENTRY/ EXIT
ELEVATOR 
ACCESS TO 
UPPER FLOORS
ACTIVE-USE SPACE
ACTIVE-USE SPACE
MAIN ELEC
BOH
LOADING
BUILDING 
ENTRANCE
DOOR 
OPERATOR
ACCESSIBLE STREET 
PARKING FOR ACTIVE USE
ACCESSIBLE PATH TO AND FROM 
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION AND 
SAM TRANS (SEE KEY MAP ABOVE)
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ACCESSIBLE PATH 
FROM OPPOSITE 
PUBLIC SIDEWALK
9' - 3 3/4"
5' - 0"
MIN. 18'-0"
19' - 2"
BOH
MPOE
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
OFFICE
PARKING
ELEVATOR UP TO MU3 OFFICE
                                                       
TRUNCATED DOME 
WARNING SYSTEM, 
TYPICAL
TRUNCATED DOME 
WARNING SYSTEM, 
TYPICAL
ACCESSIBLE PARKING, TYP.
A
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
BUILDING EXIT
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
64'
32'
16'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( $&&(66,%/(5287(
1/32" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE SITE ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
1/32" = 1'-0"
2 MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B1 ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
A
A
A
A
A
B

--- page 101 ---
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
,55
%)3
%7$
64)7
%7$
64)7
%7$
64)7
%7$
64)7
4#/2«&0


DN
UP
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9






























X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
*
*
'8%5
4#/2«72


'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72



5(6,'(17,$/3$5.,1*63$&(65(*$'$(9$7
2)),&(3$5.,1*63$&(6
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
'3
'3
UP
OCC. LOAD: 89
13230 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE N
OCC. LOAD: 171
2565 SF : 1/ 15SF
ACTIVE USE SPACE
OCC. LOAD: 204
3053 SF : 1/ 15SF
ACTIVE USE SPACE
OCC. LOAD: 1
128 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
110 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
110 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 3
741 SF : 1/ 300SF
TRANSFORMER RM
OCC. LOAD: 3
660 SF : 1/ 300SF
MAIN ELEC RM
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 6
1545 SF : 1/ 300SF
LOADING
OCC. LOAD: 1
133 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 19
2759 SF : 1/ 150SF
BOH
67$,5
75' - 0"
IMAGINERY PL 
BETWEEN OFFICE 
AND MULTI-FAMILY
5' - 6"
DIAGONAL DIST.
114' - 2 7/8"
DIAGONAL DIST.
123' - 7 5/8"
60' - 0"
DIAGONAL DIST.
176' - 6 1/8"
90' - 6 3/4"
LOBBY
METAL GATE
METAL GATE
OCC. LOAD: 274
54761 SF : 1/ 200SF
OFFICE PARKING
OCC. LOAD: 1
58 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
59 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 2
582 SF : 1/ 300SF
SUMP
OCC. LOAD: 9
2492 SF : 1/ 300SF
STORAGE
DIAGONAL DIST.
345' - 2 1/8"
OCC. LOAD: 148
29448 SF : 1/ 200SF
MULTI-FAMILY
PARKING
OCC. LOAD: 2
465 SF : 1/ 300SF
(R) BOILER
OCC. LOAD: 2
482 SF : 1/ 300SF
(R) MDP ROOM
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 2
308 SF : 1/ 300SF
WTR METER
OCC. LOAD: 3
606 SF : 1/ 300SF
MPOE
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
58 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
58 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 2
463 SF : 1/ 300SF
TRASH RM
567$,5
OCC. LOAD: 119
23797 SF : 1/ 200SF
OFFICE PARKING
OCC. LOAD: 2
530 SF : 1/ 300SF
STOR 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
121 SF : 1/ 150SF
(R) LOBBY
567$,5
OCC. LOAD: 4
478 SF : 1/ 150SF
BIKE STOR
OCC. LOAD: 2
173 SF : 1/ 150SF
DOG SPA
OCC. LOAD: 1
86 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC
 > 1/3 DIAG. DIST
171' - 3 1/4"
OCC. LOAD: 1
97 SF : 1/ 300SF
STOR 1
> 1/3 DIAG. DIST
117' - 3 3/4"
DIAGONAL DIST.
256' - 0 7/8"
DIAGONAL DIST.
344' - 7 3/8"
> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
107' - 5 3/4"
OCC. LOAD: 221
33111 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
67$,5
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
122 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
IMAGINERY PL BETWEEN 
OFFICE AND MULTI-FAMILY
DIAGONAL DISTANCE
321' - 10"
> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
107' - 5 3/4"
OCC. LOAD: 221
33111 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
122 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
67$,5
IMAGINERY PL BETWEEN 
OFFICE AND MULTI-FAMILY
DIAGONAL DISTANCE
321' - 10"
OCC. LOAD: 209
31335 SF : 1/ 150SF
OPEN OFFICE
> 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
107' - 6"
67$,5
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC. RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 1
OCC. LOAD: 1
122 SF : 1/ 300SF
ELEC RM 2
OCC. LOAD: 1
117 SF : 1/ 300SF
IDF RM 2
67$,5
NON OCUPPIED ROOF
IMAGINERY PL BETWEEN 
OFFICE AND MULTI-FAMILY
DIAGONAL DISTANCE
313' - 10"
OCC. LOAD: 17
5126 SF : 1/ 300SF
MEP N
OCC. LOAD: 11
3237 SF : 1/ 300SF
MEP S
OCC. LOAD: 3
450 SF : 1/ 150SF
ELEV LOBBY N
OCC. LOAD: 1
87 SF : 1/ 150SF
SERV. ELEV. LOBBY S
OCC. LOAD: 180
2688 SF : 1/ 15SF
FUTURE TERRACE
OCC. LOAD: 2
436 SF : 1/ 300SF
MEP
IMAGINERY PL BETWEEN 
OFFICE AND MULTI-FAMILY
19' - 10 7/8"
DIAGONAL DIST.
78' - 2 1/2"
CODE COMPLIANCE PLAN
GENERAL NOTES
1.  CBC TABLE 1004.5: MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCE    
PER OCCUPANT/ OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR:
A) ACCESSORY STORAGE AREAS, MECHANICAL 
    
    EQUIPMENT ROOM
  : 300 GSF/ OCC
B) ASSEMBLY WITHOUT FIXED SEATS:
    UNCONCENTRATED
  : 15 NET/ OCC
C) BUSINESS AREAS
  : 150 GSF/ OCC
D) MECANTILE
  : 60 GSF/ OCC
    STORAGE, STOCK, SHIPPING AREA : 300 GSF/ OCC
E) PARKING GARAGE
  : 200 GSF/ OCC
2.  EGRESS COMPONENT CAPACITY FACTOR:
A) STAIR WAY EGRESS CAPACITY FACTOR: 0.3"/ OCC
B) DOOR EGRESS CAPACITY FACTOR: 0.2"/ OCC
3.  CBC TABLE 1006.3.2: MINIMUM NUMBER OF EXITS OR 
ACCESS TO EXITS PER STORY:
1-500 OCC
: MIN. 2 
501 - 1000 OCC
: MIN. 3
4.  CBC TABLE 1006.2.1: SPACE WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT 
ACCESS (WITH SPRINKLERED )/ MAX COMMON PATH 
EGRESS DISTANCE:
A) ASSEMBLY, MECANTILE OCCUPANCY : 75 FT
B) OCCUPANCY: 100 FT
C) S OCCUPANCY: 100 FT
5.  CBC TABLE 1017.2: EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE 
(WITH SPRINKLER)
A) ASSEMBLY, MECANTILE : 250 FT
B) BUSINESS OOCCUPANCY: 300 FT
C) S-2 OCCUPANCY: 400 FT
6. STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED: 54"
NUMBER OF STAIRS PER FLOOR : 2
NUMBER  OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWABLE = (54" / 0.3) X 2 = 360
7. TYPICAL DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 36"
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS ALLOWED: 36"/ 0.2" = 180
8. PER CBC 1005.6, THE EGRESS DOORS AND PASSAGE 
WAYS FOR CONVERGED OCCUPANT LOAD FROM TWO 
ADJACENT STORIES ARE CALCULATED AS FOLLOWS:
STAIR 1 & 2:
EGRESS CAPACITY AT B1 = 65
EGRESS CAPACITY AT L2 = 113
CONVERGENCE TOTAL AT LEVEL 1 = 178 (BOTH STAIR 1 & 2)
SEE PLAN FOR CORRIDOR AND DOOR WIDTH ON L1.
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( (;,7,1*3/$16
1" = 50'-0"
3 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
1 MU3 PARKING - B2 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
2 MU3 PARKING - B1 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
4 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
5 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
6 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 EXITING PLAN
1" = 50'-0"
7 MU3 OFFICE - ROOF EXITING PLAN
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  214
ELEV LOBBY N:  3 OCC
S. ELEV LOBBY S:  1 OCC
FUTURE TERRACE: 180 OCC
MEP N: 17 OCC
MEP ROOM: 2 OCC
MEP S: 11 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 214/ 2 = 107
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 107 X 0.3" = 32.1"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 107
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 107 X 0.2" = 21.4"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  225
OPEN OFFICE:  221 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 225/ 2 = 113
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 113 X 0.3" = 33.9"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 113
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 113 X 0.2" = 22.6"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  225
OPEN OFFICE:  221 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 225/ 2 = 113
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 113 X 0.3" = 33.9"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 112
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 112 X 0.2" = 22.4"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  213
OPEN OFFICE:  209 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 2: 1 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
= 213/ 2 = 107
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 107 X 0.3" = 32.1"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 107
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 107 X 0.2" = 21.4"
TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD:  287
OFFICE PARKING:  274 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
STORAGE : 9 OCC
SUMP: 2 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
=287/ 2 = 144
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED 
= 144 X 0.3" = 43.2"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 144
DOOR WITH REQUIRED
= 144 X 0.2" = 28.8"
OFFICE PARKING OCCUPANT LOAD:  129
OFFICE PARKING:  119 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 2: 1 OCC
MPOE: 3 OCC
WATER METER: 2 OCC
STOR 1: 1 OCC
STOR 2: 2 OCC
STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
=129/ 2 = 65
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED = 65 X 0.3" = 19.5"
STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 65
DOOR WITH REQUIRED= 65 X 0.2" = 13.0"
RESIDENTIAL PARKING OCCUPANT LOAD:  162
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:  148 OCC
RESIDENTIAL PARKING LOBBY: 1 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
BOILER RM: 2 OCC
MDP RM: 2 OCC
TRASH RM: 2 OCC
BIKE STR: 4 OCC
DOG SPA: 2 OCC
(R) STAIR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NUMBER OF STAIRS: 2
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR 
=162/ 2 = 81
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED = 81 X 0.3" = 24.3"
(R) STAIR DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
OCCUPANTS PER STAIR = 81
DOOR WITH REQUIRED= 81 X 0.2" = 16.2"
OFFICE (N) OCCUPANT LOAD:  269
OPEN OFFICE N:  89 OCC
ELEC. RM 1: 1 OCC
IDF RM 1: 1 OCC
OCCUPANTS FROM B1: 65 OCC
OCCUPANTS FROM L2: 113 OCC
LOBBY (N) DOOR WIDTH CALCULATIONS:
NO. OF DOORS: 3 (@ MAIN LOBBY EXIT)
OCCUPANTS PER DOOR  = 269/3 = 89.66
DOOR WIDTH REQUIRED= 89.66 X 0.2" = 17.9"
EGRESS DOORS AND 
PASSAGEWAY AT STAIR 1:
OCCUPANT LOAD = 178 (65 + 113)
PASSAGEWAY AND DOOR WIDTH 
REQ'D: 178 X 0.2" = 35.6"
PASSAGE WIDTH PROVIDED: 66"
EXIT DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 36"
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B
B
B

--- page 102 ---
4#/2«72


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
2.1













F
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/%$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE LEVEL B2 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL B2
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
128' - 6"
281' - 4"
36,151 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
2
81' - 0"
96' - 7"
7,823 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
4
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
5
10' - 5 1/4"
32' - 0"
334 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
6
12' - 6 1/4"
33' - 0 3/4"
413 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
7
67' - 11"
81' - 0"
5,501 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
8
32' - 0"
49' - 0"
1,568 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
9
12' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
169 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
10
13' - 0"
71' - 10 1/4"
934 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
11
6' - 5 3/4"
84' - 10"
550 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
12
51' - 9 1/4"
61' - 6 1/4"
3,185 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
13
33' - 0 3/4"
49' - 0"
1,620 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
58,939 SF
A

--- page 103 ---
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
'3
'3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
2.1






































F
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/%$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE LEVEL B1 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL B1
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
19' - 5"
25' - 5"
494 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
2
25' - 5"
261' - 11"
6,657 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3
19' - 1"
221' - 5 1/2"
4,228 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
4
10' - 4"
50' - 2 1/4"
518 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
5
10' - 4"
22' - 6 1/2"
233 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
6
10' - 4"
36' - 3 1/4"
374 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
7
19' - 2 1/2"
23' - 0"
442 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
8
5' - 0"
6' - 6"
33 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
9
17' - 3 1/2"
29' - 6"
510 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
10
11' - 10 3/4"
31' - 1 1/4"
370 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
11
10' - 4 3/4"
31' - 1 1/4"
323 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
12
12' - 7 1/4"
14' - 2 1/2"
179 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
13
6' - 0"
14' - 2 1/2"
85 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
14
14' - 2 1/2"
64' - 10 3/4"
921 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
15
22' - 3 1/2"
30' - 4"
676 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
16
11' - 11 3/4"
15' - 6 3/4"
186 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
17
10' - 3 3/4"
15' - 6 3/4"
160 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
18
20' - 0"
23' - 10"
477 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
19
24' - 9"
59' - 10"
1,481 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
20
23' - 10"
45' - 10"
1,092 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
21
7' - 0"
65' - 10"
461 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
22
47' - 6"
172' - 4"
8,186 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
23
73' - 8"
109' - 0"
8,030 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
24
81' - 0"
96' - 7"
7,823 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
25
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
26
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
27
10' - 5 1/4"
32' - 0"
334 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
28
67' - 11"
81' - 0"
5,501 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
29
5' - 8"
5' - 11 1/2"
34 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
30
32' - 0"
49' - 0"
1,568 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
31
12' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
169 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
32
4' - 10 1/2"
11' - 7"
56 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
33
8' - 1 1/2"
11' - 7"
94 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
34
12' - 6 1/4"
33' - 0 3/4"
413 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
35
13' - 0"
60' - 3 1/4"
784 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
36
6' - 5 3/4"
33' - 0 3/4"
214 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
37
18' - 11 3/4"
51' - 9 1/4"
983 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
38
49' - 0 1/4"
84' - 10"
4,159 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
58,939 SF
A

--- page 104 ---
4#/2«&0
































X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
VT
DT
DT
*
*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
BOH
MAIN
ELEC
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
18' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
28' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
29' - 10 3/4"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
34' - 0 1/4"
17' - 11 187/256"

























2.1
PARKING
LOADING
BIKE 
STORAGE
F
















HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE LEVEL 01 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 01
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
34' - 0"
116' - 9 3/4"
3,972 SF
2
12' - 7 1/2"
32' - 0"
404 SF
3
5' - 11 1/4"
12' - 5 1/4"
74 SF MEP SHAFT
4
12' - 5 1/4"
26' - 0 3/4"
324 SF
5
32' - 0"
78' - 0"
2,496 SF
6
25' - 0"
30' - 4"
758 SF
7
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF STAIR 1
8
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF
9
10' - 5 1/4"
22' - 0"
230 SF ELEVATOR SHAFT
10
10' - 0"
10' - 5 1/4"
104 SF
11
12' - 1"
32' - 0"
386 SF
12
8' - 8 1/4"
38' - 0"
330 SF
13
27' - 11 3/4"
115' - 0 3/4"
3,219 SF
14
32' - 1"
33' - 11 3/4"
1,090 SF
14
2' - 0"
10' - 0 1/4"
20 SF
15
29' - 11 3/4"
113' - 2"
3,392 SF
16
11' - 0"
33' - 2 1/4"
365 SF
17
18' - 5 1/4"
21' - 0"
387 SF
18
11' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
156 SF ELEVATOR SHAFT
19
6' - 5 3/4"
50' - 1 1/2"
325 SF
20
4' - 10 1/2"
11' - 7"
56 SF MEP SHAFT
21
8' - 1 1/2"
11' - 7"
94 SF
22
13' - 0"
26' - 6 3/4"
345 SF
23
8' - 6"
29' - 10 1/2"
254 SF
24
12' - 6 1/4"
31' - 0 3/4"
388 SF STAIR 2
25
12' - 6 1/4"
19' - 0 3/4"
239 SF
40
2' - 0"
3' - 9"
8 SF
41
0' - 6"
1' - 9 3/4"
1 SF
42
0' - 6"
1' - 9 3/4"
1 SF
43
0' - 6"
1' - 9 3/4"
1 SF
44
0' - 6"
1' - 9 3/4"
1 SF
45
0' - 6"
1' - 9 3/4"
1 SF
46
0' - 6"
1' - 10"
1 SF
47
2' - 0"
5' - 0"
10 SF
48
0' - 6"
2' - 0"
1 SF
49
2' - 0"
3' - 9"
8 SF
50
24' - 8"
123' - 9"
3,053 SF ACTIVE USE
51
22' - 8"
113' - 2"
2,565 SF ACTIVE USE
25,748 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 01  EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
60
14' - 9"
21' - 0"
310 SF EXEMPT, BIKE FACILITIES
61
23' - 6"
26' - 0"
611 SF EXEMPT, LOADING
62
25' - 0"
109' - 3 1/2"
2,732 SF EXEMPT, PARKING
3,653 SF
A

--- page 105 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H




























2.1
F
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE  LEVEL 02 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 02
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
10' - 0"
33' - 2"
332 SF
2
23' - 1"
36' - 0 1/4"
832 SF
3
23' - 1"
28' - 0"
647 SF
4
10' - 0"
18' - 6"
185 SF
5
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
60 SF MEP SHAFT
6
33' - 1"
55' - 11 3/4"
1,852 SF
7
80' - 0"
120' - 0 1/4"
9,601 SF
8
34' - 0 1/4"
45' - 11 1/2"
1,563 SF
9
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF
10
10' - 5 1/4"
11' - 0"
115 SF
11
13' - 11 1/2"
32' - 0"
446 SF
12
45' - 11 1/2"
53' - 11 3/4"
2,481 SF
13
19' - 11"
72' - 0"
1,434 SF
14
34' - 0 1/4"
119' - 2 1/4"
4,056 SF
15
1' - 10"
24' - 1 3/4"
44 SF
16
32' - 0"
34' - 0 3/4"
1,090 SF
17
8' - 6 3/4"
11' - 1 3/4"
95 SF
18
7' - 11 1/4"
13' - 0"
103 SF MEP SHAFT
19
0' - 5 1/4"
11' - 1 3/4"
5 SF
20
6' - 5 3/4"
32' - 0 3/4"
208 SF
21
32' - 0"
54' - 11 1/4"
1,758 SF
22
53' - 11 3/4"
121' - 0 1/2"
6,534 SF
33,724 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 02  EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
50
3' - 6"
10' - 0"
35 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
51
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
52
10' - 5 1/4"
21' - 0"
219 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
53
12' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
169 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
54
4' - 0"
11' - 1 3/4"
45 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
55
12' - 6 1/4"
32' - 0 3/4"
401 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
1,274 SF
A
B

--- page 106 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H





























2.1
F

0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE  LEVEL 03 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 03
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
10' - 0"
33' - 2"
332 SF
2
23' - 1"
36' - 0 1/4"
832 SF
3
23' - 1"
28' - 0"
646 SF
4
10' - 0"
18' - 6"
185 SF
5
33' - 1"
55' - 11 3/4"
1,852 SF
6
80' - 0"
120' - 0"
9,600 SF
7
34' - 0 1/4"
45' - 11 1/2"
1,563 SF
8
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF
9
10' - 5 1/4"
11' - 0"
115 SF
10
13' - 11 1/2"
32' - 0"
446 SF
11
45' - 11 1/2"
53' - 11 3/4"
2,480 SF
12
19' - 11"
72' - 0"
1,434 SF
13
34' - 0 1/4"
119' - 2 1/4"
4,056 SF
14
1' - 10 1/4"
24' - 1 3/4"
45 SF
15
32' - 0"
34' - 0 3/4"
1,090 SF
16
2' - 0"
13' - 0"
26 SF
17
1' - 11"
5' - 5"
10 SF
18
8' - 6 3/4"
11' - 7"
99 SF
19
0' - 5 1/4"
17' - 0"
7 SF
20
0' - 5 1/4"
4' - 0"
2 SF
21
6' - 5 3/4"
31' - 11 3/4"
207 SF
22
32' - 0"
55' - 0 1/4"
1,760 SF
23
53' - 11 3/4"
121' - 0 1/2"
6,534 SF
33,606 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 03 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
50
3' - 6"
10' - 0"
35 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
51
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
60 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
52
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
53
10' - 5 1/4"
21' - 0"
219 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
54
12' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
169 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
55
4' - 0"
11' - 1 3/4"
45 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
56
5' - 5"
10' - 7 3/4"
58 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
57
12' - 6 1/4"
32' - 0 3/4"
401 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
1,392 SF
A
B

--- page 107 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H





























2.1
F




0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/$5($3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE  LEVEL 04 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 04
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
23' - 1"
36' - 0 1/4"
832 SF
2
13' - 1"
22' - 0"
288 SF
3
6' - 0"
13' - 1"
78 SF
4
10' - 0"
18' - 6"
185 SF
5
23' - 1"
54' - 7 3/4"
1,262 SF
6
80' - 0"
118' - 8 1/4"
9,494 SF
7
34' - 0 1/4"
45' - 11 1/2"
1,563 SF
8
8' - 10 3/4"
32' - 0"
284 SF
9
10' - 5 1/4"
11' - 0"
115 SF
10
14' - 11"
32' - 0"
477 SF
11
0' - 11 3/4"
5' - 0 1/4"
5 SF
12
1' - 4"
34' - 11 3/4"
47 SF
13
34' - 11 3/4"
46' - 11"
1,641 SF
14
17' - 8 1/4"
45' - 10"
810 SF
15
18' - 11 1/2"
72' - 0"
1,364 SF
16
34' - 0 1/4"
119' - 2 1/4"
4,056 SF
18
32' - 0"
34' - 0 1/4"
1,088 SF
19
2' - 1"
11' - 0"
23 SF
20
8' - 6 3/4"
10' - 7"
91 SF
21
2' - 0"
7' - 6"
15 SF
22
0' - 5 1/4"
16' - 0"
7 SF
23
0' - 5 1/4"
4' - 0"
2 SF
24
6' - 5 3/4"
32' - 1 1/4"
208 SF
25
32' - 0"
53' - 1"
1,699 SF
26
52' - 8"
113' - 8 1/2"
5,988 SF
26
4' - 1 3/4"
34' - 1 3/4"
142 SF
31,763 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - LEVEL 04 EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
50
3' - 6"
10' - 0"
35 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
51
6' - 0"
10' - 0"
60 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
52
12' - 8 1/4"
32' - 0"
406 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
53
10' - 5 1/4"
21' - 0"
219 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
54
13' - 0"
14' - 0 1/4"
182 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
55
4' - 0"
10' - 1 3/4"
41 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
56
5' - 5"
10' - 6 1/2"
57 SF EXEMPT, MEP SHAFT
57
10' - 0"
28' - 0 1/4"
280 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
1,280 SF
A
B

--- page 108 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
2.1








F
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/ 522)$5($
3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE  LEVEL 05 - AREA CALCULATION
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - ROOF
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
1
11' - 0"
20' - 7"
226 SF
2
10' - 1 3/4"
21' - 0"
213 SF
3
12' - 2"
32' - 6"
395 SF
4
6' - 5 3/4"
12' - 11 3/4"
84 SF
919 SF
FLOOR AREA SCHEDULE - ROOF EXCLUSIONS
Section
Width
Length
Area
Comments
50
11' - 11"
32' - 0"
381 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 1
51
10' - 5 1/4"
21' - 0"
219 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
53
12' - 11 3/4"
13' - 0"
169 SF EXEMPT, ELEVATOR SHAFT
54
12' - 6 1/4"
32' - 0 3/4"
401 SF EXEMPT, STAIR 2
1,170 SF
A

--- page 109 ---
'8%5
4#/2«72


'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3

§

§

§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'8%5
4#/2«72


'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
%
('8%5

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3

§

§

§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§
4
§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
STORAGE
2
O-A2.61
OFFICE PARKING
SUMP
1
O-A2.61
2.1
ELEC.
RM 2
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
STAIR 1
STORAGE
STAIR 2
F
85' - 0"
NOTES:
1) PARKING LAYOUT COMPLY WITH SAN MATEO PARKING STANDARDS 
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND PARKING LOT LAYOUTS.  SEE 
DIMENSIONS ON PARKING PLAN FOR DIMENSIONS AT CONFINED 
STALLS AND RESTRICTED STALLS.
2) SEE PARKING PLAN FOR MANEUVERABILITY WITHIN GARAGE DRIVE AISLES.
3) SEE SECTION 1/O-A2.61 FOR RAMP PROFILE.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1*%3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN
A
B
B
B
B

--- page 110 ---
UP
6
6
6
6
6
('8%5
('8%5
4#/2«&0
4#/2«72



5(6,'(17,$/3$5.,1*63$&(65(*$'$(9$7
2)),&(3$5.,1*63$&(6
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
123$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
12
3$5.,1*
8
('8§8#
('8§#
('8§8#
('8§#
'8§#/$
8
'8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
('8%5
'8%5

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
4
§

§

§
4
§
4
§
4
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§ 
§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3'3
'3
h

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§ 
§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§

§
'3
'3

§
'3
'3
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
2«§«2CUUGPIGT«%CT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
BOH
MPOE
2
O-A2.61
1
O-A2.61
2.1
ELEC.
RM2
24' - 0"
ROLL-DOWN 
GATE
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
OFFICE
PARKING
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ELEC. 1
WATER
METER
F
B
B
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
RESIDENTIAL PARKING 
NOTES:
1) PARKING LAYOUT COMPLY WITH SAN MATEO PARKING STANDARDS 
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND PARKING LOT LAYOUTS.  SEE 
DIMENSIONS ON PARKING PLAN FOR DIMENSIONS AT CONFINED 
STALLS AND RESTRICTED STALLS.
2) SEE PARKING PLAN FOR MANEUVERABILITY WITHIN GARAGE DRIVE AISLES.
3) SEE SECTION 1/O-A2.61 FOR RAMP PROFILE.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&(3$5.,1* %3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
A
B
B

--- page 111 ---
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
,55
%)3
4#/2«&0


DN
UP
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9
&9






























X
X
X
X
VU
VU
UN
E
VU
UN
UF
G
G
WR
G
UN
GX
G
EX
UN
UN
UN
G
GX
Y
KT
E
UN
UN
GX
UF
UF
UF
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UF
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
WE
WR
UF
VU
VU
KT
UF
Y
G
WR
UF
KT
VT
DT
DT
*
*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
2
O-A2.61
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
1
O-A2.61
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
115' - 4 1/4"
114' - 6"
STAIR 2
GAS METER
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
PARKING
LOADING
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
RESIDENTIAL
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
113' - 6 1/2"
113' - 2 1/4"
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
T
C
R
25' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
115' - 0"
114' - 6"
115' - 6"
115' - 0"
STR
3' - 6"
3' - 6"
1' - 6"
TYP.
1' - 4"
1' - 6"
LOBBY
METAL GATE
METAL GATE
113' - 7 3/4"
IMAGINERY PL TO 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
5' - 0"
0' - 6"
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 72' - 7" TO CURB CORNER
CURBCUT
20' - 0"
5' - 0"
CURBCUT
20' - 0"
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 109' - 0 3/8" TO CURB CORNER
140' - 0 7/8" OFFICE
79' - 5" RESIDENTIAL
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1 - 3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 100% PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 94.00% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE, 88.64% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
36' - 2"
72' - 0"
MU3 
RESIDENTIAL
MU3 OFFICE
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE :
ALLOWABLE BUILDING DEPTH TO BE COVERED BY STORY ABOVE NOT TO EXCEED  60%
TOTAL PASSAGE LENGTH:  209'-5 7/8" 
60% OF PASSAGE LENGTH : 209'-5 7/8" X 0.6 = 125'-8 1/4"
TOTAL PASSAGE COVERAGE: 72' + 36'-2" = 108'-2" (51.63%)
209' - 5 7/8"
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN
A
A

--- page 112 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
2
O-A2.61
1
O-A2.61
ELEC .
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
OPEN
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
IMAGINERY PL TO 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
5' - 0"
140' - 0 7/8"   OFFICE
79' - 5" RESIDENTIAL
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
ENCROACHMENT
46' - 11 3/4"
158' - 11"
5' - 0"
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1 - 3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 100% PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 94.00% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE, 88.64% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
32'
16'
8'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 PLAN
A
A
B

--- page 113 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
2
O-A2.61
1
O-A2.61
ELEC.
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
OPEN
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
IMAGINERY PL TO 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
5' - 0"
79' - 5" RESIDENTIAL
140' - 0 7/8"   OFFICE
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
ENCROACHMENT
46' - 11 3/4"
121' - 0"
158' - 11"
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
NOTES:
1) BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 1 - 3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 100% PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: FLOOR 1-3: MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 94.00% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: MIN. 80% WITHIN 5' OF PROPERTY LINE, 88.64% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN
A
A
B

--- page 114 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
2
O-A2.61
1
O-A2.61
ELEC.
RM 2
STAIR 2
IDF
RM 2
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
STAIR 1
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
IMAGINERY PL TO 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
140' - 0 7/8"   OFFICE
79' - 5"   MULTI-FAMILY
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
BUILD-TO ZONE REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVENUE: FLOOR 4-5: MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 100% PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: FLOOR 4-5: MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE, 100% PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: TOP FLOOR: MIN. 70% WITHIN 10' OF PROPERTY LINE, 89.12% PROVIDED.
2) HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT:
DERBY AVE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
DELAWARE STREET: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
LANDING AVENUE: 60' MIN, 60' PROVIDED.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /(9(/3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 PLAN
A
B

--- page 115 ---
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
2
O-A2.61
1
O-A2.61
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
PAD
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
PAD
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
MEP N
MEP S
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
PROPOSED LOCATION FOR SOLAR PV 
SYSTEM SHOWN DASHED. +/- 500 SF FOR 
5KW SOLAR PV SYSTEM.
MEP
LOBBY
POTENTIAL FUTURE 
TERRACE/ TENANT 
IMPROVEMENT SPACE 
RESIDENTIAL
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
12' - 0"
42' - 0"
IMAGINERY PL TO 
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
 PROJECTION
4' - 0"   ALLOWABLE
PROJECTION
4' - 0 1/8"   ALLOWABLE
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
1/16" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( /2:(5522)3/$1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN
A
B
B

--- page 116 ---
“Sto 3 | MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES | a=|
MEANY
” a CRON LION:

® OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CA"TURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 10FT.
@® RETA STOREFRONT 2 SIDE) SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY.

HH HART HOW? RTON

Perkins&Will

(38) FACADE GLAZEDINMETAL PANEL

Specs)

10 os roe (©) oversize 19-4 woe 4 som sso
ng
fee: % suelo (@) weTALFINCAPS
ini pe gape an ———
= OO OOM WAM 0 eos non
jimi il lll fi i ll i OO A 7 | . Spee :
= | (@) wera. pane soFFiT | <
sen ay some ae :
(@)MUB NORTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE rere oman ag a
e= re -
. ae
“| amen
' ‘STAR 2 AND FREIGHT ELEVATOR BULKHEAD an
e | : =
A attest lS sme. {|| o 8]
| | TOE il ren w 5
WYO A a LT Lf il [ =é
== es S |
meats = CY ” ' wa
TET <A 2 s :
=: 2 foe]
FFI T IN - ie T NOT FOR ——
cate 04/16/2021

O-A2.51


--- page 117 ---
MATER LESENOANOOTES] © NS
= T a * MATERIALS LEGEND: MEANY

OS OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL
® OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 10FT.
Wi HART HOWERTON
~ 4 ((@) RETAL STOREFRONT 2 SIDED $56 TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY HED sew voor san raanosco

METAL SCREEN AT ROOF TOP. oT MOMOK , Ay
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT (reteace . *
ge ae Perkins&Will
=< _— CNC tocececs
NER BOE, Project Sto, 4098 90.008

(©) OvERSZED 10:0" wide 4 DED ssa

(@) METAL FINCAS

ery
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ene (7m) ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL 2STONE BOARD FORM VENE
(>) Saitan wn CONCRETE ADDITWE SLYCRSWOME) COLOR TE K 12
eae (@) SOLD METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATROX SERIES OR SIMILAR,
Qieptome (©) PARKLEX PANEL 02 SIMILAR, So
LAMINATED WOOO WOOD-LIKE EXTERIOR PANEL =
Q eon once to (@) METAL PANEL sort | 5
2a z
NOTES: [4 oO
MU3 S TH TION - DING AVEN! semen con aes = ‘ ee 4
M $9 NEONTLIT PER SAN MATEO CTY CHARTER AND MUNICPAL 5 =|
{TEM 77.02.060 USE AND BULK REGULA > =
Se
eo ow
eg &
se OF i
a2 3 3
5 ) a) @ @ 3 3 ge 2 2
| METAL SCREEN AT ROOF TOP j— METAL SCREEN AT ROOF TOP =
| MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT e
STAIR 2 AND FREIGHT ELEVATOR BULKHEAD MEP. STAR 1 AND PASSENGER
IATOR BULKHEAD
nO
nwo gs
o 2
O«<z i
<8)
us
3
= oO
gi
o , © >:
smugness > ag
esr Ss z
oO} MU3 OFFICE EAST ELEVATION - MID-BLOCK OPEN SPACE oe.
wer = tar NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/16/2021


--- page 118 ---
FE 2
ane

® © © ©

©

| po METAL SCREEN AT ROOF TOP
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

Oo © @

a»

|
i —me,| © @| sume | oo
FEN PE ‘ ‘ ' TOP OF MECHANICAL
‘ he 2 Te 3 mee rd
i = SEG re
: : + MEH ae
i | by . i
| mes 'f > i]
ib : |
crree | Id N
la | momo C ) ; :
PEDESTIOAN PARRA 2
Exctioenht ume! & __iasn
_awerveaan pcan | cree rewna || erie a vt
es | Tif ersian |

QO © 7 ©

j-— ELEVATOR AND STAIR 1 BULKHEAD

© ©

MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES

MATERIALS LEGEND:
OFFICE FACADEMATERIAL

(®) OFFICE 2 SHED $86 TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY SFT OR 106T
@® RETAL STOREFIONT 2 SOED SSG YP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY

(22) FACADE GLAZEDIN METAL PANEL hs
eucsssosrcscs
(©) oversize 10-7 MOE 4 SIDED $86

(@) wETAL INCAS

ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR
‘SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADOITIVE (SiLVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72°X 6" X 1/2",

©) SOLID METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATROX SERIES OR SIMILAR
‘SOFFIT SYSTEM:
(O) PARKLEX PANELOR SIMEAR,
LAMINATED WOOD! WOOD-LIKE EXTERIOR PANEL
(METAL PANEL S<eFIT

(NOTES:

. ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL APPURTENANCES
ABOVE 55° HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL
ITEM 27 02.060 USE AND BULK REGULATIONS.

WILSON
MEANY

a ae aeeatee

Perkins&Will

g
E
:
g
2
8
:
Fs

SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE Il DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

As indicated

MU3

BAY MEADOWS
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

Alreproduchon & btelectaal property nghts reserved 0.2019

g
Pal

O-A2.61


--- page 119 ---
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
OFFICE 2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 5FT OR 10FT.
RETAIL STOREFRONT  2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 
10FT.
FACADE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL 
FACADE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
METAL FIN CAPS
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER OR 
SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR, 72” X 6” X 1/2”.
SOLID METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATRIX SERIES OR SIMILAR
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR,
LAMINATED WOOD/ WOOD-LIKE EXTERIOR PANEL
METAL PANEL SOFFIT
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL APPURTENANCES 
ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL 
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK REGULATIONS.
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
1A
3B
4
6B
7B
8
9
MATERIALS LEGEND:
1B
11
3D
B
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
3URMHFW1R
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
1
1'
1'
0'
1/8" = 1'-0"
2$
08
04/16/2021
082)),&( (;7(5,250$7(5,$/6
PARKLEX PANEL OR SIMILAR,
NATURAL WOOD/ WOOD LIKE 
EXTERIOR PANEL
2STONE BOARD FORM VENEER 
OR SIMILAR WITH CONCRETE 
ADDITIVE (SILVERSMOKE) COLOR
MORIN MATRIX SERIES
SOLID METAL SCREEN 
OR SIMILAR
RETAIL STOREFRONT GLAZING:
SOLARBAN 72 STARSPHIRE OR SIMILAR
2 SIDED SSG, CAPTURED VERTICALLY 
AT EVERY 10 FT
OFFICE FACADE GLAZING:
SOLARBAN 72 ACUITY OR SIMILAR
2 SIDED SSG,  
CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 
5 FT OR 10 FT 
4 SIDED SSG, 10 FT WIDE
$
%

%


METAL PANEL SOFFIT
SILVER GRAY COLOR 

METAL FIN CAP
SILVER GRAY COLOR
&
ȃ
Ȉ
ȃ
ȅ
ȋ
ȅ
ȃ
ȅ
ȃ
ȅ
Ȉ
FACADE GLAZED IN METAL PANEL
SILVER GRAY COLOR OR SIM.
%
ȃ
A
ȉ
FACADE GLAZED IN METAL PANEL
DARK GRAY COLOR OR SIM.
'
B
B
Ȉ
B
B
B

--- page 120 ---
CODE ANALYSIS
APPLICABLE CODES
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC) AND SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE (SMMC)
ACCESSIBILITY
ALL NEW MECHANICAL WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CMC) AND SMMC
100% OF UNITS SHALL BE ADAPTABLE PER CBC 2019, CHAPTER 11A
ALL COMMON USE AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC 2019, CHAPTER 11A
ALL PUBLIC AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC 2019, CHAPTER 11A
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (CAL GREEN)
ALL NEW ELECTRICAL WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE (CEC) AND SMMC
ALL NEW FIRE PROTECTION  WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (CFC) AND SMMC
ALL NEW PLUMBING WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE (CPC) AND SMMC
ALL UNITS TO INCLUDE ONE COMPLYING BATHROOM PER 1134A.2 - OPTION 2
2019 CBC BUILDING CODE ANALYSIS OF NEW RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
USE AND OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION
R-2
A-3
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
COMMON
AMENITIES
BASEMENT
PARKING GARAGE
OCCUPANCY SEPARATION
R-2 / S-2 = 2 HR
A-3 / S-2 = 2 HR
R-2 / S-2 = 2 HR
CONSTRUCTION TYPE
PRIMARY STRUCTURAL FRAME
3
ASSEMBLY FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS
BUILDING ELEMENT
CONSTRUCTION TYP VA
EXIT ENCLOSURES AND SHAFTS
NON-BEARING WALLS / INT. PARTITIONS
EXT. WALL OPENINGS AT PROPERTY LINES
FOR RATINGS BETWEEN DIFFERENT USE AND OCCUPANCY GROUPS, SEE TABLE ABOVE.
FIRE RESISTANCE RATINGS PER CBC CHAPTER 6 - SEE TABLES 601 AND 602 FOR ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
PROJECT DATA (CODE ANALYSIS)
VA
VA
1A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING AND PARKING GARAGE EQUIPPED WITH FULLY AUTOMATED FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM
SPRINKLERED
SPRINKLERED
SPRINKLERED
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
CONSTRUCTION TYP 1A
(HOURS)
(HOURS)
BEARING WALLS - EXTERIOR
BEARING WALLS - INTERIOR
1
N/A
N/A
0
0
3
1
3
1
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION AND ASSOCIATED
SECONDARY MEMBERS
ROOF CONSTRUCTION AND ASSOCIATED
SECONDARY MEMBERS
2
1
1.5
1
2
2
FIRE SEPARATIONS PER USE PER CBC TABLE 508.4
PLUMBING FIXTURE COUNTS
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DATA
ZONING
PROJECT DATA (ZONING ANALYSIS)
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN (BMSP)
APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS:
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT (SPA)
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS (DG)
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE (SMMC)
BUILDING AREA
DENSITY
F.A.R.
HEIGHT (TYP.)2
VEHICLE PARKING
SUBJECT TO SPAR REVIEW
UNIT TYPE
STUDIO
1 BEDROOM
2 BEDROOM
24
41
2
1.0
24.0
41.0
4.0
UNIT NUMBER
PARKING RATIO
COUNT (STALLS)
TOTAL REQUIRED (PER ZONING REGULATION)
69.0 STALLS
1.0
2.0
OPEN SPACE
UNIT TYPE
TOTAL OPEN SPACE
NONE
2,280 SF
REFERENCE: BMSP AMENDMENT - TABLE IV-6
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
53 SF / UNIT
FLOOR AREA
ZONING FLOOR AREA1, 2, 3
GROUND FLOOR
SECOND FLOOR
THIRD FLOOR
FOURTH FLOOR
FOURTH FLOOR LOFTS
1. SEE ZONING CODE SECTION 27.04.200 (b) (1) FOR FULL FLOOR AREA DEFINITION.
2. SEE ZONING CODE SECTION 27.04.200 (b) (2) FOR FULL LIST OF FLOOR AREA EXCLUSIONS.
3. SEE ZONING CODE SECTION 27.04.200 (d) FOR FULL LIST OF PARKING FLOOR AREA EXCLUSIONS (DOES NOT
APPLY TO GENERAL OFFICE, RETAIL STORES, FOOD STORES, DRUG STORES, AND SHOPPING CENTER USES)
14,646 SF
14,888 SF
14,888 SF
14,888 SF
8,121 SF
ZONING DESIGNATION: MU3 BLOCK DEVELOPED UNDER MIXED USE STANDARDS - BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC
PLAN AMENDMENT
COMMON OPEN SPACE
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
NONE
NONE
1,280 SF
BIKE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS: BASED ON SAN MATEO ZONING SECTION 27.64.262 BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES
UNIT TYPE
STUDIO
1 BEDROOM
2 BEDROOM
24
41
2
1.00
24
41
 3
DU
SPACES / DU
SPACES
RESIDENTIAL SUB-TOTAL
68 SPACES
1.00
1.25
LONG-TERM (SECURED)
UNIT TYPE
STUDIO
1 BEDROOM
2 BEDROOM
24
41
2
0.05
2
3
1
DU
SPACES / DU
SPACES
6 SPACES
0.05
0.10
SHORT-TERM (VISITOR)
TOTAL FLOOR AREA
67,431 SF
PARCEL DATA
55' - 0"
3.0 1
50 DU / ACRE
ALLOWED / REQUIRED
PROPOSED
VARIES, 53' - 7 3 4"
2.94
44.34 DU / ACRE
(SEE ELEVATIONS)
2. BUILDING HEIGHT PER SMMC 27.04.080: HEIGHT MEASURED TO TOP OF PLATE FROM LOWEST EXISTING
GRADE AT BUILDING PERIMETER. ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL HEIGHTS SUBJECT TO
SPAR/AHJ REVIEW PER DG'S AND SPA.
1. 3.0 FAR PER SPA TABLE IV-6 FOR MIXED USE STANDARDS (BLOCK WITH RESIDENTIAL USES)
TOTAL PROVIDED
71.0 STALLS
(+5 TANDEM)
76.0 STALLS TOTAL
TOTAL STALLS: 76
TANDEM: 5
REGULAR STALLS: 44
COMPACT: 13
ADA STANDARD: 1
ADA VAN: 1
EV REGULAR: 10
EV ADA STANDARD: 1
EV VAN: 1
RESIDENTIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 1.75 - 2.25 PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT
NO PARKING MINIMUM PER BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT P.IV-56.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING*: 5% OF THE PARKING SPACES. ACCESSIBLE VAN
PARKING: ONE IN EVERY 8 ACCESSIBLE SPACES, BUT NOT LESS THAN ONE
SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE.
MULTIFAMILY EV CHARGING SPACES REQUIRED:
1.
FOR 51 - 75 STALLS, 4 EV STALLS REQUIRED PER CGC TABLE 4.106.4.3.1
2.
15% OF TOTAL MIN. 1, CAPABLE OF SUPPORTING FUTURE EVSE.
*BASED ON UNASSIGNED PARKING
ALL PARKING STALLS ARE "ASSIGNED" ONLY AND RESIDENTIAL GUESTS PARKING
IS PROVIDED ON STREET, PURSUANT TO THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC
PLAN AND  PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN
MU3 FINAL ON-SITE PARKING TOTAL MAY VARY BY UP TO 10 ADDITIONAL OR 10
FEWER SPACES.
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL
TYPE
TOTAL SF
SPACES / SF
SPACES
LEASING
748
1.00 / 12,000 SF
1
RETAIL SUB-TOTAL
1 SPACE
TOTAL LONG-TERM SPACES
69 SPACE
RESIDENTIAL SUB-TOTAL
RETAIL
TYPE
TOTAL SF
SPACES / SF
SPACES
LEASING
748
1.00 / 2,000 SF
1
RETAIL SUB-TOTAL
1 SPACE
TOTAL SHORT-TERM SPACES
7 SPACES
HEIGHT *
55'-0" MAXIMUM (EXTG GRADE TO T/ OF PLATE)
MAX 55'-0" (SEE ELEVATIONS)
ALLOWED
PROVIDED
REFERENCE
SITE ADDRESS:
APN: 040031230, 040031240
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN (BMSP)
SITE AREA (ACRES):  1.511
FLOOR AREA RATIO/ FAR:
3.0
2.94
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-23, TABLE IV-6
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-24, TABLE IV-6
 SITE AREA (SF): 65,819
FLOOR AREA (SQFT):
197,457
DENSITY:  OFFICE
N.A
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
50 DU/ ACRE
44.34 DU/ ACRE
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-23, TABLE IV-6
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-9, TABLE IV-3
*
BUILDING HEIGHT PER SMMC 27.04.08: HEIGHT MEASURED TO TOP OF PLATE FROM LOWEST EXISTING GRADE AT BUILDING BUILDING PERIMETER. SEE SMMC 27.02.60 FOR SPECIFIC PERMITTED
STRUCTURES ABOVE HEIGHT LIMIT.
**
PARKING MAXIMUM PER BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 2.75 - 3.25 PER 1000 SF
RETAIL PARKING RATIO OF UP TO 4 SPACES PER 1000 SF
RESIDENTIAL USE: MAXIMUM PARKING RATIO 1.75 - 2.25 PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT
PARKING **
TOTAL LONG TERM BICYCLE SPACES PROVIDED:
TOTAL SHORT TERM BICYCLE SPACES PROVIDED:
257
OFFICE PARKING:
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:
76 (67  RESIDENTIAL UNITS)
OFFICE BICYCLE SPACES:
RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE  SPACES:
OFFICE BICYCLE SPACES:
RESIDENTIAL BICYCLE  SPACES:
82
14
68
16
OFFICE BUILDING FLOOR AREA (SF):
120,142
67,431
193,191
N.A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING FLOOR AREA (SF):
6 REQUIRED
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL BICYCLE SPACES:
3 REQUIRED
6 REQUIRED
68 REQUIRED
13 REQUIRED
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL BICYCLE SPACES:
BY FUTURE TENANT
1 REQUIRED
SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  IV-56
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL PARKING:
ACTIVE USE/ RETAIL FLOOR AREA (SF):
5,618
82 REQUIRED
15 REQUIRED
10
BY FUTURE TENANT
6
181
REQUIRED: 301 (RATIO: 2.5)
REQUIRED: 23 (RATIO: 4.0)
REQUIRED: 69 (1 PER BEDROOM)
TOTAL PARKING SPACES PROVIDED
TOTAL: 324
USE:
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, RETAIL,
RESIDENTIAL)
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, RETAIL,
 RESIDENTIAL)
R-A0.00
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DATA &
ZONING ANALYSIS
MU3 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA
MU3 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DATA
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
B
B

--- page 121 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
R-A0.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
RENDERINGS

--- page 122 ---
cv
GAS METER
L
FP
FP
FP
E
4
4
4
4
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
37
5
4
3
167'-6"
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #1 WITH A
CLEAR WIDTH OF 47"
2-HOUR RATED
FIRE SEPARATION
2-HOUR SHAFT
ELEVATORS
38
20' FIRE
SEPARATION DIST.
20'-0"
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING EXITING CHART
OCCUPANCY LOAD CALCULATIONS
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) DOOR WIDTH
38
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) STAIR WIDTH
(38 OCC)(.15)=5.7", MIN. 32"
OCC.
36"
(38 OCC)(.2)=7.6", MIN. 44"
50"
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) DOOR WIDTH
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) STAIR WIDTH
(37 OCC)(.15)=5.55", MIN. 32"
36"
(37 OCC)(.2)=7.4", MIN. 44"
50"
E
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
43
167'-6"
2-HOUR RATED
FIRE SEPARATION
2-HOUR SHAFT
ELEVATORS
44
20'-0"
FOURTH FLOOR*
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) DOOR WIDTH
44
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) STAIR WIDTH
44
(44 OCC)(.15)=6.6", MIN. 32"
OCC.
36"
(44 OCC)(.2)=8.8", MIN. 44"
50"
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) DOOR WIDTH
43
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) STAIR WIDTH
43
(43 OCC)(.15)=6.45", MIN. 32"
36"
(43 OCC)(.2)=8.6", MIN. 44"
50"
*NOTE:
OCCUPANCY INCLUDES LOFTS IN DOUBLE-HEIGHT SPACES
4
UNIT
1B
4
3
4
4
4
4
4
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT
2E
5
6
UNIT 3A
UNIT 3A
6
5
150'-7"
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #1 WITH A
CLEAR WIDTH OF 47"
2-HOUR RATED
FIRE SEPARATION
SERVING AS A
HORIZONTAL EXIT
2-HOUR SHAFT
ELEVATORS
119
20' FIRE
SEPARATION DIST.
20'-0"
FIRST FLOOR
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #1  DOOR WIDTH
119
(119 OCC)(.15)=17.85", MIN. 32"
OCC.
36"
118
UNIT
1A
UNIT
1B
UNIT
2B
UNIT
1D
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT
2F
UNIT 2G
UNIT 2G
UNIT
1C
UNIT
1D
UNIT
2C
UNIT 2A
UNIT
1E
UNIT
1A
UNIT
1K
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J
UNIT
2F
UNIT 2K
UNIT 2K
UNIT
1J
UNIT
1K
UNIT
2C
UNIT 2J
UNIT
1L
UNIT
1H
EXIT #2
EXIT #1 WITH EXIT
PASSAGEWAY WIDTH
OF 7'-3"
EXIT #4 WITH EXIT
PASSAGEWAY WIDTH OF 5'-6"
EXIT #5 WITH EXIT
PASSAGEWAY WIDTH OF 5'-6"
EXIT #3 WITH EXIT
PASSAGEWAY WIDTH OF 5'-6"
2
11
14
EXIT #2  DOOR WIDTH
36"
14
(14 OCC)(.15)=2.1", MIN. 32"
36"
11
(11 OCC)(.15)=1.65", MIN. 32"
36"
2
(2 OCC)(.15)=.30", MIN. 32"
36"
EXIT #3  DOOR WIDTH
EXIT #4  DOOR WIDTH
EXIT #5  DOOR WIDTH
2
OFFICE
ROOF AMENITY2
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR1
15 NSF
OCCUPANCY GROUP / FUNCTION
B
OCCUPANTS
98
150 GSF
B
2
AREA
1498 NSF
180 NSF
RESIDENTIAL
200 GSF
R-2
252
(SEE UNIT COUNT TABLE)
EXIT STAIRS
2
EXITING CALCULATIONS
PROVIDED
EXIT DOORWAYS
2
2
5
PROVIDED
1
1
2
2
2
2
*NOTE:
SEE SHEET R-A0.03 FOR EXITING DIAGRAMS AND COUNTS FROM RESIDENTIAL PARKING AREA
EXITS #1 AND #2 ARE SIZED FOR THE SUM OF EGRESS COUNTS FROM FP01 AND BP01
OCCUPANCY TABLES
OCCUPANCY LOAD CALCULATIONS - OVERALL BUILDING
3
EXITING PLAN - GROUND FLOOR                                                                   NTS
2
EXITING DRAWINGS & ALLOWABLE AREA CALCULATIONS                        NTS
4
EXITING PLAN - SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS                                             NTS
1
EXITING PLAN - FOURTH FLOOR                                                                    NTS
4
LEGEND
# OF OCCUPANTS
2-HOUR TRASH
ROOM / SHAFT
2-HOUR TRASH
ROOM / SHAFT
2-HOUR TRASH
ROOM / SHAFT
1. OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS PER CBC 2019 TABLE 1004.5
PROVIDED
RES PARKING
200 GSF
PARKING GARAGE
125
25,000 GSF
2
REQ'D
2
2
2
PROVIDED
2. PER CBC 2019 SECTION 1004.7 OUTDOOR AREAS, OCCUPANT LOADS ARE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ANTICIPATED USE. OCCUPANT LOAD OF 15 NSF SUGGESTED SIMILAR TO UNCONCENTRATED ASSEMBLY FUNCTIONS
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
OCCUPANCY LOAD CALCULATIONS - INDIVIDUAL UNITS
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
REQ'D
REQ'D
REQ'D
UNIT
2H
UNIT
2B
UNIT
2D
4
5
3
UNIT
1F
UNIT
1F
4
5
UNIT
1F
5
3
5
5
5
3
5
UNIT
1F
38
37
37
118
(118 OCC)(.15)=17.7", MIN. 32"
288'-6"
292'-5"
292'-5"
ENTRY
LOBBY
AREA A
AREA B
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA
AREA A
AREA B
AREA A
AREA B
AREA A
AREA B
LEVEL 03
5,330 SF
LEVEL 02
5,330 SF
LEVEL 04
5,330 SF
9,900 SF
9,900 SF
9,900 SF
LEVEL 01
5,240 SF
9,500 SF
ALLOWABLE AREA
12,000 SF
12,000 SF
12,000 SF
12,000 SF
COMPLIES
OK
OK
OK
OK
2-HOUR EXIT STAIR #2
WITH A CLEAR EGRESS
WIDTH OF 47"
2-HOUR EXIT STAIR #2
WITH A CLEAR EGRESS
WIDTH OF 47"
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #1 WITH A
CLEAR WIDTH OF 47"
20' FIRE
SEPARATION DIST.
2-HOUR EXIT STAIR #2
WITH A CLEAR EGRESS
WIDTH OF 47"
R-A0.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXITING PLANS
A

--- page 123 ---
E
49
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #2
167'-6"
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #1
2-HOUR RATED
FIRE SEPARATION BELOW
2-HOUR ELEVATOR SHAFT
AND OVERRUN
49
20' FIRE
SEPARATION DIST.
20'-0"
FOURTH FLOOR MEZZANINE / LOWER ROOF DECK*
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) DOOR WIDTH
49
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) STAIR WIDTH
49
(49 OCC)(.15)=7.35", MIN. 32"
OCC.
36"
(49 OCC)(.2)=9.8", MIN. 44"
50"
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) DOOR WIDTH
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) STAIR WIDTH
36"
50"
*NOTE:
OCCUPANCY LOFT OCCUPANCIES EXITING FROM FOURTH FLOOR
UNIT
1K
UNIT
1J
UNIT
1L
UNIT
1H
UPPER ROOF DECK
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #2 (EXT. STAIR #2) STAIR WIDTH
49
OCC.
(49 OCC)(.2)=9.8", MIN. 44"
60"
UNIT
2J
UNIT
2J
UNIT
2K
UNIT
1K
UNIT
2J
UNIT
2J
UNIT
2K
UNIT
2J
UNIT
2J
49
49
TERRACE
ROOM 2
TERRACE
ROOM 1
EXTERIOR STAIR #2
EXTERIOR STAIR #1
EXIT #1 (EXT. STAIR #1) STAIR WIDTH
49
(49 OCC)(.2)=9.8", MIN. 44"
60"
49
49
(49 OCC)(.15)=7.35", MIN. 32"
(49 OCC)(.2)=9.8", MIN. 44"
ROOF TERRACE 1
ROOF TERRACE 2
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR
15
OCCUPANCY GROUP
B
OCCUPANTS
49
15
B
49
AREA
749 NSF
749 NSF
2
EXITING PLAN - FOURTH FLOOR MEZZANINE         NTS
1
EXITING PLAN - ROOF PLAN                                       NTS
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
UP
BOH
MPOE
ELEC.
RM2
ROLL-DOWN
GATE
MULTI-FAMILY
PARKING
OFFICE
PARKING
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ELEC. 1
WATER
METER
F
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:  76 SPACES (67 REG. + 2 ADA + 2 EVA + 5T)
OFFICE PARKING:  41 SPACES
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
OFFICE PARKING GARAGE
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS FOR EGRESS
RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE
171'-7"
80
81
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #2
2-HOUR EXIT
STAIR #1
3
EXITING PLAN - RES. PARKING GARAGE         NTS
RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE
WIDTH REQUIRED
WIDTH PROVIDED
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) DOOR WIDTH
81
EXIT #1 (STAIR #1) STAIR WIDTH
81
(81 OCC)(.15)=12.15", MIN. 32"
OCC.
36"
(81 OCC)(.2)=16.2", MIN. 44"
50"
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) DOOR WIDTH
EXIT #2 (STAIR #2) STAIR WIDTH
36"
50"
*NOTE:
OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE ONLY
81
81
EXIT WIDTHS
SEE FLOOR OCCUPANCY CALCULATIONS IN OCCUPANCY CALCULATION TABLE
2
2
(81 OCC)(.15)=12.15", MIN. 32"
(81 OCC)(.2)=16.2", MIN. 44"
350'-9"
292'-4"
AREA A
AREA B
R-A0.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - EXITING PLANS

--- page 124 ---
RAMP DN DN
UP
cv
113' - 7 3/4"
GAS METER
PARKING
L
FP
FP
FP
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
FP-01 AREA CALCULATIONS
SECTION
LENGTH
WIDTH
AREA
703 SQ. FT.
814 SQ. FT.
1
2
3
4
5
6
8
9
7
10
11
12*
13*
15
24
16
17
23
18
19
20
21
22
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12*
13*
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
468 SQ. FT.
588 SQ. FT.
459 SQ. FT.
630 SQ. FT.
459 SQ. FT.
519 SQ. FT.
517 SQ. FT.
718 SQ. FT.
1246 SQ. FT.
246 SQ. FT.
588 SQ. FT.
459 SQ. FT.
630 SQ. FT.
459 SQ. FT.
665 SQ. FT.
588 SQ. FT.
468 SQ. FT.
911 SQ. FT.
784 SQ. FT.
395 SQ. FT.
219 SQ. FT.
16'-2 1/4"
19'-3 3/4"
34'-0"
28'-0"
34'-0"
36'-0"
34'-0"
24'-5 3/4"
24'-5 3/4"
34'-2 1/4"
40'-2 1/4"
38'-0"
18'-2"
28'-0"
34'-0"
36'-0"
34'-0"
28'-0"
34'-0"
19'-3 3/4"
16'-2 1/4"
7'-2 1/4"
7'-2"
43'-5"
42'-2"
13'-9"
21'-0"
13'-6 1/4"
17'-6"
13'-6"
21'-2 3/4"
14'-7 1/4"
21'-0"
31'-0 1/2"
17'-6"
13'-6 3/4"
21'-0"
13'-5 1/2"
17'-6"
13'-6 1/2"
21'-0"
13'-9"
47'-2"
48'-5"
24'-11 1/2"
30'-6"
TOTAL
14,773 SQ. FT.
1
AREA CALCULATIONS - SECOND THRU FOURTH FLOOR                            1/16"=1'-0"
2
AREA CALCULATIONS - GROUND FLOOR PLAN                                            1/16"=1'-0"
FP-02-FP-04 AREA CALCULATIONS
SECTION
LENGTH
WIDTH
AREA
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
16'-2 1/4"
12'-0"
19'-3 1/2"
34'-0"
10'-0"
2'-0"
28'-0"
18'-4"
6'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
0'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
10'-8 3/4"
7'-0 1/2"
28'-0"
6'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
35'-5"
16'-2 1/4"
43'-5"
2'-0"
42'-2"
13'-9"
2'-0"
12'-0"
86'-6"
15'-1 3/4"
44'-6"
17'-6"
13'-0"
56'-10"
79'-6"
13'-0"
17'-10"
10'-2 3/4"
26'-6 3/4"
86'-2 1/2"
44'-6"
17'-6"
13'-0"
11'-11 1/4"
36'-5 1/4"
SUBTOTAL
14,888 SQ. FT.
0
16
8
32'
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
11
12
13
14
15
2
10
9
16
18
17
19
21 20
22
25
23
24
26
28
27
703 SQ. FT.
24 SQ. FT.
814 SQ. FT.
468 SQ. FT.
20 SQ. FT.
24 SQ. FT.
2418 SQ. FT.
278 SQ. FT.
267 SQ. FT.
35 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
352 SQ. FT.
3195 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
71 SQ. FT.
109 SQ. FT.
193 SQ. FT.
2422 SQ. FT.
267 SQ. FT.
35 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
424 SQ. FT.
590 SQ. FT.
24
12'-0"
2'-0"
24 SQ. FT.
25
19'-3 1/4"
35'-1 3/4"
679 SQ. FT.
26
34'-0"
13'-9"
468 SQ. FT.
27
10'-0"
2'-0"
20 SQ. FT.
28
2'-0"
12'-0"
24 SQ. FT.
40'-0 3/4"
27
25
29'-2 3/4"
321 SQ. FT.
11'-0"
26
26
16'-10 3/4"
27'-4 1/2"
463 SQ. FT.
29
30
29
30
20'-3"
46'-10"
519 SQ. FT.
2'-0"
24 SQ. FT.
12'-0"
31
32
31
32
8'-11"
11'-8"
105 SQ. FT.
9'-4"
6'-0"
57 SQ. FT.
33
33
10'-4"
4'-3 1/2"
46 SQ. FT.
A
A
---
EXEMPT - STAIRS
B
---
EXEMPT - ELEV.
24
115 SQ. FT.
14'-5 1/2"
7'-11 1/2"
25
 A
A
127 SQ. FT.
16'-0"
7'-11"
ZONING SUBTOTAL
14,646 SQ. FT.
34
C
---
EXEMPT - ELEV.
D
---
EXEMPT - STAIRS
34
5'-5"
24'-11"
136 SQ. FT.
---
---
---
---
B
C
D
14
214 SQ. FT.
13'-7"
15'-10"
*AREAS DEVOTED TO ACTIVE USE
R-A0.04
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - AREA PLANS
A

--- page 125 ---
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
1
AREA CALCULATIONS - LOFT FLOOR PLAN                                            1/16"=1'-0"
FP-04-LOFT AREA CALCULATIONS
SECTION
LENGTH
WIDTH
AREA
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
34'-0"
10'-0"
2'-0"
10'-4"
39'-6"
2'-0"
2'-0"
34'-0"
2'-0"
4'-0"
34'-0"
2'-0"
10'-4"
34'-0"
10'-0"
2'-0"
13'-9"
2'-0"
12'-0"
23'-2"
44'-6"
17'-6"
13'-0"
79'-6"
13'-0"
17'-6"
44'-6"
17'-6"
13'-0"
17'-2"
13'-9"
2'-0"
12'-0"
SUBTOTAL
8,121 SQ. FT.
0
16
8
32'
1
2
3
7
8
9
10
6
4
11
13 12
15
17
16
468 SQ. FT.
20 SQ. FT.
24 SQ. FT.
239 SQ. FT.
1758 SQ. FT.
35 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
2703 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
70 SQ. FT.
1513 SQ. FT.
35 SQ. FT.
26 SQ. FT.
179 SQ. FT.
468 SQ. FT.
20 SQ. FT.
24 SQ. FT.
2'-0"
5
14
18
18
5'-6"
38'-7 1/2"
212 SQ. FT.
19
20
19
20
6'-2"
15'-10"
98 SQ. FT.
6'-2"
28'-9"
178 SQ. FT.
2.  ALL LOFT UNITS ARE FOR RESIDENTIAL
USE.
3.  LOFT AREAS ARE INCLUDED IN THE
FLOOR AREA RATIO CALCULATIONS.
A
A
---
EXEMPT - STAIRS
B
C
D
EXEMPT - VENT
D
---
---
---
---
---
---
---
B
C
EXEMPT - ELEV.
EXEMPT - STAIRS
R-A0.05
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - AREA PLANS
A
B

--- page 126 ---
30' - 0"
25' - 6"
30' - 0"
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:  76 SPACES (67 REG. + 2 ADA + 2 EVA + 5T)
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
3
ACCESSIBLE ROUTES - ROOF PLAN                                                              1/32"=1'-0"
1
ACCESSIBLE ROUTES - RES. PARKING GARAGE B1                                    1/32"=1'-0"
2
ACCESSIBLE ROUTES - RES. GROUND FLOOR PLAN                                  1/32"=1'-0"
ELEVATOR ACCESS TO
LOWER FLOORS
ACCESSIBLE PATH TO AND
FROM HILLSDALE CALTRAIN
STATION AND SAM TRANS
(SEE KEY MAP TO THE LEFT)
ELEVATOR ACCESS TO
UPPER FLOORS
ELEVATOR ACCESS TO
UPPER FLOORS
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
DN
UP
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
v
ts
ts
sl
c
ts
sl
sd
e
e
up
e
sl
cv
sd
sd
sd
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sl
sl
uc
sd
ts
sd
w
e
up
sd
D
D
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
115' - 4 1/4"
114' - 0"
113' - 7 3/4"
STAIR 2
GAS METER
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
PARKING
LOADING
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
L
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
113' - 6 1/2"
113' - 2 1/4"
1' - 10"
T
T
C
R
R
25' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
23' - 8"
FP
FP
FP
R-A0.06
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
A

--- page 127 ---
UP
T
T
T
T
T
FEVCS
FEVCS
RAMP DN
RAMP UP
8.33%
16.67%
8.33%
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:  76 SPACES (67 REG. + 2 ADA + 2 EVA + 5T)
OFFICE PARKING:  41 SPACES
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
V
FEV-VA
FEV-A
FEV-VA
FEV-A
EV-AMB
V
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
EVCS
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
4'-0"
24'-0"
3'-7"
R5'-0"
24'-0"
28'-0"
R2'-0"
R5'-0"
R2'-0"
3'-61/8"
9'-0" 5'-0"
1'-0"
4'-103/8"
9'-0" 5'-0"
1'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
10'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
10'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
4'-0"
3'-101/2"
24'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-83/4"
13'-23/4"
9'-0"
6'-1"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0" 9'-0"
3'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.EQ.
EQ.
60°
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0" 9'-103/4"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
8'-0"
8'-6"
8'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-103/4"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
8'-6"
8'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
17'-0"
17'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
17'-0"
2'-2"
10'-0"
10'-0"
22'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
10'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
P - Passenger Car
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
G
H
BOH
MPOE
2.1
ELEC.
RM2
24' - 0"
ROLL-DOWN
GATE
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
OFFICE
PARKING
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ELEC. 1
WATER
METER
F
B
B
LIGHTING
INVERTER
HOUSE
PANELS
MDP 2000A
MOPE
16'-11"
22'-11"
4'-0"
BIKE ROOM
(32 BIKES)
TRASH
ROOM
CHUTES
ABOVE
ELEV.
CTRL
RES.
BLDG.
LOBBY
0
16
8
32'
DOG
WASH
18'-8"
21'-9"
(2) 3 YD. BINS
(ONE EACH FOR
RECYCLING &
TRASH)
96 GAL. COMPOST BINS
PARKING STRUCTURE GRID FROM
OFFICE BUILDING GRID LAYOUT -
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
ROLL DOWN GATE ACCESS
TO MULTI-FAMILY PARKING
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ROLL-UP
OVERHEAD
DOOR
(10) EV READY STALLS
3'-0"
ACCESSIBLE
ROUTE
PLAN NOTES
1.
ALL PARKING STALLS ARE "ASSIGNED"
ONLY AND GUEST PARKING IS
PROVIDED ON-STREET PER THE
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN
AND PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN.
2.
REFER TO SHEET A10.00 FOR SOLID
WASTE PICK UP LOCATION AND
HANDLING INFORMATION.
3.
REFER TO SHEET O-A1.53 FOR VEHICLE
TRACKING INFORMATION.
TRASH TRAVEL ROUTE TO CURBSIDE
TRASH TRAVEL ROUTE TO CURBSIDE UP RAMP
R-A2.00
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
PARKING B1 LEVEL PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
B
A

--- page 128 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
UNIT 2A
(TEMP
LEASING
OFFICE)
ENTRY
MAIL
AND
VENDING
PACKAGE
ROOM
OFFICE
ADA
WC
PLAZA
CORRIDOR
LOUNGE
BIKE ROOM
(18 BIKES)
16' x 7'-4"
FIRE
CTRL
RM
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3A
UNIT 1B
UNIT 1B
PLAN NOTES
UP
UP
UP
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
UP
UP
4
R-A3.01
ALTERNATE METER ROOM
LOCATION - SEE NOTE #1
JAN.
CLO.
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE FROM SITE
ARRIVAL POINT PER CBC SECTION
11B-206.2.1 TO EXTERIOR GROUND
FLOOR EXITS PER CBC SECTION
11B-206.4
1.
ALTERNATE METER ROOM
LOCATION IS INDICATED SOUTH OF
STAIR #1. LOCATION IS AS NEEDED
PENDING FINAL DESIGN OF
BASEMENT LEVEL PLAN, AND
ACCEPTANCE BY UTILITY PROVIDER/
RELEVANT AUTHORITY OF INITIAL
PROPOSED METER ROOM LOCATION
AND ACCESS PARAMETERS.
PRELIMINARY LADDER PAD LOCATIONS
ARE INDICATED ON THE PLAN, BASED
ON GUIDANCE FROM LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT. PAD LOCATIONS TO BE
COORDINATED AND FINALIZED WITH
THE SAN MATEO FIRE DEPARTMENT .
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVE
LANDING AVE
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT
DERBY AVE: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
LANDING ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
UNIT 1A
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2E
TRASH
STAIR
 1
STAIR
 2
UNIT 2H
BIKE
STOR.
(16 BIKES)
12'-6"x13'-6"
UNIT 2B
STOR. /
JC
IDF
BIKE
STOR.
(16 BIKES)
12'-6" x 13'-6"
BARRIER TO
BASEMENT
BARRIER TO
BASEMENT
36'-2"
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE - PASSAGE DEPTH
ALLOWABLE PASSAGE DEPTH TO BE COVERED BY STORY ABOVE NOT TO
EXCEED 60% OF BUILDING DEPTH.
TOTAL PASSAGE LENGTH:  209'-5 7/8"
60% OF PASSAGE LENGTH : 209'-5 7/8" X 0.6 = 125'-8 1/4"
TOTAL PASSAGE COVERAGE: 72' + 36'-2" = 108'-2" (51.63%)
IMAGINARY LOT LINE
FOR BULK CALCULATION
PURPOSES
2 HOUR FIRE
WALL SERVING
AS HORIZ. EXIT
LEGEND
 
 
PROPERTY LINE
 
 
SETBACK LINE
 
 
BUILD-TO ZONE
MU3 OFFICE
MU3 RESIDENTIAL
269'-5 7 8"
72'-0"
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
2'-6"
2'-6"
6'-0"
SHORT-TERM
BIKE PARKING
3'-0"
8'-8"
9"
0
16
8
32'
 
R-A2.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A
A
A
A
B
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
A

--- page 129 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-234"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2G
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2G
UNIT 2F
UNIT 2C
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1E
UNIT 1A
UNIT 1C
UNIT 2A
TRASH
STAIR
 1
STAIR
 2
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT
DERBY AVE: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
LANDING ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
UNIT 1F
UNIT 1F
UNIT 2D
IDF
BIKE
STOR.
(9 BIKES)
2 HOUR FIRE
WALL SERVING
AS HORIZ. EXIT
LEGEND
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A

--- page 130 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT
DERBY AVE: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
LANDING ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
IDF
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2G
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2G
UNIT 2F
UNIT 2C
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1E
UNIT 1A
UNIT 1C
UNIT 2A
TRASH
STAIR
 1
STAIR
 2
UNIT 1F
UNIT 1F
UNIT 2D
BIKE
STOR.
(9 BIKES)
2 HOUR FIRE
WALL SERVING
AS HORIZ. EXIT
LEGEND
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
 
 
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
 
 
 
  
 
R-A2.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A

--- page 131 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2F
UNIT 1F
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 50% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
97.8% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT
DERBY AVE: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
LANDING ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
TRASH
STAIR
 1
STAIR
 2
UNIT 2H
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2K
UNIT 2H
UNIT 2H
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2K
UNIT 1K
UNIT 1K
UNIT 1L
UNIT 1H
UNIT 1J
UNIT 2H
UNIT 2D
UNIT 2C
UNIT 1F
IDF
BIKE
STOR.
(9 BIKES)
2 HOUR FIRE
WALL SERVING
AS HORIZ. EXIT
LEGEND
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
 
 
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
R-A2.04
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A

--- page 132 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2K
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2J
UNIT 2K
UNIT 1K
UNIT 1K
UNIT 1L
UNIT 1H
UNIT 1J
UNIT 2J
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 50% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
97.8% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
HOLD CORNER REQUIREMENT
DERBY AVE: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
LANDING ST: 20' MIN, 20' PROVIDED
TRASH
STAIR
 1
STAIR
 2
STOR.
1.
ALL LOFT UNITS ARE FOR RESIDENTIAL
USE.
LEGEND
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
 
 
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.05
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
FOURTH FLOOR LOFT PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 133 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
FLAT ROOF AREA FOR
FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAICS
(1240 SF)
FLAT ROOF AREA FOR
FUTURE PHOTOVOLTAICS
(950 SF)
ROOFTOP
AMENITY
DN
DN
36'-6"
34'-0"
36'-6"
26'-0"
TOTAL ROOF AREA
*MINIMUM SOLAR ZONE AREA REQUIREMENTS
PER T24 SOLAR READY REQUIREMENTS
SOLAR AREA PROVIDED
REQ. SOLAR MINIMUM (15%)
13,898 SF
2190 SF
2085 SF
SOLAR AREA TABULATION
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE.
SEE ELEVATION FOR
REFERENCE.
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE.
SEE ELEVATION FOR
REFERENCE.
SINK
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
35'-5" LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
LEGEND
 
 
    PROPERTY LINE
 
 
    SETBACK LINE
 
 
    BUILD-TO ZONE
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.06
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3  RESIDENTIAL - ROOF PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A
A
A

--- page 134 ---
MAIL WALL
PACKAGE / LOCKERS
ENTRY
OFFICE
JANITOR
CLOSET
ELEVATORS
BIKES
FIRE CONTROL ROOM
VENDING
UP
UP
UNIT 2A
UP
RAMP
RAMP
RAMP
PLANTER
UP
PLANTER
0
4
2
8'
RESTROOM
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.08
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
ENLARGED LOBBY PLAN
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 135 ---
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
1
STUDIO - UNIT 1A/B/C/D/E   |  506 - 555 NSF
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
SECOND & THIRD FLOOR PLAN
34'-0" - 36'-0"
MASTER BATH
17'-6"
KITCHEN/ DINING/ LIVING
16'-7" x 18'-6"-15'-6"
W/D
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-0" x 9'-2"
3
STUDIO LOFT - UNIT 1A/C/D   |  148 NSF ; 228 NSF W/ CLOSET
2
STUDIO - UNIT 1A/C/D   |  676- 735 NSF
SLEEPING LOFT
11'-0" x 11'-6"
CL
MASTER BATH
LOFT PLAN
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
KITCHEN / DINING
16'-7" x 11'-2"
LIVING
 16'-7" x 10'-6"-12'-6"
W/D
34'-0" - 36'-0"
17'-6"
QTY: 5
QTY: 13
QTY: 5
2'-0"
BAY WINDOW (AS OCCURS)
2'-0"
BAY WINDOW (AS OCCURS)
2'-0"
BAY WINDOW (AS OCCURS)
17'-6"
34'-0" - 36'-0"
W.I.C.
UNFINISHED
SPACE
LOFT W.I.C.
(AS OCCURS)
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.51
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS

--- page 136 ---
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
1
JUNIOR 1 BED - UNIT 1H    |  582 NSF
2
STUDIO - UNIT 1F   |  457 NSF
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
QTY: 1
SECOND, THIRD  & FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
QTY: 6
25'-7"
6'-9"
32'-912"
19'-6"
KITCHEN / DINING
11'-0" x 12'-9"
LIVING
12'-9" x 9'-4"
BEDROOM
12'-9" x 9'-0"
BATH
CL
CL
W/D
BATH
W/D
CL
BEDROOM
10'-0" x 10'-6
DINING / LIVING
13'-11" x 18'-7"
14'-0"
29'-11"
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.52
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 137 ---
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
2
1 BED - UNIT 2J   |  658 NSF
1
1 BED - UNIT 2A   |  658 NSF
3
1 BED - UNIT 2J LOFT   |  135 NSF
LOFT / DEN
12'-6" x 10'-6"
CL
W/D
BATH
CL
LIVING
12'-0" x 12'-6"
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
LOFT PLAN
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-0" x 12'-0"
TERRACE
5'-3" x 10'-6"
DINING
8'-0" x 9'-6"
KITCHEN
11'-8" x 10'-6"
CL
W/D
BATH
CL
LIVING
12'-0" x 12'-6"
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-3" x 12'-0"
TERRACE
5'-3"  x 10'-6"
DINING
12'-6" x 8'-6"
KITCHEN
11'-8" x 10'-6"
SECOND & THIRD FLOOR PLAN
34'-0"
24'-0"
34'-0"
24'-0"
QTY: 6
QTY: 17
QTY: 6
24'-0"
13'-9"
10'-0"
2'-0"
 
 
 
R-A2.53
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 138 ---
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
QTY: 4
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
BAY WINDOW (AS OCCURS)
BAY WINDOW (AS OCCURS)
1
1 BED  - UNIT 2B/C  |  710 NSF; 733 NSF w/ BAY WINDOW
3
1 BED  - UNIT 2E/F  |  732 NSF; 755 NSF w/ BAY WINDOW
2
1 BED  - UNIT 2D  |  741 NSF
QTY: 4
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
QTY: 3
SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
10'-1114"
25'-7"
2'-0"
14'-0"
18'-0"
1'-8"
12'-0"
16'-3"
1'-5"
43'-5"
13'-0"
1'-8"
10'-11"
7'-3"
9'-3"
48'-5"
1'-5"
13'-0"
1'-8"
19'-8"
KITCHEN / DINING
11'-3" x 14'-10"
MASTER BEDROOM
13'-9" x 10'-4"
BATH
BATH
BATH
CL
CL
CL
CL
STUDY
DEN / W.I.C.
9'-0" x 8'-1"
KITCHEN / DINING / LIVING
19'-2" x 14'-0"
W/D
W/D
W/D
LIVING
11'-6" x 14'-10"
KITCHEN / DINING
11'-0" x 14'-10"
LIVING
11'-6" x 14'-10"
MASTER BEDROOM
13'-10" x 10'-6"
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-5" x 14'-3"
CL
CL
N.I.C.
N.I.C.
R-A2.54
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 139 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
2
1 BED - UNIT 2K   |  712 NSF
1
1 BED - UNIT 2G   |  712 NSF
3
UNIT 2K LOFT   |  135 NSF
LOFT / DEN
12'-6" x 10'-6"
BATH
CL
FP04
FP04 - LOFT
DINING
9'-0" x 9'-0"
BATH
DINING
12'-6" x 8'-6"
KITCHEN
12'-6" x 13'-0"
24'-3"
24'-0"
24'-3"
QTY: 2
KITCHEN
12'-6" x 12'-10"
W/D
FP02 - 03
QTY: 4
10'-0"
2'-0"
LIVING
14'-9" x 16'-9"
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-3" x 11'-4"
CL
LIVING
14'-7" x 13'-6"
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-3" x 14'-0"
24'-0"
10'-0"
2'-0"
34'-0"
13'-6"
CL
W/D
CL
R-A2.55
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 140 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
1
2 BED - UNIT 3A  |  1,000 NSF
UNIT PLAN NOTES
1. EXAMPLE OF INTERIOR CONFIGURATION;
MIRROR OPTIONS SIMILAR. BAY
WINDOWS WHERE OCCURS.
19'-6"
34'-0"
19'-914"
TERRACE
5'-3" x 10'-6"
LIVING
12'-6" x 11'-6"
DINING
12'-6" x 9'-0"
KITCHEN
12'-6" x 12'-9"
BEDROOM
10'-1" x 13'-7"
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
CL
MASTER BEDROOM
10'-4" x 12-10"
CL
CL
BATH
BATH
W/D
QTY: 2
R-A2.56
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL - UNIT PLANS
1 / 4 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 141 ---
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
4
WEST ELEVATION - MID-BLOCK OPEN SPACE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
ELEVATION KEY
3
NORTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE
2
SOUTH ELEVATION - LANDING AVENUE
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
3
4
2
NOTE#1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM
BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
LEGEND & NOTES
56'-13 4"
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
56'-134"
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
T.O. PARAPET
1
EAST ELEVATION - WEST KYNE STREET
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
8' MIN.
TYP.
ELEVATION KEY
KYNE/LANDING SIDEWALK
-0'-10" (+114.15)
KYNE/DERBY SIDEWALK
-1'-9.5" (+113.2)
56'-13 4"
1
0
16
8
32'
SEE NOTE #1
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-934"
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A
A
A

--- page 142 ---
4
WEST ELEVATION - MID-BLOCK OPEN SPACE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
3
NORTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE
2
SOUTH ELEVATION - LANDING AVENUE
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
LEGEND & NOTES
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
CEMENTITOUS SIDING
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL BALCONY
PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
12" METAL "BROW"
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE#1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7): THE
PROPOSED ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE MARKS
THE MID-BLOCK PASSAGE, EMPHASIZES THE
BUILDING ENTRY, AND PROVIDES A MASSING
BREAK FROM GROUND TO SKY ALONG THE
WEST  KYNE STREET FRONTAGE. THE
VERTICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
INTEGRATES AN OPEN PERGOLA SHADE
STRUCTURE AT THE ROOF DECK.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES ARE AN
EXCEPTION TO THE BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
MAXIMUM BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN
MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
1
EAST ELEVATION - WEST KYNE STREET
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
ELEVATION KEY
1
0
16
8
32'
SEE NOTE #1
2
3
4
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A

--- page 143 ---
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE NOT COUNTED AS PART OF
THE HEIGHT / PLATELINE OF THE BUILDING
PER SMMC 27.04.080 AND 27.04.386.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE FURTHER
LISTED AS EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM BULK
RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
3
2
1
8
5
6
3
1
EAST ELEVATION ALONG KYNE ST
PROP
LINE
SETBACK
ELEVATION KEY
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-73 4"
4
0
8
4
16'
SEE NOTE #1
7
REFER TO 1/R-A3.01 FOR
ELEVATION BEYOND
56'-13 4"
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE NOT COUNTED AS PART OF
THE HEIGHT / PLATELINE OF THE BUILDING
PER SMMC 27.04.080 AND 27.04.386.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE FURTHER
LISTED AS EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM BULK
RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
3
2
1
8
5
6
3
1
EAST ELEVATION ALONG KYNE ST
PROP
LINE
SETBACK
ELEVATION KEY
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-73 4"
4
0
8
4
16'
SEE NOTE #1
7
REFER TO 1/R-A3.01 FOR
ELEVATION BEYOND
56'-13 4"
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 144 ---
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
6
7
10
9
8
12
11
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-23 4"
13
4
3
2
ELEVATION KEY
1
10' MIN.
SETBACK
1
WEST ELEVATION ALONG COURTYARD
1
1
0
8
4
16'
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE NOT COUNTED AS PART OF
THE HEIGHT / PLATELINE OF THE BUILDING
PER SMMC 27.04.080 AND 27.04.386.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE FURTHER
LISTED AS EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM BULK
RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
SEE NOTE #1
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
REFER TO 1/R-A3.01 FOR
ELEVATION BEYOND
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
6
1
1
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
56'-13 4"
PROP
LINE
6
R-A3.04
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A
A

--- page 145 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
OP
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
2
1
E
BUILDING HEIGHT 54' - 6 5/8"
20'-0"
10'-0"
40'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
PROPERTY LINE
C
B
A
D
E
20'-0"
F
F
SETBACK
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
ELEVATION KEY
2
NORTH ELEVATION ALONG DERBY ST
2
SOUTH ELEVATION ALONG LANDING ST
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
2
1
3
3
1
5
1
1
0
8
4
16'
ELEVATION KEY
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE NOT COUNTED AS PART OF
THE HEIGHT / PLATELINE OF THE BUILDING
PER SMMC 27.04.080 AND 27.04.386.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE FURTHER
LISTED AS EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM BULK
RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
7
7
56'-13 4"
R-A3.05
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 146 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
E
19'-5"
F
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
1
0
8
4
16'
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE II DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7):
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS AND STAIRWAY
OVERRUNS ARE NOT COUNTED AS PART OF
THE HEIGHT / PLATELINE OF THE BUILDING
PER SMMC 27.04.080 AND 27.04.386.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE FURTHER
LISTED AS EXCEPTIONS TO MAXIMUM BULK
RESTRICTIONS PER SAN MATEO CITY
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE ITEM
27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
ELEVATION KEY
D
E
10'-0"
19'-5"
F
3
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
D
E
10'-0"
19'-5"
F
3
4
SMALL COURTYARD SOUTH ELEV
3
MAIN COURTYARD SOUTH ELEV
2
MAIN COURTYARD NORTH ELEV
1
SMALL COURTYARD NORTH ELEV
D
E
10'-0"
19'-5"
F
1
56'-13 4"
1
R-A3.06
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 147 ---
2 - EAST WEST SECTION B
1 - EAST WEST SECTION A
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
9'-0"
GARAGE
-12'-0" (+103.5)
GARAGE
-21'-0" (+94.5)
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
9'-0"
T.O. PARAPET
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
9'-0"
GARAGE
-12'-0" (+103.5)
GARAGE
-21'-0" (+94.5)
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
9'-0"
T.O. PARAPET
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
PROPERTY LINE
12'-73 4"
SETBACK
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
53'-93 4"
0
8
4
16'
9'-1"
11'-0"
9'-1"
9'-1"
11'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
10'-1"
18'-11"
9'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
9'-1"
8'-1"
10'-0"
8'-0"
8'-6"
8'-0"
56'-13 4"
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.51
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING SECTIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 148 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
2 - EAST WEST SECTION D
1 - EAST WEST SECTION C
1 BR FLAT
3--
1 BR LOFT
4--
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-6"
9'-0"
GARAGE
-12'-0" (+103.5)
GARAGE
-21'-0" (+94.5)
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
9'-0"
T.O. PARAPET
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
0
8
4
16'
18'-11"
9'-1"
9'-1"
11'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
10'-1"
10'-0"
8'-0"
18'-11"
9'-1"
9'-1"
11'-1"
10'-0"
8'-0"
9'-1"
8'-1"
8'-1"
10'-1"
9'-3"
9'-1"
9'-1"
11'-1"
56'-13 4"
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.52
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING SECTIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 149 ---
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115)
10'-4"
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
8'-8"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-614"
9'-0"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
GARAGE
-12'-6 1/4" (+102.48)
GARAGE
-21'-6 1/4" (+93.48)
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
T.O. PARAPET
BUILDING HEIGHT 53'-93 4"
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
1
NORTH SOUTH SECTION
0
16
8
32'
18'-11"
9'-1"
9'-1"
11'-1"
8'-6"
8'-0"
9'-1"
56'-13 4"
R-A3.53
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING SECTIONS
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 150 ---
NAIL FIN WALL DETAILS
2
SECTION THROUGH WINDOW OVERHANG
3
RAILING DETAILS - TYP. BALCONY
6
ENTRY CANOPY REFERENCE 2
5
ENTRY CANOPY REFERENCE 1
4
RAILING DETAILS - GLASS RAIL AT ROOF
9"
3"
R-A5.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
BUILDING DETAILS
6 " = 1 ' - 0 "

--- page 151 ---
S-1
M-1
C-1
V-1
LEGEND & NOTES
S-1
OFF-WHITE SMOOTH FINISH STUCOO:
SIMILAR TO VAPOR BM - AF-35
C-1
SIDING: SIMILAR TO HARDIE CEMENTITIOUS
CHANNEL LAP SIDING, 6-9" EXPOSURE
V-1
M-1
METAL: PAINTED WITH COLOR
SIMILAR TO RAL 810-6
M-2
METAL: PAINTED WITH COLOR
SIMILAR TO RAL 820-6
G-2
M-3
METAL:  PAINTED WITH COLOR
SIMILAR TO RAL 810-6
VINYL: SIMILAR TO ENVISION SERIES,
VPI QUALITY WINDOWS
G-1
GLASS: SIMILAR TO ENVISION SERIES, VPI
QUALITY WINDOWS
M-2
M-3
MAJOR WALL AREAS
MISCELLANEOUS METAL
WALL COLOR
ACCENT AREAS
BALCONY ELEMENTS
COLUMNS & PANELS
RAILINGS
FRAMES
G-1
GLASS
WINDOWS & DOORS
G-2
GLASS GUARDRAIL
AT ROOF DECK
GLASS GUARDRAIL: MANUFACTURER TBD
S-1
PASEO PANELS
C-1
S-2
LIGHT GREY SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO:
SIMILAR TO MARINA GREY BM 1599
1
EXTERIOR MATERIALS
S-1
C-1
V-1
M-1
M-2
G-2
M-3
G-1
 
 
 
 
 
R-A5.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
EXTERIOR MATERIALS

--- page 152 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
1
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE PERSPECTIVE - DAY
2
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE PERSPECTIVE
3
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE PERSPECTIVE - NIGHT
4
UNIT TERRACE PERSPECTIVE
R-A5.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/16/2021
MU3
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
MU3 RESIDENTIAL -
EXTERIOR PERSPECTIVES

--- page 153 ---
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
• ••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU3
04/16/2021
 1" = 20"
MU3 OVERALL SITE PLAN;
LEGEND

--- page 154 ---
NOTES
REFER TO SHEET C1.0.1 FOR NOTES, LEGEND, AND ABBREVIATIONS.
THE GRADING AND STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SHOWN ON THIS PLAN IS ILLUSTRATIVE AND IS
TO BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAILED DESIGN.
PERMEABLE/IMPERMEABLE AREA CALCULATIONS PROVIDED FOR SPAR PARCEL BLOCK
AREA ONLY. THE WET POND LOCATED IN THE COMMUNITY PARK IS THE PRIMARY
TREATMENT AND DETENTION FACILITY FOR THE ENTIRE PROJECT, WHICH IS SIZED TO
TREAT AND DETAIN RUNOFF FROM ALL PARCEL BLOCK (REFER TO SITE DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMISSION). THE POST-CONSTRUCTION PEAK STORMWATER
DISCHARGE RATE ENTERING BOREL CREEK FROM THE UPSTREAM WATERSHED WILL BE
LESS THAN THE PRE-CONSTRUCTION PEAK STORMWATER DISCHARGE RATE.
STORMWATER QUALITY TREATMENT DEVICES IN THIS BLOCK ARE IN ADDITION TO THE
WET POND.
APPROXIMATELY 66,000 SF OF SOIL DISTURBANCE.
1.
2.
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU3
04/16/2021
3.
PERMEABLE/IMPERMEABLE SURFACE CALCULATIONS
SURFACE TYPE
AREA (SQ FT)
AREA (% OF TOTAL)
PERMEABLE
7,670
12
IMPERMEABLE
58,170
88
TOTAL
65,840
100
STORMWATER TREATMENT SUMMARY
BMP
QUANTITY
AREA (SQ FT)
TREATMENT AREA (SQ FT)
FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER
4
1,330
28900
BIORETENTION AREA
0
0
0
TOTAL
4
1,330
28900
A
NOT TO SCALE
TYPICAL FLOW-THROUGH PLANTER DETAIL
-
 1" = 20"
MU3 GRADING AND
DRAINAGE PLAN
4.
SHEET NOTES
INSTALL BIO CLEAN INLET FILTER OR EQUALAPPROVED DEVICE FROM SWRCB FULL
TRASH CAPTURE SYSTEM LIST.
1.

--- page 155 ---
NOTES
REFER TO SHEET C1.0.1 FOR NOTES, LEGEND, AND ABBREVIATIONS.
UTILITY CONNECTIONS, FDCS, AND TRANSFORMER LOCATIONS/TYPES SHOWN ARE
ILLUSTRATIVE, TO BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
BACKFLOW PREVENTERS ARE SHOWN ILLUSTRATIVELY.  THE LOCATION OF BACKFLOW
PREVENTERS WILL BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
1.
2.
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU3
04/16/2021
3.
 1" = 20"
MU3SITE PRELIMINARY
UTILITY PLAN
SHEET NOTES
INSTALL BACKWATER VALVE
1.

--- page 156 ---
FP
FP
FP
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X7
X7
X7
X7
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X3
X3
X6
X6
X10
X2
X2
X2
X2
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X6
X6
X6
X6
X14
X14
X13
X8
X8
X2
X2
X2
X2
X14
X14
X14
X13
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X14
X14
X14
X12
X12
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X14
X3
X14
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
STR
A
A
E2.1.1
SPAR SUBMITTAL
• ••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU3
04/16/2021
MU3 SITE PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
SCALE:1"=20'
Feet
0
20
40
Project Boundary
Project Boundary
Fixture Schedule
All luminaires to be for use in outdoor condition, wet location, with limited ingress
permitted.
1. FIXTURE TYPES X2  AND X3 ARE MOUNTED TO
THE BUILDING, AND WILL BE INCORPORATED
INTO BUILDING LIGHTING DESIGN /
ENGINEERING DOCUMENTS.
GENERAL SHEET NOTES
FIXTURE TYPE X12 WILL BE MOUNTED WITH
WALL ADJUSTABLE CLIPS APPROXIMATELY AT
4" (CENTER OF THE FIXTURE) FROM THE
FINISHED GROUND LEVEL.
FIXTURE TYPE X11 TO BE MOUNTED WITH WALL
BRACKET AT 5" (CENTER OF THE FIXTURE)
FROM THE END OF FURNITURE
FIXTURE TYPE X10 TO BE POWERED ON VIA
WALL PLUG OR HARD WIRED (TBD).
KEYED NOTES
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
FOR LIGHTING FIXTURE TYPE "X6" - FIXTURE
SHALL BE MOUNTED TO THE CANOPY
STRUCTURAL STEEL SECTION.
4
4
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
TYPE
IMAGE
MANUFACTURER
DESCRIPTION
SIZE
WATTAGE
LAMP
FIXTURE
RATING
FINISH
NOTES
X2
USAI
Ceiling recessed round
downlights
4" dia x 5.5"
depth
9W
LED
4000K
UL Wet
Fixture finish to
match overhang
finish
X3
Axis
Ceiling recessed linear
fixture
4" width x
Continuous
lengths per
drawing
5.5W/ft
LED
4000K
UL Wet
Fixture finish to
match ceiling finish
X4
B-K Lighting
Exterior spotlight for
plant accent lighting
(with honeycomb baffle)
3" dia x 8"
12W
LED
4000K
IP65 /
IK08 / UL
Listed
Antique brass
powder
X5
Bega
Linear in-grade Wall
graze
21" x 3.25" x 5"
15.8W
LED
4000K
IP67 /
NRTL
Wet
Stainless Steel
X6
B-K lighting
Downlight mounted to
trellis structure
Canopy: 6.5" dia
x 2:35", head: 8"
x 3"
12W
LED
4000K
IP65 / UL
listed
Fixture finish to
match trellis finish
X7
Hess
Linear bollard with 180°
distribution
6" x 9.5" x 36" h
11W
LED
4000K
CSA Wet
Anthracite grey
X8
Hess
Pedestrian scale pole
lighting
6.3" x 43.7" x 15'
h
72W
LED
4000K
IP65
Anthracite grey
X10
Vibia
Outdoor floor lamp
23.5" dia x 75" h
25W
LED
2700K
IP 64 /
UL listed
Steel
body,concrete
base and brown
diffuser
Plug-in fixture
X11
Bega
Wall mounted linear
wallgrazer
20.5" x 4.5" x
2.25"
16.8W
LED
4000K
IP65
Fixture finish to
match adjacent
wall finish
X12
Led Linear
Wall mounted and
integral to signage linear
uplight wallwash, and
wall mounted step light.
Function / application
dependant on location.
0.77" x 1.06" x
lengthperdwg
3.2W/ft
LED
2900K
IP67
Stainless Steel
Fixture with
remote driver (to
be protected in
Nema4X
inclosure or
inside the
building)
X13
Teka Illumination
Ground surface path
light
6.5" dia x 2' h
7W
LED
4000K
IP65 / UL
listed
Bronze wrinkle
Fixture with
remote driver (to
be protected in
Nema4X
inclosure or
inside the
building)
X14
Bega
Wall surface mounted
path lighting
8" x 4.75" x 3"
2W
LED
4000K
IP65
Fixture finish to
match CMU
planter wall

--- page 157 ---
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
5.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
5.8
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
6.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
8.6
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
7.0
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.6
1.1
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.2
1.1
1.1
1.1
4.4
0.6
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
3.0
3.0
2.3
3.0
3.2
2.5
2.8
3.1
4.3
1.0
0.6
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.5
4.6
4.4
4.3
4.3
5.1
1.8
0.8
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
5.8
5.9
5.2
6.0
6.2
5.2
5.5
5.9
5.9
2.0
1.0
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
5.8
5.9
5.3
6.0
6.1
5.2
5.4
5.9
5.7
2.1
1.1
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.6
4.7
4.4
4.4
4.4
4.6
2.1
1.2
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
1.7
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.0
1.5
1.7
1.8
1.8
1.8
1.6
1.3
1.6
1.9
2.1
2.3
2.2
2.0
1.6
1.7
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.2
1.8
1.7
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.3
1.9
1.7
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.4
2.0
1.7
2.1
2.4
2.6
2.6
2.5
2.1
1.9
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
2.7
2.3
1.9
2.2
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.7
2.3
1.9
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.5
2.4
2.2
1.9
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.3
2.2
1.9
1.9
2.2
2.3
2.3
2.2
2.0
1.7
1.9
2.2
2.4
2.4
2.3
2.0
1.7
1.9
2.4
2.6
2.6
2.5
2.1
1.7
2.1
2.5
2.8
2.8
2.5
2.2
1.8
2.1
2.6
2.8
2.8
2.6
2.2
1.8
2.0
2.5
2.7
2.7
2.5
2.2
1.8
1.9
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.5
2.2
1.8
1.8
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.3
2.0
1.6
1.0
1.9
2.2
2.4
2.4
2.2
1.9
1.5
1.1
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.4
2.2
1.8
1.4
1.0
2.2
2.4
2.5
2.3
2.1
1.8
1.4
2.1
2.4
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.7
1.4
1.9
2.0
2.0
1.9
1.8
1.5
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.1
1.0
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.1
1.0
0.8
0.7
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
3.7
3.7
3.5
4.0
4.2
3.9
4.0
4.1
3.5
1.8
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.2
2.7
3.8
3.9
3.4
3.7
3.9
3.6
3.3
3.8
3.8
3.3
3.5
3.8
3.5
3.1
3.6
3.7
3.2
3.3
3.7
3.6
3.3
3.7
3.7
3.3
3.4
3.7
3.5
3.1
3.6
3.7
3.2
3.3
3.7
3.2
1.9
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
4.1
4.0
3.9
4.4
4.6
4.3
4.3
4.4
3.8
2.1
1.4
1.2
1.2
1.1
1.0
1.1
1.1
1.4
3.0
4.2
4.5
3.8
3.8
4.2
3.9
3.5
3.8
3.8
3.5
3.6
3.8
3.6
3.3
3.7
3.8
3.4
3.5
3.9
3.7
3.6
3.8
3.9
3.5
3.6
3.9
3.7
3.5
3.8
3.8
3.4
3.4
3.7
3.3
1.8
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
5.3
4.6
3.7
5.4
5.5
3.6
3.3
3.7
3.1
1.9
1.6
1.5
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.4
1.5
2.5
4.9
5.9
4.2
4.2
5.1
4.6
2.9
2.9
2.8
2.0
2.5
3.0
2.5
1.9
2.8
2.9
2.2
2.4
2.9
2.7
2.0
2.9
2.9
2.2
2.5
3.1
2.8
2.0
2.8
3.0
2.3
2.3
2.8
2.3
1.1
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.1
2.1
2.2
3.3
2.9
2.2
1.1
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.3
0.6
1.1
1.0
1.0
1.2
0.5
1.0
1.0
0.9
1.1
0.4
1.0
1.0
0.9
1.1
0.4
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.1
0.4
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.1
0.4
0.9
0.9
0.9
1.1
0.4
0.9
0.8
0.6
1.7
5.2
7.8
6.3
5.5
7.8
7.6
4.0
2.3
2.3
2.1
1.8
1.7
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.7
2.8
6.1
8.6
6.8
5.4
7.5
7.1
3.6
2.0
1.3
1.3
1.7
1.5
1.7
1.3
1.4
1.7
1.5
1.7
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.7
1.3
1.4
1.8
1.6
1.7
1.4
1.4
1.6
1.5
1.6
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
2.0
2.2
2.4
3.3
3.0
4.0
3.3
4.2
2.1
1.9
3.4
2.9
3.9
1.8
1.7
3.2
2.8
3.8
1.8
1.6
3.2
2.8
3.8
1.8
1.6
3.2
2.8
3.8
1.8
1.6
3.2
2.8
3.8
1.8
1.6
3.2
2.8
3.8
1.8
1.6
3.2
2.8
3.7
1.5
0.8
2.2
6.8
9.8
8.1
6.9
9.9
9.7
4.8
2.4
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.9
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.8
1.9
2.1
2.1
3.2
7.7
10.5 8.4
6.7
9.5
9.2
4.6
2.9
6.0
5.5
2.5
1.8
2.6
6.0
5.5
2.5
1.8
2.6
6.0
5.5
2.5
1.8
2.6
6.0
5.5
2.5
1.8
2.6
6.0
5.5
2.5
1.8
2.6
6.0
5.3
2.1
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
3.0
3.0
3.1
2.5
2.4
3.9
5.5
4.3
2.4
2.1
3.7
5.2
4.1
2.2
2.0
3.5
5.1
4.0
2.1
1.9
3.5
5.1
4.0
2.1
1.9
3.5
5.1
4.0
2.1
1.9
3.5
5.1
4.0
2.1
1.9
3.5
5.1
4.0
2.1
1.9
3.5
5.1
3.9
1.8
0.9
2.3
6.7
10.4 7.9
7.0
10.3 10.1 5.4
2.8
2.9
2.6
2.3
2.1
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.1
2.3
2.7
2.8
3.7
8.1
11.0 8.3
6.8
9.9
9.5
4.9
3.2
5.1
5.0
2.8
2.0
2.9
5.0
5.0
2.7
1.9
2.9
5.1
5.0
2.7
1.9
2.9
5.0
5.0
2.8
1.9
2.9
5.1
5.0
2.8
2.0
2.9
5.1
4.9
2.6
1.2
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
2.3
2.5
2.4
1.9
2.0
3.5
4.9
4.0
2.3
2.1
3.5
4.8
3.9
2.2
2.0
3.4
4.8
3.8
2.1
2.0
3.4
4.8
3.8
2.1
1.9
3.3
4.7
3.8
2.1
1.9
3.3
4.7
3.8
2.1
1.9
3.3
4.7
3.8
2.1
1.9
3.3
4.7
3.7
1.8
1.0
2.2
7.1
10.2 8.4
7.2
10.4 10.8 5.8
3.7
3.6
3.1
2.7
2.3
2.1
2.9
3.3
3.6
4.3
8.9
11.2 8.7
6.9
10.0 9.7
4.8
3.2
4.6
4.5
2.7
2.0
2.8
4.5
4.4
2.7
1.9
2.8
4.5
4.4
2.7
1.9
2.8
4.5
4.4
2.7
2.0
2.8
4.5
4.4
2.7
2.0
2.9
4.6
4.4
2.6
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.5
0.6
1.2
1.4
1.3
1.3
1.7
3.6
7.9
4.3
2.0
1.8
3.6
7.8
4.2
2.0
1.8
3.5
7.7
4.1
1.9
1.7
3.5
7.7
4.1
1.9
1.7
3.4
7.7
4.1
1.9
1.7
3.4
7.7
4.1
1.9
1.7
3.4
7.7
4.1
1.9
1.7
3.4
7.7
4.0
1.6
0.9
2.3
6.7
10.6 8.0
7.4
10.7 11.1 6.8
4.6
4.5
3.9
3.1
4.1
4.6
5.2
9.4
11.6 8.6
7.1
10.1 9.6
4.9
3.1
6.0
5.6
2.6
1.7
2.7
6.0
5.6
2.5
1.7
2.7
5.9
5.5
2.5
1.7
2.7
5.9
5.5
2.5
1.7
2.7
5.9
5.6
2.6
1.8
2.8
6.1
5.7
2.6
1.3
1.0
1.0
1.2
0.9
1.1
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.2
1.7
0.6
1.9
1.2
1.2
1.6
0.5
1.9
1.2
1.1
1.6
0.5
1.8
1.2
1.1
1.6
0.5
1.9
1.2
1.2
1.6
0.4
1.8
1.1
1.0
1.6
0.4
1.8
1.1
1.1
1.6
0.4
1.8
1.1
1.1
1.6
0.4
1.8
1.0
0.7
2.0
6.3
9.0
7.7
7.0
9.8
10.9 7.3
5.8
5.4
4.6
3.4
5.6
6.0
9.7
10.2 8.3
6.6
9.0
8.6
4.1
2.0
1.7
2.0
1.5
1.2
1.6
1.7
2.0
1.5
1.1
1.5
1.6
1.9
1.4
1.1
1.5
1.6
1.9
1.4
1.1
1.5
1.6
1.9
1.5
1.2
1.7
1.8
2.1
1.6
1.1
1.2
1.7
2.1
1.6
1.8
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
1.3
3.7
5.7
4.5
4.7
6.8
8.2
7.0
6.4
6.1
5.1
3.6
6.6
6.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
1.3
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.6
0.8
0.9
1.6
2.5
3.0
2.1
2.2
0.8
2.9
5.7
6.8
6.5
5.3
3.6
7.0
6.0
0.6
0.7
5.2
6.0
5.9
5.0
3.5
6.4
5.5
0.7
3.4
4.3
5.0
5.1
4.4
3.3
2.4
4.8
5.5
4.9
5.1
3.2
2.4
2.3
1.9
1.7
1.9
1.5
1.5
1.4
0.8
3.3
4.0
4.2
3.7
3.0
2.3
2.2
2.2
2.2
2.6
3.4
4.1
4.7
4.8
6.0
4.7
4.4
4.1
3.9
4.0
3.8
3.8
3.5
3.2
2.2
2.5
3.1
3.4
3.0
2.7
2.3
2.1
2.1
2.1
2.4
2.8
3.2
3.8
4.6
5.8
5.1
5.3
4.6
4.7
5.1
4.4
4.9
4.5
3.8
2.8
2.1
2.4
2.8
2.5
2.3
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.6
2.9
3.4
4.7
4.3
4.2
3.9
3.8
4.0
3.8
3.8
3.6
3.3
2.3
1.8
2.1
2.3
1.9
2.0
2.2
2.0
2.2
2.3
2.0
2.3
2.5
2.5
2.2
2.6
2.8
2.7
2.4
2.0
2.3
2.8
3.0
2.9
2.6
2.1
2.8
3.1
3.0
2.6
2.9
3.0
2.9
2.6
2.9
3.0
2.9
2.6
2.9
3.1
3.0
2.6
3.0
3.2
3.0
2.6
2.9
3.1
3.0
2.6
2.8
3.0
2.9
2.6
2.6
2.9
2.8
2.5
2.5
2.6
2.5
2.3
2.1
2.2
2.2
2.0
2.0
2.2
2.0
2.1
2.0
1.4
3.8
4.3
4.0
4.1
4.2
3.8
7.0
8.1
6.9
7.9
8.1
6.8
6.9
8.0
6.7
7.7
7.9
6.6
3.5
3.9
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.2
1.5
1.4
1.0
1.1
1.0
0.7
1.1
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
1.0
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.8
0.8
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
5.1
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
5.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
6.0
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
6.2
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
6.4
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
6.5
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.6
0.6
9.0
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.7
9.0
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.7
0.8
7.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
7.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.9
1.0
5.1
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
5.1
0.9
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.5
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
2.0
2.3
1.4
0.6
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.2
3.4
2.6
0.9
0.3
0.2
0.1
3.3
3.5
2.8
0.9
0.4
0.2
0.1
2.6
2.9
1.9
0.8
0.4
0.2
0.1
2.7
3.1
2.1
0.8
0.4
0.2
0.1
3.5
3.7
2.9
1.0
0.4
0.2
0.1
3.4
3.6
2.8
1.0
0.4
0.2
0.2
2.5
2.9
1.8
0.9
0.4
0.2
0.2
3.0
3.3
2.4
0.9
0.5
0.3
0.2
3.6
3.8
3.1
1.2
0.5
0.3
0.2
3.4
3.7
2.9
1.2
0.6
0.3
0.3
2.6
3.2
2.0
1.1
0.7
0.4
0.4
3.4
3.8
2.9
1.3
0.8
0.5
0.5
3.9
4.1
3.4
1.6
1.0
0.6
0.6
3.6
4.0
3.1
1.6
1.3
1.0
1.1
2.7
3.3
2.4
2.3
2.2
1.5
1.8
3.8
4.2
4.0
3.2
3.1
2.1
2.3
4.2
4.7
4.9
4.2
3.2
1.9
1.9
3.8
4.5
4.8
4.4
2.6
2.0
2.1
3.1
3.9
3.7
3.3
2.5
2.2
2.2
3.9
4.2
3.6
2.8
3.3
3.1
3.0
3.8
4.2
3.7
2.4
2.5
2.5
2.3
3.2
3.6
2.9
1.7
1.4
1.4
1.2
2.8
3.3
2.3
1.4
1.0
0.9
0.8
3.6
3.9
3.2
1.4
0.9
0.7
0.6
3.6
3.9
3.2
1.3
0.8
0.6
0.5
2.9
3.2
2.3
1.1
0.7
0.5
0.4
2.8
3.1
2.1
1.0
0.6
0.4
0.3
3.5
3.7
2.9
1.1
0.5
0.3
0.3
3.5
3.7
2.9
1.1
0.5
0.3
0.2
2.6
3.0
1.9
0.9
0.5
0.3
0.2
2.9
3.2
2.3
0.9
0.4
0.2
0.2
3.4
3.6
2.9
1.0
0.4
0.2
0.2
3.0
3.3
2.5
0.9
0.4
0.2
0.2
1.8
2.0
1.2
0.6
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.7
0.9
1.6
2.6
3.1
2.0
2.0
0.6
0.9
1.9
3.2
2.7
1.8
1.6
0.6
0.9
2.0
3.1
2.2
1.8
1.9
0.6
0.7
1.3
1.6
2.6
2.2
2.3
0.4
0.4
0.8
1.6
2.4
2.7
2.7
0.2
0.4
0.6
1.0
1.4
1.8
1.7
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.5
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.8
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
8.0
7.3
5.3
6.4
7.3
5.0
1.5
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
6.7
6.2
4.3
5.1
6.4
4.0
1.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.2
1.6
1.5
1.3
1.6
1.3
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.3
1.5
1.2
1.4
1.5
1.1
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
2.5
2.4
1.6
1.8
2.3
1.5
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
1.1
1.8
2.6
2.1
1.9
2.1
2.0
1.4
0.8
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.2
2.0
2.5
1.8
2.0
2.1
1.7
1.1
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.6
0.5
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.5
2.6
3.2
1.9
1.7
2.4
2.4
1.8
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.9
1.7
2.9
3.1
1.7
1.8
2.4
2.3
1.5
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.8
3.1
2.8
1.8
1.6
2.1
2.7
2.0
1.0
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
1.0
2.1
3.4
2.3
1.8
1.7
2.5
2.6
1.6
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.7
2.7
2.2
1.8
2.0
2.3
2.6
1.7
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.7
1.0
2.1
2.9
1.9
1.8
2.0
2.6
2.4
1.4
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.5
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
1.1
0.9
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.6
1.9
1.4
1.9
1.6
1.1
0.8
0.7
2.6
1.8
2.3
2.3
1.7
1.0
0.7
2.0
1.7
2.1
2.6
2.1
1.1
0.8
1.9
2.0
2.2
3.0
2.2
1.1
0.7
2.1
2.1
2.5
2.4
1.6
0.9
0.7
3.0
2.9
2.7
1.7
0.9
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.7
0.8
2.5
2.1
2.2
1.9
1.1
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.3
3.7
1.0
1.1
0.9
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.1
1.6
1.4
1.3
1.5
1.2
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.1
1.5
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
3.5
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.0
1.8
2.5
2.2
1.9
2.2
1.9
1.3
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.7
1.1
1.8
2.5
2.0
2.0
2.2
2.0
2.4
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1.4
2.6
3.3
2.0
1.8
2.4
2.5
1.8
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.7
1.5
2.7
3.2
1.9
1.9
2.5
2.5
1.8
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.7
3.1
3.0
1.9
1.7
2.2
2.8
2.0
1.0
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.9
1.9
3.2
2.7
1.9
1.7
2.4
2.8
1.9
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.8
1.7
2.9
2.4
1.9
2.0
2.3
2.8
1.7
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.9
1.9
3.0
2.3
1.9
2.0
2.6
2.7
1.7
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.8
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
5.2
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
5.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.4
5.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
1.1
1.0
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.4
6.1
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.5
6.2
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
6.2
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
6.5
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.6
6.4
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.5
0.6
6.3
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
9.1
0.8
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.7
0.8
9.1
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
9.0
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
1.1
1.0
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
8.0
0.9
0.8
0.8
0.8
0.9
0.9
0.9
8.3
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
8.3
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.8
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.6
0.6
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.5
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.4
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.9
0.2
0.3
0.5
1.5
0.2
0.3
0.5
1.3
3.0
3.4
2.8
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.9
1.8
2.3
1.6
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.9
1.8
2.3
1.6
0.2
0.3
0.6
1.4
3.0
3.5
2.9
0.2
0.3
0.6
1.7
3.3
3.7
3.2
0.2
0.3
0.6
1.2
2.7
3.3
2.6
0.3
0.4
0.7
1.2
2.0
2.4
1.9
0.3
0.4
0.8
1.8
4.6
5.6
4.3
0.3
0.5
1.0
3.1
6.3
7.1
6.1
0.3
0.5
1.0
2.7
6.0
6.8
5.7
0.4
0.5
1.0
1.8
3.6
4.7
3.3
0.4
0.5
1.0
1.8
3.5
4.6
3.2
0.5
0.6
1.2
2.8
6.1
7.0
5.8
0.7
0.8
1.4
3.5
6.6
7.4
6.4
0.9
0.9
1.5
2.4
5.1
6.1
4.7
1.6
1.3
2.0
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.0
2.4
1.8
2.4
2.4
2.1
1.6
1.4
2.5
1.9
2.5
2.7
2.3
1.5
1.1
1.1
4.0
0.8
0.4
0.9
3.2
0.7
0.6
0.7
0.3
0.4
0.7
1.3
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.7
2.3
2.3
1.5
2.9
2.9
1.6
2.9
0.7
1.8
0.5
2.9
13.9 0.8
0.9
0.5
1.2
1.4
1.9
3.4
4.1
1.2
0.7
0.9
2.5
2.9
4.7
0.3
1.0
1.6
1.0
3.7
1.5
1.3
0.4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X4
X7
X7
X7
X7
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X3
X3
X6
X6
X10
X2
X2
X2
X2
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
X7
1
X6
X6
X6
X6
X14
X14
X13
X8
X8
X2
X2
X2
X2
X14
X14
X14
X13
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X6
X14
X14
X14
X12
X12
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X2
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X5
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
X11
8
9
5
10
7
4
11
6
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X3
X14
X3
X14
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
DN
UP
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
115' - 4 1/4"
114' - 6"
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
PARKING
LOADING
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
113' - 6 1/2"
113' - 2 1/4"
T
T
C
R
R
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
115' - 0"
114' - 6"
115' - 6"
115' - 0"
STR
LOBBY
METAL GATE
METAL GATE
113' - 7 3/4"
A
A
E2.1.2
GENERAL SHEET NOTES
SPAR SUBMITTAL
• ••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
MU3
04/16/2021
MU3 SITE PRELIMINARY
PHOTOMETRIC LIGHTING PLAN
SCALE: 1"=20'
NOTE: REFER TO E2.1.1 FOR FIXTURE SCHEDULE.
DESIGN CRITERA
CITY OF SAN MATEO CRITERIA
0.3
4 : 1
1.0
AVG. (FC)
AVG : MIN. 
RATIO
MIN. (FC)
Feet
0
20
40
AVG. (FC)
AVG : MIN. 
RATIO
MU3 CALCULATION SUMMARY TABLE
AREA
MIN. (FC)
MU3 S. DELAWARE ST ENTRANCE
4.0
4.1:1
1.0
4
MU3 COMMERCIAL PORTAL
2.1
1.6:1
1.3
5
MU3 CENTRAL PLAZA
5.0
3.4:1
1.5
6
MU3 SOUTH-NORTH AXIS PASEO
3.5
2.3:1
1.5
7
MU3 RESIDENTIAL W KYNE ENTRANCE
6.1
1.6:1
1.8
8
MU3 RESIDENTIAL PORTAL
2.7
1.4:1
2.0
9
MU3 RESIDENTIAL PATHWAY
1.4
2.4:1
0.6
10
MU3 RESIDENTIAL GARDEN ROOM
2.3
1.6:1
1.5
11
STREET LIGHT POLES ARE EXISTING, N.I.S.
THEY HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
CALCULATION FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES
ONLY.
MU3 SOUTH DELAWARE STREET ENTRANCE.
CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT ARE
CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 COMMERCIAL BUILDING PORTAL.
CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT ARE
CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 CENTRAL PLAZA.CALCULATION SUMMARY
RESULT ARE CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED
LINE.
MU3 SOUTH - NORTH AXIS PASEO.
CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT ARE
CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 RESIDENTIAL WEST KYNE STREET
ENTRANCE. CALCULATION SUMMARY RESULT
ARE CONTAINED WITHIN THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 RESIDENTIAL PORTAL. CALCULATION
SUMMARY RESULT ARE CONTAINED WITHIN
THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 RESIDENTIAL PATHWAY. CALCULATION
SUMMARY RESULT ARE CONTAINED WITHIN
THE DASHED LINE.
MU3 RESIDENTIAL GARDEN. CALCULATION
SUMMARY RESULT ARE CONTAINED WITHIN
THE DASHED LINE.
KEYED NOTES
1
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Project Boundary
Project Boundary
1. ALL ILLUMINANCE VALUES ARE IN
FOOTCANDLES.
2. LIGHTING CONTRIBUTION FROM THE STREET
LIGHTS HAS BEEN INCLUDED IN THIS
CALCULATION. EXISTING STREETLIGHT
LOCATIONS ARE APPROXIMATE.
3. PHOTOMETRIC CALCULATIONS INCLUDE
LIGHT CONTRIBUTION FROM FIXTURE TYPES
X2, X3, X6, X7, X12 AND X14 ONLY WITH
EXISTING STREET LIGHT CONTRIBUTION.
4. SIDEWALK LIGHT LEVELS ARE ASSUMED TO
BE MEETING THE LIGHTING CRITERIA AS PART
OF THE PREVIOUS DESIGN WORK.
5. CALCULATION POINTS 10FT BEYOND
PROPERTY LINE ARE PROVIDED FOR
INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES.
6. FIXTURE TYPE X3 DIMMED TO 60% OUTPUT IN
THE CALCULATION.

--- page 158 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
L1.0.1
ILLUSTRATIVE SITE PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
W. KYNE STREET
S. DELAWARE STREET
LANDING AVENUE
OFFICE
PASSAGE
ENTRY
PLAZA
DERBY AVENUE
MU3
OFFICE
MU3
OFFICE
MU3
RESIDENTIAL
MU3
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 159 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
P4
SITE ELEMENTS
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
SITE PAVING
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
Decorative Gravel
P1
P2
P3
P5
12" decorative gravel. Natural stone TBD.  3" deep layer over filter fabric and lightweight foam fill.
Tile Pavers
12" x 12" x 1" Porcelian tile paver. Specstone Inc. or sim. Epoxy set on CIP concrete subbase over
lightweight foam fill.
Bike Racks
Precast concrete planter product. QCP Cascade Round, various sizes: QR-CE6048P and QR-CE4842P.
Planter Pot
Trellis
Structure
LEVEL 1 - MATERIALS SCHEDULE
E2
E3
E4
E5
E6
E7
Planter Wall A
- CMU
Planter Wall B
- Concrete at
Residential Perimeter
CIP Concrete Planter Wall and drainage base, height variable, 8" thick, provide waterproofing and drain
mat, drain structure per civil.
Ground Face Concrete Masonry Unit Planter Wall and drainage base, 36" tall from top of substurcture,
varies 12" - 24" thick, provide waterproofing, drain mat, planter drain (1 per 1000 SF planter area)
Concrete Unit Paver
- Type A
3"x 9" x 4" Precast concrete pavers,  Stepstone/Hanover, or sim. Vehicular rated to 60,000# loading
requirements for exterior building maintenance boom lift.  Epoxy set on CIP concrete subbase over
lightweight foam fill.
CIP Concrete
- Sidewalk & General
CIP concrete paving, 4 1
2" min thickness over 6" aggregate base.  Finish to match typ. project sidewalks:
medium broom finish with tooled joints, natural grey w/ lamp black admixture.
CIP Concrete
- Vehicular
CIP concrete paving, 6" min thickness over 12" aggregate base.  Finish to match typ. project sidewalks:
medium broom finish with tooled joints, natural grey w/ lamp black admixture.
P6
Precast concrete
planter and bench
Precast concrete segmented planter wall with integrated hardwood bench seats, 20" high from finish
surface, 42" thick, provide CIP concrete drainage base, waterproofing, drain mat, and planter drain.
Bench
Manufactured bench: Landscape Forms Neoliviano, 69" long, backed wood and steel bench with
armrests; or similar to be determined
In-ground mount, circular, stainless steel rack.  Welle Circular Rack, Round Pipe Model: WCR02-IG-SS
Manufactured shade trellis structure. 20' x 16' x 12'.
CIP Concrete
- Courtyard Paving
P2
P1
Concrete Unit Paver
- Type A
CIP Concrete
- Courtyard Paving
CIP concrete paving, 4 1
2" min thickness over lightweight foam fill, medium sandblast retardant finish,
custom aggregate blend, integral color, sawcut joints.
CIP Concrete
- Sidewalk & General
P3
P3
Tile Pavers
P4
Decorative Gravel
E1
Planter Wall A
- CMU
E1
E2
Planter Wall B
- Concrete at
Residential Perimeter
Planter Pot
E3
E4
Precast concrete
planter and bench
E5
Bench
Bike Racks
E6
Cafe
Seating
E8
TBD
Wood Screen
E9
3' tall wood plank screen set on concrete planter wall
Wood Fence
and Gate
E10
3' tall wood plank fence and gate
Wood Bench
E11
Wood bench mounted to concrete planter wall
MU3  Open Space Table
Type
Area (SQ. FT)
Paved Area
10,529
Planting Area
7,519
Total Open Space Area
18,048
L1.1.0
MATERIAL SCHEDULE - SITE LEVEL
NTS
A

--- page 160 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
SITE ELEMENTS
TAG
DESCRIPTION
Tall Bar Stools with Back
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
Bar with Sink and
Grill
Built-in Bar
Tall Dining Table
SITE PAVING
TAG
DESCRIPTION
Pre-Cast Concrete Pavers
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
F1
F4
P1
P2
TBD
Large Bistro Seating
Outdoor Bean Bag / Poof
Outdoor Coffee Table
F7
F9
F10
F5
Modular Lounge Seating
Fire Pit
MATERIALS SCHEDULE - ROOF LEVEL
Planter
Manufactured GFRC Planter, 120"x30"x42": Tournesol Siteworks WCR-1203042-GFRC with
CWM-R2020-4k Irrigation system. Set on shims with support curb or pedestals to match flush with paver
height.
E1
Wood Deck Pavers
Hardwood Deck Tiles on Pedestal system - Bison IP 24" x 24" FSC 100% Massaranduba Wood Tile -
Ribbed, Bison IP pedestal system;  or similar
SITE FURNISHING
TAG
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
TYPE / PRODUCT
E2
E3
E4
Pre-cast concrete bar top and casework with light steel framing.  Manufactured gas grill and sink.
Pre-cast concrete bar top with steel supports.
Manufactured pre-cast concrete fire feature. Manufacture & model TBD.
TBD
TBD
TBD
TBD
TBD
Precast concrete pavers: 24"x24"x2.5".  Pedestal support system (Bison IP or sim.)
L1.1.01
MATERIAL SCHEDULE - ROOF
LEVEL
NTS

--- page 161 ---
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
STR
FP
FP
FP
P1
P2
P2
P2
P4
P4
PL-4
PL-4
PL-1
PL-1
PL-5
E5
E1
E4
E1
PL-4
E6
E7
E7
P5
P3
E3
E3
E1
PL-4
PL-4
PL-1
P6
PL-4
PL-4
PL-1
E2
E2
P5
PL-3
E1
PL-4
PL-3
E2
E8
E8
P2
E8
E10
E9
E11
PL-2
PL-1
P6
PL-1
P5
ENTRY
PLAZA
OFFICE
PASSAGE
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
LANDING AVENUE
DERBY AVENUE
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
L1.1.1
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL AND
PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 162 ---
P1
PL-7
P2
E1
E3
F4
E2
F9
F5
E4
UP
UP
PL-6
F1
E2
F7
F10
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
L1.1.2
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND
PLANTING PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
1/16" = 1' - 0"

--- page 163 ---
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
STR
FP
FP
FP
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
LANDING AVENUE
DERBY AVENUE
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
L1.2.1
LAYOUT PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 164 ---
UP
UP
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
L1.2.2
LAYOUT PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
1/16" = 1' - 0"

--- page 165 ---
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
L1.3.0
PLANTING SCHEDULE
NTS
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
1.
Provide complete irrigation system for all planting areas.
2.
1.5" copper mainline at site level to routed from irrigation water meter and
backflow preventer to all planting areas.
3.
Provide booster pump (size TBD) in mechanical room in garage area and route
1.25" copper main line through building structure to supply irrigation system on
roof decks.
4.
Provide drip line system to cover all planting areas, and bubblers for all trees.
5.
Provide remote control valves and quick coupler valves.
Residential and Stormwater Planting

--- page 166 ---
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE
SPACE
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
STAIR 1
BIKE
STOR
TRANSFORMER
STR
STR
CORR.
STR
FIRE
COMMAND
CENTER
OPEN
OFFICE
ELEC RM
2
IDF RM 2
STR
T-2
T-1
T-3
T-2
S. DELAWARE STREET
W. KYNE STREET
LANDING AVENUE
DERBY AVENUE
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
32'
16'
8'
0'
N
PLOTTED: 2021-4-16 
L1.3.1
TREE PLANTING PLAN - SITE LEVEL
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 167 ---
L3.1.0
VIEWS
NTS
S P A R   S U B M I T T A L
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MU3
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
Project No: PER1902
4/16/2021
SPAR SUBMITTAL
REVISION B, ISSUED FOR REVIEW 04/16/2021
SCALE: NTS
PUBLIC PASSAGEWAY FROM KYNE STREET
1
SCALE: NTS
CENTRAL PLAZA FROM OFFICE PASSAGEWAY
2
Planter Wall A - CMU
E1
Concrete Unit Paver - Type A
P1
Precast Concrete Planter and Bench
E4
Trellis Structure
E7
Planter Wall B - Concrete at
Residential Planter
E2
Manufactured Bench
E5
Planter Wall A - CMU
E1
Concrete Unit Paver - Type A
P1

--- page 168 ---
APNs
Lot area
Original Approval
Proposed
Maximum 
Floor Area
1st Floor Retail
11,814 SF
8,518 SF
‐
1st Floor Restaurant
3,000 SF
‐
‐
Office
15,509 SF
182,836 SF
‐
Residential
109,176 SF
‐
‐
Garage
(1 partial level below grade)
(1 partial level at‐grade + 3 
levels below grade)
‐
Total
139,499 SF
191,354 SF
191,445 SF
Floor Area Ratio
1.8
2.5
2.5
Residential Units
88
‐
88
Residential Density
50 units/acre
‐
50 units/acre
Building Height
50'‐0"
55'‐0"
55'‐0"
Stories 
2 + Mezzanine
4 stories
‐
Setbacks
Front
0'‐0"
5'‐10"
0' to 5' (Delaware St.)
N. Street Side
1'‐11'
0'‐0" to 10'‐0" *
0' to 10' (28th Ave.)
S. Street Side
0'‐0"
0'‐0" to 10'‐0" *
0' to 10' (Derby Ave.)
Rear
0'‐0"
20'‐10" *
10' (Kyne St.)
Original Approval
Proposed
Minimum 
Parking 
Office
‐
458 (2.5 spaces/1000 SF)
Retail
‐
35 (4 spaces/1000 SF)
Residential
‐
‐
‐
Total
0
561
493
Loading
25' On‐Street Loading
(2) 10' x 25' 
(2) 10' x 25'
Bicycle Parking
Short‐Term
‐
26
13
Long‐Term
‐
24
19
MIXED USE BLOCK 2 (MU2)
PA‐2020‐053 Project Data (MU2)
PA Name:  Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification
PA #:  PA‐2020‐053 (Modification of PA07‐054)
Addresses: To be assigned
Zoning:  BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific Plan)
* Exception to Development Standard requested
Footnotes:
561
040‐031‐210, ‐220
76,578 SF (1.75 acres)

--- page 169 ---
APNs
Lot area
Original Approval
Proposed
Maximum 
Floor Area
1st Floor Retail
12,361 SF
5,618 SF
‐
1st Floor Restaurant
‐
‐
‐
Office
12,906 SF
120,142 SF
‐
Residential
110,599 SF
67,431 SF
‐
Garage
(1 Partial Level Below Grade for 
Residential)
(2 Levels Below Grade)
‐
Total
135,866 SF
193,191 SF
197,457 SF
Floor Area Ratio
2.06
2.94
3.0
Residential Units
76
67
76
Residential Density
50 units/acre
44.34 units/acre
50 units/acre
Building Height
40'‐6"
55'‐0"
55'‐0"
Stories 
2 to 5
4 stories + Residential Loft
‐
Setbacks
Front
0'‐0"
0'‐0"
0' to 5' (Delaware St.)
N. Street Side
0'‐0"
0'‐0" to 10'‐0" *
0' to 10' (Derby Ave.)
S. Street Side
0'‐0"
0'‐0" to 10'‐0" *
0' to 10' (Landing Ave.)
Rear
0'‐0"
10'‐0"
10' (Kyne St.)
Original Approval
Proposed
Minimum 
Parking 
Office
‐
301 (2.5 spaces/1000 SF)
Retail
‐
23 (4 spaces/1000 SF)
Residential
137
76
69 (1 space/bedroom)
Total
137
257
393
Loading
25' On‐Street Loading
(2) 10' x 25' 
(2) 10' x 25'
Bicycle Parking
Short‐Term
‐
16
15
Long‐Term
‐
82
82
** Required parking for office uses are partly provided on office station (STA) blocks as per Parking Management Plan (PMP)
PA‐2020‐053 Project Data (MU3)
PA Name:  Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification
PA #:  PA‐2020‐053 (Modification of PA07‐054)
Addresses: To be assigned
Zoning:  BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific Plan)
MIXED USE BLOCK 3 (MU3)
040‐031‐230, ‐240
65,819 SF (1.51 acres)
Footnotes:
* Exception to Development Standard requested
181 **

--- page 170 ---
Appendix 3: 
CAP Consistency 
Checklist 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project 
complies with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP 
are eligible for streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this 
checklist for informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples 
of projects inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
 
General Plan amendments.  
 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase 
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan 
buildout scenario.

--- page 171 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-64 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
Industrial 
Manufacturing 
Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land 
use: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
Yes No 
If yes, please explain:

--- page 172 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-65 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
Yes No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
BE 1: All new development: The project does not 
have natural gas connections, and does not have 
any natural gas appliances or other equipment 
installed 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes:

--- page 173 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-66 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space:  The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired 
for EV chargers, consistent with state and any local 
regulations. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers? 
      
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers that are 
accessible by members of the public beyond those 
who live and/or work at the project. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public? 
      
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 174 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-67 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM strategies 
to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
       
Additional notes: 
      
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies consistent 
with the targets in relevant area plans and the San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
ST 7. All new development: Be located along El 
Camino Real, within one-half mile of any Caltrain 
station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas. 
Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes:

--- page 175 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-68 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
SW 1. All developments with multifamily units 
or nonresidential space: Provide an area of 
sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
WW 3. All new development: Include a greywater 
system. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 176 ---
Appendix 3: 
CAP Consistency 
Checklist 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project 
complies with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP 
are eligible for streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this 
checklist for informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples 
of projects inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
 
General Plan amendments.  
 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase 
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan 
buildout scenario.

--- page 177 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-64 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
Industrial 
Manufacturing 
Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land 
use: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
Yes No 
If yes, please explain:

--- page 178 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-65 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
Yes No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
BE 1: All new development: The project does not 
have natural gas connections, and does not have 
any natural gas appliances or other equipment 
installed 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes:

--- page 179 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-66 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space:  The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired 
for EV chargers, consistent with state and any local 
regulations. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers? 
      
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers that are 
accessible by members of the public beyond those 
who live and/or work at the project. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public? 
      
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 180 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-67 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM strategies 
to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
       
Additional notes: 
      
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies consistent 
with the targets in relevant area plans and the San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
ST 7. All new development: Be located along El 
Camino Real, within one-half mile of any Caltrain 
station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas. 
Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes:

--- page 181 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-68 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
SW 1. All developments with multifamily units 
or nonresidential space: Provide an area of 
sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
WW 3. All new development: Include a greywater 
system. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 182 ---
Figure IT-130
MU 2 Key Plan

CUT LIT,

Figure IT-131
Example of Vertical Expression: Fenestration

Figure IT-132
Example of Vertical Expression:
Facade Articulation

Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

11.17 MU 2

Ground floor Retail or active use (required)
Delaware Street
Upper floors Residential or Commercial
Ground floor Commercial, lobbies
28th & 29th Avenues ; ” ”
Upper floors Residential or commercial
All floors Hotel, Apartment, Condominium or Loft

* A ground floor pedestrian passage Is permitted to connect Delaware Street to
Street A. If it occurs, the ground floor should be designed as an active frontage
with windows and doors. There should be an unobstructed path and view
directly from Street A to Delaware Street. The passage may be covered beginning
at 15 feet above sidewalk level for a maximum of 60% of the building's depth.

Delaware Street Frontage Criteria

* Buildings must include vertical expression devices to break up the largely
horizontal massing. See Figures II 131 and II-132.
Required Architectural Feature must be visible from 28th Avenue.
Ground floor retail or active use required. A minimum of approximately 75% of
linear feet of the Delaware Street frontage shall be glazed with clear (untinted,
non-reflective) glass.
Vibrant retail and active frontages with varied, incremental storefronts are encouraged.
Stepbacks are allowed above the ground floor and encouraged above the 3rd
floor within 10' of the Property Line.

* A combination of flat roofs and sloping roofs with broad overhangs is preferred.

Street A Frontage Criteria

* A minimum of one floor underground parking is required. Should additional parking
be necessary, above-grade parking shall be shielded from Street A by occupied
space a minimum of 25 feet thick at the ground level.

* Required Architectural Feature must be visible from 28th Avenue.

* One-story base expression required.

* A break from sidewalk to sky should occur in the middle third of the Street A
frontage as indicated in Figure |-134. Eaves and other allowable encroachments
may encroach upon this zone.

* Private open spaces (patios, decks) should not be deeper than ten feet if located
below the top floor.

Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

Large windows are encouraged along the street to open to the park.

Facades should be relatively flat to provide uniformity among Blocks.

Lobby entrances are encouraged.

A street-facing courtyard may occur. Such a courtyard shall have a maximum width
of 50 feet at the first two stories where It opens to Street A.

December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,

Massing and Access


--- page 183 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

28th and 29th Avenues Frontage Criteria

¢ Lower height zone on 29th Avenue shall be one story lower than contiguous frontage.

¢ If located below the top floor, private open spaces (patios, decks or balconies)
should not be deeper than ten feet if located below the top floor.

* Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

6)

ARCHITECTURAL

FEATURE =~
REQUIRED
RETAIL/ACTIVE USE
AT GROUND |FLOOR
i
2
a
@
a
=
a
©
a
PERMITTED
PEDESTRIAN
PASSAGE IN MIDDLE

THIRD OF BLOCK

FACE

MAX. ONE CURB CUT,
MIN, 60! MAX. 38)

70’ MAX.
(NO SETBACK}

Za

Mac ~ sw sersacx
+ # #

Lo

——— CURB LIN

FEATURE

PROPER

SETBACK

il

fe

! MIN, 60!

CURB CUTS,
MAX, 35! EACH, MIN, 50' APART

Street A-West

Preferred
Commercial
Entrances

Preferred Retail
Entrances

Preferred
Residential
Entrances

RSS Curb cut zone

29th Avenue
or

> DD

Figure II-133
MU 2 Building Placement

December 12, 2006

Chapter II: Building Placement, I-47
Massing and Access


--- page 184 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

SOLD CORNER,
HOLD CORNER, O! MIN

60' MIN. eee

28th Avenue

B38) PELE ocan SEEM
BBL POR eee | LL cura ne
° RVC AIRS PROPERTY LINE

SETBACK LINE

AK ees

QN STREET A-VWHST IN
IDDLE THIRD O|
BLOCK FACE:

IDTH: 20' MIN.750' MAX,

ENCOURAGED srt

Delaware Street

60' MIN,

HOLD CORNER,
HOLD CORNER, Street A-West

HOLD CORNER” 29th Avenue HOLD'COfNER, ;
60! MIN, 20 MIN. SSK] 45 Stories
_ a oe a
6 RQ QQA 24 Stories
Figure II-134
MU 2 Building Massing

Development Block MU 2 Build-To Zone Allowable Encroachments
|

et LS ee
po bowerr Floors Upper Floors rs ee

Floor 1- Min. 80% within 3'
of Setback Line; Floors 2-3 Floors 4-5 - Max. 90% 1st Hoor, 3rd
Min. 70% within 3' of within 10' of Setback Line Floor
Setback Line

28th Avenue

Floors +3 - Min. 75% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 50% 1st Hoor, 3rd
3' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line
28th Avenue Floors +3 - Min. 80% within] Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% Not reanree in
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line 9
zone
Minimum 80% within 5' of |Top Floor - Min. 70% within} 1st Hoor, Top 13

*Required expression lines from adjacent frontages shall wrap onto this frontage for at least the "hold corner" distance
Table II-7
MU 2 Massing Chart

Il - 48 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 185 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Figure IT-135 Figure I-136
Appropriate ground floor retail expression Simple plan geometry and roof with flat
with upper floor commercial uses roofs and broad overhangs

Figure IT-137 Figure II-138
Appropriate consistency of buildings, Appropriate shallow step-out or
appropriate baleony, roof and loggia articulation Juliet balconies

Figure IT-139 Figure ITI-140
An example of an inviting pedestrian passage Appropriate break in massing on Street A

December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-49
Massing and Access


--- page 186 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

11.18 MU 3

Ground floor Retail or active use (required)
Delaware Street ; "
Upper floors Residential or Commercial
29th & 30th Ground floor Commercial, Lobbies
Avenues Upper floors Residential or Commercial
Street A All floors Residential or Commercial
Pedestrian Ground floor Retail or Commercial

Easements Upper floors Residential or Commercial

General Criteria

* The ground floor of the required pedestrian easement shall be designed as an
active frontage with windows and doors. There shall be an unobstructed path
and view directly from Street A to Delaware Street. The width between building
faces may be wider than the path dimension to allow transition zones between
the public path and interior uses. The easement may be covered beginning at

Figure II-141 15 feet above sidewalk level for a maximum of 60% of the building's depth.
MU 3 Key Plan The pedestrian passage should be designed to encourage pedestrian use, with
attention paid to pedestrian perception of safety, views to and within it that
encourage its use, and lighting to enhance pedestrian and cyclist visibility, comfort
MTTTLT TITTY and security.
— r cr rT n n i r Delaware Street Frontage Criteria

| * Ground floor retail or active use required. A minimum of approximately 75% of
CL [| [| [| [] [] L | linear feet of the Delaware Street frontage shall be glazed with clear (untinted,

non-reflective) glass.
L ! . l * Vibrant retail and active frontages with varied, incremental storefronts are encouraged.

* Setbacks are allowed above the ground floor and encouraged above the 3rd floor

Figure II-142 within 10' of the Property Line.

Example of Vertical Expression: Fenestration | * Buildings must include vertical expression devices to break up the largely
horizontal massing. See Figures | 142 and I-143.

* A combination of flat roofs and sloping roofs with broad overhangs is preferred.

29th and 30th Avenues Frontage Criteria

* Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

* Private open spaces (patios, decks or balconies) should not be deeper than 10 feet
if located below the top floor.
* Lower height zone shall be one story lower than contiguous frontage.

Figure IT-143
Example of Vertical Expression:
Facade Articulation

TI-50 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 187 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Street A Frontage Criteria

One-story base expression required.

Private open spaces (patios, decks) should not be deeper than ten feet if located
below the top floor.

Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

Large windows are encouraged along Street A to open to the park.

Facades should be relatively flat to provide uniformity among Blocks.

Lobby entrances are encouraged.

A street-facing courtyard may only occur along Street A. Such a courtyard shall

have a maximum width of 50 feet at the first two stories where it opens to Street A.
* A minimum of one floor of underground parking is required. Additional above-grade

parking shall be shielded from Street A by occupied space a minimum of 25 feet

thick at the ground level.

vv MAX. TWO CURB CUTS VO ”
MIN, 50! MAX. 35! EACH, MIN, 50!
+ MIN SO'APART b 29th Avenue

70! MAX.
(NO SETBACK) CURB LINE
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK LINE

REQUIRED >
RETAIL/ACTIVE USE
AT GROUNDIFLOOR| = | MU 3 1

7 oO ®

o qt =

© L

B | Gt owe ~~~ ~~ <

w ~

2) lope eee ®

oo = ra]

ZLE 5

o

Oo
REQUIRED
PEDESTRIAN
EASEMENT IIN
MIDDLE THIRD OF
BLOCK FAC
ALIGN WITH RES 4
WITHIN 15"

mercial
- 30th Avenue & Entrances ;
MIN. 50! MAX. TWO CURB CUTS, MIN, 50! Aa Preferred Retail
: : no,
MIN. 50! APART Preferred
ZX Residential
4) Entrances
Curb cut zone
Figure IT-144
MU 3 Building Placement
December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-51

Massing and Access


--- page 188 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

_A ON ene
HOLD CORNER, HOLD CORNER,

60' MIN. 29th Avenue fo ee
|

g Ae
=
cz °o
g2 [8
98 2
o x
oo =
CURB LINE
PROPERTY|LINE
7 SETBACK LINE
D 7
o ao
B =
® zt
find =
= ®
Rc} £
oO Ww
Oo
Fa )
g
a8 8
g
1 2

Figure IT-145
MU 3 Building Massing
xeon Lie Allowable Encroachments
eee LS
power Floors Upper Floors es ee
29th Avenue Hloors 1-3 - Min. 80% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% Ist Floor, 3rd
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line Floor
Delaware Street Minimum 80% within 5' of |Top Floor - Min. 70% within] 1st Floor, Top
Property Line 10' of Property Line Floor (See 1.5)
*Required expression lines trom adjacent frontages shall wrap onto this frontage for at least the "hold corner’ distance

encom 30th Avenue loBinen EXXXXX] 48 Stories
Table II-8

60! MIN. 20! MIN.
® ~ +7 EE SSN
|
. _. . Not required in
30th Avenue Hloors 1-3 - Min. 80% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% lower height
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line at
MU 3 Massing Chart

TI -52 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 189 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Figure IT-146 Figure I-147
Appropriate ground floor retail expression Simple plan geometry with flat roofs and
with upper floor commercial uses broad overhangs

Figure IT-148 Figure II-149
Appropriate consistency of buildings, Varied building massing mid-block, with
appropriate balcony, roof and loggia articulation full-height expression at corner

a = } a
. fa pera |

Figure IT-150 Figure IJ-151

Appropriate shallow step-out or An example of an inviting pedestrian passage
Juliet balconies
December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-58

Massing and Access


--- page 190 ---
FINAL 
 
BAY MEADOWS II 
PARKING MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared For: 
 
WILSON MEANY  
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330 
San Francisco, CA  94111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared By: 
 
 
 
 
 
June 14, 2021

--- page 191 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 2 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Executive Summary ............................................................................................ 4 
1 Introduction .................................................................................................... 10 
1.1 
Purpose of Report ........................................................................................... 10 
1.2 
Study Area and Definitions ............................................................................. 10 
1.3 
Definitions....................................................................................................... 11 
2 
Proposed Land Uses ................................................................................. 13 
3 
Parking Supply Analysis ........................................................................... 17 
3.1 
Approach to Parking in Bay Meadows II ....................................................... 17 
3.2 
Parking Requirements ..................................................................................... 19 
3.3 
Parking Supply by Block ................................................................................ 25 
3.4 
Neighborhood Parks........................................................................................ 34 
3.5 
On-Street Parking Supply by Block ................................................................ 34 
3.6 
Conclusions ..................................................................................................... 36 
4 
Parking Demand Analysis ......................................................................... 39 
4.1 
Purpose of Parking Demand Analysis ............................................................ 39 
4.2 
Assumptions for Parking Demand Analysis ................................................... 41 
4.3 
Parking Demand by Block .............................................................................. 41 
4.4 
Conclusions ..................................................................................................... 49 
5 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Strategies ........................ 53 
 
 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks ....................................................................... 14 
Table 2: Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Parking Approach ............................................. 20 
Table 3: Development Standard Applicability by Block .................................................. 21 
Table 4: Off-Street Parking Requirements ....................................................................... 22 
Table 5: Parking Requirements for Station Blocks........................................................... 26 
Table 6: Non-Residential Parking Requirements for Mixed-Use Blocks ......................... 28 
Table 7: Detailed Parking Requirements for Mixed-Use Block Residential Uses ........... 30 
Table 8: Parking Requirements for Residential Blocks .................................................... 32 
Table 9: On-Street Parking Supply by Block ................................................................... 35 
Table 10: Comparison of Required Parking with Total Provided .................................... 37 
Table 11: Transit and Internal Capture Adjustments to Parking Demand Rates .............. 41 
Table 12: Parking Demand Analysis for Station Blocks .................................................. 44 
Table 13: Residential Parking Demand Analysis for Mixed Use Blocks ......................... 46 
Table 14: Commercial Parking Demand Analysis for Mixed Use Blocks ....................... 47 
Table 15: Parking Demand Analysis for the Residential Blocks ...................................... 50 
Table 16: Summary of Parking Demand and Parking Supply .......................................... 52

--- page 192 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 3 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Bay Meadows II – Study Area and Block Numbering System ......................... 12 
Figure 2: Parking Locations by Block, Use, and User Group .......................................... 18 
Figure 3: On-Street Parking Spaces by Block .................................................................. 38 
Figure 4: Example Required Parking ................................................................................ 40 
Figure 5: Example of Shared Parking Utilization ............................................................. 40 
Figure 6: Station Blocks Required Parking ...................................................................... 45 
Figure 7: Station Blocks Shared Parking Utilization ........................................................ 45 
Figure 8: Mixed-Use Blocks Required Parking ................................................................ 48 
Figure 9: Mixed-Use Blocks Shared Parking Utilization ................................................. 48 
Figure 10: Residential Blocks Required Parking .............................................................. 51 
Figure 11: Residential Blocks Shared Parking Utilization ............................................... 51

--- page 193 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 4 
Executive Summary 
UPDATED June 14, 2021 
The June 14, 2021 Parking Management Plan update is being completed to address Peer 
Review comments from Hexagon. The previous update occurred on February 17, 2021 to 
update the MU 2 block, MU 3 block, RES 6 block, and the STA blocks. The prior update 
occurred on March 13, 2019 and addressed updates on the MU 2 and MU 3 blocks. The 
prior update on August 24, 2018 addressed Peer Review comments from Hexagon.  The 
prior update occurred on November 14, 2017 to update the land uses for the STA 1 and 
STA 5 blocks and to breakout the A&B parcels along Delaware Street to reflect the SPAR 
plans.  The prior update occurred on August 15, 2017 to update the land uses for the MU 
1 block.  The prior update occurred on November 13, 2015 to update the land use 
information to the current development plan for the Bay Meadows II development. These 
updates specifically include changes to RES 4. The previous Parking Management Plan 
was updated on March 19, 2014, which included updates to the land use information for 
RES 7. The majority of the content of the original Parking Management Plan dated 
August 19, 2008, was retained in the November 6, 2012 document and the March 19, 
2014 document.   
 
Introduction 
 
The Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment (the "Specific Plan") sets forth parking 
standards for the Commercial, Residential and Mixed-Use Blocks comprising the Bay 
Meadows Phase II project area.  The Specific Plan includes a range of maximum parking 
ratios and requirements, but provides that the parking standards are to be finalized at the 
SPAR level.   
 
As part of its SPAR applications, the developer has prepared a Parking Management Plan 
("PMP") that addresses parking for the entire project at full build-out, consistent with the 
Specific Plan requirements.  The purpose of the PMP is to (1) identify the planned 
parking supply for each development block and show conformance with Specific Plan 
requirements; (2) estimate peak weekday parking demand to ensure that the planned 
supply adequately serves the development; and (3) identify parking demand management 
strategies that might be implemented to achieve a reduction in parking needs. 
 
The conditions of approval for each SPAR will require compliance with the parking 
standards and management strategies set forth in the PMP.  Each Block developer will be 
required to comply with the applicable provisions of the PMP through CC&Rs to be 
recorded against the property.

--- page 194 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 5 
Study Area 
 
The project site is bounded by the San Mateo County Exposition Center to the north, 
CalTrain rail tracks to the west, the Franklin Campus / Saratoga Drive to the east, and 
existing residential land uses to the south.  Regional access to the project site is provided 
by US-101 and SR-92, accessed via the Hillsdale Boulevard and Delaware Street 
interchanges. Regional transit access is provided by SamTrans bus routes and CalTrain.  
The CalTrain Hillsdale station is currently located at the southwest corner of the project 
site. The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (JPB) is presently evaluating the 
feasibility of relocating the station further to the north. 
 
Major transportation improvements associated with the development of the project site 
include; the extension of Delaware Street through the project site to Pacific Boulevard, 
the extension of Franklin Boulevard as 31st Avenue from its current terminus to the Joint 
Powers Board (JPB) right-of-way, the construction of 28th Avenue from Saratoga Avenue 
to the JPB right-of-way, and the construction of a grid of internal local streets. 31st and 
28th Avenues will be connected to El Camino Real when the CalTrain tracks are raised 
and grade-separations are implemented as planned by the JPB.  Construction for the 
grade separations are underway as of June 25, 2018. 
 
Summary of Parking Standards and Conclusions 
 
The Specific Plan sets forth parking standards for three general categories of use: 
commercial, mixed-use, and residential.  Each of the standards sets forth an applicable 
range of parking requirements for office, retail and restaurant, and residential uses.  The 
Specific Plan allows the developer to specify the Specific Plan parking standard for each 
Block at the time of the SPAR application.   
 
The parking standards and conclusions of the PMP are summarized below, including the 
Specific Plan standards selected in the PMP for each Block, the number of spaces 
provided for the applicable use by Block, and compliance with the applicable standards. 
 
Station Blocks (Office, Retail & Restaurant) 
 
Within the Station Blocks, the PMP uses the “commercial” parking standards from the 
Specific Plan Amendment.  These standards allow for maximum parking ratios between 
2.75 to 3.25 spaces per 1,000 gross square footage (GSF) of office and 4.0 spaces per 
1,000 GSF for retail and restaurants.  The PMP uses a maximum parking ratio for office 
use of 2.60 to 2.75 spaces per 1,000 gsf and 4.0 spaces per 1,000 gsf for retail and 
restaurants.  Based on these standards, the total on-site parking required under the 
Specific Plan for all of the Station Blocks combined is 2,469 spaces.   
 
The Station Blocks overall meet the requirements of the Specific Plan.  Although Blocks 
STA 1-3 provide less than the required by the Specific Plan standards, the difference is 
addressed with additional parking provided in STA 5, which exceeds the on-site parking

--- page 195 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 6 
requirement by 267 spaces.  The excess parking in STA 5 also addresses the demand 
from the office, retail, and restaurant employees of MU 3B and MU 4, as well as RES 7. 
 
With this parking management strategy in place, the 2,625 on-site parking spaces 
provided in the Station Blocks exceeds the on-site requirements of the Specific Plan by 
156 spaces and the surplus can accommodate the required parking from the office 
employees of the Mixed-Use Blocks, retail and restaurant employees in the Mixed-Use 
Blocks and RES 7 block restaurant.  
 
Mixed-Use Blocks (Office, Retail, Restaurant, and School)   
 
Within the Mixed-Use Blocks, the PMP uses the applicable "mixed-use" standards.  
These standards allow for a maximum between 2.75 to 3.25 spaces per 1,000 gross floor 
area (gsf) of office, 4.00 spaces per 1,000 gsf for retail, and 12.5 spaces per 1,000 s.f. of 
restaurant.  The PMP uses a maximum parking ratio for office use of 2.60 spaces per 
1,000 gsf of office and also complies with the Specific Plan parking standards for retail 
and restaurant (4.00 spaces per 1,000 gsf respectively).   
 
Based on the Specific Plan standards, the total maximum on-site parking required under 
the Specific Plan for the office, retail and restaurant uses on MU 2, 3 and 4 is 795 spaces 
(this includes the office visitor spaces for MU 2 and MU 3, but does not include 125 
required spaces for high school on MU 1).  No on-site non-residential parking is provided 
on MU 4.  Instead, the parking management strategy set forth in the PMP requires the 
spaces attributable to office employees, and spaces attributable to retail and restaurant 
employees of the Mixed-Use Blocks and RES 7 block to be accommodated in the Station 
Blocks. Since the Mixed-Use Blocks provide 743 parking spaces with a deficit of 52 
spaces and RES 7 also has a deficit of 2 spaces, these parking spaces can be 
accommodated on STA 5. STA 5 has a surplus of 267 on-site parking spaces and can 
accommodate the deficiency of 135 spaces in STA 1-3, the 52 spaces in MU 2B, MU 3B 
MU 4, and the 2 spaces in RES 7. The remaining retail/restaurant customer are 
accommodated on-street. 
 
A private high school has been built for MU 1 and has provided 125 on-site parking 
spaces, which is in excess of the parking demand.  Therefore, the high school does not 
affect the results and conclusions of this updated Parking Management Plan. 
 
Mixed-Use Blocks (Residential) 
 
For the Mixed-Use Blocks the applicable “mixed-use” standards were used. The mixed-
use standard provides a maximum range of 1.00 to 2.05 spaces per unit, plus 0.20 spaces 
per unit for guests with an allowance for parking guests on-street.  Based on the parking 
approach established for the Mixed-Use Blocks, all guests parking will be provided on-
street.

--- page 196 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 7 
Based on the parking ratios adopted in the PMP that fall within the permitted range of the 
Specific Plan for the Mixed-Use Blocks, the project provides 283 residential parking spaces 
on-site, with the 29 required guest spaces to be accommodated on-street.    
 
Residential Blocks 
 
For the Residential Blocks, the applicable Specific Plan standards are those for 
Residential (Apartment, Condo, Loft; Townhouse / Rowhouse; and Small Lot Single 
Family). These standards specify a maximum range from 1.75 to 2.25 spaces per unit 
(including guest parking), with allowance for on-street guest parking.  The residential 
parking is provided on a per block basis and all resident parking is provided within each 
block. The parking ratio of spaces provided in the design of each building averages from 
1.55 to 2.05 spaces per unit, with a guest parking ratio of 0.20 spaces per unit.   
 
Based on the proposed program, the maximum total parking requirement under the 
Specific Plan standards for the Residential Blocks is 1,586 spaces with 1,629 spaces 
provided.  Per the Specific Plan, residential guests would be required to have 171 spaces 
with an allowance for on-street parking.  Many of the residential guests are 
accommodated on-site within the 73 on-site guest spaces. The remaining 98 guest spaces 
are accommodated on-street. 
 
On-Street Parking Supply by Block 
 
The project provides on-street (angled and parallel) parking along most of the blockfaces 
throughout the project site. On Delaware Street between East 28th Avenue and East 31st 
Avenue, angled parking is provided on both sides of the street. Parallel parking is 
provided on the remaining blockfaces.  There are a total of 417 on-street parking spaces 
(not including the 49 spaces for the Community Park), of which 161 spaces serve the 
Station and Mixed-Use Block commercial area. The remaining 256 spaces serve the 
Residential Blocks, neighborhood and community parks, and any spillover parking from 
the commercial area.  The on-street parking count does not reflect curb space reserved for 
red zones, bus stops, and residential loading zones.  Some loading zones are only 
reserved for loading in the morning peak hours and are therefore available for general 
parking during the mid-day peak.  
 
Other than on-street loading zones within the commercial and residential blocks, the City 
has implemented time restrictions on all on-street parking for the residential streets. 
These spaces have been restricted to 120 minutes between 9:00 AM and 6:00 PM.

--- page 197 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 8 
Conclusion 
 
The PMP includes a table (Table 10) that compares the total parking requirements for 
each block district (Station, Mixed-Use, and Residential) under the Specific Plan 
standards with the total parking supply provided in the SPAR application for the 
individual blocks.  The table includes on-street parking consistent with the approach to 
serve some of the parking requirements on-street.   
 
The Bay Meadows II development, when considering on-site and on-street parking 
supply, provides 324 parking spaces more than the development standards used in the 
SPAR.  This total does not include the 49 on-street spaces at the Community Park. If the 
project is divided into a commercial area (the Station and non-residential Mixed-Use 
Blocks) and a residential area (the residential mixed-use and residential blocks), the 
commercial area has a surplus of 75 spaces (including use of on-street spaces), and the 
residential area has a surplus of 249 spaces.  However, it should be noted that these 
surpluses in parking compared to the SPAR parking standards are still less than the 
allowed maximum parking requirements in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan 
Amendment.     
 
Regarding on-street parking, the residential district has a surplus of 150 on-street parking 
spaces, whereas the commercial district (including the residential areas in the mixed-use 
blocks) has a deficiency of 29 on-street parking spaces.  Therefore, the surplus in the on-
street residential district will fully accommodate the deficiency in the on-street parking 
for the commercial district.  
 
Parking Management Plan Implementation                                    
 
The Planning Commission will implement this Parking Management Plan through the 
conditions of approval for the SPAR applications for the Bay Meadows II project.  The 
conditions of approval will require the parking measures and requirements described in 
this Parking Management Plan to be on-going for the occupied life of the development, 
unless they are altered, exchanged or discontinued in consultation with the City. 
Compliance with this Parking Management Plan to the extent applicable shall be required 
of each Block developer through recorded CC&R documents.   
 
Parking Demand Analysis  
 
The parking demand and the parking supply are summarized in Section 4 of the PMP.  It 
shows that from an overall perspective the Bay Meadows II project provides sufficient 
parking to meet demand through a combination of on-site and on-street supply.  The total 
estimated on-site parking demand for all blocks is 4,794 parking spaces during the peak 
weekday period. The on-site parking provided in all blocks is 5,353 spaces. The total 
estimated on-street parking demand for all blocks is 154 parking spaces during the peak 
weekday period.  A total of 417 spaces (excluding on-street parking spaces for 
Community Park and Neighborhood Parks) are available on-street, which results in a

--- page 198 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 9 
total parking supply of 5,770 spaces and is 822 spaces more than the total estimated 
demand for all blocks. 
 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Measures 
 
The TDM program outlined in the Bay Meadows II Traffic Management Plan 
implements strategies and measures to reduce the number of vehicle trips generated and 
the parking at the project site.

--- page 199 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 10 
1 Introduction 
UPDATED June 14, 2021 
The June 14, 2021 Parking Management Plan update is being completed to address Peer 
Review comments from Hexagon.  The previous update occurred on February 17, 2021 
and addressed updates on the MU 2, MU 3 block, RES 6 block, and STA blocks. The 
previous update occurred on March 13, 2019 and addressed updates on the MU 2 and 
MU 3 blocks. The previous update on August 24, 2018 addressed Peer Review comments 
from Hexagon.  The previous update occurred on November 14, 2017 to update the land 
uses for the STA 1 and STA 5 blocks and to breakout the A&B parcels along Delaware 
Street to reflect the SPAR plans.  The prior update occurred on August 15, 2017 to 
update the land uses for the MU 1 block.  The prior update occurred on November 13, 
2015 to update the land use information to the current development plan for the Bay 
Meadows II development. These updates specifically include changes to RES 4. The 
previous Parking Management Plan was updated on March 19, 2014, which included 
updates to the land use information for RES 7. The majority of the content of the original 
Parking Management Plan dated August 19, 2008, was retained in the November 6, 2012 
document and the March 19, 2014 document.  
1.1 Purpose of Report 
This report conforms to the policies established in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan to prepare a Parking Management Plan for the Bay Meadows 
II project. This report is a companion to the draft Bay Meadows II Traffic Management 
Plan. The purpose of this plan is to: 
 
 
Identify the planned parking supply for each development block and show 
conformance with Specific Plan requirements; 
 
 
Estimate peak weekday parking demand to ensure that the planned supply 
adequately serves the development; and 
 
 
Identify parking demand management strategies that might be implemented to 
achieve a reduction in parking needs.  
1.2 Study Area and Definitions 
The project site is bounded by the San Mateo County Exposition Center to the north, 
CalTrain rail tracks to the west, the Franklin Campus / Saratoga Drive to the east, and 
existing residential land uses to the south.  Regional access to the project site is provided 
by US-101 and SR-92, accessed via the Hillsdale Boulevard and Delaware Street 
interchanges. Regional transit access is provided by SamTrans bus routes and CalTrain.  
The CalTrain Hillsdale station is currently located at the southwest corner of the project 
site. The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (JPB) is presently evaluating the 
feasibility of relocating the station further to the north.

--- page 200 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 11 
Major transportation improvements associated with the development of the project site 
include; the extension of Delaware Street through the project site to Pacific Boulevard, 
the extension of Franklin Boulevard as 31st Avenue from its current terminus to the Joint 
Powers Board (JPB) right-of-way, the construction of 28th Avenue from Saratoga Avenue 
to the JPB right-of-way, and the construction of a grid of internal local streets. 31st and 
28th Avenues will be connected to El Camino Real when and if the CalTrain tracks are 
raised and grade-separations are implemented as planned by the JPB. The timing of this 
JPB project is unknown at this time and is outside the control and scope of this project. 
 
The Bay Meadows project site and the block numbering system are shown in Figure 1. 
1.3 Definitions 
Parking Demand – The number of parked vehicles expected of a specific type and 
amount of land use during the peak period of a typical weekday. Parking demand is 
estimated using rates (similar to trip generation). Parking demand is independent of 
parking supply. 
 
Parking Supply – The number of parking spaces provided on a development block, on-
street or in common facilities. Parking supply in new development is governed by the 
parking standards in the Specific Plan Amendment.  
 
Parking Ratios/Standards - Parking ratios (or standards) are the regulations that 
determine parking supply for each individual building and type of land use. It is 
described as the number of required parking spaces per unit of development (e.g., per 
dwelling unit or per 1,000 square feet of commercial building space). The Bay Meadows 
II Specific Plan Amendment is the guiding document for these standards.  
 
Shared Parking – The concept of using a parking space and serve two or more land uses 
without conflict. Conventional regulations require that each development provide enough 
parking to serve its own peak demand, leaving unused parking spaces during the 
remaining periods. Shared parking allows multiple complementary land uses, whose peak 
parking demands do not coincide to share the same pool of parking spaces, resulting in a 
more efficient use of those spaces.

--- page 201 ---
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
RES 9
STA
5
STA
4
RES 7
RES 8
RES 5
PARK
RES 4
RES 6
MU 3
STA
3
STA
2
MU 2
RES 1
RES 2
RES 3
MU 1
STA 1
MU 4
FIGURE 1: BAY MEADOWS II BLOCK NUMBERING

--- page 202 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 13 
2 Proposed Land Uses 
Bay Meadows II is basically subdivided into two primary districts, the Station/Mixed-Use 
(commercial) district, and the Residential district. The project site is divided into 18 
blocks as identified in the project’s adopted Specific Plan Amendment. There are five (5) 
Station Blocks, four (4) Mixed-Use Blocks, and nine (9) Residential Blocks. Accounting 
for pending SPAR applications, the proposed development program includes (measured 
in gross building floor area as required in the City’s zoning ordinance for calculating 
parking requirements) a total of 1,217,826 square feet of office, 41,598 square feet of 
retail, 10,569 square feet of restaurant/drinking place, 7,500 square feet of outdoor 
seating, 1,048 residential dwelling units, and a 450-student high school. A playfield 
located in the Community Park will be implemented by the City of San Mateo and is not 
under the review of this report. Table 1: summarizes the land uses by block.

--- page 203 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 14 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Block
Land Use
Units
[1]
Quantity
Adjusted 
Units
[2]
Adjusted 
Quantity
Office
GFA
184,205
GFA
184,205
Retail
GFA
0
GFA
0
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Subtotal
GFA
184,205
GFA + PSA
184,205
Office
GFA
177,951
GFA
177,951
Retail
GFA
6,099
GFA
6,099
Restaurant 
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
500
PSA
500
Subtotal
GFA
184,550
GFA + PSA
184,550
Office
GFA
163,089
GFA
163,089
Retail
GFA
6,561
GFA
6,561
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
1,000
PSA
1,000
Subtotal
GFA
170,650
GFA + PSA
170,650
Office
GFA
201,249
GFA
201,249
Retail
GFA
3,477
GFA
3,477
Drinking Place
GFA
2,097
PSA
1,363
Outdoor Seating
GFA
2,000
PSA
2,000
Subtotal
GFA
208,823
GFA + PSA
208,089
Office
GFA
183,283
GFA
183,283
Retail
GFA
2,378
GFA
2,378
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Subtotal
GFA
185,661
GFA + PSA
185,661
Office
GFA
909,777
GFA
909,777
Retail
GFA
18,515
GFA
18,515
Drinking Place
GFA
2,097
PSA
1,363
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
3,500
PSA
3,500
Total
GFA
933,889
GFA + PSA
933,155
Station Block 4 
(STA 4)
[2] GFA (Gross Floor Area) is used for computing parking requirements for office and retail but does not include areas 
such as elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, mechanical rooms, etc. per the City of San Mateo Zoning Code 27.04.200.  
However to be conservative, no adjustments for elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, mechanical rooms, etc. were 
made to the office and retail space GFA.  PSA (Public Service Area) is used for computing parking requirements for 
restaurant use.  PSA is defined in the City of San Mateo Zoning Code 27.04.404 as that portion of a building or 
structure used or which may be used by patrons for the purposes of eating, drinking or waiting for service, including 
dance floors and area outside the building or structure intended to be used by patrons for the purposes of eating or 
drinking. The public service area was estimated at 65% of the GFA. PSA includes outdoor seating areas.  
STATION BLOCKS
Station Block 1 
(STA 1)
Station Block 2 
(STA 2)
Station Block 3 
(STA 3)
Station Block 5 
(STA 5)
[1] GFA (Gross Floor Area) in square feet
Total Station 
Blocks

--- page 204 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 15 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use Blocks (Cont.)  
 
 
Block
Land Use
Units
[1]
Quantity
Adjusted 
Units
[2]
Adjusted 
Quantity
High School
Students
450
Students
450
Residential
Dwellings
68
Dwellings
68
Students
450
Students
450
Dwellings
68
Dwellings
68
Office
GFA
0
GFA
0
Retail
GFA
0
GFA
0
Restaurant 
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Residential
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
GFA
0
GFA
0
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
Office
GFA
182,836
GFA
182,836
Retail
GFA
8,518
GFA
8,518
Restaurant 
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Residential
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
GFA
191,354
GFA
191,354
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
Office
GFA
0
GFA
0
Retail
GFA
0
GFA
0
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Residential
Dwellings
67
                             
Dwellings
67
GFA
0
GFA
0
Dwellings
67
Dwellings
67
Office
GFA
120,142
GFA
120,142
Retail
GFA
5,618
GFA
5,618
Restaurant
GFA
0
PSA
0
Outdoor Seating
GFA
0
PSA
0
Residential
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
GFA
125,760
GFA
125,760
Dwellings
0
Dwellings
0
Office
GFA
5,071
GFA
5,071
Retail
GFA
8,947
GFA
8,947
Restaurant
GFA
5,000
PSA
3,250
Outdoor Seating
GFA
4,000
PSA
4,000
Residential
Dwellings
70
Dwellings
70
GFA
19,018
GFA
17,268
Dwellings
70
Dwellings
70
High School
Students
450
Students
450
Office
GFA
308,049
GFA
308,049
Retail
GFA
23,083
GFA
23,083
Restaurant
GFA
5,000
PSA
3,250
Outdoor Seating
GFA
4,000
PSA
4,000
Residential
Dwellings
205
Dwellings
205
Total
GFA
336,132
GFA + PSA
334,382
Mixed-Use Block 3A 
(MU 3A)
[1] GFA (Gross Floor Area) in square feet
Mixed-Use Block 4 
(MU 4)
Subtotal
Subtotal
Mixed-Use Block 3B 
(MU 3B)
[2] Adjusted GFA (Gross Floor Area) is used for computing parking requirements for office and retail but does not include 
areas such as elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, mechanical rooms, etc. per the City of San Mateo Zoning Code 27.04.200.  
However to be conservative, no adjustments for elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, mechanical rooms, etc. were made to 
the office and retail space GFA.  PSA (Public Service Area) is used for computing parking requirements for restaurant use.  
PSA is defined in the City of San Mateo Zoning Code 27.04.404 as that portion of a building or structure used or which may 
be used by patrons for the purposes of eating, drinking or waiting for service, including dance floors and area outside the 
building or structure intended to be used by patrons for the purposes of eating or drinking. The public service area was 
estimated at 65% of the GFA. PSA includes outdoor seating areas.  
MIXED USE BLOCKS
Mixed-Use Block 1 
(MU 1)
Subtotal
Mixed-Use Block 2B 
(MU 2B)
Subtotal
Total Mixed-Use  
Blocks
Subtotal
Mixed-Use Block 2A 
(MU 2A)
Subtotal

--- page 205 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 16 
 Table 1: Summary of Land Use Blocks (Cont.)  
  
 
 
Block
Land Use
Units
[1]
Quantity
Units
[2]
Quantity
Residential Block 1 (RES 1)
Residential
Dwellings
108
Dwellings
108
Residential Block 2 (RES 2)
Residential
Dwellings
80
Dwellings
80
Residential Block 3 (RES 3)
Residential
Dwellings
156
Dwellings
156
Residential Block 4 (RES 4)
Residential
Dwellings
82
Dwellings
82
Residential Block 5 (RES 5)
Residential
Dwellings
76
Dwellings
76
Residential Block 6 (RES 6)
Residential
Dwellings
54
Dwellings
54
Residential
Dwellings
158
Dwellings
158
Restaurant
GFA
3,472
PSA
2,257
Residential Block 8 (RES 8)
Residential
Dwellings
74
Dwellings
74
Residential Block 9 (RES 9)
Residential
Dwellings
55
Dwellings
55
Residential
Dwellings
843
Dwellings
843
Restaurant
GFA
3,472
PSA
2,257
High School
Students
450
Students
450
Office
GFA
1,217,826
GFA 1,217,826
Retail
GFA
41,598
GFA
41,598
Drinking Place
GFA
2,097
PSA
1,363
Restaurant
GFA
8,472
PSA
5,507
Outdoor Seating
GFA
7,500
PSA
7,500
Residential
Dwellings
1,048
Dwellings
1,048
Total
GFA
1,277,493
GFA + PSA 1,273,794
[1] GFA (Gross Floor Area) in square feet
Total All Blocks
[2] Adjusted GFA (Gross Floor Area) is used for computing parking requirements for office and retail but does not 
include areas such as elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, mechanical rooms, etc. per the City of San Mateo 
Zoning Code 27.04.200.  However to be conservative, no adjustments for elevator shafts, stairwells, restrooms, 
mechanical rooms, etc. were made to the office and retail space GFA.  PSA (Public Service Area) is used for 
computing parking requirements for restaurant use.  PSA is defined in the City of San Mateo Zoning Code 
27.04.404 as that portion of a building or structure used or which may be used by patrons for the purposes of 
eating, drinking or waiting for service, including dance floors and area outside the building or structure intended 
to be used by patrons for the purposes of eating or drinking. The public service area was estimated at 65% of the 
GFA. PSA includes outdoor seating areas.  
RESIDENTIAL USE BLOCKS
Total Residential Blocks
Residential Block 7 (RES 7)

--- page 206 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 17 
3 Parking Supply Analysis 
This section of the report describes and compares the parking requirements that govern 
the project - the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan – to the actual parking included in the 
SPAR design of the buildings.   
3.1 Approach to Parking in Bay Meadows II 
The following approach was established to accommodate the parking requirements of 
each development block. The parking requirements for each block were estimated as per 
the standards established in the Specific Plan Amendment.  
 
Station Blocks 
 
 Provide on-site parking for Station Block office, retail, restaurant employees, and 
office visitors. 
 Retail and restaurant customers park on-street. 
 
Mixed-Use Blocks 
 
 Retail and restaurant employees park off-site in Station Blocks. 
 Retail and restaurant customers park on-street. 
 Office employees park off-site in Station Blocks. 
 Office visitors park on-site. 
 Resident parking is provided on-site.  
 Residential guest parking is provided on-street. 
 School parking is provided on-site. 
 
Residential Blocks 
 
 Resident parking is provided on-site. 
 On average, 37% of the residential guest parking is provided on-site and the 
remaining 63% is provided on-street. 
 Restaurant employees (block RES 7) park off-site in Station Blocks. 
 Restaurant customers (block RES 7) park on-street. 
 
Table 2 summarizes the parking approach for each commercial-related block by user, 
and Figure 2 graphically illustrates where each office, retail, and restaurant user parks 
within Bay Meadows.

--- page 207 ---
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
STA 1
STA 2
STA 2
STA 3
STA 3
STA 4
STA 4
STA 5
STA 5
Legend
Office Employees
Office Visitors
Retail/Restaurant Employees
Retail/Restuarant Customers
FIGURE 2: PARKING LOCATIONS BY BLOCK, USE, AND USER GROUP
STA 2
STA 3
STA 4
STA 5
MU 2
MU 3
MU 4
RES 7
On-Street Parking
MU 4
STA 1
STA 2
MU 2
MU 2
MU 2
STA 3
MU 3
MU 3
STA 4
STA 1
STA 2
STA 3
STA 2
STA 3
STA 5
MU 3
MU 4
MU 3
MU 4
RES 7

--- page 208 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 19 
3.2 Parking Requirements 
 
Development Standards for Blocks 
 
The Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment contains land use regulations applicable 
within the Specific Plan Amendment Area. These land use regulations are applicable on a 
block-by-block basis, unless the developer elects for more than one type of regulation to 
apply on a block, in which case the block must be subdivided to correspond with the 
areas of the block on which different regulations apply. The development standards are 
divided into three general categories: commercial, mixed-use, apartment / condominium / 
loft, rowhouse / townhouse, and small lot single-family standards.

--- page 209 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 20 
Table 2: Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Parking Approach 
Block/Sub 
Block 
User Group & Use 
On-Site 
Off-Site (Station 
Block 5) 
Public Street 
Parking 
STA 1 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors - Office 
 
 
 
STA 2 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors- Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
STA 3 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors - Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
STA 4 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors- Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail/Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
STA 5 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors – Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
MU 1 
Students, Faculty, & Visitors – High 
School
 
 
 
MU 2a 
Resident 
 
 
 
Residential Guest 
 
 
 
MU 2b 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors - Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
MU 3a 
Resident 
 
 
 
Residential Guest 
 
 
 
MU 3b 
Employees - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors - Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
MU 4 
Resident 
 
 
 
Residential Guest 
 
 
 
Employee - Office 
 
 
 
Visitors - Office 
 
 
 
Employees - Retail/Drinking Place 
Uses
 
 
 
Customers - Retail Uses 
 
 
 
Customers – Drinking Place Uses 
 
 
 
RES 7 
Resident 
 
 
 
Residential Guest 
 
 
 
Employees - Restaurant Uses 
 
 
 
Customers - Restaurant Uses 
 
 


--- page 210 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 21 
Table 3 shows which standard is applicable for each of the Bay Meadows II project 
blocks and the parking approach selects one of the applicable standards for each block.  
 
Table 3: Development Standard Applicability by Block 
Block 
Commercial 
Mixed Use 
Residential 
Apartment, 
Condo and 
Loft 
Townhouse 
/ Rowhouse 
Small Lot Single 
Family 
 
STA 1 
STA 2 
STA 3 
STA 4 
STA 5 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
 
MU 1 
MU 2 
MU 3 
MU 4 
Yes (for 
retail) 
Yes (for 
restaurant 
and office) 
Yes 
No 
No 
RES 1 
RES 2 
RES 3 
RES 4 
RES 5 
RES 6 
RES 8 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
RES 7 
 
No 
Yes 
(residential 
and 
restaurant 
uses only) 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
RES 9 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Yes (required for 
housing immediately 
adjacent to southern 
boundary) 
 
Note: STA – Station Block; MU – Mixed Use Block; RES – Residential Block 
See Table 4 for the actual development standard used in each block. 
Source: Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, page IV-20 
 
The Specific Plan’s off-street parking requirements for Commercial; Mixed-Use; and 
Residential (Apartment, Condo, Loft; Townhouse / Rowhouse; and Small Lot Single 
Family) is shown in Table 4.  It should be noted that the Specific Plan parking 
requirements mention only maximum parking allowed, and not minimum parking 
requirements.

--- page 211 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 22 
Table 4: Off-Street Parking Requirements 
Development 
Standard 
Bay Meadows Phase II 
Specific Plan Amendment 
Development Standard Used in SPAR  
Commercial 
(Station 
Blocks) 
Max of 2.75 – 3.25 spaces per 1,000 s.f. of 
office uses; 
 
Max of 4.0 spaces per 1,000 s.f. of retail uses; 
 
Tandem and shared parking allowed subject to 
SPAR approval. 
2.60-2.75 spaces per 1,000 s.f. office 
uses; 
 
4.0 spaces per 1,000 s.f. for retail and 
restaurant uses; 
 
Tandem and shared parking allowed 
subject to SPAR approval 
Mixed-Use 
(Mixed-Use 
Blocks) 
Retail: 
0 – 20,000 s.f. of gross floor area: 2.86 spaces 
per 1,000 s.f. 
Over 20,000 s.f. of gross floor area: 3.08 
spaces per 1,000 s.f. 
 
Commercial (Office): 
Max of 2.75 – 3.75 spaces per 1,000 s.f. 
 
Restaurant: 
Max of 1 space per 80 s.f. of public service 
area. 
 
Residential: 
Max of 1.75 – 2.25 spaces per unit, with 
allowance for on-street guest parking. 
 
Tandem and shared parking allowed subject to 
approval 
 
Educational: 
None 
Retail: 
4.0 spaces per 1,000 s.f. retail uses; 
 
Commercial (Office): 
2.5 to 2.6 spaces per 1,000 s.f. office uses 
 
Restaurant: 
4.0 spaces per 1,000 s.f. restaurant uses 
 
Residential: 
1.00 – 2.05 spaces per dwelling unit 
(excluding guest parking) 
 
Guest: 0.2 spaces per dwelling unit 
 
Educational: 
    27.77 spaces per 100 students (approx.) 
 
 
 
Residential 
(Apartment, 
Condo, Loft; 
Townhouse / 
Rowhouse; 
Small Lot 
Single Family) 
 
Apartments, Condo, Loft, 
Townhouse/Rowhouse 
Max of 1.75 – 2.25 spaces per unit with 
allowance for on-street guest parking. 
 
Tandem and shared parking allowed subject to 
SPAR approval.  
For Townhouse/Rowhouse, garage access off 
alley or access court 
 
Small Lot Single Family 
Max of 2 garage spaces. Allowance for garage 
access off alley or access court. Tandem and 
shared parking permitted subject to SPAR 
approval. On-street parking permitted, 
determined during SPAR.
Apartments, Condo, Loft, 
Townhouse/Rowhouse 
1 Bed: 1.45 – 1.55 spaces per DU 
2 Bed: 1.80 – 2.05 spaces per DU 
3 Bed: 2.0 – 2.05 spaces per DU 
4 Bed: 2.0 – 2.05 spaces per DU 
 
Guest: 0.05 – 0.20 with allowance for on-
street parking 
 
Small Lot Single Family 
2.0 spaces per DU 
 
Guest: 0.2 per DU 
Source: Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, Tables IV-5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, and WM Partners.

--- page 212 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 23 
The Specific Plan Amendment also identifies parking management guidelines and 
requires that these guidelines be adopted as part of the Design Guidelines and 
Development Standards. Relevant guidelines include: 
 
 
The final parking ratio should be determined during Site Plan and Architectural 
Review (SPAR), based upon Transportation Demand Management parking 
studies. 
 
Parking management shall emphasize supply and possibly pricing strategies that 
work in concert with the development’s transit orientation. Parking supply 
strategies to be examined include: preferential parking for carpools and vanpools; 
tandem parking; reduced minimum parking requirements for shared parking 
between complimentary uses; transit orientation, and Transportation Demand 
Management programs implemented by the employers; parking maximums to 
ensure development does not over-provide parking; and neighborhood parking 
management plans to eliminate parking overflow into residential areas. See 
Section 5 for a discussion of transportation and parking management measures 
recommended for the project. 
 
 
Subterranean parking may cross boundaries between blocks and sub-
blocks/parcels where those blocks and sub-blocks/parcels are not divided by 
public streets. 
 
 
Tandem and shared parking are permitted and encouraged. Final determination 
shall be made at SPAR approval. 
 
City Requirements for Bicycle Parking and Loading 
 
As per the City’s Municipal Code (Section 27.64.263), the following minimum number 
of bicycle parking spaces are required by land use: 
 
 Single-Family Dwelling Units = No bicycle spaces required 
 Multi-Family Dwelling Units: 
o Studio = 0.05 bicycle spaces per unit of Short-term, 1.00 bicycle spaces 
per unit of Long-term 
o One-bedroom = 0.05 bicycle spaces per unit of Short-term, 1.00 bicycle 
spaces per unit of Long-term 
o Two-bedroom = 0.1 bicycle spaces per unit of Short-term, 1.25 bicycle 
spaces per unit of Long-term 
o Three or more bedroom = 0.15 bicycle spaces per unit of Short-term, 1.5 
bicycle spaces per unit of Long-term 
 Retail stores, food stores, and drugstores = 1 bicycle space per 2,000 SF of Short-
term, 1 bicycle space per 12,000 SF of Long-term 
 Parks = 1 bicycle space per acre of Short-term, None of Long-term 
 Elementary, junior, senior high schools = 1 bicycle space per 20 students of 
Short-term, 1 bicycle space per 10 employees of Long-term

--- page 213 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 24 
 Offices = 1 bicycle space per 20,000 SF of Short-term, 1 bicycle space per 10,000 
SF of Long-term 
 Restaurants and drinking places = 1 bicycle space per 10,000 SF of Short-term, 1 
bicycle space per 20,000 SF of Long-term 
 
The SPAR design for each block includes an area meeting the requirements of City code 
for bicycle parking within each parking garage. Additionally, bicycle parking is provided 
in racks placed adjacent to retail buildings along Delaware Street. 
 
Loading requirements per City code are met on-site for the Station Blocks and MU 1. 
Each Station Block provides two interior loading docks. The design of these facilities is 
reviewed during the SPAR review and not the subject of this report. The loading 
requirements for the Mixed-Use and Residential Blocks are met with designated on-street 
loading zones, located to serve multiple blocks. The on-street loading zones in the 
commercial district are limited to morning hours, after which they revert to standard 
parking spaces. The loading zones serving the residential district are reserved all day.

--- page 214 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 25 
3.3 Parking Supply by Block 
 
This section of the report compares the required parking standards with the amount of 
parking provided in the design of each block as submitted in the SPAR application. For 
each block, the following tables present the type and amount of each land use, the 
applicable parking standard, the required parking supply for the block, and the number of 
spaces provided on each block as shown in the block’s SPAR application.  
 
The parking summaries for the Station Blocks, Mixed-Use Blocks, and the Residential 
Blocks and are shown in Table 5, Table 6, Table 7, and Table 8 respectively. 
 
Station Blocks 
For Station Blocks the applicable “commercial” standards from the Specific Plan 
Amendment were used. The commercial office standard includes a maximum range from 
2.75 to 3.25 spaces per 1,000 gross square footage (GSF). The commercial retail standard 
includes a parking ratio of 4 spaces per 1,000 GSF for retail and restaurants. The target 
parking ratio used in the SPAR for office uses is 2.75 spaces per 1,000 GSF for Station 
Blocks 2 through 4.  However, for Station Blocks 1 and 5 the parking ratio for office uses 
is 2.60 spaces per 1,000 GSF.  For office uses, 92 percent of the parking is for employees 
and 8 percent is for visitors.  For retail and restaurant uses, 20 percent of the parking is 
for employees and 80 percent is for visitors.     
 
As shown in Table 5, the total on-site parking requirement for the Station Blocks, based 
on Specific Plan standards, is 2,469 spaces (office employees and visitors, as well as 
retail and restaurant employees).  In the SPAR design, the five Station Blocks provide a 
total of 2,625 spaces, 156 spaces more than required by the standards for on-site parking. 
Station Blocks STA 1-3 provide less parking spaces than required by the Specific Plan 
standards and STA 4-5 provide a surplus. The parking garage in STA 5 provides 267 
excess parking spaces and serves as a reservoir of parking for unmet demand from 
Station Blocks STA 1-3 and for the office uses in the Mixed-Use Blocks. The surplus 
parking in STA 5 also accommodates employee parking from the Mixed-Use Blocks.  
Restaurant employees from RES 7 also use surplus parking in the Station Blocks.   
 
As stated in Section 3.1 of this report, the approach for parking the Station Blocks is that 
office, retail, and restaurant employees, as well as office visitors of the Station Blocks 
park on-site while retail and restaurant customers park on-street. Therefore, the 76 
parking spaces required for retail and restaurant customers would park on the 70 on-street 
spaces serving the STA blocks. The 6 spaces not accommodated on the STA blocks will 
park on the surplus of on-street parking for RES 1. Details of the on-street parking for 
RES blocks are described below.  Additionally, employees of the Mixed-Use Block’s 
office uses will park off-site in the Station Blocks, while their visitors of MU 2 and MU 3 
will park on-site and visitors of MU 4 will park on-street. This approach results in the 
Station Block parking exceeding the requirements and resulting in a surplus of parking 
spaces. (On-street parking is discussed in Section 3.4.)

--- page 215 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 26 
Table 5: Parking Requirements for Station Blocks 
    
 
Block
Land Use
Quantity
Units
SP Parking Supply 
Requirement
On-Site Parking 
Spaces Provided
Office
184,205
GFA
2.60 Per KSF
479
Employee
2.40 Per KSF
443
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
36
Retail 
0
GFA
4.00 Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Restaurant
0
PSA
4.00 Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Outdoor Seating
0
PSA
4 Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
479
446
Office
177,951
GFA
2.75 Per KSF
490
Employee
2.55 Per KSF
454
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
36
Retail 
6,099
GFA
4.00 Per KSF
25
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
5
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
20
Restaurant
0
PSA
4.00 Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Outdoor Seating
500
PSA
4 Per KSF
2
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
2
495
421
Office
163,089
GFA
2.75
Per KSF
449
Employee
2.55 Per KSF
416
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
33
Retail 
6,561
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
27
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
6
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
21
Restaurant
0
PSA
4.00
Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Outdoor Seating
1,000
PSA
4
Per KSF
4
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
1
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
3
456
428
Office
201,249
GFA
2.75
Per KSF
554
Employee
2.55 Per KSF
514
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
40
Retail 
3,477
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
14
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
3
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
11
Drinking Place 
[2]
1,363
PSA
4.00
Per KSF
6
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
1
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
5
Outdoor Seating
2,000
PSA
4
Per KSF
8
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
2
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
6
560
585
Office
183,283
GFA
2.60
Per KSF
477
Employee
2.40 Per KSF
440
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
37
Retail 
2,378
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
10
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
2
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
8
478
745
2545
2469
2,625
76
Notes:
KSF - 1,000 square feet
GFA - Gross Floor Area in square feet
PSA - Public Service Area
SPAR - Site Plan and Architectural Review
[2] The public service area for the Drinking Place was estimated at 65% of the GFA. This results in 1,363 SF (2097 SF x 0.65).
On-Site Subtotal
Station Block 3 
(STA 3) 
[1]
On-Site Subtotal
On-Site Subtotal
Station Block 4 
(STA 4) 
[1]
Station Block 2 
(STA 2) 
[1]
Employee and visitor/customer parking is separated out based on 20% for employee and 80% for customers/visitors for retail, 
restaurant, and drinking place uses.  For office uses, employee and visitor parking is separated out based on 92% for employee and 
8% for visitors.  These parking ratios are primarily based on findings in the ULI Shared Parking, 2nd Edition reference.
Total Station Blocks - Retail and Restaurant Visitors
Total Station Blocks 
The floor area presented in this table is calculated as defined in the City of San Mateo zoning code Chapter 27.04.200 for computing 
Parking totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
Total Station Blocks - Office Employee & Visitors, 
Retail and Restaurant Employees
Station Block 5 
(STA 5)
[1] PA07-054 entitled three freestanding buildings on Station Blocks 2, 3, and 4.  This entitlement is valid through December 2023.  
These buildings have been omitted from the inclusion in the above tables and calculations for now since the sites are occupied by the 
Drinking Place and social street open spaces.
Specific Plan (SP) 
Standard
Station Block 1 
(STA 1)
On-Site Subtotal
On-Site Subtotal

--- page 216 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 27 
Conclusion: The parking supply provided on the Station Blocks, taken as a whole, 
exceeds the requirements of the Specific Plan standards when taking into account 
the management strategy of this plan (parking retail and restaurant customers on-
street).  Station Block STA 5 provides a reservoir of parking for the unmet demand 
generated in Station Blocks STA 1 through STA 3 and for parking the office, retail 
and restaurant employees in the Mixed-Use Blocks. These spaces would be provided 
through agreements between tenants or available to the general public.  This 
surplus is sufficient to accommodate the parking needs of the Mixed-Use Block 
offices, Mixed-Use Block retail and restaurant employees, and RES 7 restaurant 
employees who will park in the Station Blocks.  
 
Mixed-Use Blocks 
The Mixed-Use Blocks contain a mixture of high school, commercial, and residential 
uses.  The parking requirements for the Mixed-Use Blocks are summarized in Table 6 
and Table 7. 
The private high school has been built for Mixed-Use Block 1 (MU 1) and provides 125 
on-site parking spaces, which is in excess of parking demand.  Therefore, the high school 
does not affect the results and conclusions of this updated Parking Management Plan.   
In the ratios, parking for the retail and restaurants uses are both 4.0 spaces per KSF 
within the Mixed-use Blocks.  Previously there was no mention of employee vs. visitor 
parking in the PMP, although these ratios were always considered, given that employee 
parking is on-site and visitor parking is on-street.  Therefore, for further clarification, 
Table 6 has been updated to show this difference.  The assumption is that the employee 
ratio is 20 percent of the total ratio, which is based on the Urban Land Institute Shared 
Parking, 2nd Edition1 reference.  
As shown in Table 6, the parking required for the commercial buildings on the Mixed-
Use Blocks equals 880 spaces (795 employee and MU 2 and MU 3 office visitor parking 
spaces and 85 remaining visitor parking spaces).  The MU 2 and MU 3 office visitor 
spaces are combined with the office employee spaces of MU 2 because they will be 
provided on-site.  Since 743 on-site spaces would be provided and the required on-site 
parking is 795 spaces, there is a deficit of 52 on-site parking spaces for MU 3 and MU 4. 
In addition, no on-site parking is provided for the 2 spaces required for the restaurant 
employee in RES 7. As noted previously, the approach of this plan is to park office 
employees for a portion of MU 3B and all office employees of MU 4 in the Station 
Blocks and office visitors of MU 4 on-street. Retail and restaurant employees also park in 
the Station Blocks while retail and restaurant customers are accommodated on street.  
Therefore, the deficit of 52 on-site spaces in MU 3 and MU 4 and the 2 on-site spaces in 
RES 7 will be accommodated in the STA blocks.  
 
Table 6 provides a detailed summary of the Mixed-Use Block commercial parking based 
on KSF. For the Mixed-Use Blocks the applicable “mixed-use” standards were used. 
 
1 Urban Land Institute, Shared Parking, 2nd Edition, 2005.

--- page 217 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 28 
Table 6: Non-Residential Parking Requirements for Mixed-Use Blocks  
Block
Land Use
Quantity
Units
SP Parking 
Supply 
Requirement
On-Site 
Parking 
Spaces 
Provided
High School
450
Students
N/A
N/A
125
125
125
125
Office
0
GFA
2.50
Per KSF
0
Employee
2.30 Per KSF
0
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
0
Retail 
0
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Restaurant
0
PSA
4.00
Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
Outdoor Seating
0
PSA
0.00
Per KSF
0
0
0
Office
182,836
GFA
2.50
Per KSF
458
Employee
2.30 Per KSF
421
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
37
Retail 
8,518
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
35
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
7
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
28
493
561
Office
0
GFA
2.50
Per KSF
0
Employee
2.30 Per KSF
0
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
0
Retail 
0
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
0
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
0
0
0
Office
120,142
GFA
2.50
Per KSF
301
Employee
2.30 Per KSF
277
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
24
Retail 
5,618
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
23
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
5
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
18
324
182
Office
5,071
GFA
2.60
Per KSF
14
Employee
2.40 Per KSF
13
Visitor
0.20 Per KSF
1
Retail 
8,947
GFA
4.00
Per KSF
36
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
8
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
28
Restaurant
3,250
PSA
4.00
Per KSF
13
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
3
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
10
Outdoor Seating
4,000
PSA
0.00
Per KSF
0
63
0
880
743
795
743
85
Restaurant
2,257
PSA
4.00
Per KSF
10
0
Employee
0.80 Per KSF
2
Visitor
3.20 Per KSF
8
10
0
10
0
Notes: 
MU - Mixed Use Block
Note: Parking totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
Employee and visitor/customer parking is separated out based on 20% for employee and 80% for customers/visitors for retail, 
restaurant, and drinking place uses.  For office uses, employee and visitor parking is separated out based on 92% for 
employee and 8% for visitors.  These parking ratios are primarily based on findings in the ULI Shared Parking, 2nd Edition 
reference.
Mixed-Use 
Block 4 
(MU 4) 
Commercial
Subtotal 
Total Mixed Use (excludes High School)
Residential
Block 7
(RES 7)
Subtotal 
Total Residential Block
Subtotal 
Mixed-Use 
Block 3A 
(MU 3A) 
Commercial
Subtotal 
Subtotal 
Specific Plan 
(SP)
Standards
Mixed-Use
Block 1 
Subtotal 
Mixed-Use 
Block 2A 
(MU 2A) 
Commercial
Subtotal 
Mixed-Use 
Block 3B 
(MU 3B) 
Commercial
Deficiency of 52 spaces in the MU blocks and 10 spaces in RES 7 will be accomodated in the STA blocks.
Restaurant parking requirements are computed using an estimated 65% of the restaurant gross square footage (GKSF). This 
percentage represents "public service area" as defined in Chapter 27.04.404 of the City's zoning ordinance.
Total Mixed Use Blocks - All Employees; Plus Office Visitors for MU2 and MU3
Total Mixed Use Blocks - All Visitors except MU2 and MU3 Office Visitors
Mixed-Use 
Block 2B
(MU 2B) 
Commercial
The floor area presented in this table is calculated as defined in the City of San Mateo zoning code Chapter 27.04.200 for 
computing parking and loading requirements. This definition includes certain exclusions and the floor area computed under 
this method is different from gross building floor area used to compute parking demand.

--- page 218 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 29 
The mixed-use standards allow a maximum between 2.75 to 3.25 spaces per 1,000 square 
feet for commercial office. A standard of 2.50 to 2.60 spaces per 1,000 square feet was 
applied to the office space in the mixed-use buildings. A standard of 4.00 was applied to 
the retail space in the mixed-use buildings. For restaurants a standard of 4.00 spaces per 
1,000 square feet was used. Restaurant parking ratios were computed using the estimated 
public service area of the restaurant gross square footage as allowed for in the City’s 
zoning ordinance2. 
 
For residential buildings in the Mixed-Use Blocks (Table 7) the applicable Specific Plan 
maximum parking standard ranges from 1.75 to 2.25 spaces per unit, plus 0.20 spaces per 
unit for guests with an allowance for parking guests on-street. It should be noted the 
below market rate residential units have a state mandated parking requirement of 0.5 
spaces per unit.  Based on the parking approach established for the Mixed-Use Blocks, all 
guests parking will be provided on-street. Therefore, the parking ratio of spaces provided 
in the design of each building averages from 1.03 to 1.73 spaces per unit. Parking spaces 
per unit varies depending on the number of bedrooms (from 0.5 to 2.05 spaces per unit). 
Based on the parking ratios adopted in this parking management plan that fall within the 
permitted range of the Specific Plan for the Mixed-Use Blocks, the project provides 283 
residential parking spaces on-site, with 29 guest spaces to be accommodated on-street. 
 
Required residential and non-residential on-street parking for MU 2 and MU 3 can be 
accommodated within the on-street parking supply for those blocks with a surplus of 5 
spaces. However, on-street parking for MU 4 has a deficit of 28 spaces, of which 5 
residential spaces can be accommodated on the on-street parking for MU 2 and MU 3, 
while the remaining 23 non-residential spaces can be accommodated within the surplus of 
on-street parking for RES 1, RES 4, and RES 8.  
 
Conclusion: Since no parking is provided for the retail and restaurant uses in the 
Mixed-Use Blocks, the parking requirements for the retail and restaurant customers 
are accommodated with on-street parking spaces. The office employees for MU 2 
and MU 3 park on-site, while the office employees for a portion of MU 3 and all of 
MU 4 park within the Station Blocks, as do retail and restaurant employees. Office 
visitors for MU 2 and MU 3 park on-site, but office visitors for all of MU 4 park on-
street. 
 
Based on the parking ratios adopted in this Parking Management Plan that fall 
within the permitted range of the Specific Plan for the Mixed-Use Blocks, the 
project provides 283 residential parking spaces on-site, with 29 guest spaces to be 
accommodated on-street.   Based on this approach, the parking requirements for the 
Mixed-Use Blocks are met through a combination of on-site (for residential units 
only), off-site (in Station Blocks), and on-street parking.  
 
2 This percentage represents the “public service area” of restaurants for which the standard applies. The 
public service area is defined in the zoning code (27.04.404) as that portion of a building or structure used or 
which may be used by patrons for the purposes of eating, drinking or waiting for service, including dance floors 
and area outside the building or structure intended to be used by patrons for the purposes of eating or drinking. 
The public service area was estimated at 65% of the gross floor area.

--- page 219 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Page 30 
 
Table 7: Detailed Parking Requirements for Mixed-Use Block Residential Uses 
 
 Block 
 Units 
Per 
Block 
 Bedrooms 
 Total Units 
by Bed 
Count 
 Parking 
Ratios  
 Parking 
Spaces   
On-Site 
Guest 
Parking 
Ratios
Required 
Guest 
Parking 
Spaces
 Proposed 
Parking Ratios 
 Proposed 
Parking Spaces 
Proposed On-
Site Guest 
Parking
Total Proposed 
Parking
1 B
33
                
0.50
            
17
-
               
0
1.24
                   
41
0
41
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
18
                
0.50
            
9
-
               
0
1.28
                   
23
0
23
Standard
3 B
17
                
0.50
            
8
-
               
0
1.24
                   
21
0
21
Standard - Tandem
-
        
Totals
68
34
0
85
0
85
Compact
Average
0.50
Average
1.25
0
1.25
Compact - Tandem
Accessible
Accessible Van
Total Assigned Parking
85
         
51
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
        
On-Site Guest Parking
-
        
0
Total Structured Parking
85
         
51
Street Guest Parking 
-
        
1 B
-
                   
1.55
            
0
0.20
             
0
1.50
                   
0
0
0
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
-
                   
1.80
            
0
0.20
             
0
1.70
                   
0
0
0
Standard
-
        
3 B
-
                   
2.05
            
0
0.20
             
0
2.00
                   
0
0
0
Standard - Tandem
-
        
Totals
-
                   
0
0
0
0
0
Compact
-
        
Average
0.00
Average
0.00
0
0.00
Compact - Tandem
-
        
Accessible
-
        
Accessible Van
-
        
Total Assigned Parking
-
        
0
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
        
On-Site Guest Parking
-
        
0
Total Structured Parking
-
        
0
Street Guest Parking 
12
         
1 B
65
                
1.00
            
65
0.20
             
13
1.00
                   
65
0
65
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
2
                  
2.00
            
4
0.20
             
1
2.00
                   
4
0
4
Standard
64
         
3 B
-
                   
2.05
            
0
0.20
             
0
2.05
                   
0
0
0
Standard - Tandem
10
         
Totals
67
                
69
14
69
0
69
Compact
Average
1.03
Average
1.03
0
1.03
Compact - Tandem
-
        
Accessible
1
           
Accessible Van
1
           
Total Assigned Parking
76
         
7
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
        
On-Site Guest Parking
-
        
(14)
Total Structured Parking
76
         
(7)
Street Guest Parking 
17
         
1 B
23
                
1.55
            
36
0.20
             
5
1.55
                   
36
0
36
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
39
                
1.80
            
70
0.20
             
8
1.80
                   
70
0
70
Standard
62
         
3 B
8
                  
2.05
            
16
0.20
             
2
2.00
                   
16
0
16
Standard - Tandem
7
           
Totals
70
                
122
15
121
0
121
Compact
41
         
Average
1.74
Average
1.73
0
1.73
Compact - Tandem
8
           
Accessible
3
           
Accessible Van
1
           
Total Assigned Parking
122
       
0
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
        
On-Site Guest Parking
-
        
(15)
Total Structured Parking
122
       
(15)
Street Guest Parking 
-
      
Total On-Site Parking in Design
283
Total Diff. in On-Site Residential Parking
58
Total Diff in On-Site Guest Parking
-29
Program Details
 Specific Plan Provisions 
 Proposed Mixed Use Block Residential Parking 
Parking as Designed in SPAR
 Difference 
between Design 
and SP 
Mixed-Use Block 1
(MU 1) Residential
68
Mixed-Use Block 2 
(MU 2) Residential
0
Mixed-Use Block 3 
(MU 3) Residential
67
275
Mixed-Use Block 4 
(MU 4) Residential
70
TOTAL (MU)
205
0
275
225
29

--- page 220 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
  
 Page 31
 
  
 
Residential Blocks 
As noted in Table 6, the parking requirement for the restaurant use in RES 7 is 10 spaces.  
Employees will park in the Station Blocks and visitors will park on street.   
 
The parking requirements for the Residential Blocks are summarized in Table 8. For 
Residential Blocks the applicable Specific Plan standards are those for Residential 
(Apartment, Condo, Loft; Townhouse / Rowhouse; and Small Lot Single Family). These 
standards specify a maximum range from 1.75 to 2.25 spaces per unit (including guest 
parking), with allowance for on-street guest parking.  The residential parking is provided 
on a per block basis and all resident parking will be provided within each block. The 
parking ratio of spaces provided in the design of each building averages from 1.70 to 2.00 
spaces per unit, with guest parking ratio of 0.20 spaces per unit.  Parking ratios for 
residential parking ranges from 1.55 to 2.05 and guest parking is 0.2 which is within the 
Specific Plan standards.   
 
The total parking requirement under the Specific Plan standards for the Residential 
Blocks is 1,586 spaces with 1,629 spaces provided. Per the Specific Plan, residential 
guests are required to have 171 guest spaces with an allowance for on-street parking. 
Many of the residential guests are accommodated on-site within the 73 on-site guest 
spaces. The remaining 98 guest spaces are accommodated on-street. Of the 240 on-street 
spaces available, the surplus of 142 on-street parking spaces will serve the unmet on-
street parking required for the STA blocks (6 spaces), non-residential MU 4 (23 spaces) 
and residential and non-residential RES 7 (26 spaces).

--- page 221 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
   
Page 32
 
  
 
Table 8: Parking Requirements for Residential Blocks  
 
 
 
 Block 
 Units 
Per 
Block 
 Bedrooms 
 Total Units 
by Bed 
Count 
 Parking 
Ratios  
 Parking 
Spaces   
On-Site 
Guest 
Parking 
Ratios
Required 
Guest 
Parking 
Spaces
 Studio 
4
1.55
6
0.20
1
1 B
28
1.55
43
0.20
6
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
63
1.80
113
0.20
13
Standard
151
           
2 B > 1400 SF
0
2.05
0
0.20
0
Standard - Tandem
1
               
3 B 
13
2.05
27
0.20
3
Compact
40
             
Totals
108
190
23
Compact - Tandem
14
             
Average
1.76
Accessible
4
               
Accessible Van
1
               
Total Assigned Parking
211
           
21
Unassigned On-Site Parking
On-Site Guest Parking
-
           
(23)
Total Structured Parking
211
          
Street Guest Parking 
23
             
2 B
40
1.80
72
0.20
8
On-Site Residential Parking
3 B
37
2.05
76
0.20
7
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
80
             
4 B
3
2.05
6
0.20
1
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
80
             
Totals
80
154
16
Total Assigned Parking
160
          
6
Average
1.93
On-Site Guest Parking
4
               
(12)
Total Structured Parking
164
          
Street Guest Parking 
12
             
2 B
20
1.80
36
0.20
4
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B > 1400 SF
19
2.05
39
0.20
4
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
86
             
3 B 
1
2.05
2
0.20
0
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
40
             
4 B
23
2.05
47
0.20
5
Total Assigned Parking
126
          
2
Totals
63
124
13
On-Site Guest Parking
10
             
(3)
Average
1.97
Total Structured Parking
136
          
Street Guest Parking 
3
               
2 B
32
1.80
58
0.20
6
2 B > 1400 SF
6
2.05
12
0.20
1
On-Site Residential Parking
3 B 
28
2.05
57
0.20
6
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
54
             
4 B
27
2.05
55
0.20
5
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
128
           
Totals
93
183
18
Total Assigned Parking
182
          
(1)
Average
1.96
On-Site Guest Parking
18
             
0
Total Structured Parking
200
          
Street Guest Parking 
-
           
2 B
30
1.80
54
0.20
6
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B > 1400 SF
18
2.05
37
0.20
4
Standard
150
           
3 B 
34
2.05
70
0.20
7
Standard - Tandem
10
             
Totals
82
161
17
Compact  
-
           
Average
1.96
Compact - Tandem
-
           
Accessible
5
               
Accessible Van
1
               
Total Assigned Parking
166
          
5
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
           
On-Site Guest Parking
-
           
(17)
Total Structured Parking
166
          
Street Guest Parking 
19
            
2 B
26
1.80
47
0.20
5
On-Site Residential Parking
3 B 
50
2.05
103
0.20
10
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
100
           
4 B
0
2.05
0
0.20
0
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
53
             
Totals
76
149
15
Average
1.96
Total Assigned Parking
153
          
4
On-Site Guest Parking
15
             
0
Total Structured Parking
168
          
Street Guest Parking 
16
            
Program Details
 Specific Plan Provisions 
Parking as Designed in SPAR
 Difference 
between 
Design and SP 
Residential Block 
1 
(RES 1)
108
Residential Block 
2 
(RES 2)
80
Residential Block 
3 
(RES 3)
156
Residential Block 
4 
(RES 4)
82
Residential Block 
5 
(RES 5)
76

--- page 222 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 33 
 
  
 Block 
 Units 
Per 
Block 
 Bedrooms 
 Total Units 
by Bed 
Count 
 Parking 
Ratios  
 Parking 
Spaces   
On-Site 
Guest 
Parking 
Ratios
Required 
Guest 
Parking 
Spaces
1 B
5
1.55
8
0.20
1
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
23
1.80
42
0.20
5
Standard
36
             
2 B > 1400 SF
0
2.05
0
0.20
0
Standard - Tandem
25
             
3 B 
26
2.05
53
0.20
5
Compact
41
             
Totals
54
103
11
Compact - Tandem
-
           
Average
1.91
Accessible
2
               
Accessible Van
2
               
Total Assigned Parking
106
          
3
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
           
On-Site Guest Parking
-
           
(11)
Total Structured Parking
106
          
Street Guest Parking 
11
             
1 B
77
1.55
119
0.20
15
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
68
1.80
122
0.20
14
Standard
157
           
3 B
13
2.05
27
0.20
3
Standard - Tandem
46
             
Totals
158
268
32
Compact
61
             
Average
1.70
Compact - Tandem
-
           
Accessible
3
               
Accessible Van
1
               
Total Assigned Parking
268
          
(0)
Unassigned On-Site Parking
-
           
On-Site Guest Parking
-
           
(32)
Total Structured Parking
268
          
Street Guest Parking 
14
             
2 B
24
1.80
43
0.20
5
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B > 1400 SF
1
2.05
2
0.20
0
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
110
           
3 B 
49
2.05
100
0.20
10
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
38
             
4 B
0
2.05
0
0.20
0
148
          
2
Totals
74
146
15
On-Site Guest Parking
15
             
0
Average
1.97
Total Structured Parking
163
          
Street Guest Parking 
8
              
1 B
1
1.55
2
0.20
0
On-Site Residential Parking
2 B
10
1.80
18
0.20
2
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
38
             
3 B
20
2.05
41
0.20
4
Parking Spaces in Tandem Garages
22
             
Totals
31
61
6
Parking Spaces in Single Car Garages
1
               
Average
1.95
61
            
0
On-Site Guest Parking
6
               
(0)
Total Structured Parking
67
            
Street Guest Parking 
-
           
3 B
6
2.00
12
0.20
1
On-Site Residential Parking
4 B
18
2.00
36
0.20
4
Parking Spaces in Side-by-Side Garages
48
             
0
Totals
24
48
5
Average
2.00
On-Site Guest Parking
5
               
0
Total Structured Parking
53
            
Street Guest Parking 
18
            
TOTAL (RES)
843
1,586
171
Total On-Site Assigned Parking 
1,629
43
Total On-Site Unassigned Parking 
0
Total On-Site Guest Parking
73
(98)
Total On-Site Parking 
1,702
(55)
Total On-Street Guest Parking
124
74
Program Details
 Specific Plan Provisions 
Parking as Designed in SPAR
 Difference 
between 
Design and SP 
Notes:
  1. The Specific Plan Amendment stipulates that the maximum parking ratio for residential uses shall be 1.75-2.25 spaces per residential unit. It is assumed that these ratios include 0.2 guest 
Residential Block 
9 
(RES 9)
55
Residential Block 
6 
(RES 6)
54
Residential Block 
7 
(RES 7)
158
Residential Block 
8 
(RES 8)

--- page 223 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
  
 Page 34
 
  
 
3.4 Neighborhood Parks 
The project includes two neighborhood parks, the Linear Neighborhood Park, and the 
Central Neighborhood Park. The Linear Neighborhood Park is a passive park intended as 
quality open space for residents, employees, and visitors of Bay Meadows II. The Central 
Neighborhood Park (known as Paddock Park) has a combination of passive and small 
active areas. Both parks are intended to serve the local neighborhoods, and it is not 
expected they would attract people from outside of Bay Meadows specifically to use the 
parks. 
 
The Specific Plan Amendment does not specify parking requirements for parks. City 
zoning code, however, specifies a parking standard of one parking space per 20,000 
square feet for parks less than three acres in size. The Linear and Central Neighborhood 
Parks are approximately 1.5 acres each. Applying the zoning code standards to these 
parks would require about seven parking spaces. The streets surrounding these parks 
provide on-street parking spaces of which only 30% would be occupied during the mid-
day peak period (see Section 4 Parking Demand Analysis). Outside of the mid-day peak 
there is even a higher level of on-street parking available. Therefore, any parking demand 
generated by the parks can be accommodated with nearby on-street parking.  
 
It is assumed that the Community Park (known as Bay Meadows Park) will utilize the on-
street parking along 28th Avenue (about 49 spaces). 
3.5 On-Street Parking Supply by Block 
The project provides on-street (angled and parallel) parking along most of the blockfaces 
throughout the project site. On Delaware Street between East 28th Avenue and East 31st 
Avenue, angled parking is provided on both sides of the street. Parallel parking is 
provided on the remaining blockfaces.  There were a total of 476 on-street parking 
spaces3 as of June 2018.  However, with the proposed MU 2 and MU 3 plans, the on-
street parking was reduced to 466 on-street parking spaces, of which 161 spaces serve the 
Station and Mixed-Use Block commercial area. The remaining 305 spaces serve the 
Residential Blocks, neighborhood and community parks, and any spillover parking from 
the commercial area. The on-street parking count does not reflect curb space reserved for 
red zones, bus stops, and residential loading zones. Note that some loading zones are only 
reserved for loading in the morning peak hours and are therefore available for general 
parking during the mid-day peak.  
 
Table 9 summarizes the on-street parking supply by Block.  
 
 
 
 
3 Kimley-Horn conducted a field inventory of on-street parking spaces on June 19, 2018.  See Appendix for 
Kimley-Horn Letter summarizing the on-street parking survey.

--- page 224 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 35 
On-Street Time Restrictions 
 
Other than on-street loading zones within the commercial and residential blocks, the City 
has implemented time restrictions on all on-street parking for the residential streets. 
These spaces have been restricted to 120 minutes between 9:00 AM and 6:00 PM. 
 
Table 9: On-Street Parking Supply by Block 
  
 
 
Block
Number of On-Street Parking 
Spaces Surrounding Blocks 
STA 1
0
STA 2
18
STA 3
16
STA 4
21
STA 5
15
Subtotal
70
MU 1
0
MU 2
37
MU 3
28
MU 4
26
Subtotal
91
Total On-Street Parking Available 
to Station and Mixed Use Blocks
161
RES 1
41
RES 2
50
RES 3
48
RES 4
19
RES 5
18
RES 6
13
RES 7
14
RES 8
19
RES 9
18
Subtotal
240
Neighborhood Parks
16
Community Park
49
Subtotal 
(excluding community park)
16
Total On-Street Parking available 
for the Residential Blocks 
(excluding community park)
256
Total (All Blocks)
417
Notes: 
1. Refer to Figure 2 for location of on-street parking by block and 
boundary of the parking available to the Station and Mixed-Use blocks.
2. Kimley-Horn surveyed the available on-street parking on June 19, 
2018.
3. Since June 2018 survey, the on-street parking was reduced by 10 
parking spaces due to the MU2 and MU3 plans.

--- page 225 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 36 
3.6 Conclusions 
 
Overall Parking Requirements by Block District 
 
Table 10 compares the total parking requirements for each block district (Station, Mixed-
Use, and Residential) under the Specific Plan standards with the total parking supply 
provided in the SPAR application for the individual blocks. 
 
The table includes on-street parking consistent with the approach to serve some of the 
parking requirements on-street.  
 
The Bay Meadows II development, when considering on-site and on-street parking 
supply, provides 324 parking spaces more than the development standards used in the 
SPAR.  This total does not include the 49 on-street spaces at the Community Park. If the 
project is divided into a commercial area (the Station and non-residential Mixed-Use 
Blocks) and a residential area (the residential mixed-use and residential blocks), the 
commercial area has a surplus of 75 spaces (including use of on-street spaces), and the 
residential area has a surplus of 249 spaces.  However, it should be noted that these 
surpluses in parking compared to the SPAR parking standards are still less than the 
allowed maximum parking requirements in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan 
Amendment.     
 
Regarding on-street parking, the residential district has a surplus of 150 on-street parking 
spaces, whereas the commercial district (including the residential areas in the mixed-use 
blocks) has a deficit of 29 on-street parking spaces.

--- page 226 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 37 
Table 10: Comparison of Required Parking with Total Provided 
Parking by Block District 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
Block District
On-Site Parking 
Required by SP 
Standards
On-Site Parking 
Provided in SPAR
Surplus or (Deficit)
Station (non-residential)
2,469
2,625
156
Mixed-Use (non-
residential)
795
743
-52
Subtotal
3,264
3,368
104
On-Street Parking 
Serving Station and 
Mixed-Use Blocks
190
161
-29
Total (STA+MU) 
Without On-Street 
Parking
3,264
3,368
104
Total (STA+MU) With 
On-Street Parking
3,454
3,529
75
Mixed-Use Residential
225
283
58
Residential Blocks 
Residents and On-site 
Guest Parking+ RES 7 
Restaurant
1,661
1,702
41
On-Street Parking 
Serving Residential 
Blocks [1]
106
256
150
Grand Total W/O On-
Street
5,150
5,353
203
Grand Total With On-
Street
5,446
5,770
324
[1] Does not include 49 on-street spaces at Community Park
Commercial District
Residential District

--- page 227 ---
RES 9
STA
5
STA
4
RES 7
RES 8
RES 5
PARK
RES 4
RES 6
MU 3
STA
3
STA
2
MU 2
RES 1
RES 2
RES 3
MU 1
STA 1
0
19
3
18
11
1
9
14
22
9
49
10
19
14
15
16
10
1
2
2
10
4
8
14
16
11
18
7
22
10
5
18
21
17
4
5
16
MU 4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
8
8
LEGEND
ON-STREET PARKING
AREA AVAILABLE TO
STATION AND MIXED
USE BLOCKS
NUMBER OF
ON-STREET
SPACES FOR
BLOCKFACE
XX
FIGURE 3: ON-STREET PARKING SPACES BY BLOCK
TOTAL SPACES AVAILABLE
FOR STATION AND MIXED USE
BLOCKS = 161
TOTAL ON-STREET SPACES = 466
*NOTE: ASSUMED 19' SPACES. LOADING
ZONES ARE NOT INCLUDED IN TOTAL
PARKING COUNT. LOADING ZONES
RESERVED IN MORNING ONLY.
AVAILABLE ON-STREET PARKING
SPACES UPDATED BASED ON MU 2 AND
MU3 PLANS DATED APRIL 2021.

--- page 228 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 39 
4 Parking Demand Analysis 
This section of the report describes in detail the parking demand analysis.  
4.1 Purpose of Parking Demand Analysis 
The purpose of this parking demand analysis is to estimate the anticipated amount of 
parking demand during the highest demand period to verify whether the parking supply 
provided in the SPAR will meet demand. This analysis answers the question “will there 
be enough parking to meet estimated peak demand reflecting the mixed-use and transit 
orientation of the project?” 
 
Parking demand refers to the amount of parking spaces that are estimated to be occupied 
at a particular time, usually during the peak period of a typical weekday. Parking demand 
is related to, but independent of the parking standards presented in the previous section. 
Parking standards are intended to meet the peak demands of the individual uses they are 
applied to and usually do not reflect shared parking or reductions for transit-orientation or 
mixed use. However, the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment standards are lower 
than standards in the City’s zoning code in an attempt to reflect the unique characteristics 
of the project. 
 
Shared Parking  
 
It is important to emphasize this analysis, and the Specific Plan Amendment parking 
standards described earlier, are intended to satisfy a relatively short period of time, a two 
hour period mid-day on a weekday (about noon to 2:00 p.m.) when the demand for 
parking in Bay Meadows II will be at its highest. This time period combines the peak 
demands from office, retail, and restaurants. In the evening, when restaurants and 
residential uses have their highest demands, the office has its lowest demand resulting in 
a substantial pool of available parking.  
 
The following figures (Figures 4 and 5) illustrate the concept of shared parking. Figure 4 
is an example of the amount of parking provided based on parking requirements or 
standards. It is based on providing each land use a minimum number of parking spaces as 
if it were an isolated use. Figure 5 illustrates the actual utilization of the parking spaces 
for each land use by time of day. Since different land uses have peak parking demands at 
different times, the land uses can “share” a common pool of parking spaces, as long as 
the highest demand of the day can be met. The result is a lower total number of parking 
spaces than if each individual use is required to provide for its own peak period. 
 
The concept of shared parking applies to Bay Meadows II, using the mid-day peak period 
as the controlling period to estimate parking supply needs.

--- page 229 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 40 
Figure 4: Example Required Parking 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Example of Shared Parking Utilization 
 
 
 
 
Parking Spaces Required
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant
Parking Spaces Used
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant

--- page 230 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 41 
4.2 Assumptions for Parking Demand Analysis 
Parking demand is estimated similar to the way traffic generation is estimated; using 
“rates” derived from empirical data on how many parked cars are generated by different 
kinds of land uses. The parking demand rates for this analysis are from the Institute of 
Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Parking Generation, 3rd Edition. The land use codes used 
were as follows: 
 
 
ITE Code 230 – Residential Condominium / Townhouse 
 
ITE Code 210 – Single Family Detached 
 
ITE Code 820 – Shopping Center (Parking demand rate for Non-December, 
Monday to Thursday) 
 
ITE Code 931 and 932 – Quality Restaurant and Casual Dining (Weighted 
average between Quality Restaurant [40%] and Casual Dining [60%]) 
 
ITE Code 710 – General Office Building 
 
Standard ITE parking generation rates are derived from studies of isolated suburban 
developments with little or no pedestrian, bicycle, or transit accessibility. Due to the 
nature of the sites and the data collection methodology, the ITE rates do not reflect 
proposed developments in urbanized areas and do not reflect variations in density, 
diversity (land use mix), site design and the multimodal transportation systems of our 
larger metropolitan areas which are critical factors on parking. Therefore, the parking 
generation analysis in this report adjusts the ITE rates to reflect the mixed-use 
characteristics and transit-orientation of the project. The unadjusted demand rates were 
unadjusted to reflect the transit orientation and the internal capture. The unadjusted rates, 
adjustments and sources are shown in Table 11. 
4.3 Parking Demand by Block 
This section of the report discusses the parking demand analysis by block.  The peak 
period of demand is about 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. Parking demand is calculated separately for 
the Station Blocks, Mixed-Use Blocks, and the Residential Blocks and is shown in Table 
12, Table 13, and Table 14 respectively. 
 
Station Blocks 
 
The parking demand analysis for the Station Blocks is shown in Table 12. The total 
parking demand for these blocks is 2,393 spaces. The total on-site parking supply 
provided is 2,625 spaces which are 232 spaces more than the demand estimated for 
the Station Blocks. About 43 people (retail and restaurant customers) are required 
to park on-street. A total of 427 on-street parking spaces are available throughout 
the project site, out of which 171 spaces are identified for the Mixed-Use and Station 
Blocks.

--- page 231 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 42 
Table 11: Transit and Internal Capture Adjustments to Parking Demand Rates 
Land Use 
Unadjusted 
Parking 
Demand Rate 
1
Mixed Use 
Reduction 
2 
Transit 
Reduction 3 
Total 
Reduction 
Residential
1.68 / unit
0 %
0 %
0 %
Residential – BMR [1]
1.61 / unit
24 %
Retail
3.35 / KSF
25.4 %
5.0 %
30.4 %
Office
3.44 / KSF
1.8 %
13.4 %
15.2 %
Restaurant
11.38 / KSF
32.9 %
5.0 %
37.9 %
Average 
 
20.0 % 
7.8 % 
27.8 % 
Notes: 
1. Unadjusted rates from ITE Parking Generation, 3rd Edition, using 85th percentile weekday peak rates. 
2.  Source of Mixed Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers, Trip   Generation Handbook 
(Multi-Use Internal Methodology). 
3.  Source of Transit Adjustments: 
 
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit Oriented Development in California. 
Institute of Urban and Regional Development, 1993. 
 
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of 
Office trips are commute trips. 
 
Resident parking demand is assumed to remain constant because residential parking supply is reserved 
for residents whether they use transit or not. 
 
Residential guest parking demand is from Urban Land Institute (ULI) Shared Parking, 2nd Edition. 
 
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: Cervero, Robert Lund, Wilson. Travel Characteristics of Transit 
Oriented Development in California. Caltrans, 2004. 
50% of the surveyed retail mode share from El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center study. 
 
The time of day and monthly factors from ITE Parking Generation (3rd Edition) and ULI Shared Parking 
(2nd Edition) 
 
Note: [1] The unadjusted parking demand rate is from the ITE Parking Generation (4th Edition) and the 
reduction is for below market rate units. 
 
 
Figure 6 and Figure 7 graphically compare the required parking supply to the utilization 
of the parking spaces on a 24-hour basis. This comparison clearly demonstrates that the 
parking supply meets peak demand, while providing ample parking for the off-peak 
periods.

--- page 232 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 43 
Mixed Use Blocks 
 
The parking demand analysis for the Mixed-Use Blocks is shown in Table 13 and Table 
14.  Table 13 shows the residential parking demand and Table 14 shows the commercial 
parking demand. The total peak parking demand for the Mixed-Use Blocks is 1,163 
spaces. As stated in Section 3.1 of this report, no on-site parking is provided for retail and 
restaurant customers, office visitors for MU 4, and the residential guests.  The retail and 
restaurant customers, office visitors for MU 4, and the residential guests park on-street.  
The retail and restaurant employees and the office employees for MU 4 park in Station 
Blocks.  All office employees and visitors for MU 3 park on-site or in STA 5.  For the 
mixed-use residential uses, only resident parking is provided on-site and guests park on-
street.  The total parking demand for residents of the Mixed-Use Blocks alone is 257 
spaces. The total on-site parking supply provided for residents is 283 spaces, which is 26 
spaces more than the parking demand.   
 
The retail and restaurant customers, office visitors of MU 4, and the residential guests 
park on-street; the total on-street parking demand is 73 spaces. There are 417 on-street 
parking spaces available throughout the project site (not including the 49 spaces for the 
Community Park), of which 161 spaces are identified for the Mixed-Use and Station 
Blocks. This results in an 88-space surplus for those people who are required to park on-
street.  Figure 8 and Figure 9 graphically compare the required parking supply to the 
utilization of the parking spaces on a 24-hour basis.

--- page 233 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 44 
Table 12: Parking Demand Analysis for Station Blocks 
 
 
 
 
Block
Quantity
Units
On-Site 
Parking Supply
Retail – Employees
0
Retail - Customer
0
Office (Employees)
403
Office (Visitors)
32
435
446
Retail – Employees
3
Retail - Customer
11
Restaurant – Employees
0
Restaurant - Customer
0
Office (Employees)
433
Office (Visitors)
34
481
421
Retail – Employees
3
Retail - Customer
12
Restaurant – Employees
0
Restaurant - Customer
0
Office (Employees)
397
Office (Visitors)
31
443
428
Retail – Employees
2
Retail - Customer
6
Drinking Place – Employees
2
Drinking Place - Customer
10
Office (Employees)
490
Office (Visitors)
38
548
585
Retail – Employees
1
Retail - Customer
4
Office (Employees)
486
Office (Visitors)
38
529
745
2,393
2,625
43
       Note: Trip totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
Office square footage is the adjusted square footage in Table 1.
Parking Demand is based on ITE Parking Generation, and the rates for the restaurants are 
based on gross floor area (GFA). ITE states that for GFA, unroofed areas and unenclosed 
roofed‐over spaces, except those contained within the principal outside faces of exterior 
walls, should be excluded from the area calculations. Since outdoor seating is outside the 
principal exterior walls, it has been excluded from the calculations of parking demand.
3,477
GFA
Subtotal
STA 3
6,561
GFA
201,249
GFA
STA 4
Station Block Demand Allocated to On-Street Parking
STA 5
2,378
GFA
Subtotal
Total Station Blocks Parking Demand (On-Site Only)
GFA
183,283
177,951
2,097
GFA
0
Subtotal
GFA
GFA
163,089
Peak Parking Demand
STA 1
0
GFA
GFA
184,205
Subtotal
STA 2
6,099
GFA
GFA
0
GFA
Subtotal

--- page 234 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 45 
 
Figure 6: Station Blocks Required Parking 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Station Blocks Shared Parking Utilization 
 
 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Parking Spaces Required
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Parking Spaces Used
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant

--- page 235 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 46 
Table 13: Residential Parking Demand Analysis for Mixed Use Blocks 
  
 
Block
Quantity
Units
On-Site 
Parking 
Supply
Residential
83
Guest
2
85
85
Residential
0
Guest
0
0
0
Residential
0
Guest
0
0
0
Residential
60
Guest
2
62
76
Residential
0
Guest
0
0
0
Residential
108
Guest
2
110
122
Note: Parking totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
Subtotal
Subtotal
Total Mixed Use Blocks Residential Parking 
Demand
257
283
MU 3A
67
Subtotal
MU 4
70
0
DU
Subtotal
MU 3B
0
DU
Subtotal
DU
MU 1
68
DU
DU
MU 2B
Peak Parking Demand
MU 2A
0
DU
Subtotal

--- page 236 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 47 
Table 14: Commercial Parking Demand Analysis for Mixed Use Blocks 
 
 
 
Block
Quantity
Units
On-Site 
Parking 
Supply
450
Students
High School
84
84
125
Retail - Employee
0
Retail – Customer
0
Restaurant - Employee
0
Restaurant - Customer
0
Office (Employees)
0
Office (Visitors)
0
0
0
Retail - Employee
4
Retail – Customer
16
Restaurant - Employee
0
Restaurant - Customer
0
Office (Employees)
458
Office (Visitors)
38
516
561
Retail – Employee
0
Retail – Customer
0
Office (Employees)
0
Office (Visitors)
0
0
0
Retail – Employee
3
Retail – Customer
10
Office (Employees)
291
Office (Visitors)
24
328
182
Retail – Employee
4
Retail - Customer
16
Restaurant - Employee
5
Restaurant – Customer
24
Office (Employees)
12
Office (Visitors)
1
62
0
906
743
777
66
63
182,836
120,142
5,071
Subtotal
GFA
GFA
Mixed Use Blocks Commercial Customer Parking Demand
MU 3A
0
GFA
Subtotal
MU 4
Parking demand for high school not included in totals because it accommodates on-site 
demand and does not participate in shared parking 
GFA
Subtotal
Total Mixed Use Blocks Commercial Parking Demand
Notes: 
Parking totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
Mixed Use Blocks Commercial Visitor Parking Demand
GFA
Mixed Use Blocks Commercial Employee Parking Demand
MU 3B
5,618
GFA
GFA
0
8,947
GFA
5,000
0
GFA
GFA
0
0
GFA
Subtotal
Subtotal
MU 1
GFA
Subtotal
Peak Parking Demand
MU 2A
0
GFA
MU 2B
8,518

--- page 237 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 48 
Figure 8: Mixed-Use Blocks Required Parking 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Mixed-Use Blocks Shared Parking Utilization 
 
 
 
 
0
200
400
600
800
Parking Spaces Required
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant
0
200
400
600
800
Parking Spaces Used
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant

--- page 238 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 49 
Residential Blocks 
 
The parking demand analysis for the Residential Blocks is shown in Table 15. The total 
parking demand is 1,349 spaces. As stated in Section 3.1 of this report, all residents park 
on-site and 37% of the residential guest parking is provided on-site while the remaining 
63% of the guests park on-street. Also, no on-site parking is provided for restaurant 
customers in block RES 7 and restaurant customers park on-street. The retail employees 
park in Station Blocks. The total on-site parking supply provided is 1,702 spaces, which 
is 353 spaces more than the estimated demand generated by the Residential Blocks. 
 
A total of 417 on-street parking spaces are available throughout the project site, of which 
256 spaces are available for Residential Blocks. Figure 10 and Figure 11 graphically 
compare the required parking supply to the utilization of the parking spaces on a 24-hour 
basis. A detailed parking demand analysis for the Station Blocks, Mixed-Use Blocks, and 
the Residential Blocks is included in the Appendix. 
 
4.4 Conclusions 
The parking demand and the parking supply are summarized in Table 16. From an 
overall perspective the Bay Meadows II project provides sufficient parking to meet 
demand through a combination of on-site and on-street supply.  The total estimated on-
site parking demand for all blocks is 4,794 parking spaces during the peak weekday 
period. The on-site parking provided in all blocks is 5,353 spaces. A total of 417 spaces 
are available on-street (excluding community park on-street spaces and neighborhood 
park on-street spaces), which results in a total parking supply of 5,770 spaces, which is 
822 spaces more than the total estimated demand for all blocks.

--- page 239 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 50 
  
Table 15: Parking Demand Analysis for the Residential Blocks 
    
 
 
Block
Quantity
Units
On-Site 
Parking 
Supply
Resident
167
Guest
3
170
211
Resident
123
Guest
2
125
164
Resident
240
Guest
5
245
336
Resident
126
Guest
2
128
166
Resident
117
Guest
2
119
168
Resident
83
Guest
2
85
106
Resident
243
Guest
4
Restaurant - Employee
3
Restaurant – Customer
14
264
268
Resident
114
Guest
2
116
163
Resident
95
Guest
2
97
120
Subtotal
RES 8
74
Note: Parking totals may differ slightly due to rounding.
RES 9
55
DU
Subtotal
Total Residential Parking Demand
1,349
1,702
RES 6
54
DU
Subtotal
DU
RES 7
158
DU
3,472
GFA
Subtotal
RES 5
76
DU
Subtotal
RES 4
82
DU
Subtotal
RES 3
156
DU
Subtotal
RES 2
80
DU
Subtotal
Peak Parking Demand
RES 1
108
DU
Subtotal

--- page 240 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 51 
Figure 10: Residential Blocks Required Parking 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Residential Blocks Shared Parking Utilization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
Parking Spaces Required
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
Parking Spaces Used
Time of Day
Office
Residential
Retail
Restaurant

--- page 241 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 52 
Table 16: Summary of Parking Demand and Parking Supply 
 
      
 
 
 
Block
On-Site 
Parking 
Demand
On-Site 
Parking 
Supply 
Provided
On-Street 
Parking 
Demand
On-Street 
Parking
Surplus / 
(Deficit)
STA 1
435
446
0
STA 2
470
421
11
STA 3
431
428
12
STA 4
532
585
16
STA 5
525
745
4
Subtotal
2,393
2,625
43
MU 1
83
85
2
MU 2A
0
0
0
MU 2B
500
561
16
MU 3A
60
76
2
MU 3B
318
182
10
MU 4
129
122
43
Subtotal
1,090
1,026
73
Total (Station 
and Mixed 
Use Blocks)
3,483
3,651
116
161
213
RES 1
167
211
3
RES 2
123
164
2
RES 3
240
336
5
RES 4
126
166
2
RES 5
117
168
2
RES 6
83
106
2
RES 7
246
268
18
RES 8
114
163
2
RES 9
95
120
2
Subtotal
1,311
1,702
38
256
609
Total (All 
Blocks)
4,794
5,353
154
417
822
Totals do not include High School on MU 1 which does not participate in shared 
parking

--- page 242 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 53 
5 Transportation Demand Management (TDM) 
Strategies 
The TDM program described in the Bay Meadows II Traffic Management Plan 
implements strategies and measures to reduce the number of vehicle trips generated and 
the parking at the project site.  In addition to the proposed TDM program, Bay Meadows 
will consider additional parking management measures should monitoring of the project’s 
traffic and parking condition indicate a need. These measures include: 
 
On-Street Parking Time Restrictions 
 
Time Restrictions are intended to maximize parking turnover of the most convenient, and 
therefore, the most valuable spaces in the commercial district (Station and Mixed-Use 
Blocks). The objective of this measure is to reserve on-street parking spaces in proximity 
to retail land uses for customers, while providing some unrestricted parking in the 
periphery for employees or residents. 
 
Valet Parking  
 
Almost exclusively used for restaurants, this measure increases parking capacity as well 
as convenience for restaurant patrons. The City should permit restaurants, or other 
commercial businesses, to institute valet parking through a conditional use permit, 
including permission to reserve one to two parking spaces in front of the businesses in 
order to conduct valet operations. Valet parking can utilize private parking facilities 
through agreements with the facilities’ owner. 
 
For the entire list of the TDM strategies, please refer to the Bay Meadows II Traffic 
Management Plan.

--- page 243 ---
Parking Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
Page 54 
Appendices 
 
Appendix A – Parking demand analysis for the Station Blocks, 
Mixed-Use Blocks, and the Residential Blocks 
 
Appendix B – Parking Supply Survey Draft Letter

--- page 244 ---
6/10/2021
ITE Code
Unadjusted 
Demand Rate 
(ITE 85th%)
ITE 85th % 
(vehicles per 
DU/KSF/
Bedroom) [1]
Peak Time 
Period
Time of Day 
Factor (1:00 
PM)
Monthly 
Factor
RES 1
Stacked Flats
88
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
136
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Townhomes
20
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.00
31
Guest
0.14
0.20
1
Subtotal RES 1 Resident
108
DU
167
Subtotal RES 1 Guest
3
RES 2
Townhomes
80
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
123
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal RES 2 Resident
80
DU
123
Subtotal RES 2 Guest
2
RES 3
Tuckunder Townhomes
63
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
97
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal RES 3- 
TuckunderTownhomes
63
DU
99
Townhomes
93
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
143
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
3
Subtotal RES 3- Townhomes
93
DU
146
Subtotal RES 3 Resident
156
DU
240
Subtotal RES 3 Guest
5
RES 4
Luxury Flats
82
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
126
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Townhomes
0
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Subtotal RES 4 Resident
82
DU
126
Subtotal RES 4 Guest
2
RES 5
Tuckunder Townhomes
76
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
117
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal RES 5 Resident
76
DU
117
Subtotal RES 5 Guest
2
RES 6
Luxury Flats
54
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
83
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal RES 6 Resident
54
DU
83
Subtotal RES 6 Guest
2
RES 7
Stacked Flats
158
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
243
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
4
Townhomes
0
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Restaurant
3.472
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
3
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
14
Subtotal RES 7 Resident
158
DU
243
Subtotal RES 7 Guest
4
RES 8
Tuckunder Townhomes
74
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
114
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal RES 8 Resident
74
DU
114
Subtotal RES 8 Guest
2
RES 9
Tuckunder Townhomes
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
31
1.54
1.54
1.00
48
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
1
Cluster Detached
24
DU
210
5-6 AM
Resident
1.97
1.97
1.00
47
Guest
0.17
0.17
0.20
1
Subtotal RES 9- Residential
48
Subtotal RES 9 Resident
55
DU
95
Subtotal RES 9 Guest
2
Total Residential Blocks
843
DU
1308
Total Guest
24
Total Restaurant
3.5
KSF
17
Peak Parking 
Demand 
(Calculated)
Appendix A      Parking Demand Analysis
Block
Land Use
Size
Units
Peak Parking Demand Rate(s)

--- page 245 ---
6/10/2021
ITE Code
Unadjusted 
Demand Rate 
(ITE 85th%)
ITE 85th % 
(vehicles per 
DU/KSF/
Bedroom) [1]
Peak Time 
Period
Time of Day 
Factor (1:00 
PM)
Monthly 
Factor
Peak Parking 
Demand 
(Calculated)
Appendix A      Parking Demand Analysis
Block
Land Use
Size
Units
Peak Parking Demand Rate(s)
MU 1
Residential - Stacked Flats
68
DU
221b
Resident
1.61
1.22
1.00
83
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal MU1 - Resident
68
DU
83
Subtotal MU1 - Guest
2
MU 2A
Residential - Stacked Flats
0
DU
230
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Subtotal MU 2A - Resident
0
DU
0
Subtotal MU 2A - Guest
0
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal MU 2A - Retail
0.000
KSF
0
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
0
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
0
Subtotal MU 2A - Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Office
0.000
KSF
701
3.44
2.71
1-2 PM
0.93
1.00
0
Subtotal MU 2A
0
MU 2B
Residential - Stacked Flats
0
DU
230
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Subtotal MU 2B - Resident
0
DU
0
Subtotal MU 2B - Guest
0
Retail (Standalone)
8.518
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
4
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
16
Subtotal MU 2B - Retail
8.518
KSF
20
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
0
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
0
Subtotal MU 2B - Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Office
182.836
KSF
701
3.44
2.71
1-2 PM
0.93
1.00
496
Subtotal MU 2B
516
MU 3A
Residential - Stacked Flats
69
Bedrooms
230
5-6 AM
Resident
0.87
0.87
1.00
60
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Residential - Townhomes
Bedrooms
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Subtotal MU 3A - Resident
69
60
Subtotal MU 3A - Guest
2
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal MU 3A - Retail
0.000
KSF
0
Office
0.000
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
0
Subtotal MU 3A
60
MU 3B
Residential - Stacked Flats
0
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Residential - Townhomes
0
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
0
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
0
Subtotal MU 3B - Resident
0
0
Subtotal MU 3B - Guest
0
Retail (Standalone)
5.618
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
3
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
10
Subtotal MU 3B - Retail
5.618
KSF
13
Office
120.142
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
315
Subtotal MU 3B
328

--- page 246 ---
6/10/2021
ITE Code
Unadjusted 
Demand Rate 
(ITE 85th%)
ITE 85th % 
(vehicles per 
DU/KSF/
Bedroom) [1]
Peak Time 
Period
Time of Day 
Factor (1:00 
PM)
Monthly 
Factor
Peak Parking 
Demand 
(Calculated)
Appendix A      Parking Demand Analysis
Block
Land Use
Size
Units
Peak Parking Demand Rate(s)
MU 4
Residential - Stacked Flats
70
DU
230
5-6 AM
Resident
1.54
1.54
1.00
108
Guest
0.14
0.14
0.20
2
Subtotal MU 4 - Resident
70
DU
108
Subtotal MU 4 - Guest
2
Retail (Ground Floor)
8.947
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
4
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
16
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal MU 4 - Retail
8.947
KSF
20
Restaurant
5.000
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
5
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
24
Subtotal MU 4 - Restaurant
5.000
KSF
29
Office
5.071
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
13
Subtotal MU 4
170
Total Residential
207
DU
251
Total Guests
6
Total Retail
23.08
KSF
53
Total Restaurant
5.00
KSF
29
Total Office
308.05
KSF
824

--- page 247 ---
6/10/2021
ITE Code
Unadjusted 
Demand Rate 
(ITE 85th%)
ITE 85th % 
(vehicles per 
DU/KSF/
Bedroom) [1]
Peak Time 
Period
Time of Day 
Factor (1:00 
PM)
Monthly 
Factor
Peak Parking 
Demand 
(Calculated)
Appendix A      Parking Demand Analysis
Block
Land Use
Size
Units
Peak Parking Demand Rate(s)
STA 1
Retail (Ground Floor )
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal STA 1 - Retail
0.000
KSF
0
Office  
184.205
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
435
Subtotal STA 1
435
STA 2
Retail (Ground Floor )
6.099
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
3
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
11
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal STA 2A - Retail
6.099
KSF
14
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
0
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
0
Subtotal STA 2A - Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Office
177.951
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
467
Subtotal STA 2
481
STA 3
Retail (Ground Floor )
6.561
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
3
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
12
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal STA 3A - Retail
6.561
15
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
0
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
0
Subtotal STA 3A - Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Office
163.089
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
428
Subtotal STA 3
443
STA 4
Retail (Ground Floor )
3.477
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
2
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
6
Retail (Standalone)
0.000
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
0
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
0
Subtotal STA 4A - Retail
3.477
8
Restaurant
2.097
KSF
931, 932
11.38
5.81
11-1 PM
Employee
1.71
1.02
0.96
1.00
2
Customer
9.67
4.79
0.84
0.95
10
Subtotal STA 4A - Restaurant
2.097
KSF
12
Office
201.249
KSF
701
3.44
2.63
1-2 PM
0.90
1.00
528
Subtotal STA 4
548
STA 5
Retail (Ground Floor )
2.378
KSF
820
3.35
2.29
1-2 PM
Employee
0.65
0.45
1.00
1.00
1
Customer
2.70
1.84
0.98
1.00
4
Subtotal STA 5 - Retail
2.378
KSF
5
Office
183.283
KSF
701
3.44
2.86
1-2 PM
0.98
1.00
524
Subtotal STA 5
529
Subtotal Retail
18.52
KSF
42
Subtotal Restaurant
2.10
KSF
12
Subtotal Office
909.78
KSF
2,382
Total Residential
1,050
DU
1,559
Total Guests
30
Total Retail
41.60
KSF
95
Total Restaurant
10.569
KSF
58
Total Office
1,217.826
KSF
3,206
TOTAL ALL BLOCKS
4,948

--- page 248 ---
6/10/2021
ITE Code
Unadjusted 
Demand Rate 
(ITE 85th%)
ITE 85th % 
(vehicles per 
DU/KSF/
Bedroom) [1]
Peak Time 
Period
Time of Day 
Factor (1:00 
PM)
Monthly 
Factor
Peak Parking 
Demand 
(Calculated)
Appendix A      Parking Demand Analysis
Block
Land Use
Size
Units
Peak Parking Demand Rate(s)
Notes:
ITE Codes for Unadjusted Demand Rates
ITE Code 230 - Residential Condominium / Townhouse
ITE Code 210 - Single Family Detached
ITE Code 221 - Multifamily Housing (Mid-rise)
ITE Code 820  - Shopping Center Monday - Thursday Non-December (3.35 vehicles / 1,000 KSF GLA)
ITE Codes 931 & 932 - Weighted average between Quality Restaurant (40%) and Casual Dining (60%)
ITE Code 701 - Office Building (3.44 vehicles / 1,000 KSF GFA for suburban sites)
[1] ITE parking demand rates have been reduced to reflect transit-orientation and internal capture for mixed use:
Land Use
Total Reduction
Mixed-Use 
Reduction [a]
Transit [b]
Residential
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Retail
30.4%
25.4%
5.0%
Office
15.2%
1.8%
13.4%
Restaurant
37.9%
32.9%
5.0%
Average
27.8%
20.0%
7.8%
[a] Source of Mixed-Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Handbook (Multi-Use Internalization Methodology). 
[b] Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California. Institute of Urban and Regional Development. 1993
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of office trips are commute trips.
The 85% parking demand rates also include reductions for time of day and monthly factors from ITE Parking Generation (3rd Edition) and ULI Shared Parking (2nd Edition).
Resident parking demand is assumed to remain constant because residential parking supply is reserved for residents whether they use transit or not.
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center mode split. Source: Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development
in California. Caltrans. 2004

--- page 249 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925 398 4840 
 
September 9, 2020 
Whitney Welsh 
Wilson Meany 
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330 
San Francisco, CA 94111 
(transmitted via email) 
 
RE:  
Bay Meadows II – Parking Supply Survey Draft Letter 
 
Dear Ms. Welsh: 
The Bay Meadows development is located in San Mateo, CA adjacent to the San Mateo County 
Event Center. The project is divided into multiple districts: the Station (STA) district, the Mixed-Used 
(MU) district, and the Residential (RES) district. The districts are further subdivided into 18 
development blocks with five (5) Station Blocks, four (4) Mixed-Used Blocks, and nine (9) Residential 
Blocks. Figure 1 illustrates the location of each development block.   
Figure 1 – Bay Meadows Block Numbering

--- page 250 ---
Page 2 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925 398 4840 
 
As part of the Parking Management Plan (PMP), which identifies the parking supply for each 
development block and determines whether it conforms with the Specific Plan requirements, the City 
has asked to verify the number of available on-street parking spaces provided by each development 
block.  
ON-STREET PARKING SUPPLY 
Kimley-Horn conducted an on-street parking space inventory on June 19, 2018 for the available on-
street parking for each block face of the Station, Mixed-Used, and Residential blocks, as well as 
Paddock Park and Bay Meadows Park. Marked angled parked is provided on both sides along S 
Delaware Street from E 28th Avenue to Franklin Parkway. The remaining parking spaces are 
unmarked parallel on-street parking. The quantity of these unmarked parking spaces were 
determined by measuring the length of available on-street parking and assuming 19 feet for each 
parking space in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s Parking Standard Specifications1 
document. Figure 2 displays the available on-street parking for each block face. Table 1 shows the 
total number of on-street parking for each block, verified based on field observations, and in 
comparison to the number of parking spaces stated in the original PMP. It should be noted that STA 2 
was under construction during the time of field observations and angled on-street parking along S 
Delaware Street adjacent to STA 2 were not verified.  Therefore, the number of on-street parking 
spaces shown for this block is from the original PMP. 
The number of parking spaces has been updated in this version of the letter to reflect the removal of  
the residential loading spaces from the parking total.  Because the residential loading spaces are for 
the entire day, they cannot be used for residential parking.  The commercial loading spaces are 
restricted for use in the morning, and therefore will remain as parking spaces. 
Based on field observations, the Bay Meadows II development supplies a total of 477 on-street 
parking spaces. The total parking spaces include commercial loading zone, accessible, time 
restricted, and motorcycle parking spaces. There are 30 fewer parking spaces provided than stated in 
the original PMP, which showed a total of 507 on-street parking spaces. Additionally, this is seven (7) 
fewer parking spaces than the 484 on-street parking spaces counted by the City in March 2017.  
 
 
 
1 City of San Mateo, Parking Standard Specifications, 2018, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/8009/PW_Parking_Standard-Specifications, 
(accessed 25 June 2018).

--- page 251 ---
Page 3 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925 398 4840 
 
Figure 2: On-Street Parking Spaces by Block Face

--- page 252 ---
Page 4 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925 398 4840 
 
Table 1 – On-Street Parking Supply by Block 
 
Block
Number of On‐Street 
Parking Spaces 
Surrounding Blocks
Parking Spaces 
Surrounding Blocks in 
Original PMP
STA 1
0
0
STA 2
19
19
STA 3
16
16
STA 4
21
21
STA 5
15
17
Subtotal
71
73
MU 1
0
0
MU 2
40
39
MU 3
35
33
MU 4
26
29
Subtotal
101
101
RES 1
41
44
RES 2
50
55
RES 3
48
52
RES 4
19
17
RES 5
18
22
RES 6
13
18
RES 7
14
17
RES 8
19
23
RES 9
18
18
Subtotal
240
266
Bay Meadows Park
49
48
Paddock Park
16
19
Subtotal
65
67
Total (All Blocks and Park)
477
507
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Ben Huie, P.E. 
California Professional Engineer #C76682

--- page 253 ---
FINAL   
 
BAY MEADOWS II 
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared For: 
 
WILSON MEANY 
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330 
San Francisco, CA 94111 
 
 
Prepared By: 
 
 
 
 
Original: March 17, 2008 
Updated: December 4, 2012 
Revised Updated: December 19, 2014 
Revised Updated: April 10, 2015 
Revised Updated: November 9, 2015 
Revised Updated: January 7, 2016 
Revised Updated: August 18, 2016 
Revised Updated: November 29, 2017 
Revised Updated: December 12, 2017 
Revised Updated: August 24, 2018 
Revised Updated: March 13, 2019 
Revised Updated: March 27, 2020 
Revised Updated: September 25, 2020 
Revised Updated: February 17, 2021 
Revised Updated: May 25, 2021 
Recently Updated: June 10, 2021 
Latest Revision: June 14, 2021

--- page 254 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page i 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................ i 
1 
Introduction ............................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Organization ..................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Background ...................................................................................................................................... 2 
1.4 
Study Area ........................................................................................................................................ 3 
1.5 
Definitions ........................................................................................................................................ 4 
2 
Proposed Land Uses ............................................................................................................. 7 
3 
Trip Generation Analysis .................................................................................................... 11 
3.1 
Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Requirements Established in Conditions of Approval ............11 
3.1.1 
Pre-Grade Separation Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Goals ........................................11 
3.1.2 
Post-Grade Separation Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Goals ......................................11 
3.1.3 
Short-Term Conditions (Phase I) Threshold (Post-Grade Separation) (Condition 40(B)) ..12 
3.1.4 
Mid-Term Conditions (Phase II) Threshold (Post-Grade Separation) (Condition 40(C)) ...12 
3.1.5 
Long-Term Conditions (Phase III) Threshold (Post-Grade Separation) (Condition 40(D)) 12 
3.2 
Trip Generation Rates .....................................................................................................................13 
3.2.1 
Base Rates ...........................................................................................................................13 
3.2.2 
Trip Estimate Calculations ..................................................................................................14 
3.2.3 
Trip Adjustments .................................................................................................................17 
3.2.3.1 
Internal Capture Adjustment for Mixed-Use .........................................................17 
3.2.3.2 
Adjustment for Transit Use .....................................................................................17 
3.2.3.3 
Adjustment for Level I and Level II TDM Measures ............................................18 
3.2.3.4 
Exclusions for Non-Project Uses ...........................................................................20 
3.3 
Trip Generation Estimates by Phase ...............................................................................................20 
3.3.1 
Pre-Grade Separation Conditions ........................................................................................21 
3.3.2 
Post-Grade Separation Conditions (Phases I through III) ...................................................22 
4 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Strategies ................................................. 24 
4.1 
Process for Implementing and Managing the TDM Program .........................................................24 
4.2 
Membership in the San Mateo TOD Corridor Transportation Management Association (TMA) ..25 
4.2.1 
Potential Services Provided by the TMA ............................................................................25 
4.3 
Proposed TDM Strategies ...............................................................................................................27 
5 
Traffic Monitoring Plan ........................................................................................................ 32 
5.1 
Monitoring Requirements of the San Mateo Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Corridor Plan 
and Conditions of Approval ......................................................................................................................32 
5.2 
Recommended Traffic Monitoring Plan for Bay Meadows II.........................................................33 
5.2.1 
Cordon Counts ....................................................................................................................33 
5.2.2 
Cordon Count Methodology ................................................................................................33 
5.2.3 
Origin-Destination Surveys to Quantify Through Traffic ...................................................34 
5.2.4 
City Playfields .....................................................................................................................34 
5.2.5 
Block Level Monitoring ......................................................................................................34 
5.2.6 
Methodology for Traffic Monitoring Plan ..........................................................................35 
Appendices ................................................................................................................................... 37 
1. 
Pre-Grade Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation ..........................................................................37 
2.  
Short-Term (Phase I) Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation Estimates ........................................37 
3. 
Short-Term (Phase I) Conditions – Internal Capture Worksheets ...................................................37 
4. 
Mid-Term (Phase II) Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation Estimates .........................................37 
5. 
Phase II and III Conditions – Internal Capture Worksheets ............................................................37 
6. 
Long-Term (Phase III) Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation Estimate .......................................37 
7.  
Condition of Approval #40 and #41 ................................................................................................37

--- page 255 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page ii 
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks at Full Build-out ......................................................................... 8 
Table 2: Unadjusted Base Trip Rates for Bay Meadows Land Uses .............................................................14 
Table 3: Trip Estimates – Pre-Grade Separation Conditions .........................................................................15 
Table 4: Trip Estimates – Post-Grade Separation Conditions .......................................................................16 
Table 5: Trip Reduction for Internal Capture for Mixed-Use ........................................................................17 
Table 6: Trip Reductions for Transit Use ......................................................................................................18 
Table 7: Trip Reductions for Level I and Level II TDM Measures ...............................................................19 
Table 8: Trip Generation Estimates – Post-Grade Separation Condition (Phase III) ....................................23 
Table 9: TDM Program Responsibilities .......................................................................................................24 
Table 10: TDM Strategy Levels and Estimated Effectiveness ......................................................................29 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
 
Figure 1: Bay Meadows II – Study Area and Block Numbering System ....................................................... 6 
Figure 2: Levels of TDM Measures...............................................................................................................28 
Figure 3: Traffic Monitoring Plan Flowchart ................................................................................................36

--- page 256 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page i 
Executive Summary 
UPDATED June 14, 2021 
The majority of the content of the original Traffic Management Plan dated March 17, 
2008, is retained in this update dated June 14, 2021. This update is primarily being 
completed to update the land use information for MU2, MU3 and RES 6 to the current 
development plan for the Bay Meadows II development. These updates specifically 
include changes to the square footage and dwelling unit development details currently 
planned on a block-by-block basis, the associated trip count budget, and a reporting of 
the updated trip generation for the Bay Meadows II development. 
 
PURPOSE 
This report documents a Traffic Management Plan for the Bay Meadows II project as 
required under the project’s Conditions of Approval. The purpose of this Plan is to: 
1. 
Estimate the trip generation for the Bay Meadows II project for each phase of 
development at the time of development of that phase and at full build-out. 
2. 
Establish a trip budget for each individual Block, based on the applicable pre-
grade separation, short-term, mid-term and long-term trip reduction goals for the 
project, as established by the Conditions of Approval. 
3. 
Demonstrate how the trip generation of the project for each phase of development 
and at full build-out is expected to stay within the applicable trip caps and meet 
applicable trip reduction goals established in the Conditions of Approval. 
4. 
Identify a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Strategy that will be 
implemented with the project as required by the Conditions of Approval. 
5. 
Describe a traffic monitoring plan, as required in the Conditions of Approval that 
will allow the City to monitor and verify whether the project is meeting its trip 
reduction goals and evaluate the effectiveness of any TDM measures that are 
implemented. 
 
BACKGROUND  
 
In 2005, the City of San Mateo adopted the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan (Corridor Plan).  The Corridor Plan includes a framework for creation 
of Transit Oriented Development (TOD), implementation of a Transportation Demand 
Management program with a goal of achieving an overall reduction in new vehicle trips 
of at least 25 percent corridor-wide, establishment of trip generation thresholds, 
establishment of parking standards, and monitoring of trip generation.

--- page 257 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page ii 
The Corridor Plan called for the amendment of the Bay Meadows Specific Plan1 to 
achieve the TOD and other policies of the Corridor Plan.  The City implemented these 
policies through its approval in 2005 of the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment and 
associated Conditions of Approval and the Bay Meadows Development Agreement.  The 
Specific Plan Amendment, Conditions of Approval and Development Agreement set 
forth all of the relevant land use, TDM, trip reduction, parking and monitoring standards 
and conditions applicable to Bay Meadows. 
The Corridor Plan and Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment were designed to take 
advantage of the potential for the expanded CalTrain commuter line linking San 
Francisco to San Jose and Gilroy.  However, recognizing that the Peninsula Corridor 
Joint Powers Board ("JPB") improvements to the Hillsdale Station and the expanded 
CalTrain service were independent of the Corridor Plan and Specific Plan, the Conditions 
of Approval set different "trip budgets" depending upon the status of the adjacent rail 
improvements.  In other words, the Bay Meadows Specific Plan amendment anticipated 
the potential for future rail improvements but was not dependent upon it.   
As part of the Final EIR for the Specific Plan Amendment, the City prepared a phasing 
analysis that determined the level of development that could be sustained, without impact 
at various stages of future rail improvements and levels of completion of the 
development.  Prior to the commencement of the proposed grade separations at 28th and 
31st Avenues, the Final EIR analysis yielded a “Pre-Grade Separation” "trip budget" of 
1,562 total trips (assuming a credit for the existing racing uses), before any grade 
separation was required to mitigate traffic.   
According to the Condition of Approval no. 40, the area-wide trip cap would be increased 
once construction of grade separations at either or both of 28th and 31st Avenues had 
commenced.  The project approvals recognized that the precise mix of development 
would be left open until the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) process. 
More specifically, the findings of the City's environmental analysis were incorporated 
into Conditions of Approval Nos. 40 through 44 for the project.  These conditions 
implement the Transportation Demand Management policies and goals of the Corridor 
Plan by providing the specific parameters for the Bay Meadows Phase II site.  Condition 
40 establishes overall project trip budgets for each of four phases (one pre-grade 
separation phase and three post-grade separation phases) determined by the 
commencement and completion of a grade separation at 28th and/or 31st Avenues, and 
completion of a particular amount of development of the Bay Meadows site.  The same 
condition also establishes trip reduction goals for the project, again dependent upon the 
amount of overall development completed and the status of the grade separation at 28th 
and /or 31st Avenues.  Condition 41 describes the monitoring methods to be used by the 
City to keep track of the individual trip budgets for each Block.  Conditions 42 and 43 
describe how Bay Meadows project will participate in a transportation management 
 
1 Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, Bay Meadows Land Company, November 7, 2005

--- page 258 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page iii 
association (TMA) and implement a TDM plan.  Condition 43 also specifies the method 
for monitoring and enforcing the TDM goals for the project.   
The grade separations at 28th and 31st Avenues commenced in October 2017.  
Accordingly, the Post-Grade Conditions are now applicable to the site.  As of September 
2020, the Project is in the Mid-Term (Phase II) Condition, which provides for a trip 
threshold of 2,878 trips pursuant to Condition of Approval 40(B).   
 
PROPOSED LAND USES 
 
The Bay Meadows II project is subdivided into two primary districts, the Station/Mixed-
Use district, and the Residential district. These districts are further subdivided into 18 
development Blocks.  Since the project is in the post-grade separation phase as of the date 
of this Report, the post-grade separation or full buildout phase applies.  At full build-out 
after grade separation, the proposed development program, as of September 9, 2020, and 
inclusive of the pending SPAR applications on MU2 and MU3, includes a total of 
1,217,826 square feet of office, 41,598 square feet of retail, 10,569 square feet of 
restaurant/drinking place, 1,048 residential dwelling units, and a 450-student high school. 
Table 1 of this Plan sets forth the summary of land uses in detail. 
 
CONCLUSION 
The projected trips to be generated by the project will comply with the applicable trip 
caps and trip reduction goals for the project for each of the Post-Grade Separation 
conditions.   
 
In addition to this analysis, the Report details Transportation Demand Management 
strategies and a Traffic Monitoring Plan, as required by the project’s Conditions of 
Approval.

--- page 259 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 1 
1 Introduction 
UPDATED June 14, 2021 
The majority of the content of the original Traffic Management Plan dated March 17, 
2008, is retained in this update dated June 14, 2021. This update is primarily being 
completed to update the land use information for MU 2, MU 3, and RES 6 to the current 
development plan for the Bay Meadows II development. These updates specifically 
include changes to the square footage and dwelling unit development details currently 
planned on a block-by-block basis, the associated trip count budget, and a reporting of 
the updated trip generation for the Bay Meadows II development. 
1.1 Purpose of Study 
This report documents a Traffic Management Plan (the "Plan") for the Bay Meadows II 
project as required under Conditions 40 through 43 of the project's Conditions of 
Approval.  The purpose of the Plan is to: 
1. 
Estimate the trip generation for the Bay Meadows II project for each phase of 
development at the time of development of that phase and at full build-out. 
2. 
Establish a trip budget for each individual Block, based on the applicable pre-
grade separation, short-term, mid-term and long-term trip reduction goals for the 
project, as established by the Conditions of Approval. 
3. 
Demonstrate how the trip generation of the project for each phase of development 
and at full build-out is expected to stay within the applicable trip caps and meet 
applicable trip reduction goals established in the Conditions of Approval. 
4. 
Identify a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Strategy that will be 
implemented with the project as required by the Conditions of Approval. 
5. 
Describe a traffic monitoring plan, as required in the Conditions of Approval that 
will allow the City to monitor and verify whether the project is meeting its trip 
reduction goals and evaluate the effectiveness of any TDM measures that are 
implemented. 
1.2 Organization 
Section 1 of this Plan describes the study area of the Plan.  It also provides an overview 
of the City's applicable transportation policies set forth in the San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Plan and the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment, as implemented through the Bay 
Meadows Development Agreement and Specific Plan Amendment Conditions of 
Approval.    
 
Section 2 describes the proposed land uses on a block by block basis, including square 
feet of commercial uses and number of dwelling units.

--- page 260 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 2 
 
Section 3 sets forth the trip generation analysis.  It describes in detail the trip reduction 
requirements, sets forth the base trip rates and trip reduction assumptions for transit and 
mixed-use internal capture, establishes the trip budgets project-wide and per block, and 
estimates the trip generation for each phase of project development. 
 
Section 4 describes the Transportation Demand Management strategies that may be 
considered for achieving the trip reduction goals. 
 
Section 5 sets forth the Traffic Monitoring Plan required to monitor trip generation and 
determine compliance with trip reduction goals at a given point in time. 
 
Section 6 describes the trip and TMA Fee allocation for each block.  
1.3 Background 
In 2005, the City of San Mateo adopted the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan (Corridor Plan).  The stated goal of the Corridor Plan was to allow, 
encourage and provide guidance for the creation of world class transit-oriented 
development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain 
station areas, while maintaining and improving the quality of life for those who already 
live and work in the area.  The Corridor Plan includes a framework for creation of TOD, 
implementation of a Transportation Demand Management program with a goal of 
achieving an overall reduction in new vehicle trips of at least 25 percent corridor-wide, 
establishment of trip generation thresholds, establishment of parking standards, and 
monitoring of trip generation (Corridor Plan Policy 7.17). 
In June 2005, the City Council certified the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan & Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan Amendment Final Environmental Impact Report (the "FEIR"), 
approved the Corridor Plan, and adopted associated revisions to the City's General Plan 
consistent with the policies of the Corridor Plan. 
As part of the Corridor Plan implementation for Bay Meadows, the Corridor Plan called 
for the amendment of the Bay Meadows Specific Plan to achieve the TOD and other 
policies of the Corridor Plan.  The City implemented these policies through its approval 
of the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment (the "Specific Plan Amendment") and 
Conditions of Approval adopted on November 7, 2005, and the Bay Meadows 
Development Agreement between the City of San Mateo and Bay Meadows Land 
Company, dated as of November 21, 2005 (the "Development Agreement").  The City 
found these actions were consistent with the Corridor Plan and the City's General Plan.   
The Specific Plan Amendment, Conditions of Approval and Development Agreement set 
forth all of the relevant land use, TDM, trip reduction, parking and monitoring standards 
and conditions applicable to Bay Meadows.  Implementation of the applicable Corridor 
Plan and Specific Plan Amendment parking policies are set forth in the Bay Meadows II 
Parking Management Plan, submitted by the applicant to the City concurrently with this 
Plan.

--- page 261 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 3 
The Corridor Plan and Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment were designed to take 
advantage of the potential for the expanded CalTrain commuter line linking San 
Francisco to San Jose and Gilroy.  However, recognizing that the Peninsula Corridor 
Joint Powers Board ("JPB") improvements to the Hillsdale Station and the expanded 
CalTrain service were independent of the Corridor Plan and Specific Plan, the Conditions 
of Approval set different "trip budgets" depending upon the status of the adjacent rail 
improvements.  In other words, the Bay Meadows Specific Plan amendment anticipated 
the potential for future rail improvements but was not dependent upon it.   
As part of the Final EIR for the Specific Plan Amendment, the City prepared a phasing 
analysis that determined the level of a development that could be sustained, without 
impact at various stages of future rail improvements and levels of completion of the 
development.  Prior to the commencement of the proposed grade separations at 28th and 
31st Avenues, the Final EIR analysis yielded a “Pre-Grade Separation” "trip budget" of 
1,562 total trips (assuming a credit for the existing racing uses), before any grade 
separation was required to mitigate traffic.   
According to the Condition of Approval no. 40, the area-wide trip cap would be increased 
once construction of grade separations at either or both of 28th and 31st Avenues had 
commenced.  The project approvals recognized that the precise mix of development 
would be left open until the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) process. 
The findings of the City's environmental analysis were incorporated into Conditions of 
Approval Nos. 40 through 44 for the project.  These conditions implement the 
Transportation Demand Management policies and goals of the Corridor Plan by 
providing the specific parameters for the Bay Meadows Phase II site.  Condition 40 
establishes overall project trip budget for each of four phases determined by the 
commencement and completion of a grade separation at 28th and/or 31st Avenues, and 
completion of a particular portion of development of the Bay Meadows site.  The same 
condition also establishes trip reduction goals for the project, again dependent upon the 
amount of overall development completed.  Condition 41 describes the monitoring 
methods to be used by the City to keep track of the individual trip budgets for each 
Block.  Conditions 42 and 43 describe how Bay Meadows project will participate in a 
transportation management association (TMA) and implement a transportation demand 
management (TDM) plan.  Condition 43 also specifies the method for monitoring and 
enforcing the TDM goals for the project.   
1.4 Study Area  
The project site is bounded by the San Mateo County Exposition Center to the north, 
CalTrain rail tracks to the west, the Franklin Campus / Saratoga Drive to the east, and 
existing residential land uses to the south.  Regional access to the project site is provided 
by US-101 and SR-92, accessed via the Hillsdale Boulevard and Delaware Street 
interchanges. Regional transit access is provided by SamTrans bus routes and CalTrain.  
The CalTrain Hillsdale station is located at the southwest corner of the project site.

--- page 262 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 4 
Major transportation improvements associated with the development of the project site 
includes; the extension of Delaware Street through the project site to Pacific Boulevard, 
the extension of Franklin Boulevard as 31st Avenue from its current terminus to the JPB 
right-of-way, the construction of 28th Avenue from Saratoga Avenue to the JPB right-of-
way, and the construction of a grid of internal local streets. 31st and/or 28th Avenues will 
be connected to El Camino Real when the CalTrain tracks are raised and grade-
separations are implemented as planned by the JPB. Construction of these underpasses 
commenced in October 2017. For purposes of this Plan, conditions prior to starting 
construction of one or both of the 28th or 31st Avenue grade-separations is considered the 
“Pre-Grade Separation” stage, and after construction commences, the project will fall 
under the “Post-Grade Separation” stage.   
1.5 Definitions 
 
Vehicle Trip Generation – a vehicle “trip” is defined as “a single or one direction 
vehicle movement with either the origin or destination inside a study area”. Trip 
generation, as it refers to new development is the number of trips that the development 
produces and attracts during a given time period. 
 
Trip Generation Rates – is the ratio of automobile trips to an independent variable of 
land use in a given period of time. For example, a residential land use may have a trip 
generation rate of 0.55 trips per dwelling unit in the PM peak hour. Rates are applied to 
the total land use program to estimate trips. The primary source of trip generation rates is 
the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Trip Generation Manual. 
 
Mode Share – is the method of travel selected by a person. The common modes of travel 
include walking, bicycling, using transit, carpooling, and driving alone. Mode share of 
new development is often measured as the number of person trips by each mode of travel 
as a percentage of the total person trips produced or attracted by the development. 
 
Mixed-Use and Internal Capture (Internalization) – Mixed-use development, as 
published by the Urban Land Institute is defined as “three or more significant revenue-
producing uses, with significant functional and physical integration of the project 
components, and development in conformance with a coherent plan.” Mixed-use can be a 
single building, or a site with multiple buildings such as Bay Meadows. ITE defines 
mixed-use development as “a single real-estate project that consists of two or more ITE 
land use classifications between which trips can be made without using the off-site road 
system.” The definition of internal capture is encapsulated in this definition.   
 
Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) – According to the Statewide Transit-Oriented 
Development Study: Factors for Success in California2 TOD is transportation-related 
land use strategy, in coordination with bus, rail and/or ferry systems to provide 
 
2 California Department of Transportation, California Business, Transportation and Housing Agency, Final 
Report, September 2002.

--- page 263 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 5 
communities with an alternative to the predominant pattern of low-density sprawl and 
automobile dependency. The study’s advisory committee defined TOD as “a moderate to 
higher-density development, located within an easy walk of a major transit stop, with a 
mix of residential, employment and shopping opportunities designed for pedestrians 
without excluding the auto.”

--- page 264 ---
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
0
1
2
3
4
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
RES 9
STA
5
STA
4
RES 7
RES 8
RES 5
PARK
RES 4
RES 6
MU 3
STA
3
STA
2
MU 2
RES 1
RES 2
RES 3
MU 1
STA 1
MU 4
FIGURE 1: BAY MEADOWS II BLOCK NUMBERING

--- page 265 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 7 
2 Proposed Land Uses 
The Bay Meadows II project is subdivided into two primary districts, the Station/Mixed-
Use district, and the Residential district. These districts are further subdivided into 18 
development Blocks.  There are five (5) Station Blocks, four (4) Mixed-Use Blocks, and 
nine (9) Residential Blocks. Since the project is currently in the post-grade separation 
phase as of the date of this report (grade separate commenced in November 2017), the 
post-grade separation or full buildout phase applies.  At full build-out after grade 
separation, the proposed development program (accounting for approval of the pending 
applications for SPAR approval on MU 2 and MU 3) includes a total of 1,217,826 square 
feet of office, 41,598 square feet of retail, 10,569 square feet of restaurant/drinking place, 
1,048 residential dwelling units, and a 450-student high school.  Consistent with Condition 
of Approval No. 40, trips attributable to this structure are not included in this Plan.  The 
Bay Meadows project site and the block numbering system are shown in Figure 1. Table 
1 of this Plan sets forth the summary of land uses in detail.

--- page 266 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 8 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks at Full Build-out 
 
Block 
Land Use 
Quantity 
Units 
STATION BLOCKS 
Station Block 1 (STA 1) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
184,205 
0 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
184,205 
Square Feet 
Station Block 2 (STA 2) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
177,951 
6,099 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
184,050 
Square Feet 
Station Block 3 (STA 3) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
163,089 
6,561 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
169,650 
Square Feet 
Station Block 4 (STA 4) 
Office 
Retail 
Drinking Place
201,249 
3,477 
2,097
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
206,823 
Square Feet 
Station Block 5 (STA 5) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
183,283 
2,378 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
185,661 
Square Feet 
Total Station Blocks 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant 
Drinking Place 
909,777
18,515
0
2,097 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Total 
930,389 
Square Feet

--- page 267 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 9 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks at Full Build-out (Cont.) 
 
Block 
Land Use 
Quantity 
Units 
MIXED-USE BLOCKS 
Mixed-Use Block 1  
(MU 1)
High School 
Residential
450 
68
Students 
Dwelling Units
Mixed-Use Block 2A 
(MU 2A) 
Residential 
0 
Dwelling Units 
Subtotal 
0 
Dwelling Units 
Mixed-Use Block 2B 
(MU 2B) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
182,836 
8,518 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
191,354 
Square Feet 
Mixed-Use Block 3A 
(MU 3A) 
Residential 
67 
Dwelling Units 
Subtotal 
67 
Dwelling Units 
Mixed-Use Block 3B 
(MU 3B) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant
120,142 
5,618 
0
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet
Subtotal 
125,760 
Square Feet 
Mixed-Use Block 4 
(MU 4) 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant 
Residential
5,071 
8,947 
5,000 
70
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Dwelling Units
Subtotal 
19,018 
70
Square Feet 
Dwelling Units
Total Mixed-Use 
Blocks 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant 
Residential 
High School 
308,049
23,083
5,000
205
450 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Dwelling Units 
Students

--- page 268 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 10 
Table 1: Summary of Land Use by Blocks at Full Build-out (Cont.) 
 
Block 
Land Use 
Quantity 
Units 
RESIDENTIAL BLOCKS 
Residential Block 1 
(RES 1)
Residential 
108 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 2 
(RES 2)
Residential 
80 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 3 
(RES 3)
Residential 
156 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 4 
(RES 4)
Residential 
82 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 5 
(RES 5)
Residential 
76 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 6 
(RES 6)
Residential 
54 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 7 
(RES 7) 
Residential 
158 
Dwelling Units 
Restaurant 
3,472 
 Square Feet 
Residential Block 8 
(RES 8)
Residential 
74 
Dwelling Units 
Residential Block 9 
(RES 9)
Residential 
55 
Dwelling Units 
Total Residential 
Blocks 
Residential  
Restaurant 
843
3,472 
Dwelling Units 
Square Feet 
Total All Blocks 
Office 
Retail 
Restaurant 
Drinking Place 
Residential 
High School 
1,217,826
41,598
8,472
2,097
1,048
450 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Square Feet 
Dwelling Units 
Students

--- page 269 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 11 
3 Trip Generation Analysis 
This section describes in detail, the trip reduction requirements, base trip rates, trip 
estimates for the project overall and individual blocks, trip reduction assumptions for 
transit and mixed-use internal capture, and the trip generation estimates for each phase of 
the project development.   
3.1 Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Requirements Established 
in Conditions of Approval 
As described earlier, Conditions 40 and 41 establish trip reduction goals for the project. 
These conditions provide that the “project will be in compliance with the trip reduction 
requirements of [the] conditions of approval” even if an individual Block generates trips in 
excess of its TDM reduction goals so long as the project as a whole is below the 
applicable trip cap and is meeting the applicable trip reduction goals. Despite the fact that 
project compliance is ultimately determined by project-wide trip generation budgets, 
Condition 41 requires that a trip budget must be established for the entire project as well 
as for each Block, in order to measure the project's success in meeting the applicable trip 
reduction goals.  For the Post-Grade Separation phases, these goals are set at a 10% (short-
term), 16% (mid-term) and 25% (long-term) reduction.  Trip reduction is measured 
against standard ITE rates applicable to the actual commercial/retail square footage of 
development or dwelling unit size (the methodology used in the FEIR) without regard to 
TOD or mixed-use internalization, as more particularly described in Condition 40 and 
summarized the following sections.   
For purposes of conforming to the conditions, the project development is divided into four 
stages: one stage reflecting pre-grade separation conditions and three stages post-grade 
separation reflecting short-term (Phase I), mid-term (Phase II), and long-term (Phase III) 
conditions. Grade separation commenced in November 2017.  As of the date of this 
Report, the project is in the Phase II post-grade separation stage of development.  The trip 
reduction goal varies at different stages of development and is determined based on 
completion of the 28th and/or 31st Avenue grade-separations and the overall amount of 
development completed. Each stage and its trip reduction goal are described below. 
3.1.1 Pre-Grade Separation Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Goals 
Condition 40(A) restricts the amount of p.m. peak hour traffic the project may generate 
prior to the commencement of construction of the 28th and/or the 31st Avenue grade-
separations to 1,562 trips.   
3.1.2 Post-Grade Separation Trip Estimates and Trip Reduction Goals 
Once construction at either or both the 28th and 31st Avenue grade-separations has 
commenced and a minimum of site development has been completed and occupied, the 
Conditions of Approval establish increased trip reduction goals. The trip reduction goals 
are measured in two ways, 1) in the SPAR approval process the project is required to 
estimate the maximum number of trips allowed under the trip reduction goal in each stage 
(i.e., trip budget), and 2) after completion and occupancy, the actual number of trips 
generated are monitored and compared to the maximum number of trips allowed. This

--- page 270 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 12 
Plan represents the estimates described in (1) above and provides a monitoring plan for 
(2). 
 
3.1.3 Short-Term Conditions (Phase I) Threshold (Post-Grade 
Separation) (Condition 40(B)) 
 
When applicable: 
Until the later to occur of the following conditions a) completion 
and occupancy of at least 50% of the collective amount of 
development approved for the first three blocks to be developed in 
Phase I, and b) completion of grade separated crossings at either or 
both of 28th and 31st Avenues.  
 
Overall trip cap: 
Not to exceed 3,083 PM peak hour trips 
 
 
Trip reduction goal: 10% off the total p.m. peak hour trip generation calculated using the 
trip generation methodology established in the FEIR (the FEIR 
methodology excludes reductions for mixed-use internalization, 
transit-oriented development, and TDM measures). 
  
3.1.4 Mid-Term Conditions (Phase II) Threshold (Post-Grade 
Separation) (Condition 40(C)) 
 
When applicable: 
From and after the following conditions a) completion and 
occupancy of at least 50% of the collective amount of development 
approved for the first three blocks of Phase II to be developed, and 
b) completion of grade separated crossings at either or both of 28th 
and 31st Avenues. Of note, the project is currently in Phase II since 
grade separation at 28th Avenue was completed in March 2021.   
 
Overall trip cap: 
Not to exceed 2,878 PM peak hour trips 
 
 
Trip reduction goal: 16% off the total p.m. peak hour trip generation (including the 
blocks approved in Phase I) calculated using the trip generation 
methodology established in the FEIR (the FEIR methodology 
excludes reductions for mixed-use internalization, transit-oriented 
development, and TDM measures). 
 
3.1.5 Long-Term Conditions (Phase III) Threshold (Post-Grade 
Separation) (Condition 40(D))

--- page 271 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 13 
When applicable: 
From and after the later to occur of a) approval of a SPAR for each 
block in the project, b) completion and occupancy of 75% of the 
collective amount of development approved in the Station/Mixed-
Use Parcels, c) completion and occupancy of 75% of the collective 
amount of development approved in the Residential Parcels, and d) 
completion of grade separated crossings at either or both of 28th and 
31st Avenues. 
 
Overall trip cap: 
Not to exceed 2,569 PM peak hour trips 
 
 
Trip reduction goal: 25% off the total p.m. peak hour trip generation (including the 
blocks approved in Phases I and II) calculated using the trip 
generation methodology established in the FEIR, excluding 
reductions for mixed-use internalization or transit-oriented 
development or TDM measures. 
 
As noted above, the Conditions of Approval provide that even if an individual Block 
generates trips in excess of its trip budget, the overall project will be in compliance so 
long as the project as a whole is below the applicable trip budget and the overall 
development is meeting the applicable trip reduction goals. 
 
3.2 Trip Generation Rates 
3.2.1 Base Rates 
In accordance with the Conditions of Approval, trip generation estimates for all conditions 
were initially estimated using standard rates published in the Institute of Transportation 
Engineers (ITE) 7th Edition of Trip Generation, 2003. This is the source of rates used to 
develop the initial trip generation estimates in the Final Environmental Impact Report 
(FEIR) for the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan. The unadjusted base trip rates are 
summarized in Table 2.

--- page 272 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 14 
Table 2: Unadjusted Base Trip Rates for Bay Meadows Land Uses 
 
Land Use 
AM Peak Hour 
(Trips/Unit) 
PM Peak Hour 
(Trips/Unit) 
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
Residential – Flats/Townhomes(units)
0.08
0.43
0.51
0.42
0.20
0.62
Residential – Cluster Detached (units)
0.39
0.19
0.58
0.72
0.42
1.14
Residential – Apartments (units) [1]
0.08
0.43
0.51
0.40
0.22
0.62
Retail (KSF)
0.63
0.40
1.03
1.80
1.94
3.74
Restaurant (KSF) [2]
3.76
3.48
7.24
5.82
3.73
9.55
Drinking Place [3]
0.00
0.00
0.00
7.48
3.86
11.34
Office (KSF)
1.37
0.19
1.56
0.25
1.24
1.49
[1] Trip generation rates based on the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation 
Manual, 9th Edition, 2012 applicable to MU1. 
[2] 60% of the restaurants usage for the project was assumed to be “high-turnover (sit-down)” 
restaurants and the remaining 40% was assumed to be “quality” restaurants as defined by ITE.  The base 
trip rate for restaurants was calculated using the weighted average of these two restaurant types. 
[3] Bay Meadows Trip Generation Memo for Station Block 4B Beer Garden, Kimley-Horn and 
Associates, Inc., August 2016 
Note: According to the ITE Trip Generation manual, overall gross floor area for restaurants does not 
include outdoor seating areas. While the rates account for the traffic generated by outdoor seating, the 
calculation of trips does not include its floor area.   
KSF = 1,000’s of square feet.
 
 
3.2.2 Trip Estimate Calculations 
Condition 41 requires that a trip budget must be established for the entire project as well 
as for each Block, in order to measure the project's success in meeting the applicable trip 
reduction goals.  The trip budgets established in this Plan will ultimately be reflected in 
CC&R's imposed against individual parcels.  On-going monitoring pursuant to the 
monitoring plan described in Section 4 below will allow the City to review whether the 
project as a whole is meeting its trip reduction goals.  If the project is not meeting the trip 
reduction goals, then the monitoring can be adjusted to identify individual Blocks that are 
contributing excess trips.  The Transportation Demand Management strategy set forth in 
Section 5 requires the use of additional levels of TDM measures until further monitoring 
shows that the project is meeting the applicable trip reduction goals overall as reflected in 
the trip budget.  The trip budgets for each Block were calculated based upon the estimated 
trip reductions achievable on the Block, whether due to TDM, proximity to transit, mixed 
use interaction, or site design.  It is expected that based upon the results of project 
monitoring, the trip Budgets for an individual Block might be modified by the project 
developer to reflect the actual trip reduction results.  The CC&Rs will contain a 
mechanism for such an amendment.   
 
The trip budget for each Block was calculated for pre-grade separation conditions and 
post-grade separation conditions based on these trip estimates.  Table 3 and Table 4 show 
the trip estimates for the entire project as well as for each Block under the pre-grade 
separation and post-grade separation conditions.  
 
Note: Since the p.m. peak hour is the higher peak hour, the tables show trip estimate 
calculations for the p.m. peak hour only.

--- page 273 ---
Block / Land 
Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal 
and Transit 
% 
Reduction
Level I 
and Level 
II % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Block / 
Land Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal and 
Transit % 
Reduction
Level I 
and Level 
II % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Block / 
Land Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal 
and 
Transit % 
Reduction
Level I % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Total
Total
STA - 1
MU-1
Res-1
RES 1
Townhomes
108
          
DUs
0.62
67
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Residential
67
29.55%
2.80%
45
RES 2
Townhomes
80
            
DUs
0.62
50
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Subtotal
67
45
RES 3
Townhomes
156
          
DUs
0.62
97
Office
274
19.90%
10.60%
190
High School
95
0.00%
0.00%
95
Total % Reduction 32.84%
RES 4
Flats
82
            
DUs
0.62
50
Subtotal
274
190
Residential
42
29.55%
8.10%
26
RES 5
Townhomes
76
            
DUs
0.62
47
Total % Reduction 30.66%
Subtotal
137
121
Res-2
RES 6
Flats
54
            
DUs
0.62
34
Total % Reduction 11.68%
Residential
50
29.55%
2.80%
34
RES 7
Flats
158
          
DUs
0.62
98
STA - 2
Subtotal
50
34
RES 7
Restaurant
3.472
KSF
9.55
33
Retail
11
37.60%
5.90%
5
MU-2A
Total % Reduction 32.00%
Total RES 7
131
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
RES 8
Townhomes
74
            
DUs
0.62
46
Office
265
19.90%
10.60%
183
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Res-3
RES 9
Detached
55
            
DUs
1.15
63
Subtotal
276
188
Office
0
19.90%
10.60%
0
Residential
97
29.55%
2.80%
66
Restaurant
3.472
KSF
33
Total % Reduction 31.88%
Residential
0
29.55%
4.10%
0
Subtotal
97
66
Residential
843
DUs
552
Subtotal
0
0
Total % Reduction 31.96%
STA 1
Office
184.205
KSF
1.49
274
STA - 3
Total % Reduction #DIV/0!
STA 1
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
Retail
12
37.60%
5.90%
6
Res-4
STA 1
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
MU-2B
Residential
50
29.55%
2.80%
34
Total STA 1
274
Office
243
19.90%
10.60%
168
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Subtotal
50
34
STA 2
Office
177.951
KSF
1.49
265
Subtotal
255
174
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 32.00%
STA 2
Retail
3.049
KSF
3.74
11
Total % Reduction 31.76%
Office
0
19.90%
10.60%
0
STA 2
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Residential
0
29.55%
4.10%
0
Res-5
Total STA 2
276
STA - 4
Subtotal
0
0
Residential
47
29.55%
2.80%
32
STA 3
Office
163.089
KSF
1.49
243
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction #DIV/0!
Subtotal
47
32
STA 3
Retail
3.280
KSF
3.74
12
Drinking Place
24
29.80%
5.90%
15
Total % Reduction 31.91%
STA 3
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Office
300
19.90%
10.60%
208
MU-3A
Total STA 3
255
Subtotal
324
223
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Res-6
STA 4
Office
201.249
KSF
1.49
300
Total % Reduction 31.17%
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Residential
34
29.55%
2.80%
23
STA 4
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
Office
0
19.90%
10.60%
0
Subtotal
34
23
STA 4
Drinking Place
2.097
KSF
11.34
24
STA - 5
Residential
41
29.55%
4.10%
27
Total % Reduction 32.35%
Total STA 4
324
Retail
9
37.60%
5.90%
4
Subtotal
41
27
STA 5
Office
183.283
KSF
1.49
273
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 34.15%
Res-7
STA 5
Retail
2.378
KSF
3.74
9
Office
273
19.90%
10.60%
191
Residential
98
29.55%
2.80%
66
STA 5
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Subtotal
282
195
MU-3B
Restaurant
33
29.80%
4.10%
23
Total STA 5
282
Total % Reduction 30.85%
Retail
0
37.60%
5.90%
0
Subtotal
131
89
Office
909.777
KSF
1,355
Restaurant
0
29.80%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 32.06%
Retail
8.707
KSF
32
Office
0
19.90%
10.60%
0
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Residential
0
29.55%
4.10%
0
Res-8
Drinking Place
2.097
KSF
24
Subtotal
0
0
Residential
46
29.55%
2.80%
31
MU 1 (High School)
High School
450
Students
Custom
95
Total % Reduction #DIV/0!
Subtotal
46
31
MU 1 (Residential)
Residential
68
DUs
0.62
42
Total % Reduction 32.61%
Total MU1
137
MU-4
MU 2A (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
Retail
12
37.60%
5.90%
6
Res-9
MU 2A (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
Restaurant
48
29.80%
5.90%
31
Residential
63
29.55%
2.80%
43
MU 2A (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Office
0
19.90%
10.60%
0
Subtotal
63
43
MU 2A (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Residential
43
29.55%
4.10%
29
Total % Reduction 31.75%
Total MU2A
0
Subtotal
103
66
MU 2B (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
Notes:
Total % Reduction 35.92%
MU 2B (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
[1] This column represents the reductions in trip generations expected from implementation of Level I and II Transportation Demand Management measures as described in Section 4.
MU 2B (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Source of trip generation rates: Bay Meadows II Phasing Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, and Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, 7th Edition
MU 2B (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Total MU2B
0
MU 3A (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
MU 3A (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
MU 3A (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
     Residential
456
678
222
MU 3A (Residential)
Residential
67
DUs
0.62
41
     Retail
21
44
23
Total MU3A
41
     Restaurant
54
81
27
MU 3B (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
     Drinking Place
15
24
9
MU 3B (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
     Office
940
1,355
415
MU 3B (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
HS
95
95
0
MU 3B (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Total MU3B
0
MU 4 (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
MU 4 (Retail)
Retail
3.205
KSF
3.74
12
MU 4 (Restaurant)
Restaurant
5.000
KSF
9.55
48
MU 4 (Residential)
Residential
70
DUs
0.62
43
Total MU4
103
Office
0.000
KSF
0
Retail
3.205
KSF
12
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
Restaurant
5.000
KSF
48
Residential
205
DUs
126
High School
450
Students
95
Prepared: March 17, 2008
Total All Blocks
2,277
Updated: May 25, 2021
Total Mixed-Use 
Blocks
Unadjusted 
Trips
Net 
Trips
% 
Reduction
2,277
1,581
30.6%
Total Residential 
Blocks
Total Station Blocks
Total All Blocks
Trip 
Generation 
Rate
Unadjuste
d Trips
Table 3   Trip Estimates - Pre-Grade Separation Conditions
Unadjusted PM peak Hour Trip Generation by Block 
PM Peak Hour Trip Generation Budgets by Block 
Block
Land Use
Size 
Units
PM Peak Hour

--- page 274 ---
Block / Land 
Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal and 
Transit % 
Reduction
Level I 
and Level 
II % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Block / 
Land Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal and 
Transit % 
Reduction
Level I 
and Level 
II % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Block / 
Land Use
Unadj. 
Trips
Internal 
and 
Transit % 
Reduction
Level I 
and Level 
II % 
Reduction 
[1]
Net 
Trips
Total
Total
STA - 1
MU-1
Res-1
RES 1
Townhomes
108
           
DUs
0.62
67
Retail
0
30.40%
5.90%
0
Retail
0
30.40%
5.90%
0
Residential
67
32.85%
4.10%
42
RES 2
Townhomes
80
             
DUs
0.62
50
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Subtotal
67
42
RES 3
Townhomes
156
           
DUs
0.62
97
Office
274
15.20%
10.60%
203
High School
95
0.00%
0.00%
95
Total % Reduction 37.31%
RES 4
Flats
82
             
DUs
0.62
50
Subtotal
274
203
Residential
42
32.85%
8.10%
25
RES 5
Townhomes
76
             
DUs
0.62
47
Total % Reduction 25.91%
Subtotal
137
120
Res-2
RES 6
Flats
54
             
DUs
0.62
34
Total % Reduction 12.41%
Residential
50
32.85%
4.10%
32
RES 7
Flats
158
           
DUs
0.62
98
STA - 2
Subtotal
50
32
RES 7
Restaurant
3.472
KSF
9.55
33
Retail
23
30.40%
5.90%
15
MU-2A
Total % Reduction 36.00%
Total RES 7
131
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Retail
0
30.40%
5.90%
0
RES 8
Townhomes
74
             
DUs
0.62
46
Office
265
15.20%
10.60%
197
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Res-3
RES 9
Detached
55
             
DUS
1.15
63
Subtotal
288
212
Office
0
15.20%
10.60%
0
Residential
97
32.85%
4.10%
61
Restaurant
3.472
KSF
33
Total % Reduction 26.39%
Residential
0
32.85%
4.10%
0
Subtotal
97
61
Residential
843
DUs
552
Subtotal
0
0
Total % Reduction 37.11%
STA 1
Office
184.205
KSF
1.49
274
STA - 3
Total % Reduction #DIV/0!
STA 1
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
Retail
25
30.40%
5.90%
16
Res-4
STA 1
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
MU-2B
Residential
50
32.85%
4.10%
32
Total STA 1
274
Office
243
15.20%
10.60%
179
Retail
32
30.40%
5.90%
20
Subtotal
50
32
STA 2
Office
177.951
KSF
1.49
265
Subtotal
268
195
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 36.00%
STA 2
Retail
6.099
KSF
3.74
23
Total % Reduction 27.24%
Office
273
15.20%
10.60%
202
STA 2
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Residential
0
32.85%
4.10%
0
Res-5
Total STA 2
288
STA - 4
Subtotal
305
222
Residential
47
32.85%
4.10%
30
STA 3
Office
163.089
KSF
1.49
243
Retail
13
30.40%
5.90%
8
Total % Reduction 27.21%
Subtotal
47
30
STA 3
Retail
6.561
KSF
3.74
25
Drinking Place
24
37.90%
5.90%
14
Total % Reduction 36.17%
STA 3
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Office
300
15.20%
10.60%
222
MU-3A
Total STA 3
268
Subtotal
337
244
Retail
0
30.40%
5.90%
0
Res-6
STA 4
Office
201.249
KSF
1.49
300
Total % Reduction 27.60%
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Residential
34
32.85%
4.10%
21
STA 4
Retail
3.477
KSF
3.74
13
Office
0
15.20%
10.60%
0
Subtotal
34
21
STA 4
Drinking Place
2.097
KSF
11.34
24
STA - 5
Residential
41
32.85%
4.10%
26
Total % Reduction 38.24%
Total STA 4
337
Retail
9
30.40%
5.90%
6
Subtotal
41
26
STA 5
Office
183.283
KSF
1.49
273
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 36.59%
Res-7
STA 5
Retail
2.378
KSF
3.74
9
Office
273
15.20%
10.60%
203
Residential
98
32.85%
4.10%
62
STA 5
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Subtotal
282
209
MU-3B
Restaurant
33
37.90%
5.90%
21
Total STA 5
282
Total % Reduction 25.89%
Retail
21
30.40%
5.90%
14
Subtotal
131
83
Office
909.777
KSF
1,355
Restaurant
0
37.90%
5.90%
0
Total % Reduction 36.64%
Retail
18.515
KSF
70
Office
179
15.20%
10.60%
133
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
0
Residential
0
32.85%
4.10%
0
Res-8
Drinking Place
2.097
KSF
24
Subtotal
200
147
Residential
46
32.85%
4.10%
29
MU 1 (High School)
High School
450
Students
Custom
95
Total % Reduction 26.50%
Subtotal
46
29
MU 1 (Residential)
Residential
68
DUs
0.62
42
Total % Reduction 36.96%
Total MU1
137
MU-4
MU 2A (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
Retail
33
30.40%
5.90%
20
Res-9
MU 2A (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
Restaurant
48
37.90%
5.90%
26
Residential
63
32.85%
4.10%
40
MU 2A (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Office
7
15.20%
10.60%
5
Subtotal
63
40
MU 2A (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Residential
43
32.85%
4.10%
27
Total % Reduction 36.51%
Total MU2A
0
Subtotal
131
78
MU 2B (Office)
Office
182.836
KSF
1.49
273
Notes:
Total % Reduction 40.46%
MU 2B (Retail)
Retail
8.518
KSF
3.74
32
[1] This column represents the reductions in trip generations expected from implementation of Level I and II Transportation Demand Management measures as described in Section 4.
MU 2B (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
Source of trip generation rates: Bay Meadows II Phasing Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, and Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation, 7th Edition
MU 2B (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Total MU2B
305
MU 3A (Office)
Office
0.000
KSF
1.49
0
MU 3A (Retail)
Retail
0.000
KSF
3.74
0
MU 3A (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
MU 3A (Residential)
Residential
67
DUs
0.62
41
Total MU3A
41
MU 3B (Office)
Office
120.142
KSF
1.49
179
MU 3B (Retail)
Retail
5.618
KSF
3.74
21
MU 3B (Restaurant)
Restaurant
0.000
KSF
9.55
0
MU 3B (Residential)
Residential
0
DUs
0.62
0
Total MU3B
200
MU 4 (Office)
Office
5.071
KSF
1.49
7
MU 4 (Retail)
Retail
8.947
KSF
3.74
33
MU 4 (Restaurant)
Restaurant
5.000
KSF
9.55
48
MU 4 (Residential)
Residential
70
DUs
0.62
43
Total MU4
131
Office
308.049
KSF
459
Retail
23.083
KSF
86
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
Restaurant
5.000
KSF
48
Residential
205
DUs
126
High School
450
Students
95
Prepared: March 17, 2008
Total All Blocks
2,848
Updated: June 10, 2021
Table 4   Trip Estimates - Post-Grade Separation Conditions
Unadjusted PM peak Hour Trip Generation by Block 
PM Peak Hour Trip Generation Budgets by Block
Block
Land Use
Size 
Units
PM Peak Hour
Total Residential 
Blocks
Total Station Blocks
Total All Blocks
Trip 
Generation 
Rate
Unadjusted 
Trips
Unadjusted 
Trips
Net 
Trips
% Reduction
2,848
2,026
28.9%
Total Mixed-Use 
Blocks

--- page 275 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 17 
3.2.3 Trip Adjustments 
Because the project is a transit-oriented development and contains a mix of land use types, 
a portion of project trips are expected to remain internal to the project site (via walk, bike 
or auto), or be external transit trips. The trip estimates therefore reflect internal capture for 
mixed-use, for transit use, and for Level I and Level II TDM Measures.  
3.2.3.1 Internal Capture Adjustment for Mixed-Use 
Trip reduction for the internal capture for mixed-use is based on ITE’s ‘Multi-Use 
Internalization Methodology’ published in its Trip Generation Handbook (ITE, October 
1998). The trip reductions for the different land use types and for the different project 
phases are shown in Table 5. Since internal capture is a function of the amount of each 
land use type the mixed-use adjustment varies between pre-grade separation conditions 
(reflecting partial buildout) and post-grade separation conditions (reflecting full buildout).   
 
Table 5: Trip Reduction for Internal Capture for Mixed-Use 
 
Land Use 
Pre-Grade Separation 
Conditions
Post-Grade Separation 
Conditions
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Residential
5.4%
5.4%
8.7%
8.7%
Retail
32.6%
32.6%
25.4%
25.4%
Restaurant and Drinking 
Place
24.8%
24.8%
32.9%
32.9%
Office
1.2%
6.5% [1]
1.8%
1.8%
[1] The p.m. peak hour office internal capture factor was increased over that determined with 
the ITE mixed-use internalization method based on research of mixed-use activity centers that 
shows a significantly higher internal capture between office, retail and restaurant uses. This 
was only applied under the pre-grade separation scenario. See (Hooper), Travel 
Characteristics of Large-Scale Suburban Activity Centers.
 
Note: Although it is proposed that additional office square footage be added to Bay Meadows II as described 
in this report, the effect on internal capture percentages is negligible (i.e. change of 0.1% or less).  Therefore, 
the same internal capture percentages used in the 2008 Bay Meadows II report are also used in this report 
update.   
3.2.3.2 Adjustment for Transit Use 
The source of trip reduction adjustments for transit use is research on the travel 
characteristics of transit-oriented development in California from educational institutions 
and the San Francisco Bay Area Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC).  The 
trip reductions for the different land use types and for the different project phases are 
shown in Table 6. Since the level of transit use is highly dependent on the type of trip, the 
transit adjustment factors are divided into those for work trips and those for non-work 
trips, except for restaurant and retail uses for which travel data is published only for all 
types of trips. 
 
Transit adjustment factors for residential uses (work-related trips) is based on data from 
both the CalTrain and BART systems because these two systems are connected at the 
Millbrae Station, so Bay Meadows residents have access to the BART system. However, 
the adjustments are weighted to reflect that CalTrain will be the predominant mode of 
transit.

--- page 276 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 18 
Table 6: Trip Reductions for Transit Use 
Land Use 
Pre-Grade Separation 
Post-Grade Separation  
AM Peak 
PM Peak 
AM Peak 
PM Peak 
Residential 
  
  
  
  
     Work Trips 
18.85% 
18.85% 
18.85% 
18.85% 
     Non-Work Trips 
5.30% 
5.30% 
5.30% 
5.30% 
Retail 
5.00% 
5.00% 
5.00% 
5.00% 
Restaurant and Drinking 
Place
5.00% 
5.00% 
5.00% 
5.00% 
Office 
  
  
  
  
     Work Trips 
12.70% 
12.70% 
12.70% 
12.70% 
     Non-Work Trips 
0.70% 
0.70% 
0.70% 
0.70% 
Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California, Institute of 
Urban and Regional Development, 1993. 
    Work trips: 12.70% 
   Non-work trips: 0.70%
Residential: Average of CalTrain and BART commute mode share. Cervero, Robert; Lund, Wilson, 
Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California, Caltrans 2004.
     Work Trips: [CalTrain: Rail = 15.7%, Bus = 1.7%] [BART: Rail = 44.3%, Bus = 0.6%] Based on a 
weighted average assuming a 93% CalTrain share and a 7% BART share, results in 17.7% + average 
of bus riders (1.15%) gives 18.85% trip reduction for work trips. Sources: Caltrain Planning Division and 
BART (2008), Cervero, Robert; Lund, Wilson, Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in 
California.
    Non-Work Trips: Rail/Bus = 5.3%
    Percent of Home-Based trips that are work trips = 56% in AM peak and 51% in PM peak. 
Source: Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
Retail and Restaurant: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center transit mode share. Cervero, 
Robert; Lund, Wilson, Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California, Caltrans 
2004.
 
3.2.3.3 Adjustment for Level I and Level II TDM Measures 
The TDM strategies were divided into four levels; Levels I through IV contain 
increasingly stringent TDM measures applied at different phases of the project. The 
strategies at each level are described in Section 4 of the Plan. For the trip generation 
analysis under pre-grade separation conditions, TDM adjustments are based on Level I for 
the STA, MU and RES blocks and based on Level II for the STA and MU blocks. Under 
post-grade separation conditions, TDM adjustments are based on Level I and Level II 
measures. Table 7 lists the Level I and Level II measures and the percent adjustment 
applied to the trip generation analysis. See Section 4 for a detailed explanation of TDM 
measure effectiveness.  In accordance with the Conditions of Approval, should monitoring 
demonstrate that the trip budgets are being exceeded, the Level III and Level IV measures 
could be required until the trips from the project are reduced.

--- page 277 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 19 
Table 7: Trip Reductions for Level I and Level II TDM Measures 
 
TDM Strategies 
Percent (%) 
Reduction  
Level I 

Mandatory membership in Transportation Management Association (TMA) 
with basic services
1.5 – 2.5% 
o Try Transit Free program
o Guaranteed Ride Home
o Rebates for new vanpool participants
o Encouraging employers to sponsor new vanpools
o Carpool Incentive Program (fuel card incentive)
o Carpool to College program (fuel card incentive)
o School Pool program (fuel card incentive)
o The Bike and Pedestrian Safety Program (education program)
o Commute Benefits Program (employer based program planning 
assistance)
o Develop and implement an employee and resident travel survey annually 
or every other year

Secure bicycle parking, locker/changing rooms, and showers provided in 
commercial buildings as part of the development program
0.5 – 0.6% 

New tenant/resident orientation of transportation alternatives and TMA 
services
0.5% 

Provide space for a transportation demand management office (located within 
the property management office or dedicated office space within the ground 
floor program)
0.5% 

Reserve portion of the 1-bedroom unit parking spaces in RES blocks 1 and 7 as 
flex spaces
 

Encourage commercial building owners to:
 
o
Install a publicly available ATM machine or encourage a bank 
branch tenant
0.2 – 0.3% 
o
Seek a health club tenant 

Encourage/advise employers to offer the following services:
 
o
New employee commute options orientation program
0.1 – 0.3% 
o
Pre-tax transit fare purchases (CommuterCheck with direct value 
load to Clipper cards)
o
Commute services website and/or link to TMA website on 
employer’s intranet
o
Co-sponsor (with BM II Property Owner Association) a 
commuter/transportation fair (potentially in conjunction with 
another community event)
o
On-site vanpool promotion
0.8%

Work with Home Owners Associations to offer the following services:
 
o
Provide link to TMA website on HOA website
0.1% 
o
Co-sponsor (with BM II employers) a commuter/transportation 
fair (potentially in conjunction with another community event)
o
Provide a transportation-alternatives information package to 
every new household
o
Provide on-site sales of transit passes (or Clipper cards)
Total Level I Trip Reduction  
4.2 – 5.6%

--- page 278 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 20 
Level II 
This menu of measures that would be considered as (1) new services or measures in addition to those 
provided by the TMA, and (2) additional services provided by the TMA. 
Short-Term (10% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 

Reserve garage and on-street spaces for car share vehicles
0.5% 

Additional TMA Services:
 
o
Encourage private car share enterprise (TMA to contact and 
promote)
 
o
Provide rideshare matching service specific to BM II employees 
and residents
0.1% 
Mid-Term (16% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 

Establish preferential parking spaces for carpools and vanpools
2.1 – 2.5% 

Additional TMA Services:
 
o
Shuttle to downtown (shared cost with other TMA members)
1%
o
Establish a “Commuter Club” providing cash drawings and other 
incentives for using alternative modes and completing travel 
diaries
0.1% 
Long-Term (25% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 

Additional TMA Services
 
o 
Bicycle purchase subsidy
0.1% 
o 
Electric bike purchase subsidy
Total Level II Trip Reduction  
3.9 – 4.3% 
 
3.2.3.4 Exclusions for Non-Project Uses 
The trip generation analysis only reflects traffic generated by the Bay Meadows Specific 
Plan “project”. Land uses on land being dedicated to the City or offered for sale to the JPB 
are excluded from the total trip generation estimates. This analysis includes the residential 
land use (68 dwelling units) in block MU 1 (which is a City-sponsored Below Market Rate 
housing development). This analysis does not include the recreation playfields or other 
improvements to be constructed in the Community Park (which will be dedicated to and 
operated by the City’s Parks and Recreation Department). 
3.3 Trip Generation Estimates by Phase 
Trip generation estimates are prepared under two scenarios, 1) pre-grade separation 
conditions, and 2) buildout (post-grade separation) of the entire project. The trip reduction 
goals would be applied to the project and measured as each development threshold is 
reached. The objective of this analysis is to determine whether the project can achieve the 
trip generation goals under the two scenarios and, if not, what measures need to be taken 
to ensure the goals can be achieved.

--- page 279 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 21 
3.3.1 Pre-Grade Separation Conditions 
 
Under pre-grade conditions, the following land uses are included in each Block group: 
 
 Station Blocks 
o Office 
o Office Building Ground Floor Retail 
 Mixed-Use Blocks 
o Residential 
o High School 
o Retail/Restaurant (MU-4) 
 Residential Blocks 
o Residential  
o Retail (RES 7) 
 
Pre-grade separation conditions are no longer applicable since the Post-Grade Separation 
phase commenced in November 2017.

--- page 280 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 22 
3.3.2 Post-Grade Separation Conditions (Phases I through III) 
The short-term (Phase I), mid-term (Phase II), and long-term (Phase III) project-wide trip 
reduction goals are 10%, 16%, and 25% respectively. Since the long-term trip reduction 
goal is the highest, this analysis focuses on Phase III. The trip generation estimates for the 
long-term (Phase III) conditions are summarized in Table 8. The overall trip reduction 
from the unadjusted trip generation estimate is 26.7% in the a.m. peak hour and 28.9% in 
the p.m. peak hour, thereby achieving the most stringent Phase III trip reduction goals.  
Detailed trip generation estimates are provided in the Appendix. 
 
Because the short-term and mid-term trip reduction goals established in the Conditions of 
Approval are lower than the long-term goal of 25% (10% and 16%), the project is 
estimated to achieve and surpass the interim term requirements as well. 
 
Conclusion: For long-term buildout conditions the trip generation analysis includes 
100% of the project’s land use program. At buildout, with trip reductions for transit, 
mixed-use internalization, and Level I and Level II TDM measures, the project 
(including the pending SPAR applications) would generate a total of 2,026 trips in 
the p.m. peak hour.  Compared to the Phase III trip cap established in the 
Conditions of Approval (2,569 p.m. peak hour trips), the project’s estimated trip 
generation is below the cap by 543 trips. Therefore, the analysis concludes that the 
project will achieve and surpass the 25% trip reduction goal at buildout, and remain 
within the established trip cap both when the development authorized by the current 
SPAR application is completed (i.e., the “Occupancy Projection” defined in 
Condition No. 41), and at buildout of the Specific Plan area (i.e., the “Build Out 
Projection” defined in Condition No. 41).

--- page 281 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 23 
Table 8: Trip Generation Estimates – Post-Grade Separation Condition (Phase III) 
 
Land Use 
Size 
(KSF)  
Units 
AM Peak Hour Trips 
PM Peak Hour Trips 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Residential Blocks 
Residential 
843 
DUs 
84 
349 
433 
371 
181 
552 
Restaurant 
3.472 
KSF 
13 
12 
25 
20 
13 
33 
Subtotal Trips 
  
  
97 
361 
458 
391 
194 
585 
Station Blocks 
Office 
909.777 
KSF 
1,249 
170 
1,419 
227 
1,128 
1,355 
Retail 
18.515 
KSF 
11 
7 
18 
33 
37 
70 
Restaurant 
0.000 
KSF 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Drinking Place 
2.097 
KSF 
0 
0 
0 
16 
8 
24 
Subtotal Trips 
  
  
1,260 
177 
1,437 
276 
1,173 
1,449 
Mixed Use Blocks 
Office 
308.257 
KSF 
420 
57 
477 
77 
382 
459 
Retail 
23.171 
KSF 
15 
9 
24 
41 
45 
86 
Restaurant 
5.000 
KSF 
19 
17 
36 
29 
19 
48 
Residential 
205 
DUs 
16 
88 
104 
84 
42 
126 
High School 
450 
Students 
127 
57 
184 
45 
50 
95
Subtotal Trips 
  
  
597 
228 
825 
276 
538 
814
Unadjusted Total Trips (All Blocks) 
Total Trips 
  
  
1,954 
766 
2,720 
  943 
1,905 
2,848
Trip Reductions - Internal Capture and Transit Use
Subtotal Trips 
(301) 
(198) 
(499) 
(241) 
(343) 
(584)
Trip Reductions - TDM Level I and Level II 
Subtotal Trips 
  
  
(178) 
(48) 
(226) 
(56) 
(182) 
(238)
Adjusted Net Total Trip Generation 
Net Trips 
  
  
1,475 
520 
1,995 
646 
1,380 
2,026
Maximum Trip Threshold Allowed Under Conditions of Approval 
2,569
Trips Under / (Over) Maximum Trip Cap:  
543
Note: Trip totals may differ slightly due to rounding 
KSF = 1,000s of square feet.

--- page 282 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 24 
4 Transportation Demand Management (TDM) 
Strategies 
The Conditions of Approval require implementation of a TDM program as stated in 
Condition 40: 
 
“A Transportation Demand Management Program shall be implemented using a selection 
of programs from the Corridor Plan and the City/County Association of Governments 
(C/CAG).  These programs, once implemented, must be on-going for the occupied life of 
the development, unless they are altered, exchanged or discontinued in consultation with 
the City.” 
 
This section of the Plan discusses the objectives of the TDM plan and the recommended 
TDM strategies that may be considered for achieving the trip reduction goals. 
 
4.1 Process for Implementing and Managing the TDM Program 
Implementing and managing the TDM Program is a collaborative effort between the Bay 
Meadows II Master Property Owners Association (POA), the individual Bay Meadows II 
Homeowners Associations (HOA), owners, tenants and employers of the commercial 
properties, the Transportation Management Association (TMA), and the City of San 
Mateo. The responsibility for implementation, monitoring and managing the program is 
summarized in Table 9 below. The strategies, services and proposed methods of 
monitoring are discussed in the following sections. 
 
Table 9: TDM Program Responsibilities 
 
Action 
Responsibility 
Initial implementation of site and block level TDM strategies 
Bay Meadows II (POA, HOA, 
owners, tenants, employers) 
Initial implementation of corridor-wide TDM strategies and 
services
TMA 
Annual monitoring of site traffic volumes 
TMA, in cooperation with Bay 
Meadows POA
Supplemental traffic counts (if needed) 
TMA 
Annual monitoring of resident/employee travel characteristics  
TMA 
Summary of traffic monitoring and travel characteristics 
submitted to City of San Mateo 
TMA 
Determination of conformance with goals and conditions of 
approval 
City of San Mateo 
Review of effectiveness and revision of Bay Meadows and 
corridor-wide TDM strategies 
Bay Meadows POA, TMA 
Implementation of revised Bay Meadows strategies if required 
Bay Meadows II (POA, HOA, 
owners, tenants, employers)

--- page 283 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 25 
4.2 Membership in the San Mateo TOD Corridor Transportation 
Management Association (TMA) 
The conditions also require that the project participate in a Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) created for the San Mateo Transit-Oriented Corridor Plan Area. The 
TMA has been formed, holds regular meetings, conducts monitoring, issues an annual 
report and has worked with membership to implement site-specific strategies in relation 
to study results.  It will continue to develop specific measures and programs for its 
members. In addition, an existing TMA, Commute.org (formerly known as the Peninsula 
Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance), has been identified as the organization that will 
manage the San Mateo Transit-Oriented Corridor Plan Area TMA. This Plan lists the 
current services provided by Commute.org and identifies additional TDM measures 
specific to the project which may be considered toward achieving the required trip 
reduction goals. It is assumed that the current services and programs offered by 
Commute.org will also be adopted by the San Mateo Transit-Oriented Corridor Plan Area 
TMA. 
4.2.1 Potential Services Provided by the TMA 
The following programs are currently offered by Commute.org, and it is reasonable to 
assume that these same services will be provided by the San Mateo Transit-Oriented 
Corridor Plan Area TMA. 
 
1. The Try Transit Program: This program allows employees and residents in San 
Mateo County to try transit for free. The employees and residents receive free 
tickets for CalTrain, SamTrans, or San Francisco Bay Ferry, allowing people to 
test transit systems. 
 
2. Guaranteed Ride Home Program: Employees and students who commute by 
alternative modes of transportation other than driving alone are reimbursed for the 
cost of their ride home (up to $60 per ride for up to 4 times per year).  This ride 
home can be a form of public transit, a ride-hailing app, car share, or taxi.    
 
3. Vanpool Incentive Program: This program provides commuters with the 
opportunity to qualify for rewards. A new vanpool driver will receive a reward of 
$500 and vanpool passengers can be reimbursed up to 50 percent of their out-of-
pocket costs, up to $100 per month for three months (total of $300). 
 
4. Carpool Incentive Program: This program provides rewards for those carpoolers 
who sign up and use Scoop or Waze Carpool and linking it to their Commute.org 
account.  Commuters can earn a $25 e-gift card reward after every 10 days of 
carpooling, up to four times (for a total of $100). 
 
5. Commuter Club and eRider Alerts: The Commuter Club allows members to stay 
informed about the Commute.org shuttle program.  Club members will receive a 
quarterly email newsletter with special promotions and commute tips.  eRider

--- page 284 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 26 
alerts are sent to members to notify them of changes to Commute.org shuttle 
services and routes.   
 
6. Commute.org Shuttles: Commute.org shuttles provide a first and last mile 
connection for commuters and residents from BART, CalTrain, and the SF Bay 
Ferry stations to their workplaces.  These shuttles operate during peak commute 
hours, Monday through Friday.  The majority of these shuttles are free, however 
there are a few shuttles in Brisbane and South San Francisco that require a shuttle 
pass.   
 
7. Trip Planning Services: Commute.org allows users to plan a trip by finding the 
most efficient routes and affordable transportation alternatives.  This provides 
information for contacting other transit agencies and resources.   
 
8. Commute Tracker Mobile App: An app is also available to download to keep 
track of your commute history and earn rewards and incentives.  
 
9. Bicycle to Work Rewards Program: Commuters that choose to bicycle to work 
can earn up to $100.  They would log into their STAR platform (my.commute.org 
account) and connect it to a Strava account, which automatically tracks their trips.  
Participants would earn a $25 e-gift card to over 75 retail or non-profit donation 
options after 10 days of bicycling to/from work for up to 4 times (up to $100 
total).  This can be used as a first or last mile option. 
 
10. STAR Rewards Program: Commuters can log in their commutes in the STAR 
Platform and get points to redeem for various prizes.  In addition, participants will 
be entered into quarterly drawings to win prizes, such as $100 e-gift cards.  
 
11. Employer and Property Manager Services: Commute.org has representatives to 
help employers and property managers assist with developing their own 
commuter programs.  This includes the following free services: 
 
 Employee commute program consultation 
 Employee transportation coordinator (ETC) training 
 Free commuter resource kiosks 
 Regional and local commuter-related ordinance support 
 Company relocation commute assistance 
 Employee commute surveys 
 On-site bicycle safety education 
 Telework program-building 
 Customized marketing materials 
 
The TMA’s Director and Board of Directors determine the services and programs to offer 
to members. These include the above existing Commute.org services for employers and 
property managers and may include additional services over time.

--- page 285 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 27 
4.3 Proposed TDM Strategies 
The TDM program proposes to implement strategies and measures incrementally as the 
trip reduction goals increase over time and specific infrastructure improvements are 
implemented. The program proposes four (4) levels of strategies. Each level provides 
increasingly stringent measures designed to achieve higher trip reduction goals. It is 
anticipated that the project can achieve its 10%, 16% and 25% trip reduction goals with 
implementation of Level I and Level II TDM strategies. Level III and IV strategies would 
be implemented in the event that the project fails to achieve goals, as determined through 
annual monitoring. Except for the mandatory membership in the TMA, each block’s 
builder will choose from the menu of TDM measures to apply to individual 
developments. While it is anticipated that Level I and II measures can achieve the trip 
reduction goals, the builders may choose measures from any of the levels. 
 
It is important to note that the TDM strategies in this section both support the inherent 
reduction in trips of the project, and further reduce automobile trips over and above the 
inherent reduction. The inherent reduction in trips is based on the proximity to the 
Hillsdale Caltrain station, and the walkable, and mixed-use design of the project. These 
inherent reductions are supported by empirical research of TOD and mixed-use 
development without reliance on significant TDM programs. Figure 2 illustrates the 
implementation of the TDM strategy levels and Table 10 presents the strategies by level 
and the estimated effectiveness of each level. 
 
Except for the basic services provided by the TMA in Level I, the measures in Table 10 
represent a menu of strategies that would be considered in developing the initial TDM 
program and in subsequent revisions to the program. The effectiveness of each measure is 
estimated from the perspective that the strategies would be combined. Therefore, the 
effectiveness of individual measures is conservatively low, but reasonable when 
considered collectively. Further, since this is a menu, not all of the measures may be 
implemented at any given level. In light of this, the total collective effectiveness reflects 
an average of a select number of measures. 
 
The Level I measures are estimated to achieve a collective trip reduction of 4.2 – 5.6% 
off the unadjusted trip generation of the project. Combined with the inherent trip 
reduction for TOD and mixed-use, Level I is expected to achieve an overall reduction of 
nearly 24 - 25%. The Level II measures are estimated to achieve a collective trip 
reduction of 3.9 – 4.3% beyond Level I measures. Combined with Level I measures and 
the inherent trip reductions, Level II is expected to achieve nearly 28% trip reduction. 
Therefore, these two levels are anticipated to achieve the trip reduction goals established 
in the Conditions of Approval.  
 
If necessary, Level III and IV measures may be implemented for an additional 5.7% and 
9.1% in trip reduction respectively. All levels combined in conjunction with inherent trip 
reductions are estimated to have the potential to reduce trips by up to 44.6%.

--- page 286 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 28 
Figure 2: Levels of TDM Measures

--- page 287 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 29 
Table 10: TDM Strategy Levels and Estimated Effectiveness 
 
Menu of TDM Strategies 
Estimated Collective 
Effectiveness [1] 
Level I (Prior to Grade-Separations – 10% Trip Reduction Goal)

Mandatory membership in Transportation Management Association (TMA) 
with basic services
1.5 – 2.5% 
o Try Transit Free program
o Guaranteed Ride Home
o Rewards for new vanpool participants
o Rewards for new carpool participants
o Trip planning services
o Bicycle to Work rewards program and STAR Rewards program
o Employer and Property manager Services

Secure bicycle parking, locker/changing rooms, and showers provided in 
commercial buildings as part of the development program
0.5 – 0.6% 

New tenant/resident orientation of transportation alternatives and TMA 
services
0.5% 

Provide space for a transportation demand management office (located within 
the property management office or dedicated office space within the ground 
floor program)
0.5% 

Reserve portion of the 1-bedroom unit parking spaces in RES blocks 1 and 7 as 
flex spaces
 

Encourage commercial building owners to:
 
o
Install a publicly available ATM machine or encourage a bank 
branch tenant
0.2 – 0.3% 
o
Seek a health club tenant 

Encourage/advise employers to offer the following services:
 
o
New employee commute options orientation program
0.1 – 0.3% 
o
Pre-tax transit fare purchases (CommuterCheck with direct value 
load to Clipper cards)
o
Commute services website and/or link to TMA website on 
employer’s intranet
o
Co-sponsor (with BM II Property Owner Association) a 
commuter/transportation fair (potentially in conjunction with 
another community event)
o
On-site vanpool promotion
0.8%

Work with Home Owners Associations to offer the following services:
 
o
Provide link to TMA website on HOA website
0.1% 
o
Co-sponsor (with BM II employers) a commuter/transportation 
fair (potentially in conjunction with another community event)
o
Provide a transportation-alternatives information package to 
every new household
o
Provide on-site sales of transit passes (or Clipper cards)
Total Level I Trip Reduction Effectiveness 
4.2 – 5.6%  
Estimated Total Trip Reduction (Mixed-use + Transit + Level I TDM) 
23.5 – 24.9% 
 
Menu of TDM Strategies 
Estimated Collective 
Effectiveness [1] 
Level II (After Grade-Separations – Achieving Trip Generation Target) 
This menu of measures that would be considered as (1) new services or measures in addition to those provided by

--- page 288 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 30 
Menu of TDM Strategies 
Estimated Collective 
Effectiveness [1] 
the TMA, and (2) additional services provided by the TMA and would be in addition to Level I Trip Reduction 
Measures. 
Short-Term (10% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 
 Reserve garage and on-street spaces for car share vehicles 
0.5% 
 Additional TMA Services: 
 
o 
Encourage private car share enterprise (TMA to contact and 
promote) 
 
o 
Provide rideshare matching service specific to BM II employees 
and residents 
0.1% 
Mid-Term (16% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 
 Establish preferential parking spaces for carpools and vanpools 
2.1 – 2.5% 
 Additional TMA Services: 
 
o 
Shuttle to downtown (shared cost with other TMA members) 
1% 
o 
Establish a “Commuter Club” providing cash drawings and other 
incentives for using alternative modes and completing travel 
diaries 
0.1% 
Long-Term (25% Trip Reduction Goal) 
 
 Additional TMA Services 
 
o 
Bicycle purchase subsidy 
0.1% 
o 
Electric bike purchase subsidy 
Total Level II Trip Reduction Effectiveness 
3.9 – 4.3% 
Estimated Total Trip Reduction (Mixed-use + Transit + Level I & II TDM) 
27.4 – 27.8% 
Level III (After Grade-Separations – If Not Achieving Trip Budget Target) 
This menu of measures that would be considered if monitoring indicates that the project is failing to achieve trip 
reduction goals after implementing Level I and II measures. 
 25% subsidized transit fares for existing employees and residents (funded 
through Property Owners Association) 
2% 
 Free 90-day Clipper card for new employees and residents (funded through the 
Property Owners Association) 
0.1% 
 Establish parking cash-out program for employees of commercial properties 
3% 
 Property Owners Association will train and provide a part-time on-site TDM 
coordinator serving BM II employees and residents 
0.1% 
 Subsidize car share vehicles (if private car share enterprise not already 
implemented)  
0.5% 
Total Level III Trip Reduction Effectiveness 
5.7% 
Estimated Total Trip Reduction (Mixed-use + Transit + Level I, II & III 
TDM) 
33.5% 
Level IV (After Grade-Separations – If Not Achieving Trip Budget Target) 
This menu of measures that would be considered if monitoring indicates that the project is failing to achieve trip

--- page 289 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 31 
Menu of TDM Strategies 
Estimated Collective 
Effectiveness [1] 
reduction goals after implementing Level I, II and III measures. 
 50% subsidized transit fares for all existing employees and residents (funded 
through Property Owners Association) 
4% 
 Free 12-month Clipper card for new employees and residents 
1% 
 Charge employees for parking at commercial buildings  
1.5% 
 Subsidize school bus/shuttle to local elementary/middle schools (subsidy 
funded through HOAs while parents pay subscription for remaining cost)  
0.1% 
 Property Owners Association funded car share service (through purchase of 
vehicles to be managed, maintained and insured by private enterprise) 
1% 
 Work with employers to fund vanpools (provide vehicles, maintenance and 
insurance) 
0.8% 
 Property Owners Association will train and provide a full-time on-site TDM 
coordinator serving BM II employees and residents 
0.5% 
 Additional TMA Services 
 
o 
Contract with professional marketing firm to develop a commute 
alternatives campaign targeting San Mateo employees and 
residents  
0.5% 
Total Level IV Trip Reduction Effectiveness 
9.1% 
Estimated Total Trip Reduction (Mixed-use + Transit + Level I-IV TDM) 
42.6% 
[1] This table presents the estimated effectiveness of each TDM strategy as they would contribute to the collective 
effectiveness of a package of measures. This is to avoid double counting potential trip reductions. The 
effectiveness of any given individual measure is conservatively low, but reasonable when viewed in combination 
with other measures.

--- page 290 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 32 
5 Traffic Monitoring Plan 
5.1 Monitoring Requirements of the San Mateo Transit Oriented 
Development (TOD) Corridor Plan and Conditions of 
Approval 
The San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD Plan Policy 7.23 requires for any TOD project along 
the corridor to establish a plan for monitoring project trip generation. This policy is also 
reflected in the Bay Meadows II Conditions of Approval.  These policies and conditions 
require that the short-term (Phase I), mid-term (Phase II) and long-term (Phase III) trip 
reduction goals are monitored and verified by the City, or the TMA. On-going 
monitoring will allow the City to review whether the project is meeting the trip caps and 
achieving the applicable trip reduction goals.  If the project is exceeding the trip caps or 
not meeting the trip reduction goals in any of the phases, then the monitoring may be 
adjusted to identify individual Blocks that are contributing to the excess trips. The 
project’s CC&Rs will require the enforcement of the trip budget and implementation of 
additional TDM measures until the trip budget goals are achieved.  It is expected that the 
TMA’s costs of monitoring and enforcement will be covered by dues paid to the TMA 
from participants throughout the Rail Corridor. The monitoring is required to comply 
with the following as specified in the Conditions of Approval: 
 
a. Commencing from the time that the City's running tabulation of trips shows 
that Bay Meadows is generating more than 1,100 new trips, the City will 
monitor the trips generated by Bay Meadows annually to determine whether 
the project is meeting its TDM goals.  The TDM requirements shall be 
included in the project’s CC&Rs. 
 
b. The monitoring shall consist of p.m. peak hour driveway counts, sampling, 
cordon counts, street counts or any other counting method that provides 
accurate traffic data in the most cost-effective manner available (covering at 
least the period 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.) conducted annually for at least a five-day 
period (Monday through Friday, but excluding the holiday season between 
Thanksgiving and January 1).  The counts shall be done in such a way that the 
building owners and tenants are not aware that the counts are being done.  The 
City or TMA may conduct supplemental counts to measure progress. 
 
c. The combined results of monitoring shall be calculated to determine 
whether the results are consistent with the short-term, mid-term or long-
term trip reduction goals.  If the trip reduction goals are not met, the 
building owners shall work with the City or TMA to improve the 
effectiveness of their TDM program. 
 
d. When monitoring the project, the City and/or TMA shall not include any 
trips attributable to the recreation playfields or other improvements to be

--- page 291 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 33 
constructed in the Community Park (which will be dedicated to and 
operated by the City’s Parks and Recreation Department). 
 
e. Owner shall designate, at its option, either a representative of the whole 
project, or a representative of each Block, to coordinate with the City and/or 
the TMA as to TDM monitoring. 
5.2 Recommended Traffic Monitoring Plan for Bay Meadows II 
This section discusses the recommended traffic monitoring plan and methodology. Key 
elements of the monitoring plan include: 
 
 
Identification of traffic counting gateways that create a cordon capturing all trips 
traveling external to the project site, and a schedule of traffic counting periods; 
 
A methodology for quantifying through traffic (traffic that passes entirely through 
the site without stopping) through periodic origin-destination surveys; and 
 
A methodology for determining non-Bay Meadows traffic that can be excluded 
from the monitoring program (i.e., JPB parking facility and City playfields). 
5.2.1 Cordon Counts 
The most effective method for capturing trips generated by the project that travel external 
to the project site is a cordon count. A cordon is an imaginary line drawn around the 
project which crosses streets that access the project site. At these points traffic counts can 
be conducted. The project site is accessed from six different roadways, including: 
 
1. Delaware Street - North of 28th Avenue (from San Mateo County Exposition 
Center) 
2. Delaware Street - South of 31st Avenue (from Pacific Boulevard) 
3. 28th Avenue - West of Delaware Street (At JPB right-of-way after grade-
separation) 
4. 28th Avenue – East at Saratoga Drive 
5. 31st Avenue - West of Delaware Street (At JPB right-of-way after grade-
separation) 
6. 31st Avenue - East at Franklin Parkway 
 
Traffic monitoring is required to commence once the project trip generation during any 
phase exceeds a total of 1,100 trips. This means the project monitoring needs to start 
before buildout of the land uses assumed in the pre-grade separation conditions which are 
estimated to generate about 1,562 p.m. peak hour trips.   
5.2.2 Cordon Count Methodology 
Twenty-four (24) hour bi-directional automatic machine counts need to be collected at all 
six roadway connections (four connections prior to grade-separations) accessing the 
project to capture all trips entering or exiting the site.  These cordon counts should be 
collected for five consecutive days from Monday to Friday, but excluding summer 
months (while school is out of session), and the holiday seasons.

--- page 292 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 34 
5.2.3 Origin-Destination Surveys to Quantify Through Traffic 
Origin-Destination surveys are used to determine the number of “through trips” passing 
through the project site without stopping. Through trips are excluded from the trip 
generation monitoring as they are not generated by the “project”. Origin-destination 
surveys should be conducted during the same week that the cordon counts are being 
conducted. To determine the number of “through trips” during the p.m. peak hour, origin-
destination surveys should be conducted from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Origin-destination 
surveys could use manual license plate surveys or the video recognition technology. Each 
of the methods is described below: 
 
Manual License Plate Survey: Observers are posted at each of the access points and 
record the first or last three digits of license plates as they pass over the cordon, as well as 
record the time the vehicle crossed the cordon. A vehicle recorded at more than one 
access point within a relatively short period of time (i.e., a few minutes) did not stop 
within Bay Meadows and is considered a through trip. There are two ways this method of 
survey can be conducted: 
 
1) Full Survey – requires capturing every vehicle entering and exiting the cordon. 
This can be labor intensive and has potential for human error, but of the manual 
methods it provides the most accurate data. 
2) Sample survey – entails capturing only a portion of the vehicles and presenting 
the data as a percentage of the total cordon traffic. The sample usually is done by 
selecting only white passenger vehicles (the most common color for vehicles) and 
all commercial vehicles. 
 
License Plate Survey by Video Recognition: This technique involves installing video 
cameras at all the access points. These video cameras are placed such that they record the 
license plates of the cars entering and leaving the project site. The video is then fed into 
an optical recognition system that records the license plate numbers and generates a list 
of numbers and the time they entered and exited the project area. From this data an 
analysis similar to manual license plate surveys can identify through traffic. This 
technique is more accurate than manual surveys because it can capture nearly all of the 
vehicles entering and exiting the project area. It is also reliable and can be used for any 
length of time as long as there is sufficient lighting to video license plates.   
5.2.4 City Playfields 
City playfields, which are excluded from the traffic monitoring, would require traffic 
counts at the facilities’ driveways to determine their trip generation. These counted 
volumes would be subtracted from the cordon counts. 
5.2.5 Block Level Monitoring 
If monitoring indicates that the project overall is exceeding its trip cap or failing to 
achieve its trip reduction goal, monitoring may be conducted at the block level. Block 
level monitoring would be comprised of driveway counts and on-street parking turnover

--- page 293 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 35 
counts before and during the peak hours to determine the number of cars being generated 
by the project but that do not use driveways.  
5.2.6 Methodology for Traffic Monitoring Plan 
The recommended trip monitoring methodology is outlined in the flowchart shown in 
Figure 3.

--- page 294 ---
Is Bay Meadows II Project
Peak Hour Trip Generation greater than
1,110 Trips ?
(Per Conditions of Approval
Monitoring Triggered when
Trip Generation Exceeds
1,110 trips)
Implement Traffic Monitoring Program
No Monitoring Needed
Determine Peak Hour Project Trip
Generation
Z = X - Y
Is the Joint Powers Board
Parking Structure
Constructed ?
Conduct Peak Hour Cordon Counts at
all Roadway Connections to the
Project Site (Delaware, Franklin, 28th,
31st )
Determine Peak Hour Total Trips In
and Out of the Project Site
(X)
Conduct Peak Hour Origin-
Destination / License Plate Surveys at
all Roadway Connections to the
Project Site (Delaware, Franklin, 28th,
31st )
Estimate Peak Hour Through Traffic
In and Out of the Project Site (Y)
(Through traffic is traffic that passes
through without stopping at any uses
within Bay Meadows II)
Compare the Peak Hour Project Trip
Generation (Z) with Short-Term, Mid-
Term, and Long-Term Trip Reduction
Goals for the Bay Meadows II Project
Is the Trip Reduction Goal
Met for the Short-Term, Mid-
Term, & Long-Term ?
Work with City and TMA to Improve
Effectiveness of the TDM Program
End Traffic Monitoring Plan for the
Current Year
 Are there
Designated Parking
Spaces Provided for Bay
Meadows II Project Users in
Joint Powers Board
Parking Structure ?
Conduct Peak Hour Cordon Counts at
the Joint Powers Board Parking
Structure (e.g. Garage driveway
counts)
Conduct Parking Occupancy Survey of
to determine the number of Bay
Meadows II Project Users using
Designated Parking Spaces in the Joint
Powers Board Parking Structure
Conduct Peak Hour Cordon Counts at
the Joint Powers Board Parking
Structure (e.g. Garage driveway
counts)
Determine Peak hour Total Trips In
and Out of the Joint Powers Board
Parking Structure
(P)
Determine Net Peak Hour Total Trips
In and Out of the Joint Powers Board
Parking Structure by Excluding the
Number of Bay Meadow II
 Project Users
(Q)
No
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Figure 3
Bay Meadows II Project – Traffic Monitoring Plan Flowchart
Determine Net Project Trip Generation
by Excluding the Traffic Generated by
the Joint Powers Board Parking
Structure.
Z Net = Z – Q
Or
Z Net = Z - P

--- page 295 ---
Traffic Management Plan 
June 14, 2021 
Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment 
 
Page 37 
Appendices 
1. 
Pre-Grade Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation 
2.  
Short-Term (Phase I) Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation 
Estimates 
3. 
Short-Term (Phase I) Conditions – Internal Capture 
Worksheets 
4. 
Mid-Term (Phase II) Conditions – Detailed Trip Generation 
Estimates 
5. 
Phase II and III Conditions – Internal Capture Worksheets 
6. 
Long-Term (Phase III) Conditions – Detailed Trip 
Generation Estimate 
7.  
Condition of Approval #40 and #41

--- page 296 ---
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
RES 1 (Flats/Townhomes)
108
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
9
46
55
0.42
0.20
0.62
45
22
67
RES 2 (Townhomes)
80
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
34
40
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 3 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
156
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
12
67
79
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
31
97
RES 4 (Luxury Flats)
82
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
7
35
42
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 5 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
76
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
33
39
0.42
0.20
0.62
32
15
47
RES 6 (Luxury Flats)
54
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
4
23
27
0.42
0.20
0.62
23
11
34
RES 7 (Stacked Flats)
158
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
13
68
81
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
32
98
RES 7 (Restaurant)
3.472
   
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
13
12
25
5.82
3.72
9.55
20
13
33
RES 8 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
74
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
32
38
0.42
0.20
0.62
31
15
46
RES 9 (Cluster detached)
55
        
DUs
0.38
0.20
0.58
21
11
32
0.73
0.42
1.15
40
23
63
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
13
12
25
20
13
33
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Residential)
843
DUs
84
349
433
371
181
552
Total Residential Blocks
97
361
458
391
194
585
STA 1 (Office)
184.205
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
253
34
287
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
228
274
STA 1 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
STA 1 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 2 (Office)
177.951
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
244
33
277
0.25
1.24
1.49
44
221
265
STA 2 (Retail)
3.049
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
5
6
11
STA 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 3 (Office)
163.089
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
224
31
255
0.25
1.24
1.49
41
202
243
STA 3 (Retail)
3.280
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
6
6
12
STA 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 4 (Office)
201.249
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
276
38
314
0.25
1.24
1.49
50
250
300
STA 4 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
STA 4 (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
STA 5 (Office)
183.283
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
252
34
286
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
STA 5 (Retail)
2.378
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
1
1
2
1.80
1.94
3.74
4
5
9
STA 5 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Office)
909.777
KSF
1,249
170
1,419
227
1,128
1,355
Subtotal Station Blocks (Retail)
8.707
KSF
5
3
8
15
17
32
Subtotal Station Blocks (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
0
0
0
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
Total Station Blocks
1,254
173
1,427
258
1,153
1,411
MU 1 (Residential)
68
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.40
0.22
0.62
27
15
42
MU 1 (High School)
450
Students
n/a
n/a
n/a
127
57
184
n/a
n/a
n/a
45
50
95
MU 2 (Office)
0.000
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
0
0
0
0.25
1.24
1.49
0
0
0
MU 2 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
MU 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 2 (Residential)
0
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
0
0
0
0.42
0.20
0.62
0
0
0
MU 3 (Office)
0.000
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
0
0
0
0.25
1.24
1.49
0
0
0
MU 3 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
MU 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 3 (Residential)
67
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.42
0.20
0.62
28
13
41
MU 4 (Office)
0.000
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
0
0
0
0.25
1.24
1.49
0
0
0
MU 4 (Retail)
3.205
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
6
6
12
MU 4 (Restaurant)
5
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
19
17
36
5.82
3.72
9.55
29
19
48
MU 4 (Residential)
70
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
30
36
0.42
0.20
0.62
29
14
43
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Office)
0.000
KSF
0
0
0
0
0
0
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Retail)
3.205
KSF
2
1
3
6
6
12
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
19
17
36
29
19
48
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Residential)
205
DUs
16
88
104
84
42
126
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (High School)
450
Students
127
57
184
45
50
95
Total Mixed-Use Blocks
164
163
327
164
117
281
Total Unadjusted Trips:
1,515
697
2,212
813
1,464
2,277
Internal Capture & Transit Reduction [1][2]:
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential
29.55%
29.55%
29
129
158
134
66
200
    Retail
37.60%
37.60%
3
2
5
9
10
19
    Restaurant
29.80%
29.80%
10
9
19
14
9
23
    Drinking Place
29.80%
29.80%
0
0
0
5
2
7
    Office
14.60%
19.90%
182
25
207
45
225
270
Subtotal Internal & Transit Reduction:
224
165
389
207
312
519
TDM Level I & Level II Reduction :
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential (Residential Blocks)
2.8%
2.8%
2
10
12
9
5
14
    Residential (MU Block 1)
8.1%
8.1%
0
3
3
2
1
3
    Residential (MU Blocks 2-4)
4.1%
4.1%
0
4
4
3
2
5
    Drinking Place
5.9%
5.9%
0
0
0
1
1
2
    Restaurant (Residential Blocks)
4.1%
4.1%
0
0
0
1
1
2
    Retail (Station and MU Blocks)
5.9%
5.9%
0
0
0
2
2
4
    Restaurant
5.9%
5.9%
1
2
3
1
1
2
    Office
10.6%
10.6%
131
18
149
25
120
145
Subtotal TDM Reduction:
134
37
171
44
133
177
Net Adjusted Trip Generation
1,157
495
1,652
562
1,019
1,581
Percent Reduction from Unadjusted Trip Generation
25.3%
30.6%
Maximum Trip Threshold Allowed Under Conditions of Approval:
1,562
Trips Under / (Over) Maximum Allowed Trips:
(19)
Source: Program based on Residential and Mixed-Use Programming Overview dated 11-10-17. 
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
[1] Source of Mixed-Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Handbook (Multi-Use Internalization Methodology). 
[2] Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California. Institute of Urban and Regional Development. 1993
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of office trips are commute trips.
    Non-work Trips: Rail/Bus = 5.3%
    Percent of Home-Based trips that are work trips = 56% in AM peak and 51% in PM peak. Source: Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
Appendix 1  - Pre-Grade Separation  (As per 01-09-08 Residential PD and 03-15-08 Commercial + Retail PD from WMS)
Rate
(100% Residential (except MU 1), 100% Office and Ground Floor Retail/Restaurant in STA Blocks, No Freestanding Retail)
Trips
6/6/2018
Bay Meadows II Trip Generation Budget (Pre-Grade Separations)
(Institute of Transportation Engineers' Rates from Hexagon Phasing Analysis Table 4)
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center mode split. Source: Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented 
Development in California. Caltrans. 2004
Rate
Trips
Buildout Trip Reduction:
AM Peak
     Work Trips:[Caltrain: Rail = 15.7%, Bus = 1.7%] [BART Rail = 44.3%, Bus = 0.6%]. Assuming 93% Caltrain share and 7% BART share, results in 17.7% + average of bus riders 
(1.15%) gives 18.85% trip reduction for work trips.
AM Peak
PM Peak
Resident Transit Use: Average of Caltrain and BART commute mode share. Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California. 
Size 
AM Peak Hour
Land Use
PM Peak
Units
PM Peak Hour

--- page 297 ---
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
RES 1 (Flats/Townhomes)
108
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
9
46
55
0.42
0.20
0.62
45
22
67
RES 2 (Townhomes)
80
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
34
40
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 3 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
156
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
12
67
79
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
31
97
RES 4 (Luxury Flats)
82
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
7
35
42
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 5 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
76
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
33
39
0.42
0.20
0.62
32
15
47
RES 6 (Luxury Flats)
54
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
4
23
27
0.42
0.20
0.62
23
11
34
RES 7 (Stacked Flats)
158
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
13
68
81
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
32
98
RES 7 (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
13
12
25
5.82
3.72
9.55
20
13
33
RES 8 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
74
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
32
38
0.42
0.20
0.62
31
15
46
RES 9 (Cluster detached)
55
        
DUs
0.38
0.20
0.58
21
11
32
0.73
0.42
1.15
40
23
63
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
13
12
25
20
13
33
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Residential)
843
DUs
84
349
433
371
181
552
Total Residential Blocks
97
361
458
391
194
585
STA 1 (Office)
184.205
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
253
34
287
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
228
274
STA 1 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
STA 1 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 2 (Office)
177.951
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
244
33
277
0.25
1.24
1.49
44
221
265
STA 2 (Retail)
6.099
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
11
12
23
STA 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 3 (Office)
163.089
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
224
31
255
0.25
1.24
1.49
41
202
243
STA 3 (Retail)
6.561
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
3
7
1.80
1.94
3.74
12
13
25
STA 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 4 (Office)
201.249
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
276
38
314
0.25
1.24
1.49
50
250
300
STA 4 (Retail)
3.477
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
6
7
13
STA 4 (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
STA 5 (Office)
183.283
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
252
34
286
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
STA 5 (Retail)
2.378
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
1
1
2
1.80
1.94
3.74
4
5
9
STA 5 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Office)
909.777
KSF
1,249
170
1,419
227
1,128
1,355
Subtotal Station Blocks (Retail)
18.515
KSF
11
7
18
33
37
70
Subtotal Station Blocks (Restaurant)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
Total Station Blocks
1,260
177
1,437
276
1,173
1,449
MU 1 (Residential)
68
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.40
0.22
0.62
27
15
42
MU 1 (High School)
450
Students
n/a
n/a
n/a
127
57
184
n/a
n/a
n/a
45
50
95
MU 2 (Office)
182.836
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
249
34
283
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
MU 2 (Retail)
8.606
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
5
3
8
1.80
1.94
3.74
15
17
32
MU 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 2 (Residential)
0
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
0
0
0
0.42
0.20
0.62
0
0
0
MU 3 (Office)
120.350
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
164
22
186
0.25
1.24
1.49
30
149
179
MU 3 (Retail)
5.618
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
10
11
21
MU 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 3 (Residential)
67
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.42
0.20
0.62
28
13
41
MU 4 (Office)
5.071
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
7
1
8
0.25
1.24
1.49
1
6
7
MU 4 (Retail)
8.947
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
6
4
10
1.80
1.94
3.74
16
17
33
MU 4 (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
19
17
36
5.82
3.72
9.55
29
19
48
MU 4 (Residential)
70
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
30
36
0.42
0.20
0.62
29
14
43
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Office)
308.257
KSF
420
57
477
77
382
459
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Retail)
23.171
KSF
15
9
24
41
45
86
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
19
17
36
29
19
48
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Residential)
205
DUs
16
88
104
84
42
126
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (High School)
450
Students
127
57
184
45
50
95
Total Mixed-Use Blocks
597
228
825
276
538
814
Total Unadjusted Trips:
1,954
766
2,720
943
1,905
2,848
Internal Capture & Transit Reduction [1][2]:
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential
32.85%
32.85%
28
149
177
149
72
221
    Retail
30.40%
30.40%
7
5
12
23
25
48
    Restaurant
37.90%
37.90%
12
10
22
17
12
29
    Drinking Place
37.90%
37.90%
0
0
0
5
4
9
    Office
15.20%
15.20%
254
34
288
47
230
277
Subtotal Internal & Transit Reduction:
301
198
499
241
343
584
TDM Level I & Level II Reduction :
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential (Residential Blocks)
4.1%
4.1%
0
18
18
14
9
23
    Residential (MU Block 1)
8.1%
8.1%
0
3
3
2
1
3
    Residential (MU Blocks 2-4)
4.1%
4.1%
0
2
2
2
2
4
    Drinking Place
5.9%
5.9%
0
0
0
1
0
1
    Retail (Station and MU Blocks)
5.9%
5.9%
1
0
1
2
7
9
    Restaurant
5.9%
5.9%
1
2
3
3
2
5
    Office
10.6%
10.6%
176
23
199
32
161
193
Subtotal TDM Reduction:
178
48
226
56
182
238
Adjusted Trip Generation
1,475
520
1,995
646
1,380
2,026
Percent Reduction from Unadjusted Trip Generation
26.7%
28.9%
Maximum Trip Threshold Allowed Under Conditions of Approval:
3,083
Trips Under / (Over) Maximum Allowed Trips:
1,057
Source: Program based on Residential and Mixed-Use Programming Overview dated 11-10-17. 
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
[1] Source of Mixed-Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Handbook (Multi-Use Internalization Methodology). 
[2] Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California. Institute of Urban and Regional Development. 1993
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of office trips are commute trips.
    Non-work Trips: Rail/Bus = 5.3%
     Percent of Home-Based trips that are work trips = 56% in AM peak and 51% in PM peak. Source: Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
Appendix 2 - Phase I Near-Term Program Buildout (As per 01-09-08 Residential PD and 03-15-08 Commercial + Retail PD from WMS)
5/25/2021
Bay Meadows II Trip Generation Budget (Post Grade Separations with Minimum 10% Trip Reduction Goal)
(Institute of Transportation Engineers' Rates from Hexagon Phasing Analysis Table 4)
Land Use
Size 
Units
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour
Rate
Trips
Rate
Trips
Buildout Trip Reduction:
AM Peak
PM Peak
AM Peak
PM Peak
Resident Transit Use: Average of Caltrain and BART commute mode share. Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California. 
Caltrans. 2004
     Work Trips:[Caltrain: Rail = 15.7%, Bus = 1.7%] [BART Rail = 44.3%, Bus = 0.6%]. Assuming 93% Caltrain share and 7% BART share, results in 17.7% + average of bus riders 
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center mode split. Source: Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented

--- page 298 ---
Appendix 3 - Internal Capture Worksheet for Phase I Trip Generation Analysis
ITE MULTI-USE PROJECT INTERNAL CAPTURE WORKSHEET
(Source: Chapter  7, ITE Trip  Generation  Handbook ,  June 2004)
Project Number:
Project Name: Bay Meadows II
Scenario: Nearterm
Analysis Period: PM Peak
Land Use A:  Residential (Dwelling Units)
Analyst:
ITE Land Use Code
Date: 3/17/2008
Size: 1,066
Based on 01-09-08 Residential PD and 03-15-08 Comm
Total
Internal
External
Enter from External:
353
Enter
371
18
353
Exit to External:
171
Exit
183
12
171
Total
554
30
524
Demand
53.0%
97
%
100%
5.4%
94.6%
31.0%
115
Demand
Balanced
4
6
Balanced
Demand
9.0%
4
12.0%
6
Demand
Demand
0.0%
0
31.0%
115
Demand
Balanced
0
Demand
53.0%
97
5
Balanced
Demand
0.0%
0
Balanced
8
Land Use B:  Retail (Retail (KSF))
12.0%
5
Demand
Demand
9.0%
8
Land Use D:  Retail (Restaurant (KSF))
ITE Land Use Code
ITE Land Use Code
Size: 23
Size: 14.808
Total
Internal
External
Demand
20.0%
8
Total
Internal
External
Enter
41
13
28
Demand
20.0%
18
Balanced
8
Enter
88
19
69
Exit
45
15
30
9
Balanced
Demand
20.0%
11
Exit
53
16
37
Total
86
28
58
20.0%
9
Demand
Total
141
35
106
%
100%
32.6%
67.4%
%
100%
24.8%
75.2%
2.0%
1
Demand
Demand
2.0%
7
Demand
3.0%
2
Enter from External:
28
1
Balanced
Balanced
7
Balanced
2
Enter from External:
69
Exit to External:
30
23.0%
203
Demand
Demand
2.0%
18
Demand
31.0%
56
Exit to External:
37
Demand
3.0%
1
2.0%
2
Demand
Balanced
1
Land Use C:  Office (Office (KSF))
2
Balanced
Demand
31.0%
56
ITE Land Use Code
23.0%
203
Demand
Size: 713.279
Total
Internal
External
Enter
181
3
178
Enter from External:
178
Exit
882
10
872
Exit to External:
872
Total
1063
13
1050
%
100%
1.2%
98.8%
A
B
C
D
Total
353
28
872
69
1,322
171
30
178
37
416
524
58
1,050
106
1,738
554
86
1,063
141
1,844
Overall Internal Capture =
097065008
Trip Gen Estimate
5.75%
Total
Single Use
NET EXTERNAL TRIPS FOR MULTI-USE DEVELOPMENT
Category
Enter
Exit
Land Use

--- page 299 ---
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
RES 1 (Flats/Townhomes)
108
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
9
46
55
0.42
0.20
0.62
45
22
67
RES 2 (Townhomes)
80
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
34
40
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 3 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
156
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
12
67
79
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
31
97
RES 4 (Luxury Flats)
82
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
7
35
42
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 5 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
76
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
33
39
0.42
0.20
0.62
32
15
47
RES 6 (Luxury Flats)
54
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
4
23
27
0.42
0.20
0.62
23
11
34
RES 7 (Stacked Flats)
158
      
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
13
68
81
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
32
98
RES 7 (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
13
12
25
5.82
3.72
9.55
20
13
33
RES 8 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
74
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
32
38
0.42
0.20
0.62
31
15
46
RES 9 (Cluster detached)
55
        
DUs
0.38
0.20
0.58
21
11
32
0.73
0.42
1.15
40
23
63
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
13
12
25
20
13
33
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Residential)
843
DUs
84
349
433
371
181
552
Total Residential Blocks
97
361
458
391
194
585
STA 1 (Office)
184.205
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
253
34
287
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
228
274
STA 1 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
STA 1 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 2 (Office)
177.951
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
244
33
277
0.25
1.24
1.49
44
221
265
STA 2 (Retail)
6.099
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
11
12
23
STA 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 3 (Office)
163.089
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
224
31
255
0.25
1.24
1.49
41
202
243
STA 3 (Retail)
6.561
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
3
7
1.80
1.94
3.74
12
13
25
STA 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 4 (Office)
201.249
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
276
38
314
0.25
1.24
1.49
50
250
300
STA 4 (Retail)
3.477
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
6
7
13
STA 4 (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
STA 5 (Office)
183.283
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
252
34
286
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
STA 5 (Retail)
2.378
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
1
1
2
1.80
1.94
3.74
4
5
9
STA 5 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Office)
909.777
KSF
1,249
170
1,419
227
1,128
1,355
Subtotal Station Blocks (Retail)
18.515
KSF
11
7
18
33
37
70
Subtotal Station Blocks (Restaurant)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
Total Station Blocks
1,260
177
1,437
276
1,173
1,449
MU 1 (Residential)
68
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.40
0.22
0.62
27
15
42
MU 1 (High School)
450
Students
n/a
n/a
n/a
127
57
184
n/a
n/a
n/a
45
50
95
MU 2 (Office)
182.836
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
249
34
283
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
MU 2 (Retail)
8.606
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
5
3
8
1.80
1.94
3.74
15
17
32
MU 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 2 (Residential)
0
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
0
0
0
0.42
0.20
0.62
0
0
0
MU 3 (Office)
120.350
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
164
22
186
0.25
1.24
1.49
30
149
179
MU 3 (Retail)
5.618
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
10
11
21
MU 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 3 (Residential)
67
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.42
0.20
0.62
28
13
41
MU 4 (Office)
5.071
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
7
1
8
0.25
1.24
1.49
1
6
7
MU 4 (Retail)
8.947
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
6
4
10
1.80
1.94
3.74
16
17
33
MU 4 (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
19
17
36
5.82
3.72
9.55
29
19
48
MU 4 (Residential)
70
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
30
36
0.42
0.20
0.62
29
14
43
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Office)
308.257
KSF
420
57
477
77
382
459
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Retail)
23.171
KSF
15
9
24
41
45
86
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
19
17
36
29
19
48
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Residential)
205
DUs
16
88
104
84
42
126
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (High School)
450
Students
127
57
184
45
50
95
Total Mixed-Use Blocks
597
228
825
276
538
814
Total Unadjusted Trips:
1,954
766
2,720
943
1,905
2,848
Internal Capture & Transit Reduction [1][2]:
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential
32.85%
32.85%
28
149
177
149
72
221
    Retail
30.40%
30.40%
7
5
12
23
25
48
    Restaurant
37.90%
37.90%
12
10
22
17
12
29
    Drinking Place
37.90%
37.90%
0
0
0
5
4
9
    Office
15.20%
15.20%
254
34
288
47
230
277
Subtotal Internal & Transit Reduction:
301
198
499
241
343
584
TDM Level I & Level II Reduction :
AM Peak PM Peak
    Residential (Residential Blocks)
4.1%
4.1%
0
18
18
14
9
23
    Residential (MU Block 1)
8.1%
8.1%
0
3
3
2
1
3
    Residential (MU Block 2-4)
4.1%
4.1%
0
2
2
2
2
4
    Drinking Place
5.9%
5.9%
0
0
0
1
0
1
    Retail (Station and MU Blocks)
5.9%
5.9%
1
0
1
2
7
9
    Restaurant
5.9%
5.9%
1
2
3
3
2
5
    Office
10.6%
10.6%
176
23
199
32
161
193
Subtotal TDM Reduction:
178
48
226
56
182
238
Adjusted Trip Generation
1,475
520
1,995
646
1,380
2,026
Percent Reduction from Unadjusted Trip Generation
26.7%
28.9%
Maximum Trip Threshold Allowed Under Conditions of Approval:
2,878
Trips Under / (Over) Maximum Allowed Trips:
852
Source: Program based on Residential and Mixed-Use Programming Overview dated 11-10-17. 
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
[1] Source of Mixed-Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Handbook (Multi-Use Internalization Methodology). 
[2] Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California. Institute of Urban and Regional Development. 1993
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of office trips are commute trips.
    Non-work Trips: Rail/Bus = 5.3%
     Percent of Home-Based trips that are work trips = 56% in AM peak and 51% in PM peak. Source: Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
AM Peak
PM Peak
Resident Transit Use: Average of Caltrain and BART commute mode share. Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California. 
Caltrans. 2004
     Work Trips:[Caltrain: Rail = 15.7%, Bus = 1.7%] [BART Rail = 44.3%, Bus = 0.6%]. Assuming 93% Caltrain share and 7% BART share, results in 17.7% + average of bus riders 
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center mode split. Source: Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented 
Rate
Trips
Rate
Trips
Buildout Trip Reduction:
AM Peak
PM Peak
Appendix 4 - Phase II Mid-Term Program Buildout (As per 01-09-08 Residential PD and 03-15-08 Commercial + Retail PD from WMS)
5/25/2021
Bay Meadows II Trip Generation Budget (Post Grade Separations with Minimum 16% Trip Reduction Goal)
(Institute of Transportation Engineers' Rates from Hexagon Phasing Analysis Table 4)
Land Use
Size 
Units
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour

--- page 300 ---
Appendix 5 - Internal Capture Worksheet for Phase II and III Trip Generation Analysis
ITE MULTI-USE PROJECT INTERNAL CAPTURE WORKSHEET
(Source: Chapter  7, ITE Trip  Generation  Handbook ,  June 2004)
Project Number:
Project Name: Bay Meadows II
Scenario: Buildout
Analysis Period: PM Peak
Land Use A:  Residential (Dwelling Units)
Analyst:
ITE Land Use Code
Date: 3/17/2008
Size: 1,253
Based on 01-09-08 PD Residential and 03-15-08 Commercial PD
Total
Internal
External
Enter from External:
402
Enter
437
35
402
Exit to External:
193
Exit
215
22
193
Total
652
57
595
Demand
53.0%
114
%
100%
8.7%
91.3%
31.0%
135
Demand
Balanced
12
8
Balanced
Demand
9.0%
12
12.0%
8
Demand
Demand
0.0%
0
31.0%
135
Demand
Balanced
0
Demand
53.0%
114
18
Balanced
Demand
0.0%
0
Balanced
10
Land Use B:  Retail (Retail (KSF))
12.0%
18
Demand
Demand
9.0%
10
Land Use D:  Retail (Restaurant (KSF))
ITE Land Use Code
ITE Land Use Code
Size: 75
Size: 17.808
Total
Internal
External
Demand
20.0%
27
Total
Internal
External
Enter
134
28
106
Demand
20.0%
21
Balanced
13
Enter
107
33
74
Exit
146
43
103
21
Balanced
Demand
20.0%
13
Exit
63
23
40
Total
280
71
209
20.0%
29
Demand
Total
170
56
114
%
100%
25.4%
74.6%
%
100%
32.9%
67.1%
2.0%
3
Demand
Demand
2.0%
9
Demand
3.0%
2
Enter from External:
106
3
Balanced
Balanced
9
Balanced
2
Enter from External:
74
Exit to External:
103
23.0%
213
Demand
Demand
2.0%
18
Demand
31.0%
59
Exit to External:
40
Demand
3.0%
4
2.0%
2
Demand
Balanced
4
Land Use C:  Office (Office (KSF))
2
Balanced
Demand
31.0%
59
ITE Land Use Code
23.0%
213
Demand
Size: 746.765
Total
Internal
External
Enter
189
6
183
Enter from External:
183
Exit
924
14
910
Exit to External:
910
Total
1113
20
1093
%
100%
1.8%
98.2%
A
B
C
D
Total
402
106
910
74
1,492
193
103
183
40
519
595
209
1,093
114
2,011
652
280
1,113
170
2,215
Overall Internal Capture =
NET EXTERNAL TRIPS FOR MULTI-USE DEVELOPMENT
Category
Enter
Exit
Land Use
Trip Gen Estimate
9.21%
Total
Single Use
097065008

--- page 301 ---
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
In
Out
Total
RES 1 (Flats/Townhomes)
108
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
9
46
55
0.42
0.20
0.62
45
22
67
RES 2 (Townhomes)
80
          
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
34
40
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 3 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
156
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
12
67
79
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
31
97
RES 4 (Luxury Flats)
82
          
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
7
35
42
0.42
0.20
0.62
34
16
50
RES 5 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
76
          
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
33
39
0.42
0.20
0.62
32
15
47
RES 6 (Luxury Flats)
54
          
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
4
23
27
0.42
0.20
0.62
23
11
34
RES 7 (Stacked Flats)
158
        
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
13
68
81
0.42
0.20
0.62
66
32
98
RES 7 (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
13
12
25
5.82
3.72
9.55
20
13
33
RES 8 (Tuckunder/Townhomes)
74
          
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
32
38
0.42
0.20
0.62
31
15
46
RES 9 (Cluster detached)
55
          
DUs
0.38
0.20
0.58
21
11
32
0.73
0.42
1.15
40
23
63
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Restaurant)
3.472
KSF
13
12
25
20
13
33
Subtotal Residential Blocks (Residential)
843
DUs
84
349
433
371
181
552
Total Residential Blocks
97
361
458
391
194
585
STA 1 (Office)
184.205
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
253
34
287
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
228
274
STA 1 (Retail)
0.000
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
0
0
0
1.80
1.94
3.74
0
0
0
STA 1 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 2 (Office)
177.951
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
244
33
277
0.25
1.24
1.49
44
221
265
STA 2 (Retail)
6.099
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
11
12
23
STA 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 3 (Office)
163.089
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
224
31
255
0.25
1.24
1.49
41
202
243
STA 3 (Retail)
6.561
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
3
7
1.80
1.94
3.74
12
13
25
STA 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
STA 4 (Office)
201.249
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
276
38
314
0.25
1.24
1.49
50
250
300
STA 4 (Retail)
3.477
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
2
1
3
1.80
1.94
3.74
6
7
13
STA 4 (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
STA 5 (Office)
183.283
KSF
1.37
0.19
1.56
252
34
286
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
STA 5 (Retail)
2.378
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
1
1
2
1.80
1.94
3.74
4
5
9
STA 5 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Office)
909.777
KSF
1,249
170
1,419
227
1,128
1,355
Subtotal Station Blocks (Retail)
18.515
KSF
11
7
18
33
37
70
Subtotal Station Blocks (Restaurant)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
0
0
0
Subtotal Station Blocks (Drinking Place)
2.097
KSF
0
0
0
7.48
3.86
11.34
16
8
24
Total Station Blocks
1,260
177
1,437
276
1,173
1,449
MU 1 (Residential)
68
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.40
0.22
0.62
27
15
42
MU 1 (High School)
450
Students
n/a
n/a
n/a
127
57
184
n/a
n/a
n/a
45
50
95
MU 2 (Office)
182.836
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
249
34
283
0.25
1.24
1.49
46
227
273
MU 2 (Retail)
8.606
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
5
3
8
1.80
1.94
3.74
15
17
32
MU 2 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 2 (Residential)
0
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
0
0
0
0.42
0.20
0.62
0
0
0
MU 3 (Office)
120.350
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
164
22
186
0.25
1.24
1.49
30
149
179
MU 3 (Retail)
5.618
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
4
2
6
1.80
1.94
3.74
10
11
21
MU 3 (Restaurant)
0.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
0
0
0
5.82
3.72
9.55
0
0
0
MU 3 (Residential)
67
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
5
29
34
0.42
0.20
0.62
28
13
41
MU 4 (Office)
5.071
KSF
1.36
0.19
1.55
7
1
8
0.25
1.24
1.49
1
6
7
MU 4 (Retail)
8.947
KSF
0.63
0.40
1.03
6
4
10
1.80
1.94
3.74
16
17
33
MU 4 (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
3.76
3.47
7.24
19
17
36
5.82
3.72
9.55
29
19
48
MU 4 (Residential)
70
DUs
0.08
0.43
0.51
6
30
36
0.42
0.20
0.62
29
14
43
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Office)
308.257
KSF
420
57
477
77
382
459
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Retail)
23.171
KSF
15
9
24
41
45
86
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Restaurant)
5.000
KSF
19
17
36
29
19
48
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (Residential)
205
DUs
16
88
104
84
42
126
Subtotal Mixed-Use Blocks (High School)
450
Students
127
57
184
45
50
95
Total Mixed-Use Blocks
597
228
825
276
538
814
Total Unadjusted Trips:
1,954
766
2,720
943
1,905
2,848
Internal Capture & Transit Reduction [1][2]:
AM Peak PM Peak
     Residential
32.85%
32.85%
28
149
177
149
72
221
     Retail
30.40%
30.40%
7
5
12
23
25
48
     Restaurant
37.90%
37.90%
12
10
22
17
12
29
     Drinking Place
37.90%
37.90%
0
0
0
5
4
9
     Office
15.20%
15.20%
254
34
288
47
230
277
Subtotal Internal & Transit Reduction:
301
198
499
241
343
584
TDM Level I & Level II Reduction :
AM Peak PM Peak
     Residential (Residential Blocks)
4.1%
4.1%
0
18
18
14
9
23
     Residential (MU Block 1)
8.1%
8.1%
0
3
3
2
1
3
     Residential (MU Blocks 2-4)
4.1%
4.1%
0
2
2
2
2
4
     Drinking Place
5.9%
5.9%
0
0
0
1
0
1
     Retail (Station and MU Blocks)
5.9%
5.9%
1
0
1
2
7
9
     Restaurant
5.9%
5.9%
1
2
3
3
2
5
     Office
10.6%
10.6%
176
23
199
32
161
193
Subtotal TDM Reduction:
178
48
226
56
182
238
Adjusted Trip Generation
1,475
520
1,995
646
1,380
2,026
Percent Reduction from Unadjusted Trip Generation
26.7%
28.9%
Maximum Trip Threshold Allowed Under Conditions of Approval:
2,569
Trips Under / (Over) Maximum Allowed Trips:
543
Source: Program based on Residential and Mixed-Use Programming Overview dated 11-10-17. 
Prepared by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
[1] Source of Mixed-Use Reductions: Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Handbook (Multi-Use Internalization Methodology). 
[2] Source of Transit Adjustments:
Office Transit Use: Cervero, Robert. Ridership Impacts of Transit-Focused Development in California. Institute of Urban and Regional Development. 1993
Average commute mode split of station area workers for Caltrain and BART systems, assumes 90% of office trips are commute trips.
     Non-work Trips: Rail/Bus = 5.3%
     Percent of Home-Based trips that are work trips = 56% in AM peak and 51% in PM peak. Source: Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
5/25/2021
Appendix 6 - Phase III Full Program Buildout (As per 01-09-08 Residential PD and 03-15-08 Commercial + Retail PD from WMS)
Bay Meadows II Trip Generation Budget (Post Grade Separations with Minimum 25% Trip Reduction Goal)
Units
Rate
     Work Trips:[Caltrain: Rail = 15.7%, Bus = 1.7%] [BART Rail = 44.3%, Bus = 0.6%]. Assuming 93% Caltrain share and 7% BART share, results in 17.7% + average of bus riders 
AM Peak
(Institute of Transportation Engineers' Rates from Hexagon Phasing Analysis Table 4)
Trips
AM Peak
PM Peak
Retail and Restaurant Transit Use: 50% of El Cerrito Plaza (BART) retail center mode split. Source: Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented 
Resident Transit Use: Average of Caltrain and BART commute mode share. Cervero, Robert Lund, Willson. Travel Characteristics of Transit-Oriented Development in California. 
Caltrans. 2004
Rate
Trips
Buildout Trip Reduction:
Size 
PM Peak
Land Use
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour

--- page 302 ---
-DRaFT PA 02-105 BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT
REVISED AS OF OCTOBER 21, 2005

38. MONUMENTATION - As a condition of approval of each final map for the Project
Tentative Map, the owner. shall have monuments set as required in SMMC Section
26.52.060, Survey Requirements. Monuments shall be set along the exterior
boundaries of the subdivision at intervals not exceeding five hundred feet and shall be .
placed at the angle points on the ‘exterior boundary lines of the tract, at the
intersections to the centerlines of the streets, and at the beginnings and ends of curves
at centerlines of streets and at such other points as may be required by the Public
Works Diréctor or his designee. Due consideration shall be given to visibility of
monuments one from another, Monuments shall be placed prior to the release of the
roadway improvement bonds required by the subdivision agreement. The owner shall
provide financial securities, in addition to bonding for the roadway system to be

dedicated to the City as public right-of-way, to insure the installation of. the
monuments. (PUBLIC WORKS) _

39. TRAFFIC CONTROL — Project intersection traffic control devices (stop signs and
Signals) will be determined during the approval process for the Tentative Map and/or
Site Development Permit for Framework Streets based on City and State

_ ‘requirements, consistent with the right-of-way widths specified in the Specific Plan
Amendment, and implemented when warranted. The owner shall be responsible for.
the installation of any signal warranted, as determined at each Planning Application.
The location of project Signals is to be evaluated with the expectation of project build-
out. Implementation of signals will be determitied in future Planning Applications on

a Block by Block basis. Stop sign locations shall comply with the City’s Stop Sign

- Policy and Procedures document. The owner may, with the approval of the Public
Works Director or his designee, install all-way stop control at intersections until such
time as signals are warranted... Conduit shall be installed across each leg of the:
‘intersection. when initially constructed, if it is anticipated that future signalization of
the intersection will be required, and if determined necessary by the Director of
Public Works. This condition shall be implemented as needed and monitored by the

Public Works Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) ,

40. TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM - A
Transportation Demand Management Program shall be implemented using a selection
of programs from the Corridor Plan and the City/County Association of Governments.
(C/CAG),. These programs, once implemented, must be on-going for the occupied _
‘life of the development, unless they are altered, exchanged or discontinued in
consultation with the City. The trip budget and monitoring plan shall be determined
-for each Block at the SPAR phase for development on the Block.

The project shall have the following trip thresholds, applicable as specified below, to
meet TDM trip reduction goals and EIR mitigation measures (note that references to
an "amount of development" in this condition refers to the amount of development as
calculated by square footage for commercial uses and housing units for residential
uses):

16


--- page 303 ---
DkaFrT PA 09-1 05 BAY MEADOWS PHASE U SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT ~
REVISED AS OF OCTOBER 21, 2005 7 ,

_ A. *Pre-Grade Separations: No building petmit shall be issued which would
. individually or cumulatively. permit an amount. of development that would
generate traffic in excess of 1,562 trips unless and until the Peninsula Corridor

Joint Powers Board has commenced construction of grade Separated crossings at

cither or both of 28th and 31st Avenues. *Mitigation Measure Traffic-BM18

' B. Short-term trip reduction: Until the later to occur of (i) completion ‘and
occupancy of at least 50% of the collective amount of development approved
for the first three Blocks to ‘be developed, and (ii) the completion of grade
Sepatated crossings at either or both of 28th-and 3 lst Avenues; in addition to the

overall project trip limits specified in paragraph A of this condition (if
applicable), the project-shall have a. trip reduction goal of 10% off the total PM -
peak hour trip generation calculated using the methodology in the FEIR
(excluding reductions for mixed-use internalization or transit-orierted
development), as determined during the SPAR approval process for each Block.

C. Mid-term trip reduction: From and after (i) completion and occupancy of at
least 50% of the collective amount of development approved for the first three
Blocks to be developed, and (ii) the completion of grade separated crossings at
either or both of 28th and 31st Avenues, the project (including Blocks
previously approved with a 10% goal) shall have a trip reduction goal of 16%
off the total PM peak hour trip generation calculated using -the methodology in

- the FEIR (excluding reductions for mixed-use internalization or transit-oriented
development), as determined during the SPAR approval process for each Block.
The total mid-term project trip generation cannot exceed 2,878: trips (84% of

D. - Long-term trip reduction: From and after the later to occur of (i) the approvalof .
a SPAR for each Block in the project, (ii) completion and occupancy of 75% of
the collective. amount of development approved for each Block in the
Station/Mixed Use Parcel (as shown in the ‘Specific Plan Amendment),
(iii)-completion and occupancy of 75% of the collective amount of development
approved for each Block in the Residential Parcel (as shown in the Specific Plan

. Amendment), and (iv) the completion of grade separated crossings at either or
both of 28th and 31st -Avenues, the project (including Blocks previously
approved with a 10% or 16% goal) shall have a trip reduction ‘goal of 25%.
Therefore, when fully built out, the project shall generate no more than 2,569 ©
‘trips (75% of 3,426 (the total number of trips assumed in the FEIR, excluding
reductions for mixed-use internalization or transit-oriented development, was
3,426 trips)). Even if an individual Block generates trips in excess of its TDM
reduction goals, so long as the project does not generate more than 2,569 PM
peak hour trips, then the project will be in compliance with the trip reduction
requirements of these conditions of approval. .

. The aggregate project trips shall in all events be determined by excluding any
trips attributable to’ the parking structure to be constructed by the Peninsula
Corridor Joint Powers Board at the new Hillsdale Caltrain station. (PUBLIC
WORKS, PLANNING)

17


--- page 304 ---
DRarr PA 02-105 BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT.
REVISED AS OF OCTOBER 21, 2005 mo, .

41,

42.

43,

*TRIP BUDGET DETERMINATION ~ The City will keep a running tabulation of
the trips projected to be generated -by the entire project, and individual Blocks, and no

development beyond the applicable trip budget for the project shall be permitted, To .
ensure that the project does not exceed the applicable trip budgets in effect at. any

‘particular time, any SPAR application must include_a traffic study projecting the

number of trips to be generated by the proposed development (a) -at the time a’
Certificate of Occupanc: will be issued for the development covered by the SPAR
¢€"Occupancy Projection"), and (b) at the time of full build out of the Specific Plan
Amendment area ("Build Out Projection"), and the TDM measures. proposed to be |

utilized for each scenario. Such traffic study must demonstrate that the Occupancy

- Projection meets the applicable trip budget and the Build Out Projection would not

cause-project traffic to exceed 2,569 PM peak hour trips. If the owner demonstrates
that the actual trips generated by the project are fewer than those projected through
the traffic studies submitted with any SPAR applications, then the running tabulation:

of trips shall be reduced accordingly to reflect the actual trip generation for the

project, and additional development (up to the relevant threshold limit) shall be ~
permitted. This condition shall be implemented prior to each SPAR approval. The
analysis shall be submitted with each SPAR application and monitored by the Public
Works Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) *Mitigation Meastire Traffic and .
Circulation - BM18 .

TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) — A TMA has
been established for projects in the Corridor Plan area. : All development within the -
Specific Plan Amendment area is required to participate in the TMA and fund their
fair share of the cost of the TMA. The TMA will develop TDM measures and make
them available to both existing and future development within the Corridor Plan area,

including Bay Meadows. (PUBLIC WORKS) |

*ITDM MONITORING ~— The short-term, mid-term and long-term trip reduction.
goals shall be monitored and verified by the City or TMA and shall comply with the
following: | -

A. Commencing from the time that the City's running tabulation of trips shows

that Bay Meadows is generating more than 1,100 trips, the City will monitor
the trips generated by Bay Meadows annually to determine whether the
Project is meeting its trip reduction requirements. The TDM requirements
shall be inchided in the CC&Rs recorded against the project site. The City
may require employee, resident, parking or other surveys to gain a better
understanding of travel behavior for residents and workers within the Specific
Plan area,

B. Prior to monitoring, the City or TMA shall agree with the owner as to a scope

of work for the review. The applicant or property owner shall: be notified of
the fees and a deposit shall be collected with 30 days of notification.

18


--- page 305 ---
Memorandum 
Date:  
June 15, 2021 
To: 
 
Mr. Rendell Bustos, City of San Mateo 
From:  
Kai-Ling Kuo, Gary Black 
Subject: 
Peer Review of the Updated Traffic Management Plan and Parking Management 
Plan for Bay Meadows II 
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. has reviewed the updates to the Bay Meadows II Traffic 
Management Plan (TMP) and Parking Management Plan (PMP), both dated June 14, 2021, 
prepared by Kimley Horn and Associates, Inc. Both the TMP and PMP have been updated to 
reflect the proposed land use modifications in mixed-use blocks MU 2 and MU 3 and the built land 
uses in Bay Meadows II. Hexagon’s comments on the previous draft TMP and PMP have been 
addressed, and we have no further comments.

--- page 306 ---
PROJECT: 
 
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
MEETING: 
 
Neighborhood Meeting 
LOCATION: 
 
Zoom Virtual Neighborhood Meeting  
DATE:   
 
Tuesday, June 2, 2020 at 6 pm 
ATTENDING:  
24 people 
 
 
Meeting Attendance 
 
Due to shelter-in-place requirements, the neighborhood meeting for the Bay Meadows MU 2 & 
MU 3 SPAR application was conducted virtually, via Zoom. All attendees were prompted to fill 
in their names and email addresses before entering into the Zoom meeting, and this list was 
downloaded from Zoom after the meeting concluded. 
 
First Name 
Last Name 
Email Address 
Vanessa 
Sewell 
vnsewell@gmail.com 
Kiran 
Ghodgaonkar 
kiranghod@hotmail.com 
Paul 
Ho 
paulho161@gmail.com 
Eric 
Park 
epark-baymeadows@jeztek.com 
Steve 
Chiang 
nevetsrd@att.net 
Mark* 
Santrach 
msantrach@harthowerton.com 
Eran 
Zawadzki 
eranz1000@gmail.com 
Sam 
Pan 
Sampan511@gmail.com 
Lisa 
Miao 
Amiaoco@gmail.com 
Russ 
Jones 
russ.jones@gmail.com 
Stephanie 
Lam 
stephanielamhomes@gmail.com 
Nisha 
Menezes 
Missmenezes@gmail.com 
Jack 
Troedson 
JTroedson@ngkf.com 
Letty 
b 
lettybombach@att.net 
Tim 
Huang 
timothyhuang@live.com 
Jessica 
Yau 
jessykaz@gmail.com 
Jeffrey 
Baginski 
jeffrey.baginski@gmail.com 
Claire 
Lua 
claireluamw@gmail.com 
Mary ann 
Yang 
yang4422@gmail.com 
Karen 
Mann-Anand 
Amanandkaren@gmail.com 
Jason 
Paik 
jpaikman@yahoo.com 
Roy 
Zawadzki 
roy.zawadzki@gmail.com 
Li 
Fan 
lifan@gmail.com 
Catherine 
Huang 
Starbuckssf@hotmail.com 
*Member of project sponsor’s design team

--- page 307 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
2 
Meeting Notes 
 
Q1: Is any retail space pre-leased for the proposed project? 
A: Leasing will start once the buildings are under construction. 
 
Q2: What are the changes in square footage from the previously-proposed project, broken out 
for office vs. retail? 
A: There is a net decrease of 12,493 s.f. of retail/active-use and a net increase of 274,348 s.f. of 
office. The requirement is to have retail frontage along S. Delaware, which this proposed 
modification does comply with.  
 
Q3.1: Why are these design changes being proposed? Why more office and less residential? 
A: The project is responding to the market.  
• It is also within the framework of transit-oriented development to have a mix of uses.  
• When the entitlements were done, we had a fair amount of flexibility particularly for 
these mixed-use blocks.  
• These changes are within our entitlements under the Development Agreement (DA).  
 
Q3.2 Will the homes be for-sale or rental, and what was originally proposed?  
A: The original plan was for-sale homes. These 57 units will be rental. We believe it’s good for 
the neighborhood to have a mix of product and tenure types.  
 
Q3.3 I expect there will be a formalized traffic analysis?  
A: Yes, we are required to do an updated Traffic Management Plan and Parking Management 
Plan as part of our SPAR submittal. 
 
Q3.4 What about the impact of Mello-Roos taxes and the potential change of MU 2 and 3 
towards the payment back? 
A: The office buildings do pay CFD taxes. This will not increase CFD taxes on any other 
properties in the community. 
 
Q4: There was a request to reduce the amount of retail in favor of office in 2018 and one 
reason offered was because there would be additional retail in MU 2. But this time, the retail is 
being minimized.  
A: Retail is super important part of this community.  
• A daytime population helps retail succeed.  
• We are providing retail along S. Delaware, in the MU 2 and 3 blocks, which does comply 
with our DA. 
• Even in the previously-approved SPAR, the only requirement was that the frontage 
facing S. Delaware be retail; it wasn’t required that the whole groundfloor space be 
retail. 
• We aim to have some great retail and are trying to find the right balance and mix of 
uses.

--- page 308 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
3 
• It is important to recognize that the traditional retail market is challenging at this time. 
 
Q5: Thank you for the presentation. Everything looks very nicely designed. I am concerned 
about the traffic, and if tenants will use transit; seems like change in use will increase in/out 
number of people during the day? How would it differ if it’s more housing? Office workers don’t 
necessarily live here. Which use better supports transit and community parks? 
A: Our entitlements have trip budgets for Bay Meadows; they sets the number of car trips we 
can have. 
• TMP gets updated with each submission and is vetted by City staff. It must be consistent 
with the requirements of the DA. 
• We have previous surveys of our residents showing that 43% commute via Caltrain. 
• The office garages don’t fill up; our study shows 67-73% utilization. 
• 51% of SurveyMonkey’s employees and subtenants commute by alternative modes. 
 
Q6. What kind of retailers will there be? Will there be a pharmacy? 
A: Wilson Meany does not have a predetermined tenant. 
• We think child care would be a great use and very additive to the community.  
• We want to ensure that this neighborhood-serving retail does not detract from the 
extensive retail at Hillsdale Shopping Center. 
• We welcome resident input on suggestions for retail users. 
 
Q7.1 Will this project impact the Safe Streets program, such as the restriction of through traffic 
at 28th Ave.? 
A. The construction of these buildings will not impact the City’s Safe Streets program, if that is 
something the City decides to continue.   
 
Q7.2 What is the expected impact of pandemic? 
A: We are very sensitive to the pandemic and how that factors into industry trends.  
• Late 2023 is scheduled construction completion; hoping for a vaccine, solutions, and a 
stabilized market by then. 
• Some research we see indicates office users will be seeking more space so their 
employees can be more spread out. 
• We know there continue to be people who need to or prefer to work from the office. 
• We believe Bay Meadows continues to be a higly desirable location. 
 
Q8.1. Any plans for pedestrian bridge/safe way to mall area?  
A: The two new grade-separated crossings will make for a much safer, welcoming passage 
across to Hillsdale. Much easier to walk or bike. 
• No plans by Wilson Meany, City or Caltrans for a bridge.  
 
Q8.2 Does lower square footage decrease the number of retail tenants, especially food, that 
you’re seeking?

--- page 309 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
4 
A: The square footage does not necessarily decrease the number of retailers.  
 
Q8.3 How successful are the retailers at Bay Meadows? Will you bring more anchor tenants, 
like staple food options? 
A: Tenants are not doing well under Shelter in Place, except Fieldwork.  
• Wilson Meany has been working very closely with the retailers to abate rent and help 
them through this difficult period. We are very committed to their success.  
• Food service and other types of retail will be better supported as the population grows. 
 
Q9. Other new communities can get restaurants, vibrant retail, why can’t we?  
A: The Master plan expected appropriately scaled retail offerings and did not want to be 
competitive with Hillsdale’s retail offerings. The retail offerings were always envisioned to grow 
as the community grows.  
 
Q9.1 Childcare would be really welcome, but the space proposed is rather small. 
A. Our potential childcare space is right-sized relative to the adjacent outdoor space. A 2,000 
square foot space can serve 26-30 children.  
 
Q10. Have you surveyed residents to determine childcare needs/demands? 
A: We agree that childcare would be a great addition. Our current planning comes out of 
discussions we have had with potential child care operators.  
 
Q11.1 Concern about amount of retail; will Delaware be a shopping street? Is retail expected in 
remaining planned buildings? 
A: Station 5 does have groundfloor retail; Station Blocks 2, 3, 4 have plans for future retail; 
retail leasing efforts are ongoing. 
 
Q11.2 Is there a target number of retail tenants? 
A: No, there is not a target number per se.  
• We are having conversations, with 2-3 more retailers signed/expected. 
• We continue to work on leasing. 
 
Q11.3 What percentage of the ultimate retailer count do we have currently, e.g. 50% or 10%? 
A: It’s absolutely more than 10%. We are currently probably closer to 50% leased. 
The retail was always intended to be neighborhood-serving and not a competitor to Hillsdale. 
 
Q12. For retailers, have you considered bookstores, toy stores, hardware stores? 
A: Tenant leasing has been focused on food uses as foundational. We cast a wide net. 
• Hardware/toy stores have not shown interest;  
• That could possibly make business sense in future as population grows. 
 
###

--- page 310 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Jison Hong 
Sent:
Saturday, June 12, 2021 6:33 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Bay Meadows MU2/MU3 Comment
Hello Rendell, 
 
We previously provided a comment at the study session regarding this project. We reside in Bay Meadows. 
 
As we have previously expressed at the study session, we are in opposition to the changes in MU2/MU3 to reduce the 
housing footprint. This seems the least appropriate time not to produce housing stock in our transit oriented 
development, given the overall city's goals and requirements from the state.This is prime real estate for housing that is 
accessible to public transit. 
 
The plan for MU3 seems acceptable and while the building footprint goes all the way to the edge of the lot, the central 
corridor and courtyard appears reasonable architecturally and from an open space perspective. 
 
MU2 is discordant with the other lots in that the building footprint goes right up to the edge of the lot as well as the very
limited open space, unlike many of the other lots. Our major objection is the removal of housing from the lot. 
 
We would strongly prefer MU3 design to be applied also to MU2. We would consider this acceptable, with or without 
the previously proposed childcare component. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Best regards ‐ 
 
Jason Paik and Jison Hong

--- page 311 ---
ECONOMY

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

SHERRI SAGER
Chair of the Board
Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford

ARIANE HOGAN
Vice Chair
Genentech

ROBERT WEBSTER

Vice Chair

Bohannon Development Company
STEVE MINCEY

Past Chair of the Board

DES Architects + Engineers, Inc

PAUL CASIAS

Vice Chair of Finance
My-Business-Advisor LLP

ELAINE BREEZE

Secretary

SummerHill Apartment Communities
ROSANNE FOUST

President & CEO

SAMCEDA

DIRECTORS

EMYLENE ASPILLA

San Francisco International Airport
MIKE BANGS

Oracle America, Inc

FRANK BARTALDO

Heritage Bank of Commerce
NORMAN BOOK, JR.

Carr McClellan

KEN BUSCH

Sares Regis Group of Northern California
Carol Donnelly

Embarcadero Capital Partners, LLC
SHELLEY DORAN

Webcor

WILLIAM GRAHAM

Sequoia Hospital/A Dignity Health Member
RICK KNAUF

Colliers International

SUNIL PANDYA

Wells Fargo

FRANK R. PETRILL!

Coblentz Patch Duffy & Bass
MARIO PUCCINELLI

Recology San Mateo County
NIRAJ SINGH

Kaiser Permanente

JONATHAN SCHARFMAN
ASHLEY STANLEY

BKF Engineers

LUCY WICKS

Stanford University

EMERITUS ADVISOR
TO THE CHAIR

T, JACK FOSTER, JR.

Foster Enterprises

SAMCEDA ©

June 10, 2021

Chair Ellen Mallory and Members of the Planning Commission
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dear Chair Mallory and Members of the Planning Commission,

For seven decades, the San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA) has
been a leading voice for the economic engine that is San Mateo County. SAMCEDA believes in the power of a strong
economy driven by an appreciation of what that engine provides to our ecosystem on the Peninsula.

By working with employers of all sizes and industries, engaging with our public sector and our elected leadership,
recognizing that we have 21 individual jurisdictions (20 cities and one county) and collaborating and communicating
with the Chambers of Commerce, non-profit organizations and our educational institutions, SAMCEDA tackles the
most difficult challenges through goal-oriented solutions.

As an organization advocating not only for positive economic growth, but also for the environmental and social
well-being of San Mateo County, we are eager to see the final completion of the Bay Meadows Project, a
crown jewel of the City of San Mateo's visionary rail corridor plan.

We write you today to express our support for Wilson Meany's proposal for mixed-use parcels 2 and 3, among the
last parcels to be built out in the Bay Meadows community.

As you are aware, a key ingredient to the success of Bay Meadows has been the overwhelming use of public transit
by residents and office workers. By the time the proposed MU-2 and 3 buildings are completed, we believe transit
will have recovered from COVID and transit-oriented-developments such as Bay Meadows will once again play a
critical role in an environmentally sustainable Bay Area. Further, the additional office space will help support the
local economy in recovering from job losses.

SAMCEDA has supported earlier proposals of Wilson Meany's. We believe the developer has been a thoughtful and
effective partner with the City of San Mateo in bringing this model of smart growth to fruition. The MU-2 and 3
proposal adheres to the limits of uses entitled in the Bay Meadows Specific Plan. It also presents the option for a
child-care center, a greatly valued amenity.

We hope the Commission will approve this application, which in turn will help facilitate the swift completion of this
pioneering project. Thank you.

Best Regards,

Rosanne Foust
President & CEO, SAMCEDA

EE vevw.samceda.org


--- page 312 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/23/20 
 
Page 1 
COMISSION MEMBERS 
Mike Etheridge, Chair 
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Ramiro Maldonado 
Margaret Williams 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Planning Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Tuesday, June 23, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote:    Mike Etheridge, Ellen Mallory, John Ebneter, Ramiro Maldonado, Margaret Williams 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
1. 
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval  
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of June 9, 2020. Motion passed 5-0. 
 
Moved:  
Maldonado, Seconded: Ebneter 
Ayes:   
Etheridge, Mallory, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter 
Noes:   
None 
Abstain:  None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no comments. 
 
STUDY SESSION 
 
2. 
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines and General Plan Amendment 
Principle Transportation Planner Sue-Ellen Atkinson and consultants Damian Stefanakis and Fernando Sotelo of 
Kittleson & Associates, presented an overview of the draft TIA guidelines and proposed General Plan amendment. 
Atkinson reviewed SB 743, Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) and Level of Service (LOS). Sotelo described guidelines for 
CEQA and non-CEQA transportation analysis and the evaluation procedure. Atkinson introduced amendments to 
the General Plan Circulation Elements related to the item and next steps. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. The Commission Chair opened the Public Comment period. There were 
no comments. 
 
Adopt a resolution recommending City Council adoption of the General Plan Amendments to the Circulation 
Element and make a motion to recommend City Council adoption of the proposed TIA Guidelines. Motion passed 
5-0. 
 
Moved:  
Ebneter, Seconded: Williams

--- page 313 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/23/20 
 
Page 2 
Ayes:   
Etheridge, Mallory, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter 
Noes:   
None 
 
 
3. 
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification Study Session – Design Review Focus (PA-2020-016) 
Interim Senior Planner Rendell Bustos provided a presentation introducing applicant requests to modify two 
designs on multi-use blocks within the Bay Meadows Phase II area. Bustos provided a brief overview of Phases I & 
II, background of Phase II area Mixed-Use blocks 2 & 3 (MU2 & MU3), and project modifications requested by the 
applicant. Staff requested feedback on building design and design expectations.  
 
Applicant Presentation: 
Janice Thatcher, Wilson Meany, shared an update on the currents state of Phase II and presented the proposed 
development. Nicole Emmons, Wilson Meany, presented planning and design guidelines. Dwight Long, Perkins and 
Will, presented the design of the office spaces. Paul Milana, Hart Howerton Architects, presented the design 
components of the residential building. Nico Wright, CMG Landscape Architecture, presented the proposed tree 
and streetscape planting.  
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff and the applicant representatives. 
 
Public Comment: 
Adam Loraine stated more office space meant losing affordable units. Claire Lua, Meadow Walk Homeowners 
Association, stated developers were interested in meeting the bare-minimum criteria and favors retail to office 
space. Jason Paik noted that the applicant’s reasoning for more office space could also apply to increased housing 
and would like to preserve the residential nature of the neighborhood. Stephanie Lam expressed support for the 
childcare center and mixed-use building.  
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff and provided comments.  
 
Commissioner Williams expressed concern with reduced retail space; noted the residential project blends well 
with existing neighborhood; the commercial projects used a good mix of materials, however, some design 
combinations seemed incongruous. Williams would like to see a breakdown of glass and metal panels. Williams 
noted that the design creates an urban setting for the Nueva School across the street.  
 
Commissioner Maldonado stated concern with the reduction in housing, notably affordable units and remarked 
that the neighborhood needs more residential and retail space. Maldonado stated support for the building’s 
finish; it’s use of natural light; and noted the development blends well with the existing community. He supports 
the addition of the childcare center.  
 
Commissioner Ebneter cited concerns with the project’s addition of additional commercial space; and noted that 
the childcare facility square footage was not enough to accommodate larger class sizes. Ebneter reiterated the 
need to strike a balance between retail, commercial, and residential space. He is supportive of the building design; 
and concerned that affordable housing needs are not met.  
 
Commissioner Mallory stated that the design creates a transition between commercial and residential areas; 
noted the need to increase housing in MU2 and advantages of retail sales tax revenue; however, would prefer to 
see more color, varied shapes, and less glass in the building design. Mallory stated she had no issue with the 
current guidelines.  
 
Commissioner Etheridge stated the building’s design use of glass, metal, and concrete does not fit in with the 
existing residential communities and he noted elements such as wood paneling may soften the current design. He

--- page 314 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/23/20 
 
Page 3 
noted the significant decrease in residential units as a concern. Etheridge noted the project was meant to be a 
balanced retail and residential space and this is not reflected in the design guidelines.  
 
In response to housing concerns, Interim Senior Planner Rendell Bustos clarified the level of discretion the City has 
to require more housing and clarified exception guidelines versus land use requirements.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
4. 
Election of Officers 
Commissioner Ebneter nominated Ellen Mallory for Commission Chair. Malloy accepted the nomination. 
 
Elect Commissioner Ellen Mallory as Planning Commission Chair. Motion passed 4-0-1. 
 
Moved:  
Ebneter, Seconded: Etheridge 
Ayes:   
Etheridge, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter 
Noes:   
None 
Abstain:  Mallory 
 
Commissioner Ellen Mallory nominated Ramiro Maldonado for Vice Chair. Maldonado accepted the nomination.  
 
Elect Commissioner Ramiro Maldonado as Planning Commission Vice Chair. Motion passed 4-0-1. 
 
Moved:  
Mallory, Seconded: Etheridge 
Ayes:   
Etheridge, Mallory, Williams, Ebneter 
Noes:   
None 
Abstain:  Maldonado 
 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Planning Manager Aaron Aknin reminded the Commission of important items going to the upcoming City Council Special 
Meeting.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 9:50 p.m. 
 
 
APPROVED BY: 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
                                                           __ 
                                                            
Mike Etheridge, Commission Chair  
Erin Fellers, Planning Secretary

--- page 315 ---
May 14, 2021
Mr. Rendell Bustos
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
Bay Meadows II MU2 and MU3
Dear Rendell:
I initially reviewed the drawings, evaluated the site context, viewed the video of the Planning Commission 
Study Session, and participated with staff in a video conference with the applicant’s team. A formal review 
letter was delivered on October 23, 2020 summarizing the proposed changes to the project compared to the 
approved drawings, and offering some suggestions for design changes. Follow up review letters were provided 
in March and April.
Following the review letters, I participated with staff and the applicant in several follow up video conference 
calls to review and provide feedback on the design changes made in response to the review letters. This letter 
will focus on the current changes made to the project. Some materials contained in the previous review letters 
are repeated here since the Planning Commission has not seen those earlier letters. My comments on the cur-
rent plans and elevations are as follows:
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN

--- page 316 ---
PROJECT OVERVIEW
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 2
MU 3
MU 2
MU 3
MU 2

--- page 317 ---
CURRENT FACADES COMPARED TO STUDY SESSION DESIGNS
STUDY SESSION   SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
MU 2
MU 3
STUDY SESSION   WEST KYNE STREET
MU 3
CURRENT DESIGN   SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
CURRENT DESIGN   WEST KYNE STREET
MU 2
MU 3
MU 2
MU 3
MU 2
DESIGN CHANGES
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 3

--- page 318 ---
MU 2 PROPOSED: 
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET FACADES
MU 1: SCHOOL | 28h Avenue Facade
MU 1: RESIDENTIAL | Delaware Street Facade
STA 1: OFFICE | Delaware Street Facade
STA 2: OFFICE | Delaware Street and 28th avenue 
Facades
STA 3: OFFICE | Delaware Street Facade
STA 4: OFFICE | Delaware Street Facade
MU 3 PROPOSED: 
NEW DESIGNS IN CONTEXT
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 4

--- page 319 ---
MU 2 PROPOSED: West Kyne Street Facade
KYNE STREET FACADES
RES 4: RESIDENTIAL Kyne Street facade
MU 4: RESIDENTIAL Kyne Street facade 
RES 1: RESIDENTIAL : Kyne Street facade
MU 3 PROPOSED: West Kyne Street Facade
RES 6: RESIDENTIAL Kyne Street facade 
North Terminus of Linear Park
MU 1: SCHOOL
South Terminus of Linear Park
RES 7: RESIDENTIAL
NEW DESIGNS IN CONTEXT
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 5

--- page 320 ---
SITE CONTEXT
The sites are located across South Delaware Street from office parcels STA 2 and STA 3 and across Kyne Street 
from residential parcels RES 1 and RES 4. Photographs of the site and surroundings were shown on the previ-
ous pages.
PLANNING COMMISSION CONCERNS
The Planning Commission held a study session on the project on June 23, 2020. Major concerns and com-
ments from that meeting include the following.
1.	 Transitional parcels - How does the design respond to that? How are these transitional?
2.	 Reduction in residential is a disappointment.
3.	 Would like to preserve residential character of Bay Meadows. Fear this project will change the character to 
“Office Park” character.
4.	 Keep residential facing east - wish MU2 included residential.
5.	 Break down of the glass could be stronger.
6.	 Introduce more wood?
7.	 Improve MU2 South Delaware Street entry courtyard - should feel more inviting.
8.	 Design feels a little “stark.
9.	 Doesn’t see argument for reducing residential and retail - Should have a Neighborhood Balance. - Should 
consider residential and retail as a “Benefit to the Community”.
10.	ChildCare size seems questionable.
11.	Residential lacks color - black and white doesn’t seem to fit with other residential.
SITE CONTEXT ISSUES AND CONCERNS
This material was included in the previous letter reviewed by the applicant. It is included here to provide 
the Planning Commission with relevant context.
In regard to the Planning Commission’s concerns and comments summarized above, the issue of the 
amount of residential and retail uses falls solely in the purview of the commission and whether compliance 
with the Specific Plan is met. 
This letter will focus on what seems to be the other design-related issues.
•	 Transitional design between the STA2 and STA3 Office blocks along the east side of South Delaware 
Street and the Residential Blocks along both East and West Kyne Street.
•	 Overall character of the design.
•	 Materials and concern that the design might be too stark.
The issues are similar to several others that I have reviewed in San Mateo, and listened to the responses of 
the planning commissioners in addressing their concerns and issues. Often, the applicant and design profes-
sionals focus on creating a distinctive, pure Contemporary Style design while the Planning Commission has 
stressed overall Contextual Urban Design as related to its fit within its immediate context and its perceived 
relevance to the city of San Mateo San Mateo’s community expectations.
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 6

--- page 321 ---
In my initial review of the design in October, I identified a number of issues with the two buildings if 
one were to evaluate them in their context relative to both the South Delaware Street office and Kyne Street 
residential development contexts. There may also be some issues relative to the Bay Meadows Phase II Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards. Look at the example photos in that document - especially those ad-
dressing the Landing Green Linear Park District - see facades facing the Landing Green Linear Park above on 
page 5.
In looking at these two parcels, it would be reasonable to adopt design principles which would draw on 
the design of the Station Office Blocks for the western half of the buildings and on the residential buildings 
facing the Landing Green Linear Park on the eastern half. When recently reviewing the designs for STA 1 and 
MU1, I evaluated the major defining design elements of the STA Block office buildings to see what elements 
of their design might be helpful clues in relating those two projects to that urban design context. I believe that 
they would also be relevant to the design of the MU2 and MU3 front and adjacent side facades nearest to the 
South Delaware Street frontage. These major features illustrations are shown below.
STA 2
STA 3
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 7

--- page 322 ---
STA 3
STA 3 Ground Floor
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 8

--- page 323 ---
STA 4
STA 5
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 9

--- page 324 ---
Major characteristics of these office buildings include the following:
•	 Significant changes in the facade planes.
•	 Large volumetric forms and varied building heights.
•	 Significant setbacks at the upper floors.
•	 Significant facade articulation and depth.
•	 Mixture of solid forms and glass facades.
•	 Substantial ground floor setbacks along the Delaware Street frontage.
INITIAL DESIGN EVALUATION (OCTOBER 2020)
While I had a couple of suggestions for the residential portion of the MU3 block in my October review letter, 
I concurred with most of the concerns and comments expressed at the Planning Commission study session. 
The project is well done, but the facades reviewed in that study session probably did not adequately address 
the context and character of these two Bay Meadows II sites. The full glass facades for the office portion of 
both projects, with only a small amount of wood added to roof soffits, did not seem to effectively accomplish 
the planning commission’s goal of seeing these projects serve as a transition between the office blocks west of 
South Delaware Street and the residential blocks bordering the Landing Green Linear Park. The office struc-
tures also did not effectively possess the major characteristics common on the STA 1-5 blocks as illustrated on 
page 7-10, and summarized above.
The initial evaluation included only limited recommendations for the applicant’s consideration, and focused 
on the following Basic Principles.
BASIC PRINCIPLES
The Basic Principles for the office portions of the project include those listed above for the characteristics of 
the STA 1-5 office structures:
•	 Relate South Delaware Street Facades to STA 2 and STA 3 across the street.
•	 Provide significant changes in the facade planes.
•	 Provide large volumetric forms and varied building heights.
•	 Provide significant setbacks at the upper floors.
•	 Provide significant facade articulation and depth.
•	 Include a mixture of solid forms and glass facades.
•	 Provide substantial ground floor setbacks along the Delaware Street frontage.
•	 Enhance the design of the ground floor retail and active uses along the Delaware Street frontage.
My recommendations for the Kyne Street portion of the MU2 block included the following:
Note: These principles were recommended whether the easterly portion of MU2 remains as office or is changed to 
residential use.
•	 Break the facade into smaller increments similar to other residential structures facing the Landing 
Green Linear Park, and similar to the residential structure proposed on the MU3 block.
•	 Limit the amount of glass on the facades with another material dominating the facades on the 
Kyne Street facade, transition the side elevation to the facade treatment developed for the western 
portion of the MU2 block.
•	 Use colors that are added to, or integral to, the non-glass materials that are sympathetic to those 
of the residential structures facing the Landing Green Linear Park.
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 10

--- page 325 ---
CURRENT DESIGN EVALUATION
Staff and the applicant’s design team have been working together over the past several months to address the 
design concerns raised by the Planning Commission. The applicant’s design team has been responsive to staff’s 
design suggestions, and proactive in searching for solutions to both address the project’s design context and 
the overall design unity of each structure. The review comments below are focused on the South Delaware 
Street and West Kyne Street facades since they, as a pair, are most relevant to the issues of character and design 
context.
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
MU2 BLOCK FACADE
DESIGN CHANGES
MU2 Study Session
MU2 Current Design
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 11

--- page 326 ---
RELATIONSHIP TO STA 2 FACADE ACROSS SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 12

--- page 327 ---
MU3 BLOCK FACADE
DESIGN CHANGES
MU 3 Study Session
MU 3 Current Design
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 13

--- page 328 ---
RELATIONSHIP TO STA 3 FACADE ACROSS SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 14

--- page 329 ---
MU2 and MU3 BLOCK STOREFRONTS
The revised South Delaware Street facade designs looks good with more elements and colors to relate them 
to the office structures across the street. While the South Delaware Street facade has received intense scrutiny 
over the past several months, the design development of the ground floor storefronts has only recently received 
similar focused design attention. The proposed design for the MU2 and MU3 blocks now being reviewed is 
quite different in scale and character than that previously approved by the commission, and has required a 
fresh look at the proper approach to the storefront character, details and signage. The intent is still to enhance 
the pedestrian scale and visual interest of the storefronts as a community benefit, and as a pedestrian amenity 
supportive of the Transit Oriented Development emphasis of Bay Meadows II. A second goal of the two-block 
length of the storefronts has been to unify the storefront treatment with the design, materials and details of 
the building style and character of the buildings as a whole while providing some visual diversity along the 
frontages.
MU2 SOUTH DELAWARE STOREFRONTS
MU3 SOUTH DELAWARE STOREFRONTS
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 15

--- page 330 ---
WEST KYNE STREET
MU2 BLOCK
DESIGN CHANGES
Projecting wall elements which mimic bay window modules on the adjacent MU3 facade and several of the 
nearby multifamily residential buildings have been added to break up the large glass walls which were of con-
cern to the planning commission last June.
MU3 BLOCK
DESIGN CHANGES
No significant changes have been made.
MU2 and MU3 BLOCKS TOGETHER
MU 3 Study Session
MU 3 Current Design
MU 3 Current Design
MU 2 Current Design
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 16

--- page 331 ---
SIDE FACADES
The side facades of both MU 2 and MU 3 provide good transitions between their South Delaware Street 
facades and the changed design vocabulary on the West Kyne Street facades.
RECOMMENDATIONS
The proposed project has changed substantially since the June 23, 2020 Planning Commission Study Session. 
Those changes have been focused on addressing the commission’s concerns. I believe that the changes made 
have been responsive to those concerns.
I have no further recommendations for changes.
With respect to the requested Design Guidelines Exceptions, if the above recommendations are followed, I 
would find the exceptions reasonable.
Rendell, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not 
address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
Bay Meadows II
MU 2 and MU 3
Design Review Comments
May 14, 2021	
  Page 17

--- page 332 ---
6"
6"
3"
4"
4"
5"
4"
5"
2"
3"
4"
3"
5"
5"
5"
5"
4"
10"
6"
8"
8"
8"
4"
4"
4"
4"
4"
2"
2"
2"
v
e
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
c
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
ts
ts
sl
ts
c
up
u
up
up
sl
u
e
c
ev
sl
ts
ts
up
ts
c
up
u
ts
sd
w
sl
sl
sl
c
ts
sd
D
S
S
D
D
S
D
PROPOSED BUILDING 
CORNER SET BACK 10'-10"  
FROM 10 FT SETBACK LINE
PROPOSED BREAK IN BLOCK FACE
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVENUE
28TH AVENUE
LOWER FLOOR BTZ, 5'-0" FROM SETBACK
TOP FLOOR BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
LOWER FLOOR BTZ, 3'-0" FROM SETBACK
UPPER FLOOR BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
LOWER FLOOR BTZ, 3'-0" FROM SETBACK
UPPER FLOOR BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
MAX 50'-0"
72' - 6"
PROPOSED BUILDING CORNER TO 
REINFORCE BLOCK FACE ALONG 
28TH AVE, DOES NOT CURVE TO 
FOLLOW 28TH AVE AND DELAWARE 
PROPERTY LINE.
HOLD CORNER
20' - 0" REQ.
HOLD CORNER
20' - 0" REQ.
INTO 10FT SETBACK
18' - 8" ENCROACHMENT
INTO 10FT SETBACK
87' - 3" ENCROACHMENT
5' - 4"
7' - 4 1/4"
2' - 7 3/4"
1' - 9 3/4"
4' - 4 1/4"
10' - 10"
A
B
C
D
BUILDING PROFILE ON LEVEL 4
BUILDING PROFILE ON L1 
SHOWN DASHED IN MAGENTA
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO-ZONE
BUILDING CORNER DEVIATION 
ENCROACHMENT INTO 10 FT SETBACK 
LEGEND
PROPOSED BUILDING PLACEMENT
MU2
WILSON MEANY
04/16/21

--- page 333 ---
6"
6"
3"
4"
4"
5"
4"
5"
2"
3"
4"
3"
5"
5"
5"
5"
4"
10"
6"
8"
8"
8"
4"
4"
4"
4"
4"
2"
2"
2"
v
v
e
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
c
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
ts
ts
sl
ts
c
up
u
up
up
sl
u
e
c
ev
sl
ts
ts
up
ts
c
up
u
ts
sd
w
sl
sl
sl
c
ts
sd
S
D
D
S
S
S
D
S
S
D
S
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
FEVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
TRANSFORMER
MAIN ELEC.
PARKING
ACTIVE USE SPACE
ACTIVE USE SPACE
STAIR 3
OPEN OFFICE
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 99' - 3 1/4" TO CURB CORNER
MAX. 35'-0"
20' - 0" CURB CUT
.
20' - 0" CURB CUT, MAX. 35'-0"
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 60' - 0 1/4" TO CURB CORNER
LOADING
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVENUE
28TH  AVENUE
CURB CUT MIN. 50'-0' APART
PROPOSED WIDTH  23' - 6"  BET. CURB CUTS
A
PROPOSED CURB CUT
MU3
WILSON MEANY
04/16/2021
B

--- page 334 ---
PL
KYNE ST
3' - 2"
14' - 4"
BTZ
BSB
7' - 10"
PL
KYNE ST
BSB
BTZ
9' - 8"
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
BUILDING CORNER
DEVIATION 
ENCROACHMENT INTO
10 FT SETBACK 
LEGEND
KYNE STREET PROPOSED BUILD TO ZONE
MU3
WILSON MEANY
04/16/2021
SECTION D
SECTION C
SECTION D
SECTION C
B

--- page 335 ---
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
BUILDING CORNER
DEVIATION 
ENCROACHMENT INTO
10 FT SETBACK 
LEGEND
PL
BSB
BTZ
6' - 3 1/4"
0' - 7"
PL
BSB
BTZ
4' - 10 1/4"
28TH AVE PROPOSED BUILD TO ZONE
MU3
WILSON MEANY
04/16/2021
SECTION B
SECTION A
SECTION A
SECTION B
B

--- page 336 ---
IRR
BFP
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
v
v
v
v
ts
ts
sl
c
ts
sl
sd
e
e
up
e
sl
ev
e
cv
sl
sl
sl
e
ev
w
ir
c
sl
sl
ev
sd
sd
sd
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
uc
up
sd
ts
ts
ir
sd
sd
sd
w
e
up
sd
ir
tr
br
br
S
D
D
RESIDENTIAL
SEE R-SERIES DRAWINGS
INTO SETBACK
LEVEL 2 AND 
LEVEL 3 ONLY
INTO SETBACK
LEVEL 2 TO 
LEVEL 4 ONLY
LOWER FLOOR BTZ, 3'-0" FROM SETBACK
UPPER FLOOR BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
LOWER FLOOR BTZ, 5'-0" FROM SETBACK
UPPER FLOOR BTZ, 10'-0" FROM SETBACK
BUIDLING PROFILE ON LEVEL 4
46' - 11 3/4"  ENCROACHMENT
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
LANDING AVE
DERBY AVE 
WEST KYNE STREET
MU3 OFFICE
ENCROACHMENT
50' - 0"
BUIDLING PROFILE 
ON LEVEL 4
B
B
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK (WHERE REQUIRED)
BUILD-TO ZONE
ENCROACHMENT INTO 10 FT SETBACK 
LEGEND
PROPOSED BUILDING PLACEMENT
MU3
WILSON MEANY
04/16/2021

--- page 337 ---
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
IRR
BFP
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
DN
UP
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
v
v
v
v
v
v
ts
ts
sl
c
ts
sl
sd
e
e
up
e
sl
ev
e
cv
sl
sl
sl
e
ev
w
ir
c
sl
sl
ev
sd
sd
sd
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
uc
up
sd
ts
ts
ir
sd
sd
sd
w
e
up
sd
ir
tr
br
br
S
S
S
S
D
S
D
D
D
S
GAS METER
PARKING
LOADING
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 72' - 7" TO CURB CORNER
MAX. 35'-0"
20' - 0" CURB CUT
.
MAX. 35'-0"
20' - 0" CURB CUT
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 109' - 0 3/8" TO CURB CORNER
RESIDENTIAL
MU3 OFFICE
REQ. MIN. 50'-0" APART
PROPOSED WIDTH  5' - 0" BET. CURB CUTS
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
LANDING AVE
DERBY AVE
WEST KYNE STREET
MAIN
ELEC
TRANS-
FORMER
A
PROPOSED CURB CUT
MU3
WILSON MEANY 
04/16/2021

--- page 338 ---
D W
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
D W
DW
DW
IRR
BFP
D W
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
DW
D W
DW
DW
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
v
v
v
v
v
ts
ts
sl
c
ts
sl
sd
e
e
up
e
sl
ev
e
cv
sl
sl
sl
e
ev
w
ir
c
sl
sl
ev
sd
sd
sd
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
uc
up
sd
ts
ts
ir
sd
sd
sd
w
e
up
sd
ir
S
S
S
D
S
D
D
D
S
MU3 OFFICE
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
LANDING AVE
DERBY AVE
WEST KYNE STREET
RESIDENTIAL
MAX 20'-0"
PROPOSED 23'-8" WIDE
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
HOLD CORNER
60' - 0" MIN.
EL 115.0'
EL 115.0'
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
PROPOSED
13' - 6"
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE HEIGHT: 
15'-0" REQUIRED FROM SIDEWALK 
EXTG GRADE
EL 114.7'
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2: OFFICE
PROPOSED PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
MU3
WILSON MEANY 
04/16/2021
1" = 60'-0"
MU3 OFFICE PEDESTRIAN PASSAGEWAY.
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
MU3 OFFICE- SECTION LOOKING SOUTH AT PEDESTRIAN PASSAGEWAY
2
MID BLOCK PASSAGE
EL 115.0'
EL 115.0'
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
PROPOSED
13' - 6"
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE HEIGHT: 
15'-0" REQUIRED FROM SIDEWALK 
EXTG GRADE
EL 114.7'
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2: OFFICE
1/16" = 1'-0"
MU3 OFFICE- SECTION LOOKING SOUTH AT PEDESTRIAN PASSAGEWAY
2

--- page 339 ---
HH SHEETS
MU3
WILSON MEANY 
04/16/2021
•	Seeking exception of required 15' clear height from
the sidewalk for mid-block passage
REQUIRED 15’-0” HEIGHT FROM SIDEWALK
REQUIRED 15’-0” HEIGHT FROM SIDEWALK
13’-0”
13’-0”
11’-0”
11’-0”
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE
ENTRY VIEW ACROSS LANDING GREEN PARK
PROPOSED PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE

--- page 340 ---
HH SHEETS
MU3
WILSON MEANY 
04/16/2021
•	Seeking exception for the awning of which the depth
exceeds the 6' projection limit from the setback
AWNING DEPTH 10’-0”
AWNING DEPTH 10’-0”
PASSAGE HEIGHT 13’-0”
PASSAGE HEIGHT 13’-0”
VIEW SOUTH ON KYNE STREET SIDEWALK
6’ PROJECTION 
6’ PROJECTION 
DEPTH LIMIT
DEPTH LIMIT
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK LINE
SETBACK LINE
10’-0”
10’-0”
6’-0”
6’-0”
AWNING PROJECTION

--- page 341 ---
ADDENDUM #6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- 
SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR TOD PLAN AND  
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
(Certified by the San Mateo City Council on April 18, 2005, June 6, 2005 and 
November 7, 2005) 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
The California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) requires public agencies to analyze and 
consider the environmental consequences of their decisions to approve development projects 
over which they exercise discretion.  CEQA achieves this objective by requiring agencies to 
prepare Environmental Impact Reports (“EIRs”) for projects with the potential to cause 
significant impacts on the physical environment.  EIRs are public documents that assess 
environmental effects related to the planning, construction, and operation of a project, and 
indicate ways to reduce or avoid possible environmental damage.  An EIR also discloses any 
growth-inducing impacts, effects found not to be significant, significant cumulative impacts, and 
significant impacts that cannot be avoided.  The purpose of an EIR is to inform.  EIRs are not 
policy documents that recommend project approval or denial.   
As lead agency, the City of San Mateo prepared an EIR for the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan and the Bay Meadows II Specific Plan Amendment (“Specific Plan 
Amendment”), in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public 
Resources Code, section 21000 et seq.) and the State CEQA Guidelines (California Code of 
Regulations, Section 15000 et seq., as amended).  The City Council certified the final EIR for the 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan & Bay Meadows II Specific Plan 
Amendment (“Final EIR”) at a public hearing on April 18, 2005, approved the San Mateo Rail 
Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan, re-certified the Final EIR for that Plan, and 
adopted the findings and statement of overriding considerations at a public hearing on June 6, 
2005 and approved the Specific Plan Amendment, re-certified the Final EIR for that project, and 
adopted the findings and statement of overriding considerations at a public hearing on 
November 7, 2005.  As noted at pages 1-6 of the Final EIR, the analysis in the Final EIR was at a 
“project” level of detail, which anticipated the potential impacts of future discretionary approvals 
to implement the project.  The Final EIR expressly states that applications for subsequent Site 
Plan and Architectural Review (“SPAR”) would not require preparation of subsequent 
environmental documentation, unless otherwise required by CEQA Section 21166 and CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15162.
1   
 
 1 Public Resources Code Section 21166 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 limit the ability of an agency to 
require an additional EIR, once one has been certified for a project.  Section 21166 and Section 15162 provide 
that when an environmental impact report has been prepared for a project, no subsequent or supplemental 
environmental impact report will be required unless certain specified events occur.  These events include (a) 
substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the environmental impact 
report; (b) substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is being 
undertaken which will require major revisions in the environmental impact report; or (c) new information, 
which was not known and could not have been known at the time the environmental impact report was certified 
as complete, becomes available, and the new information shows that (i) the project will have one or more 
significant effects not discussed in the previous EIR or negative declaration; (ii) significant effects previously 
examined will be substantially more severe than shown in the previous EIR; (iii) mitigation measures or 
alternatives previously found not to be feasible would in fact be feasible and would substantially reduce one or 
more significant effects of the project, but the project proponents decline to adopt the mitigation measure or 
[Footnote continued on next page]

--- page 342 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 2 of 12 
 
 
 
In its approval of the Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR Application #1 (PA 07-054), the City 
Council adopted an Addendum to the Final EIR (“Addendum # 1”), concluding that none of the 
criterion in CEQA Section 21166 or CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 had been met that would 
require preparation of a subsequent or supplemental EIR and that an Addendum was appropriate.  
The Planning Commission relied upon the Final EIR and Addendum #1 in adopting Findings for 
Approval related to CEQA compliance for SPAR #2 (including RES 4), concluding that the 
approval of SPAR #2 did not require preparation of a subsequent or supplemental EIR.  In 
connection with its approval of a subsequent SPAR for the Nueva High School (PA 12-051), the 
City prepared Addendum #2 to the Final EIR, concluding that the approval of the SPAR for the 
Nueva High School also did not require preparation of a subsequent or supplemental EIR.  In 
connection with its approval of the preferred alignment option for the Norfolk Street Sanitary 
Sewer Connection that was required to be installed for the Bay Meadows Phase II project as a 
mitigation measure of the EIR, the City prepared Addendum #3 to the Final EIR, concluding that 
the approval of the preferred alignment option also did not require preparation of a subsequent or 
supplemental EIR.   Subsequently, in connection with modifications to the project approved 
under SPAR #2 for RES 4, the City prepared Addendum # 4 to the Final EIR, concluding that 
approval of these modifications to RES 4 did not require preparation of a subsequent or 
supplemental EIR.  Finally, in connection with the modifications to the project approved under 
SPAR # 1 for Station Blocks 1 and 5, the City prepared Addendum # 5 to the Final EIR, 
concluding that approval of these modifications did not require preparation of a subsequent or 
supplemental EIR. 
The project proponent has now proposed modifications to the existing SPAR approvals relating 
to Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3.   
Where a subsequent or supplemental EIR is not required under Section 21166, CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15164 explains when an addendum to an EIR would be required: 
15164.  
Addendum to an EIR or Negative Declaration. 
"(a) 
The lead agency or a responsible agency shall prepare an addendum to a 
previously certified EIR if some changes or additions are necessary but none of 
the conditions described in Section 15162 calling for preparation of a subsequent 
EIR have occurred. 
(b) 
An addendum to an adopted negative declaration may be prepared if only minor 
technical changes or additions are necessary or none of the conditions described 
 
[Footnote continued from previous page] 
alternative; or (iv) mitigation measures or alternatives which are considerably different from those analyzed in 
the previous EIR would substantially reduce one or more significant effects on the environment, but the project 
proponents decline to adopt the mitigation measure or alternative.   
 
 For the reasons described in Section 3.2 hereof, the City has determined that none of the circumstances 
requiring preparation of a subsequent or supplemental EIR are present for the subject SPAR application.

--- page 343 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 3 of 12 
 
 
in Section 15162 calling for the preparation of a subsequent EIR or negative 
declaration have occurred. 
(c) 
An addendum need not be circulated for public review but can be included in or 
attached to the final EIR or adopted negative declaration. 
(d) 
The decision-making body shall consider the addendum with the final EIR or 
adopted negative declaration prior to making a decision on the project. 
(e) 
A brief explanation of the decision not to prepare a subsequent EIR pursuant to 
Section 15162 should be included in an addendum to an EIR, the lead agency's 
required findings on the project, or elsewhere in the record.  The explanation must 
be supported by substantial evidence." 
2.0 
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND BACKGROUND 
The Specific Plan Amendment as analyzed in the Final EIR anticipated a base program of 
1,250,000 square feet of office uses, 1,250 residential units and 150,000 square feet of retail uses 
(the “Base Program”).  A minimum of 1,000 units and 500,000 square feet of office are 
required to be provided at build-out of the project under the Specific Plan Amendment (the Final 
EIR studied the impacts of a range of development intensity within the Bay Meadows project 
and the larger San Mateo Rail Corridor that informed the City of the impacts that would result at 
this level of development). 
As required by the Specific Plan Amendment (page V-22), the project applicant obtained City 
Council approval of SPAR #1 (PA 07-054) on April 21, 2008.  As part of its approval of SPAR 
#1, the City Council adopted certain Findings for Approval related to CEQA compliance 
(Exhibit A to SPAR #1 Administrative Report for the City Council Public Hearing) (the “SPAR 
#1 Findings for Approval”) in which it determined that the scope of SPAR #1 is within the 
scope of the project considered in the Final EIR and Addendum #1.   
The project applicant has now submitted a SPAR application for Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 to 
modify the existing SPAR #1 approvals for these two Mixed Use Blocks: 
As modified, Mixed Use Block 2 (bordered by S. Delaware Street to the west, 28th Avenue to 
the north, Kyne Street to the east, and Derby Avenue to the south) would consist of a four-story 
approximately 182,836-square foot office building with approximately 8,606 square feet of 
ground floor active use (for a total of approximately 191,442 square feet), at-grade parking at 
ground level, and three levels of below-grade parking. Mixed Use Block 3 (bordered by S. 
Delaware Street to the west, Derby Avenue to the north, Kyne Street to the east, and Landing 
Avenue to the south) would consist of a four-story approximately 120,350-square foot office 
building with approximately 5,618 square feet of ground active use (for a total of approximately

--- page 344 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 4 of 12 
 
 
125,968 square feet), a four-story residential building (67 units), and two levels of below-grade 
shared parking located on the full block.
2   
The proposed application includes other minor modifications to the originally approved Mixed 
Use Blocks 2 AND 3 design (including design guidelines exceptions).  The design guideline 
exceptions include Build-To Zone, Building Placement, Building Massing, and Curb Cut 
exceptions on Mixed Use Block 2; a Mid-Block Passage Height Exception, Building Placement 
exception, and Curb Cut exception for the Mixed Use Block 3 Office Building; and, an exception 
to allow a decorative metal awning which exceeds the 6-foot projection limit from the setback, 
all as more particularly described in the application materials that which will be considered 
together with this Addendum.  All project elements set forth in the application materials are 
collectively referred to herein as the “Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications.”   
When measured in combination with all prior SPAR approvals and modifications within the 
Specific Plan Amendment area, the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications would result in a 
total development at buildout of approximately (1) 1,218,034 square feet of office; (2) 52,255 
square feet of retail and other commercial uses; and (3) 1,048 residential units. This cumulative 
total is within the 1,250,000 square feet of office uses, 150,000 square feet of retail/active uses, 
and 1,250 residential units analyzed as the Base Program in the Final EIR.  This proposed build-
out also satisfies both the minimum amount of office square footage and the number residential 
units required by the Specific Plan Amendment.  
The purpose of this Addendum is to analyze the project application for the Mixed Use Blocks 2 
and 3 Modifications, and to determine whether the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications fall 
within the previously analyzed envelope of impacts specified in the Final EIR and all subsequent 
Addenda thereto.   
After reviewing the facts and analyzing the circumstances, the San Mateo City staff has 
concluded that a new EIR is not required because none of the circumstances described in CEQA 
Section 21166 as implemented by CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 are present. This Addendum 
has been prepared to discuss these issues and the basis for this determination.   
3.0 
PROJECT IMPACTS RELATED TO TRAFFIC AND AIR QUALITY  
3.1 
Description of the Issue 
As noted above, the Base Program analyzed in the Final EIR included 1,250,000 square feet of 
office uses, 1,250 residential units and 150,000 square feet of retail uses. A minimum of 1,000 
units and 500,000 square feet of office are required to be provided at build-out of the project 
under the Specific Plan Amendment (the Final EIR studied the impacts of a range of 
development intensity within the Bay Meadows project and the larger San Mateo Rail Corridor 
that informed the City of the impacts that would result at this level of development).    
 
2  All square footages and parking calculations contained in this Addendum are based on submitted planning 
application plan drawings.  Final building square footages and parking calculations in the final building plans 
will be required to substantially conform with the approved planning application.

--- page 345 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 5 of 12 
 
 
If the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications are approved, the amount of office space 
approved at full buildout would equal approximately 1,218,034 square feet, and 52,255 square 
feet of retail and other commercial uses, in addition to the commercial space utilized for the 
Nueva High School (approved pursuant to PA 12-051), and the amount of residential space 
approved at full buildout would equal 1,048 residential units.  This overall program is within the 
Base Program analyzed under the Final EIR.   
Only two potential impacts have been identified related to the proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 
3 Modifications that warrant further discussion in this Addendum: traffic and traffic-related air 
quality.  The issues presented are (1) whether traffic generated by the proposed Mixed Use 
Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications would cause the overall project to exceed the trip generation 
studied in the EIR, and as a result, create new significant environmental effects or result in a 
substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects related to traffic; 
and (2) whether an increase in traffic would cause the overall project to exceed the trip 
generation studied in the EIR, and as a result, create new significant air quality impacts or result 
in a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant impacts related to air 
quality.   
Addendum #1 has already addressed issues related to analysis of climate change impacts in 
CEQA documents.  In addition, the vehicle miles traveled analysis requirements mandated by 
changes to CEQA since the EIR was certified do not apply to the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 
Modifications under applicable provisions of law and CEQA regulations (a more detailed 
explanation of the legal and factual bases for this conclusion is set forth in Section 3.2 of this 
Addendum).  Accordingly, no further analysis of these issues is required.  In addition, because 
approval of the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications will ensure consistency with the design 
guidelines and standards set forth in the Specific Plan Amendment and the Phase II Design 
Guidelines and Development Standards, the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications do not 
reflect a change in the project previously approved under SPAR #1 or in the project analyzed 
under the Final EIR and Addenda with respect to land use or visual resources.  In addition, 
pursuant to SB 743 and as discussed below in Section 3.2, aesthetic and parking impacts are 
deemed as a matter of law to be less than significant under CEQA. 
 3.2 Application of CEQA Guideline Section 15162 
Is there substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been substantial changes 
proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the previous EIR due to the 
involvement of new significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity 
of previously identified significant effects as a result of the Station Blocks 1 and 5 
Modifications? 
No, there is no evidence suggesting that any changes to the project have been proposed that will 
result in new significant environmental effects or substantial increase in the severity of 
previously identified significant effects.  As noted above, the Final EIR analyzed the impacts of 
the Specific Plan Amendment authorizing the Base Program at build out.  The proposed Mixed 
Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications authorize the construction of approximately 191,442 square 
feet of office and commercial space on Mixed Use Block 2 and approximately 125,968 square 
feet of office and commercial space on Mixed Use Block 3, along with 67 dwelling units.

--- page 346 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 6 of 12 
 
 
Although this represents an increase in office square footage compared to the square footage 
approved for these blocks under SPAR #1, the total amount of office square footage proposed for 
the overall project is approximately 31,966 square feet less than that approved under the Specific 
Plan Amendment Base Program.  The proposed use is therefore consistent with the Specific Plan 
Amendment that was analyzed in the Final EIR and remains consistent with the minimum and 
maximum development limits analyzed in the Final EIR.  EIRs do not expire, and under 
applicable law, as long as the analysis remains valid, and there is no evidence of new impacts 
from the project on the environment, no new EIR or other CEQA documentation is required.  
Traffic and Air Quality 
Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications are subject to the final conditions of approval for the 
Specific Plan Amendment that created a “trip budget” to limit the amount of development that 
could be constructed depending upon the construction of the required grade separated crossings 
over the Caltrain tracks.  The Bay Meadows II Traffic Management Plan prepared by Kimley-
Horn and Associates, Inc., originally prepared on March 17, 2008 and most recently on February 
17, 2021 (latest update attached as Attachment 1 hereto) (the “TMP”) establishes the trip budget 
for each individual block at the Bay Meadows II project site (including Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 
3) and identifies how the trip generation of the project for each phase of development and at full 
build-out is expected to stay within the applicable trip caps and meet applicable trip reduction 
goals established in Condition of Approval #40 of the Specific Plan Amendment.   
Pursuant to the Conditions of Approval, once construction at either or both the 28th and 31st 
Avenue grade-separations has commenced and a minimum of site development has been 
completed and occupied, the Conditions of Approval establish increased trip reduction goals as 
compared to the pre-grade separation condition.  The trip reduction goals are measured in two 
ways, (1) in the SPAR approval process, the project is required to estimate the maximum number 
of trips allowed under the trip reduction goal in each stage (i.e., trip budget), and (2) after 
completion and occupancy, the actual number of trips generated are monitored and compared to 
the maximum number of trips allowed. 
The TMP analyzed build-out of the project including the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 
Modifications.  It concludes that with the traffic-reducing elements available to Bay Meadows, it 
is estimated that at buildout, the program approved by the SPARs (including the Mixed Use 
Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications) will achieve a 26.7% trip reduction in the a.m. peak hour and 
28.9% reduction in the p.m. peak hour.  This exceeds (i.e., improves upon) the minimum 25% 
trip reduction goal at build out.  At buildout, the project is estimated to generate a total of 2,026 
trips in the p.m. peak hour which is 543 trips under the maximum trip cap of 2,569 for Phase III 
of the post-grade separation conditions.   
Therefore, with implementation of the measures set forth in the TMP, the level of vehicular trips 
generated by the proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications would fit within the Final 
EIR analysis and therefore would not involve new significant traffic or transportation impacts or 
a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant traffic or transportation 
impacts beyond those analyzed in the Final EIR.   
Additionally, in accordance with the adopted mitigation measures, the City is continuously 
monitoring traffic and other impacts.  The current project data show that actual project impacts

--- page 347 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 7 of 12 
 
 
are well below the predicted levels of traffic approved as part of the Specific Plan in 2005.  For 
example, based upon the most recent October 2019 on-the-ground traffic monitoring data, which 
was collected by taking cordon counts of peak evening hour traffic at each entry point (gateway) 
to Bay Meadows, the Bay Meadows project is generating approximately 31% fewer p.m. peak 
hour trips than the trip budget imposed as mitigation in the 2005 EIR analysis (3,083 p.m. peak 
hour estimated trips vs. 2,113 p.m. peak hour actual trips).  Monitoring would continue on an 
annual basis, including following approval of the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications.     
Because the level of vehicular trips generated by the proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 
Modifications would fit within the Final EIR analysis, the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 
Modifications would likewise not result in any increase in trips that would cause any new or 
substantial increases in the severity of previously identified air quality impacts related to trip 
generation from the project.  
Parking 
Parking impacts of the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications are, as a matter of law, deemed 
less than significant due to the provisions enacted by SB 743 (codified at Public Resources Code 
section 21099(d)(1)).  More specifically, SB 743 provides that aesthetic and parking impacts of a 
residential, mixed-use residential, or employment center project on an infill site within a transit 
priority area “shall not be considered significant impacts on the environment.”
3     
Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 satisfy the locational requirements of SB 743 because the sites are 
entirely surrounded with qualified urban uses and are less than one-half mile (0.35 miles at the 
farthest point) from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station.  Mixed Use Block 2 satisfies the SB 743 use 
requirements because the development constitutes an “employment center project” given that the 
property is zoned to allow for commercial uses, and the development has a floor area ratio of 2.5. 
Mixed Use Block 3 satisfies the SB 743 use requirements because it constitutes a mixed-use 
residential development.  Accordingly, parking impacts do not constitute a significant impact 
under CEQA for the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications. 
Nonetheless, for information purposes and to separately document compliance with Specific Plan 
Amendment standards, in connection with the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications, the 
project sponsor also submitted a February 17, 2021 update to the original 2008 Parking 
Management Plan (latest update attached as Attachment 2 hereto, and incorporated by reference 
herein) (the “PMP”).  Based on the current development program identified in the PMP (which 
includes the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications), the updated PMP concludes that parking 
ratios for office buildings in Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 would be 2.5-2.6 spaces per 1,000 gross 
square feet, which is within the Specific Plan standards.  The parking ratios for residential 
 
 
3 “Transit priority areas” are defined, in pertinent part, as those areas within one-half mile of a major transit stop 
(major transit stops include a “site containing an existing rail transit station”).  “Infill sites” are defined as a lot 
located within an urban area that has been previously developed, or on a vacant site where at least 75 percent of 
the perimeter of the site adjoins, or is separated only by an improved public right-of-way from, parcels that are 
developed with qualified urban uses (namely, residential, commercial, institutional, transit, and/or retail uses).  
“Employment center projects” are defined as a project located on property zoned for commercial uses with a 
floor area ratio of no less than 0.75.

--- page 348 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 8 of 12 
 
 
development on Mixed Use Block 3 would be a maximum of 2.00, and an average of 1.03 spaces 
per dwelling unit, which is less than the applicable maximum of 2.25 spaces per dwelling unit 
(inclusive of guest parking) established by the Specific Plan.  The proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 
and 3 Modifications comply with the Specific Plan parking standards and requirements.  
Therefore, the proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications would fit within the applicable 
parking standards analyzed under the Final EIR, and therefore, for this separate and independent 
reason, would not involve new significant impacts or a substantial increase in the severity of 
previously identified significant impacts above that analyzed in the Final EIR.    
Is there substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been substantial changes 
with respect to the circumstances under which the project is undertaken which will require 
major revisions of the previous EIR due to the involvement of new significant environmental 
effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects? 
There is no evidence suggesting that there have been substantial changes with respect to the 
circumstances under which the project is undertaken which will require major revisions to the 
previous EIR.  Issues related to the grade separations and global climate change have already 
been addressed in Addendum #1, which Addendum is incorporated by reference herein (global 
climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are further discussed below).  Information related 
to traffic has been addressed in the attached TMP described above, which TMP is incorporated 
by reference herein.  Because the TMP concludes that the trips generated by the project, 
including the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications, is within the Final EIR analysis, the 
Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications would not result in any new or substantially increased 
air quality impacts related to trip generation. 
Because the scope of development included in the pending Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 
Modifications was already analyzed as part of the aggregate development previously approved, 
and does not generate any new or different impacts than were previously disclosed in the Final 
EIR, no further CEQA review is required.  
Is there substantial evidence in the record revealing that there is new information of 
substantial importance which was not known and could not have been known with the 
exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous EIR was certified that shows: (1) the 
project will have one or more significant effects not discussed in the EIR, (2) significant 
effects previously shown will be substantially more severe than shown in the previous EIR, 
(3) mitigation measure or alternatives previously found to be infeasible would in fact be 
feasible, or (4) there are considerably different mitigation measure or alternatives from those 
analyzed in the previous EIR that would substantially reduce one or more significant effects?   
No, there is no evidence suggesting that there is new information of substantial importance 
relating to new significant effects or the severity of previously identified significant effects, or 
new alternatives or mitigation measures or the efficacy of previously considered alternatives or 
mitigation measures.  Issues related to global climate change have already been addressed in 
Addendum #1, and are further discussed below.  The proposed use and intensity of development 
proposed under the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications are permitted under the Specific 
Plan Amendment and have been considered in the Final EIR and subsequent addenda thereto.  
Therefore, the record pertaining to Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications do not represent

--- page 349 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 9 of 12 
 
 
new information, but rather is consistent with the information that was known at the time of the 
Final EIR certification.    
The “vehicle miles traveled” or “VMT” transportation impact analysis methodology enacted by 
SB 743 does not alter the above conclusion.  Specifically, the CEQA Guidelines provisions 
implementing SB 743 and requiring VMT to be used as the method for evaluating CEQA traffic 
impacts on and after July 1, 2020 (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3) makes clear that the VMT 
requirements apply prospectively only as described in CEQA Guidelines Section 15007.   
CEQA Guidelines Section 15007 (b)–(c) provides that new requirements in amendments to the 
CEQA Guidelines will apply only to steps in the CEQA process not yet undertaken by the date 
when agencies must comply with the amendments.  Additionally, Section 15007(c) provides that 
if a CEQA document meets the content requirements in effect when the document is sent out for 
public review, the document need not be revised to conform to any new content requirements in 
Guideline amendments taking effect before the document is finally approved.  CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15164(c) specifies that Addenda are not subject to public review, and so Addenda would 
not trigger the “public review” test for determining when it is proper to require the VMT analysis 
contemplated by CEQA Guidelines Sections 15064.3 and 15007(c).  In this case, the Final EIR 
was certified in 2005, long before the VMT requirements became effective.  Therefore, the 
provisions of the CEQA Guidelines outlined above instruct that VMT requirements would not 
apply to the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications. 
This conclusion is further strengthened by technical guidance recently issued by the Governor’s 
Office of Planning and Research (the State agency that promulgates the CEQA Guidelines).
4
  The 
Office of Planning Research (“OPR”) indicated that a “CEQA analysis prepared after July 1 may 
be able to rely on a previously certified EIR that analyzed traffic impacts using the LOS metric.”  
OPR instructs that: 
“When determining whether subsequent and supplemental analyses are required under 
Public Resources Code section 21166, the agency should focus the inquiry on whether 
there are substantial changes in the project or circumstances that would require major 
revisions of the document, or if new information, which was not known and could not 
have been known at the time of  becomes available. (Pub. Resources Code, § 21166; 
CEQA Guidelines, §§ 15162-15163.) Agencies should review other streamlining 
provisions governing the bases for those analyses (see, e.g., CEQA Guidelines, § 15164 
[addendum to an EIR or negative declaration]).” 
Thus, OPR instructs that enactment of the new VMT methodology does not separately trigger the 
need for supplemental CEQA analysis if such supplemental analysis is not otherwise required by 
CEQA Section 21166 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15162.  OPR’s instruction on this point was 
expressly informed by the holding in Concerned Dublin Citizens v. City of Dublin (2013) 214 
Cal.App.4th 1301, 1320.)  Concerned Dublin Citizens involved facts remarkably similar to the 
currently proposed Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications.   
 
 
4 California Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, https://opr.ca.gov/ceqa/updates/sb-743/faq.html#tier-
env-doc, last accessed February 21, 2021.

--- page 350 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 10 of 12 
 
 
In that case, the Court of Appeal upheld the City of Dublin’s approval of a site-specific “Site 
Development Review application that was intended to include precise information regarding 
building architectural design, use of exterior materials, a specific site layout, landscaping plans, 
conceptual signs plans and other design details” within a previously adopted transit-oriented 
specific plan proximate to the East Dublin / Pleasanton rail station.  (Id. at p. 1306.)   In 
Concerned Dublin Citizens, project opponents had argued that the City of East Dublin should 
have required additional CEQA analysis beyond the Program EIR adopted concurrently with the 
Eastern Dublin Specific Plan.  (Id. at p. 1309.)  In addition to other arguments that were rejected 
by the court, opponents argued that new supplemental environmental review was necessary 
because new significance thresholds had been adopted by the Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District” after the EIR had been certified.  (Id. at p. 1319.)  The Court of Appeal rejected the 
opponent’s contention that new significance thresholds constituted “substantial new information” 
for purposes of a CEQA Section 21166 analysis.  Instead, the Court upheld the City’s approval 
of the site-specific project plans without the need for supplemental environmental review.  (Id. at 
p. 1320.)   
The Court reached this conclusion on two related grounds:  First, information about the effect of 
greenhouse gas emissions on climate was known long before the City of East Dublin certified its 
EIR in 2002.  Therefore, information about the effects of greenhouse gas emissions did not 
constitute new information which was not known and could not have been known with the 
exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous EIR was certified.  (Ibid.)  Importantly, 
the Court of Appeal further found that the “adoption of guidelines for analyzing and evaluating 
significance of data does not constitute new information if the underlying information was 
otherwise known or should have been known at the time the EIR was certified.”  (Ibid.)    
The court’s holding in Concerned Dublin Citizens means that—as OPR also concluded—new 
supplemental environmental analysis is not required for previously certified EIRs merely 
because SB 743 adopted VMT-based significance thresholds for new CEQA documents.  
Instead, the standards of CEQA Section 21166 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 et seq. 
continue to control.  As documented in this Addendum, the analysis conducted under CEQA 
Section 21166 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 indicate that no further CEQA analysis is 
properly required for the currently proposed SPAR modifications. 
In addition to the above legal conclusion based on the CEQA Guidelines and controlling case 
law, the conclusion that no further CEQA review of VMT impacts is warranted is also factually 
supported by the City’s currently proposed Traffic Impact Analysis guidelines presented to the 
City Council in July 2020 as well as CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3(b)(1).  These provisions 
instruct that the City of San Mateo and other lead agencies “should generally presume that 
certain projects (including residential, retail and office projects, including mixed use) proposed 
within a High Quality Transit Area will have a less than significant impact on VMT and thus not 
warrant further CEQA analysis.”  High-Quality Transit Areas (HQTAs) are areas located within 
1/2 mile of an existing major transit stop.  Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 fall within this area where 
VMT impacts are presumed to be less than significant because they are located approximately 
0.35 miles (at the farthest point) from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station.  Additionally, none of the 
possible exceptions to this presumption set forth in Section 2.1.1.4 of the City’s proposed Traffic 
Impact Analysis guidelines apply in this instance.

--- page 351 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 11 of 12 
 
 
Similar analysis applies to greenhouse gas emissions.  As illustrated in Concerned Dublin 
Citizens, the effects of greenhouse gas emissions were known well prior to 2002 when the City 
of Dublin certified its EIR, and well prior to 2005 when the City of San Mateo certified the Final 
EIR.  Therefore, Concerned Dublin Citizens instructs that no further analysis of greenhouse gas 
emissions would be required for the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications.   
Subsequent CEQA case law similarly supports the conclusion that greenhouse gas emissions 
need not be analyzed in a supplemental environmental analysis.  For example, in Citizens 
Against Airport Pollution v. City of San Jose (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 788, 805) the Court of 
Appeal emphasized that once an EIR has been prepared, the “statutory presumption flips in favor 
of the developer and against further review.”  Accordingly, the court rejected the requirement 
that greenhouse gas emissions be evaluated for a subsequent project even where the original EIR 
(in that case, prepared in 1997) failed to analyze greenhouse gas emissions at all because, under 
prong (c) of CEQA Section 21166, information about greenhouse gas emissions was known to 
the Federal Government since the 1970’s.  In the San Jose case, the information could have been 
known to the City of San Jose in 1997 when it prepared the EIR that was defended in that 
litigation and, accordingly, no new greenhouse gas analysis was required in prospective 
environmental reviews relying on that original EIR.   
As applied to the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications, information about greenhouse gasses 
was known when the City certified the Final EIR in 2005, and when it adopted Addendum # 1, 
which further analyzed this impact area.  Therefore, greenhouse gas information does not 
constitute a new impact and does not constitute a basis for requiring further CEQA review under 
CEQA Section 21166 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15162.   
4.0 
BASIS FOR DECISION TO PREPARE AN ADDENDUM 
Although there have been no changes to the project studied in the EIR, this addendum is 
appropriate because some changes or additions are necessary to discuss the change in the amount 
of development from that approved under SPAR #1, but none of the conditions described in 
Section 15162 calling for preparation of a subsequent EIR have occurred.    
More specifically, the Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3 Modifications are within the overall project 
analyzed under the Final EIR and all subsequent Addenda thereto and do not constitute a 
substantial change to the project or the circumstances due to the involvement of new significant 
environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant 
effects.   
5.0 
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT DEMONSTRATING THAT NO FURTHER CEQA 
REVIEW IS REQUIRED BASED ON THE LIMITED SCOPE OF THE SPAR 
REVIEW 
There is also a separate and independently sufficient reason why no CEQA review beyond this 
Addendum is required:  Although the SPAR is a “discretionary” approval subject to CEQA, the 
scope of what the City may regulate through the SPAR is limited to design review, and ensuring 
consistency with the Specific Plan.  The Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement 
adopted pursuant to California Government Code section 65865 et seq. “vests” the approvals and 
legal regulations applicable to the Bay Meadows project, and prohibits the City from imposing

--- page 352 ---
ADDENDUM # 6 TO FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT- SAN MATEO RAIL CORRIDOR 
PLAN AND BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT  
Page 12 of 12 
 
 
further or additional exactions on the development.  The City therefore has no regulatory 
authority to reduce the amount of development through the SPAR process, and cannot lawfully 
impose new exactions or fees.  Accordingly, there is no “nexus” between the design review 
conducted as part of the SPAR process, and any information that would be developed as part of 
an additional CEQA review.  Case law has made clear that additional CEQA review is only 
authorized when the agency has the authority to address the environmental concerns that may be 
raised in the subsequent analysis.  The corollary is that where no authority to mitigate impacts 
exists, no further CEQA review can be required. (McCorkle Eastside Neighborhood Group v. 
City of St. Helena (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 80, 87-88 [CEQA review is only authorized when a 
discretionary approval gives the agency the authority to address the environmental issues that 
might be indicated in such analysis]; San Diego Navy Broadway Complex Coalition v. City of 
San Diego (2010) 185 Cal. App. 4th 924).  Given the limited nature of the SPAR review (limited 
to design review and Specific Plan Amendment compliance), additional CEQA review cannot be 
required for the SPAR. 
Attachment 1: Bay Meadows II Traffic Management Plan [Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 
updated February 17, 2021  
Attachment 2: Bay Meadows II Parking Management Plan [Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 
updated February 17, 2021

--- page 353 ---
Board of Directors

Executive Committees

Chsir: Laurs Bent
Samaritan House

Vice Chair: Hesther Cleary
Peninsula Family Service

Psst Chair: Saili Gosuls
Synergy Home Care

Secretary: Matthew Jacobs
Kaiser Pem anente

Tressurer: Silas Green
Sunshine Pro Acct & Tax

Committee Chairs

Mitch Willisms, Bosrd Develooment
Hom © Helpers

Alsn Talansky, Development &
Public Policy
EBL&S Development LLC

Jim De La Torre, Eduestion &
Workforce Development
De La Tome & Associates
Insurance Services, inc,

David Skromme, Finance
Fastsigns

Chris Holbrook, Fundraising
San Mateo Mamott

Carey Gorgolinski, Leaders hio
Lawyers Title Company

Paul Behsn, Members hic
Boston Private Bank

Board Members
Mark Allen

City Publications SF Peninsuls
Rhovy Lyn Antonio

Califomia Aparnment Assoc.
Michael Berube

The Benibe Company
Jonathan Bésell

Community College District
Jewel Drexler

Pinstripes
Jennifer Hancox

Appeiblom Jewely Company
Christine Kupezsk

Hilledale Shopping Center
Roger Heighton

Famers insurance
Ress Moilan

Califomia Water Service
Angel Riley, Esq.,

Chauvel & Glatt, LLP
Mia Rossi

Recology San Mateo County
Ex-Officio: Jennifer Chen

City of San Mateo

Executives & Staff
Cheryl Angeles

President/CEO
Erica Woods

Exec Director, Leadership Prog
Psuline Cheung

Dvector of Comm.& Marketing
Leils Tamale

Marketing & Comm Assistant

o

Chamber of
Commerce

June 22, 2021
Dear Planning Commissioners,

The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce represents over 500 small and large
businesses in San Mateo and in the surrounding cities providing thousands of local
jobs which generate millions in tax revenue funding critical city services.

These local businesses have helped San Mateo become one of the preeminent cities
on the Peninsula with a vibrant Downtown, walkable neighborhoods, and
award-winning schools.

One of the true success stories of our city is the Bay Meadows neighborhood and
development. The civic engagement that created the plan for this new neighborhood
and the execution of that plan by the city and the Wilson Meany Company has created
one of the jewels of San Mateo.

The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce has reviewed the SPAR amendment
application submitted by Wilson Meany and we fully support their application. We
urge you to approve this amendment.

As you know, one of the real successes of Bay Meadows is the tremendous use of
public transit by both residents and especially the office workers. As our local
community continues to emerge from the impacts of the pandemic, workers are
returning to their offices while other businesses see Bay Meadows as an ideal location
for expansion. In our opinion, these factors more than justifies the SPAR amendment
application.

The addition of a child care facility as part of this amendment, which will serve the
office workers and neighborhood residents, will be a huge bonus for the city as well.

We urge the Planning Commission to approve this application. Thank you for your
consideration.

Very Truly Yours,

Chery! Angeles
President & CEO
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce

4

Chamber of
Commerce

Your Business is Our Business



--- page 354 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Kara Cox 
Sent:
Tuesday, June 22, 2021 4:26 PM
To:
Planning
Subject:
Comments on Bay Meadow Project Presentation
Dear Planning Commission, 
I am writing this afternoon out of concern that approving the construction of the Bay Meadows project as it is
currently conceived will have a detrimental long-term impact on affordable housing in San Mateo. While well
considered and beautiful in conception, the fact of the matter remains that adding nearly 500,000 sq. ft. of new
development to this city, of which less than 15% is residential, will exacerbate the jobs/housing imbalance. 67
units is not enough compensation for the number of new jobs created. 
A more balanced approach is being pursued at Concar Passage. In this development there are nearly 1000 units
on offer, and only 40K sq. ft. of office and retail. If this ration was applied to the amount of commercial space
Wilson Meany is proposing, it would mean adding over 10,000 new units of housing. 
There is a development in Montreal called LaCité. It is a tall apartment building above retail and supermarket, all
on top of a subway stop. The residential units spur sales at the shops and make the area more vital at all hours.
No one living there needs a vehicle. Anyone who recalls the dismalness of downtown Redwood City after the
close of business before efforts were made to revitalize the city center should understand why all commercial
can ultimately fail to bring the best results. These are some of the multifaceted design ideas which are required 
to make San Mateo a dynamic, walkable city as opposed to a crawl of cars trying to get from one parking lot to
another. 
It is not only our responsibility to our city which requires we pause before building. The housing crisis in the Bay
Area has been fueled by one city after another approving more office and retail than housing to support those
industries. Without more affordable units locally we will continue to a have a situation where a friend’s nanny
drives in from Gilroy, my son’s pediatrician’s receptionist commutes from Fairfax, and it is not rare to meet a
waiter in for the night from Vallejo. These are the unsustainable consequences of perpetuating the housing/jobs
imbalance, and should be addressed in conjunction with the present proposal.  
Kind regards, 
Kara Cox

--- page 355 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPAR #1 MODIFICATION
MU2 AND MU3
(PA-2020-053) 
JUNE 22,2021

--- page 356 ---
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA
• Bay Meadows Phase II 
• Approved in 2005
• 83 Acres
• 18 Development blocks (RES, STA, MU)
• Residential, office, active commercial uses
• 15 Acres public park and open space

--- page 357 ---
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA
• Bay Meadows Phase II 
• Approved in 2005
• 83 Acres
• 18 Development blocks (RES, STA, MU)
• Residential, office, active commercial uses
• 15 Acres public park and open space
• Development Agreement (18-year period)
• Environmental Impact Report
• Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment
• (3) Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) applications

--- page 358 ---
PROJECT SITE
• Mixed-Use Blocks (“MU”)
• MU2 and MU3
• Zoning: BMSP (Bay Meadows 
Specific Plan)
• General Plan Land Use: Transit-
Oriented Development
MU3
MU2

--- page 359 ---
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
SPAR Modification and Tentative Map
MU2
• Office and active/retail uses
• Potential childcare facility
• 4 Stories
• 3 Levels underground parking
• 191,354 sq. ft.
MU3
• Office and active/retail uses
• 67-unit Residential building
• 4 Stories plus residential lofts
• 2 Levels underground parking
• 193,191 sq. ft.

--- page 360 ---
STUDY SESSION AND PUBLIC INPUT
June 2020
Oct 2020
June 2021
Neighborhood 
Meeting
PC Study Session
Application 
Submitted
PC Public 
Hearing
City Review
Public and Planning Commission Comments:
•
Refine building design (articulation, materials, color)
•
Request for more retail
•
Against reduction in housing
•
Against increase in office uses
•
Support for project

--- page 361 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment
• Provides minimum and maximum for residential and 
office uses
• Allows a range to reflect changing market conditions
Aggregate Land Uses (Including MU2 and MU3)
Minimum
Maximum 
Proposed
Residential Units
1,000
1,250
Office Uses (sq. ft.)
500,000
1,250,000
1,048
1,217,826
• Project complies with aggregate range of uses

--- page 362 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment
•
Development Standards
MU2
Proposed
Maximum
Building Height
55’-0”
55’-0”
Floor Area Ratio
2.5
2.5
Floor Area (sq. ft.)
191,354
191,445
Density
-
50 units/acre
MU3
Proposed
Maximum
Building Height
55’-0”
55’-0”
Floor Area Ratio
2.94
3.0
Floor Area (sq. ft.)
193,191
197,457
Density
44.34 units/acre
50 units/acre

--- page 363 ---
MU2
Original Approval
• 88 Residential Units
• 14,800 sq. ft. Active/Retail Uses
• 15,500 sq. ft. Office Uses
Proposed Modification
• No Residential Units
• 8,600 sq. ft. Active/Retail Uses
• 183,000 sq. ft. Office Uses

--- page 364 ---
MU3
Original Approval
• 76 Residential Units
• 12,400 sq. ft. Active/Retail Uses
• 12,900 sq. ft. Office Uses
Proposed Modification
• 67 Residential Units
• 5,600 sq. ft. Active/Retail Uses
• 120,000 sq. ft. Office Uses

--- page 365 ---
DESIGN REVIEW
Cannon Design Group
• Design recommendations
• Massing, material, color
• Delaware Street retail design
• No further recommendations in final letter
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Standards & 
Design Guidelines
• Exceptions requested:
• Building Placement
• Curb Cuts
• Build-to Zones

--- page 366 ---
rit) -_

MU2 Study Session Design MU2 Current Design


--- page 367 ---
‘ {ih oe D Li,

a
ry

- -
—<—_—__ 7 —
= ‘29

| ’
if ‘ ; : tryed ‘
= —_ f “x ; ; e
. = |  ——— 3 as
"i i r y ,
= —— nt
ae a

MU3 Study Session Design MU3 Current Design


--- page 368 ---
MU3 Residential Study Session Design
MU3 Residential Current Design

--- page 369 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) 
• Certified in 2005
• Addendum #6 – No additional CEQA analysis required
Traffic Management Plan (TMP)
• Establishes maximum vehicle trips and recommended TDM measures
• Project remains within maximum trips
Parking Management Plan
• Establishes parking demand
• Project provides sufficient parking during peak periods

--- page 370 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification and Tentative 
Map for Bay Meadows Phase II Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3, and adopt an Addendum to the 
certified Final Environmental Impact Report to assess the environmental impacts of the project.

--- page 371 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPAR #1 MODIFICATION
MU2 AND MU3
(PA-2020-053) 
JUNE 22,2021

--- page 372 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4718
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Julia Klein, Acting Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 22, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way Office Medical Building Pre-Application 
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments and provide input to the applicant and staff 
pertaining to the following project elements:
1.
The building design, building materials, and articulation
2.
The site plan design
BACKGROUND:
The subject pre-application (PA 2020-078) proposes development of a vacant parcel to construct a new medical office 
building with related site improvements within the Franklin Templeton office campus. The proposed project is also located 
within the Bay Meadows Specific Plan, Phase I area, which was adopted in 1997 by the City Council to allow for 
development of the former Bay Meadows Racetrack. The goals of the Specific Plan are to create a transit-oriented 
development that includes complementary land uses, building types, and amenities including housing, commercial 
services, offices, open space, and transit to enhance community life. The project is located within the Office Campus land 
use area of the Specific Plan, which envisioned the area as a corporate office headquarter serving as an employment 
anchor within the City of San Mateo. The Specific Plan anticipated an Office Campus buildout of 900,000 square feet of 
office space. The subject site is the only vacant parcel remaining in the Office Campus area.
At this time, the subject pre-application focuses on the site plan and broader design issues. Project plans showing the 
proposed site plan, floor plans, building design and materials, renderings and open space improvements are included in 
Attachment 1.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site
The project site consists of one vacant parcel bound by Saratoga Drive to the north, Yates Way to the east, a public 
pedestrian pathway to the south and a private roadway to the west. The parcel is approximately 161,376 square-feet or 
3.7 acres in size. The Specific Plan illustrates the original intent and use of the parcel as a warehouse building. Presently, 
the parcel is within the Franklin Templeton office campus with adjacent uses that include single- and multi-family 
residential development to the north, west and south, and office uses to the east. The project is located within one-half 
mile of the Hillsdale Caltrain station and existing transit lines along El Camino Real, Hillsdale Boulevard and Saratoga Drive.
A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
Proposed Building Program and Site Plan

--- page 373 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The subject pre-application proposes a new 86,000 square foot, three-story medical office building devoted to outpatient 
healthcare services for oncology patients. The ground floor consists of a lobby, radiation and imaging labs, and linear 
accelerator vaults on the ground floor. The project includes medical oncology, infusion lab and pharmacy, conference 
room for classes, an ambulatory surgery center, and outpatient clinic uses on the second and third floors. 
The applicant has also indicated that alternatives uses that include research laboratories and/or administrative 
professional offices not related to medical or healthcare services may be proposed as the project develops. The alternative 
uses will not result in changes to the preliminary site plan, building mass, bulk, or scale as shown. As proposed, the project 
intends to meet on-site parking requirements for a building devoted to medical office uses only, which has a higher 
parking requirement than research laboratories or administrative, executive, and professional offices.
The project currently proposes below and at-grade parking, providing a total of 258 off-street parking spaces. Bicycle 
parking facilities include a bicycle rack at the building entrance and lockers in the underground parking garage for 20 long-
term and 18 short-term spaces. Two loading spaces are located adjacent to the proposed trash and waste that is west of 
the building. A passenger loading zone for patient pick-up and drop-off is identified at the main building entrance on the 
site plan. Vehicles may access the site and parking lot through two access points, located at the northern portion of the 
site at Saratoga Drive and mid-block at Yates Way. 
The overall project will include new landscaping and trees, which will be reviewed in further detail during the formal 
planning application. The applicant has provided a preliminary arborist report, which states that no heritage trees are 
proposed for removal. The proposed landscape plan shows trees lined along the walkways, surface parking, and perimeter 
of the building and site. Open space amenities include a public plaza and private "therapy garden” for patients and 
employees. Potential stormwater treatment measures include bioretention areas located within the parking lot and 
landscape improvements throughout the site.
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan
The General Plan Land Use Plan designates the project site as Executive Office. The General Plan Land Use Element policies 
state that the site is designated for mixed-use development including office land use. This policy permits development of 
the site in accordance with the Bay Meadows Specific Plan, which sets forth standards for building heights, intensities, and 
land uses. The Specific Plan also includes guidelines for buffers, screening, and design compatibility with adjacent land 
uses. A preliminary list of applicable General Plan policies is provided in Attachment 3. 
Zoning Code and Bay Meadows Specific Plan
The project site is zoned Bay Meadows Specific Plan (BMSP) and lies within the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Office Campus 
Area. In the Office Campus Area, the Specific Plan permits uses that are predominantly executive office, administrative 
office, and includes all permitted uses in the E-1 (Executive Park) zoning district, with the exception of multifamily 
residential. As proposed, the project would substantially conform to the development standards of the Specific Plan for 
this zoning district as referenced in Attachment 3. A preliminary Project Data Form is provided as Attachment 4. Staff will 
further review the project’s compliance with all applicable Specific Plan and Zoning Code requirements in the formal 
planning application.
Sustainable Building and Site Design
The proposed development will be evaluated for conformance with California Green Building Code mandatory measures, 
the City’s adopted Green Building and Energy Reach Codes and 2020 Climate Action Plan. Applicable measures include but 
are not limited to energy consumption, water efficiency, sustainable building materials, indoor environmental quality, and 
storm water management. The pre-application has indicated commitment to meeting the U.S. Green Building Council, 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver sustainability goals for building design.
ITEMS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION INPUT:
Building Design
The proposed design represents a contemporary architectural style in building materials and articulation. The building is

--- page 374 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
composed of glass fiber reinforced concrete (GFRC) panels at the ground floor. The second- and third-floor include an 
exterior insulation finish system (EIFS), or composite material panel with aluminum and glass curtain walls. Portions of the 
third-floor incorporate metal panels to create a defined building top. A perforated metal screen is proposed at the rooftop 
to conceal mechanical equipment. The proposal incorporates a material palette that is influenced by the adjacent Franklin 
Templeton office buildings and consists of a dark tone at the building base and lighter or natural tones at the upper floors. 
The change in building materials and colors at the building base and top further reduce visual bulk of the building while 
respecting the existing scale and architectural features found within the Office Campus area.
The project shows linear accelerator vaults east of the building and are highly visible from the street intersection of 
Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. The applicant has stated that linear vaults are recommended to be fully enclosed to meet 
healthcare industry standards for radiation oncology treatment facilities. To alleviate the appearance of blank walls and 
absence of windows, an architectural screen and design treatment are proposed for the vaults’ exterior. This adds 
architectural interest to the project site at the street frontage and emphasize the building entrance to Yates Way from a 
pedestrian scale.
This project will require design review by the City’s design review consultant when the formal planning application is 
submitted. The consultant’s review will focus on conformance with the General Plan Urban Design Element and the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan Phase I design guidelines and policies as applicable. The consultant will also make 
recommendations to address concerns expressed by the Planning Commission.
At this time, staff seeks further input from the Planning Commission regarding the overall architectural style and design 
approach of the proposed building.
Site Plan Design
The Specific Plan identifies a view corridor within the Phase I site, located along the axis created by the Linear Park along 
Park Place and portions of the Franklin Templeton office, known as Campus Green. This axis was a key feature of the urban 
design framework plan for Phase I. The Specific Plan includes an urban design standard to face the building entry east 
toward Yates Way, where the highest pedestrian activity will occur and for visibility from the Campus Green. The applicant, 
however, has proposed orienting the main building entrance toward the parking lot facing south. Public comments raised 
at the neighborhood meeting include expanding the landscaped plaza and relocating the linear accelerator vaults currently 
proposed at the building corner of Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. The urban design standards outlined in the Specific Plan 
relate to the original use and intent of the site as a warehouse.
The applicant has stated that clinical layout standards and best practices for medical offices recommend locating the main 
lobby entrance to face the main parking lot for ease of access by patients. The linear accelerators are located at-grade and 
adjacent to the radiation oncology rooms for programming purposes. The applicant has also stated that the current 
building orientation and location provide necessary buffer between the adjacent residential neighborhoods to the 
proposed medical office building.
In response to the Specific Plan policy for building orientation, staff recommended in the initial review to incorporate 
various landscape elements and site improvements along Yates Way to provide continuity of the Campus Green concept. 
The applicant has revised the site plan to show a landscaped plaza and proposed sculptural element located at the 
terminus of the Campus Green axis. In addition, a “therapy garden” is proposed for patients, employees, and visitors. A 
widened shared-use bicycle and pedestrian path is proposed along Yates Way and connects to the adjacent Franklin 
Templeton site.
At this time, staff requests that the Planning Commission review the proposal and provide input on the site plan design for 
the proposed building entrance and orientation.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting on May 27, 2021, that was attended by approximately 
11 members of the public. Questions and comments including the following were expressed:

--- page 375 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Concerns for potential congestion, construction noise and proposed location of the trash and loading area.

Comments to improve bike path connection at Derby Ave. and Yates Way.

Comments on site design, circulation, and plaza visibility.
A summary of the neighborhood meeting is included in Attachment 6.
Public comments submitted to City Staff are included in Attachment 7. Additional public comments received following the 
publishing of this report will be provided under separate cover to the Planning Commission on the date of the study 
session.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the review of a pre-application is not a project under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the Planning Commission is not taking action at this time. An 
environmental review will be conducted as part of the formal planning application in conformance with CEQA.
NEXT STEPS:
Following this Study Session, the applicant will have the opportunity to revise the project based on public and Planning 
Commission input. As proposed, the project is anticipated to require a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), which 
requires review and a decision by the Planning Commission. An Addendum to the Final Environmental Impact Report was 
certified by the City Council in 1999. Planning Staff will conduct any necessary environmental analysis for the project in 
accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) upon submittal of the formal planning application. 
Sample Findings of Approval for the above planning application type are included in Attachment 5.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with the Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this Study 
Session was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of the neighborhood and Planning Commission 
meetings:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Project Plans
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies
Att 4 – Project Data Sheet
Att 5 – Sample Findings for Approval
Att 6 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 7 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
lly@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7217

--- page 376 ---
PROJECT DATA

PROJECT DESCRIPTION:

THE PROPOSED PROJECT IS A NEW FREE-STANDING 3-STORY MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDING OF
APPROXIMATELY 86,000 GROSS SQUARE FEET OVER ONE LEVEL OF UNDERGROUND PARKING
(“PROJECT”). THE OUTPATIENT HEALTHCARE PROJECT WILL BE CONSTRUCTED ON THE REMAINING
PARCEL OF THE BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN LOCATED AT THE INTERSECTION OF SARATOGA DRIVE
AND YATES WAY. THE PROJECT WILL INCLUDE SITE IMPROVEMENTS, LANDSCAPING, PARKING, AND
RELATED SITE ACCOMMODATIONS.

REQUIREMENTS ARE BASED ON THE CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 27.88 BAY

MEADOWS SPECIFIC.

BUILDING AREA:

UNDERGROUND PARKING:

OCCUPANCY:

CONSTRUCTION TYPE:

SPRINKLERED:

NUMBER OF STORIES:

ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA:

ZONING:

ASSESSOR PARCEL NUMBER:

LOT AREA:

LOT COVERAGE:

OPEN SPACE:

FLOOR AREA RATIO:

HEIGHT LIMIT:

SETBACK REQUIREMENTS

GROSS SF NET SF (CLINICAL SPACE)
LEVEL 1: 30,000 GSF 24,204 NSF

LEVEL2: 28,000 GSF 23,966 NSF

LEVEL3: _ 28,000 GSF 23,985 NSF

TOTAL: ‘86,000 GSF 72,155 NSF
41,454 GSF

B, |-2.1, S-2 (GARAGE)

1A

YES

3

B = 112,500 SF, I-2.1 = 15,000 SF (14,412 LOCATED ON LEVEL 2),
S-2 = 117,000 SF

BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN, E-1 EXECUTIVE PARK
040-030-180

161,346 SF (3.704 ACRES)

18.6% (30,000 / 161,346)

REQUIRED: 55% MIN
PROVIDED: 82.21%

REQUIRED: 0.65 AGGREGATE ALLOWABLE MAX (PER PARCEL 2.5)
PROVIDED: 0.53

REQUIRED: 55'-0" MAXIMUM TO HIGH POINT OF ROOF
PROVIDED: 49'-0" TO HIGH POINT OF ROOF

30 FEET FROM THE SARATOGA DRIVE RIGHT-OF-WAY
40 FEET FROM THE MAIN TRACK PROPERTY LINE.

PARKING REQUIREMENTS

MOST STRINGENT REQUIREMENT AMONGST: 2019 CALGREEN 5.106.4, SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE

27.64, AND LEED v4

STALL SIZE:
STANDARD: 8.5’ X 18”

COMPACT: 8’ X 17’ (40% OF STALLS ALLOWED AS COMPACT)

PARKING COUNT:

REQUIRED: 257 SPACES (3.55 SPACES PER 1,000 SF x 72,155 NSF)
INCLUDING 16 EV PARKING SPACES (CALGREEN, 6% OF TOTAL PARKING SPACES)

PROVIDED: 258 SPACES, BREAKDOWN BELOW:
SURFACE PARKING LOT: 173 SPACES INCLUDING 12 ACCESSIBLE (3 VAN)
UNDERGROUND GARAGE: 85 SPACES INCLUDING 10 ACCESSIBLE (2 VAN)
INCLUDING 16 EV PARKING SPACES (2 WITH ACCESSIBLE CLEARANCES)

BIKE PARKING REQUIREMENTS

MOST STRINGENT REQUIREMENT AMONGST: 2019 CALGREEN 5.106.4, SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE

27.64.262, AND LEED v4

SHORT TERM: REQUIRED: 18 (SAN MATEO, 1 SPACE PER 1,000 SF)
PROVIDED: 18

LONG TERM: REQUIRED: 18 (LEED, 5% OF 360 FTE REGULAR OCCUPANTS)
PROVIDED: 20

VICINITY MAP

wii ||

=

here othe

l |
pavatot

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

SD, BFR, KW

DATE
12/10/2020

ran DESCRIPTION

ao PMIB

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

PROJECT DIRECTORY APPLICABLE CODES SHEET INDEX

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:17 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

OWNER:
PACIFIC MEDICAL BUILDINGS

3394 CARMEL MOUNTAIN ROAD, SUITE 200

SAN DIEGO, CA 92121
CONTACT: PIETRO MARTINEZ
pmartinez@pmbllc.com
(951) 264-3800

ARCHITECT:

BOULDER ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS
26 O'FARREL ST, SUITE 700

SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94108
CONTACT: CURTIS CHONG
cchong@boulderassociates.com
(303) 808-2260

MEP ENGINEER:

‘WwSP

425 MARKET STREET, 17TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105.
CONTACT: SARAH KUCHERA
Sarah.Kuchera@wsp.com

(925) 457-7597

STRUCTURAL ENGINEER:

MARTIN / MARTIN, INC.

700 LARKSPUR LANDING CIR., SUITE 155
LARKSPUR, CA 94939

CONTACT: EMILY GUGLIELMO,
eguglielmo@martinmartin.com

(415) 596-1789

2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE

2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA REFERENCE STANDARDS CODE

SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE

60.01
60.02
cLo
2.0

PROJECT INFORMATION

SITE PHOTOS

CIVIL SURVEY

PROPOSED SITE PLAN

CONCEPTUAL GRADING AND UTILITY PLAN
CONCEPTUAL STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
LANDSCAPE PLAN

CONCEPTUAL PLANTING LEGEND, NOTES, AND DETAILS
HYDROZONE PLAN

IRRIGATION DETAILS

TREE MITIGATION PLAN

FINAL SITE PLAN

GARAGE FLOOR PLAN

1ST FLOOR PLAN

2ND FLOOR PLAN

3RD FLOOR PLAN

ROOF PLAN

BUILDING SECTIONS

BUILDING ELEVATIONS

BUILDING PERSPECTIVES

PROJECT
INFORMATION

GO.01



--- page 377 ---
BIM 360://P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lvt

3/26/2021 2:47:03 PM

‘TMBv.110221

TEMPLETOPN BUILDING NEXT TO THE SITE

LOOKING AT THE SITE FROM YATES STREET

PERSPECTIVE OF SITE ENTRANCE FROM YATES STREET

ENTRANCE TO THE SITE FROM SARATOGA STREET

PERSPECTIVE FROM SARATOGA AND YATES STREET

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

DRAWN BY

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ra DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

PLANNING
PRE-APPLIGATION

SHEET TLE

SITE PHOTOS

‘SHEET NUMBER

G0.02



--- page 378 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:15 PM

TTLBv.110221

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

© BKF ENGINEERS

rer 7 8635" (66.97) a
NSS20'1S"W 843.38" OVERALL (W54'33'25") -

SARATOGA DRIVE
(A PUBUC STREET, 100° MDE")
DATE

12/10/2020

+ 7 SUS" STREET EASEMENT
1.5 STREET EASEMENT . - PER 128 M47=57
MASTERY NESZOTSW 445,08" —(NSESS'25°W)
-—-——- Sh SS i ee

\ t Samer
FEET (TREE Erarwen-en-oiG eee to00e SES PID ~ 19] erhery eck exsbnent
Ae po tome” ep

NN

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

I

/
/

1730N. FIRST STREET

SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
408-467-9100
‘wow bkf.com

“499-w 47=57 ~ PUES LE. & TSE
tee ars PER 129 47-57 PER'129 M 47-57

E 28TH AVENUE
YEARS

OLIVARES LANE

10 SSE. BENERTTING
| PARCELS A&B, 78 Pu 8-7

ENGINEERS . SURVEYORS . PLANNERS

N36°30'47°E 195.10"

APN: 040-030-180
FRANKLIN TEMPLETON COMPANY

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

(3526'35"E)

CALIFORNIA

PARCEL C PER
76 PM 6-7
(A PORTION OF DOC. 99-101828)
AREA = 161,376 SQ. FT. (GROSS)

[os
js S <i ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMiH+-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

TORO DRIVE

BASIS OF BEARINGS

THE BEARINGS OF TH1S SURVEYS GRO NORTH, CALIFORNIA COORDINATE SYSTEIA ZONE 3 (NADE

SAN MATEO

BENCHMARK

ICAL CONTROL FOR THE SURVEY.

ARM 7 SSTERLY END OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY
CURB RETURN, AT THE INTERSECTION O

ELEVATION = 107.339 FEET [SAN MATE

SURVEY NOTES

LANDS OF FRANKLIN TEMPLETON

i FEET AND

BY 360 AERIAG SURVEYS.

AERIALTOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY & BOUNDARY
PARCEL C, Parcel Map 76 PM 6-7

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200

San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com
- _ PARCEL A PER
OF THES SURVEY I DERVED FROM RECORD
AVAWABLE STAEET MONUIAENTS BAY MEADOWS, PHASE 8 NO. 1 meer
137 W 3746
(BLock 3)

PROJECT

a RAT oO BHO ~ 3 PMB SAN MATEO

= 7 [ P| MEDICAL OFFICE

sr tet a BUILDING

MONUMENT UNE

RECORD DATA PER 76 P.M. 6-7
LANDECAPE EASEMENT

POINT OF REVERSE CURVATURE
PRIVATE. SANITARY SEWER EASEMENT

SAN MATEO

NT
STREET TREE MAINTENANCE EASEMENT
i

(OTAL
TRAFFIC SIGNAL EASEMENT

IRVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE YS PLANNING

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THIS TOPOGRAPHIC MAP WAS PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER MY

SUPERVISCN ON NOVEMBER 4, 2020 . % fo PRE-APPLICATION

DAVID DARLING, P.L-S. NO 75

NOVEMBER 4. 2020

SHEET SHEET TITLE
1 «1 CIVIL SURVEY

SITE SURVEY MAP SHEET NUMBER

_ C1.0



--- page 379 ---
3/31/2021 1:27:15 PM

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

ROLLED CURB 1.5' STREET ESMT (E)
EVA DRIVEWAY ONLY

REMOVABLE BOLLARDS 15' STREET TREE ESMT (E)
EVA ACCESS ONLY . .

9.5' STREET TREE MAINTENANCE ESMT (E) SARATOGA DRIVE c lohes ht 12/10/2020

PUBLIC UTILITY ESMT (E), LANDSCAPE ESMT (E), TRAFFIC SIGNAL ESMT (E)
REVISIONS

ra DESCRIPTION

GEN.
10° PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER ESMT (E)
LOADING

LOADING ss 3 . =

AN VICINITY MAP

" MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDING ; SCALE: 1" = 500'
r—) : Ir 4. BOULDER

60’ SETBACK “ 4 . ASSOCIATES

LEGEND

PROJECT BOUNDARY
EXISTING EASEMENT
SETBACK
PROPOSED BUILDING
EVA PAVERS
Y —— — BIORETENTION AREAS

ARCHITECTS

20° FIRE ACCESS R25'45' Boulder Associates, Inc.

Ay & (A a 8 Y ry Architecture + Interior Design
18' TYP. “ 26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
: : 2 San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com

2' PARKING OVERHANG TYP Boulder Associates 2019
8' SIDEWALK TYP.

PROPOSED SHARROW
PAVEMENT MARKING TYP:

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
. Landscape Architecture
; Jy y™ Lf ‘ J : Civil Engineering
10' STORM DRAIN ESMT (E) f > J L , . Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

- } PMB SAN MATEO
40’ SETBACK ES os CO / f MEDICAL OFFICE
: we BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

‘SHEET TITLE

PROPOSED SITE PLAN

1 INCH = 30 FEET C2 O
e

‘TTLBv.110221


--- page 380 ---
- <Ex 42°80)

< Exis"ss}

~<EX 42°SD}

EX 12°W

PROPOSED
WATER
SERVICE

SARATOGA DRIVE

Ounoun

(Onno

r
'
!
'
4
!

!
EG 105.0.
+

10.00' PRIVATE
SANITARY SEWER ESMT (E)

ay

CONNECT TO EX.
STORM DRAIN

ct
X EG 107,

5

Exi8*ss}-

EX18"SS|

ee eS

{ss.01xS

FF 106.00

r ¥
SES-106.04—

FS 106.0,
Cd
2
‘DO105:7-+ r

EG 103.1
Nx

LEGEND

SANITARY SEWER PIPE (EXISTING)

PROJECT BOUNDARY

SANITARY SEWER LATERAL (PROPOSED)

STORM DRAIN PIPE (EXISTING)
STORM DRAIN PIPE (PROPOSED)
WATER PIPE (EXISTING)

WATER PIPE (PROPOSED)
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE (EXISTING)
CURB INLET

CURB INLET (EXISTING)
CATCH BASIN

CATCH BASIN (EXISTING)
CURB CUT

HIGH POINT SPOT ELEVATION
LOW POINT SPOT ELEVATION
FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
FINISH SURFACE ELEVATION
TOP OF CURB ELEVATION

PERCENT AND DIRECTION OF
SURFACE FLOW DRAINAGE

OVERLAND RELEASE PATH
WATER VALVE (PROPOSED)

BIOTREATMENT AREA

py EXISTING GROUND

»@=

~~
©

oOmspePpo

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:16 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

(2) PROPOSED ROUGH GRADE

FS 105.4 FS 105.4

— TOY FS 104.9) 1.0% ga~iP FS/105.0
AN <5 \
FS 105.4 \ /y; Le
°
gf

San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
FS 105.4

FS 1065 f / . www.boulderassociates.com
rsa &
Landscape Architecture

©Boulder Associates 2019
\
} BOON
\
Civil Engineering

/ ! —
y “ a E Utility Design
CONNECT TO EX . / iii Ea y voce

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
3' MAX RETAINING Land Surveying
STORM DRAIN WALL Stormwater Compliance

(3) PROPSED CURB AND GUTTER

3' MAX RETAINING 1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200

BIO RETENTION SYSTEM San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

SECTION
NTS

(1) EXISTING ROADWAY

(2) PROPSED CURB AND GUTTER

10.00' STORM DRAIN ESMT (E)

10.00’ PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER ESMT (E)

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

/ / / 17 8
EG 108.0 , } / | | / PARKING STALL SIDEWALK

YATES WAY

3’ MAX
RETAINING WALL

2! MAX RETAINING
CURB

BIO RETENTION SYSTEM ‘SHEET TITLE

CONCEPTUAL
GRADING AND
UTILITY PLAN

SECTION
NTS

1 INCH = 30 FEET C4 O
.



--- page 381 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:16 PM

TTLBv.110221

< Ex 42°SD)

LEGEND

10.00’ PRIVATE!
SANITARY SEWER ESMT (E)

Q.

10.00° STORM DRAIN ESMT (E)

10.00’ PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER ESMT (E)

Ex 42°SD}

SARATOGA DRIVE

PROJECT BOUNDARY
STORM DRAIN PIPE
STORM DRAIN PIPE (EXISTING)

STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE (EXISTING)
CURB INLET

CURB INLET (EXISTING)
CATCH BASIN

CATCH BASIN (EXISTING)
CURB CUT

HIGH POINT SPOT ELEVATION
LOW POINT SPOT ELEVATION
FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
PAD ELEVATION

FINISH GRADE ELEVATION
FLOW LINE

TOP OF CURB ELEVATION

PCRCENT AND DIRECTION OF
SURFACE FLOW DRAINAGE

OVERLAND RELEASE PATH

DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT AREA

BIOTREATMENT AREA

TREATMENT SUMMARY TABLE

TREATMENT TYPE

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

BIORETENTION AREA

SELF-TREATING AREA

BIO-RETENTION AREA

BIO-RETENTION AREA

BIO-RETENTION AREA

NOT TREATED

1 INCH = 30 FEET

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

SM

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECT

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMilHt-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PROJECT

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION

SHEET TITLE

CONCEPTUAL
STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN

SHEET NUMBER,

C5.0



--- page 382 ---
NOTES:
1. SEE SHEET L4 FOR IRRIGATION DETAILS. PROJECT NUMBER
2. SEE SHEET L2 FOR PLANTING LEGEND, NOTES AND P204582.00

REMOVABLE BOLLARDS

TURF BLOCK

LIMIT OF WORK _

TRASH AND RECYCLE
RECEPTACLES, TYPICAL

- SARATOGA DRIVE

LIMIT OF WORK
=

~y
cD (>) >

MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

CONCRETE PAVING,
TYPICAL

RETAINING WALL PER
CIVIL PLANS, TYPICAL

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:17 PM

TTLBv.110221

DROUGHT TOLERANT
PLANTING, TYPICAL

BIOTREATMENT AREA, SEE
CIVIL PLANS

BENCHES, TYPICAL

THERAPY GARDEN WITH
SEATING AND LAYERED
PLANTING

DECORATIVE SCREEN
WALL

VINE WALL PANEL,
TYPICAL

BIKE RACKS. QUANTITY
TBD

EXISTING STREET TREE
TO REMAIN, TYPICAL

DETAILS.

GRAPHIC SCALE
1530 60

(In Feet )
1 inch = 30 feet

Author

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMilHt-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE
LANDSCAPE PLAN

L1



--- page 383 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:17 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

NOTES:

1. SEE PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS PRIOR TO
INSTALLATION OF PLANT MATERIALS.

2. THIS DETAIL APPLIES TO 15 GALLON AND
24" BOX TREES.

3. ROOTBALL CROWN TO EXTEND 1" ABOVE
FINISH GRADE.

4. TREES INSTALLED WITHIN TURF AREAS
SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH 'ARBOR-GARD'
AT BASE OF TRUNK.

PREVAILING ——>

WINDS

OOOO O OOO

Clo

TREE-SEE PLAN FOR SIZE AND TYPE
CINCH TIE OR APPROVED EQUAL

2" DIAMETER TREATED LODGE POLE PINE
STAKE PLACED ON WINDWARD SIDES OF
TREE, AND OUTSIDE OF ROOTBALL

A SHALLOW BASIN 2" DEEP SHALL BE FORMED
AROUND ROOTBALL BELOW FINISH GRADE.
TREES PLANTED IN TURF SHALL NOT HAVE
BASINS,

FINISH GRADE
ROOTBALL

AGRIFORM PLANT TABLETS 3 PER 15 GALLON,
6 PER 24" BOX AND 8 FOR 36" BOX

APPROVED BACKFILL, THOROUGHLY MIXED
PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. PUDDLE AND
SETTLE PRIOR TO PLANTING TREE.

FOOT TAMP BASE
NATIVE GRADE

2X DIAMETER,
OF ROOTBALL

TREE STAKING (DOUBLE)

SCALE: N.T.S.

NOTES:
1. ROOTBALL CROWN TO BE 1" ABOVE
FINISHED GRADE,

DEPTH OF
ROOTBALL

2X DIAMETER
OF ROOTBALL

SHRUB PLANTING

FINISHED GRADE

A SHALLOW BASIN 2" DEEP SHALL BE
FORMED AROUND ROOTBALL BELOW
FINISHED GRADE

AGRIFORM PLANT TABLETS 2 PER 1
GALLON, 3 PER 5 AND 15 GALLON

FOOT TAMP BASE

SHRUB-SEE PLAN AND LEGEND FOR
SIZE AND TYPE

APPROVED BACKFILL, THOROUGHLY
MIXED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION

NATIVE GRADE OR CERTIFIED
COMPACTED SUBGRADE

CROICICEOMIOIS)

SCALE: NOT TO SCALE

PROPOSED PLANTING LEGEND

MINIMUM
BOTANICAL NAME COMMON NAME CONTAINER SIZE DESCRIPTION WUCOLS

ACER RUBRUM ‘ARMSTRONG’ ARMSTRONG RED MAPLE 24 GALLON FALL COLOR
OS ACER RUBRUM 'RED SUNSET’ RED SUNSET RED MAPLE 24 GALLON FALL COLOR
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS WESTERN REDBUD 15 GALLON PINK FLOWERS
LAURUS NOBILIS ‘SARATOGA’ SARATOGA BAY LAUREL 15 GALLON EVERGREEN TREE
QUERCUS ILEX HOLLY OAK 24 GALLON EVERGREEN TREE
LARGE SHRUBS

LOMANDRA ‘TROPIC BELLE" TROPIC BELLE MAT RUSH 1 GALLON MEDIUM GRASS
ree} PHLOMIS FRUTICOSA JERUSALEM SAGE 1 GALLON YELLOW FLOWERS
PHOTINIA FRASERI RED TIP PHOTINIA 5 GALLON GREEN/RED FOLIAGE

RHAPHIOLEPIS INDICA ‘BALLERINA’ BALLERINA INDIAN HAWTHORNE 5 GALLON PINK FLOWERS

MEDIUM SHRUBS

ANIGOZANTHOS 'BIG RED' BIG RED KANGAROO PAW 1 GALLON LARGE RED BLOOMS
en} DIETES BICOLOR FORTNIGHT LILY 1 GALLON YELLOW FLOWERS
GREVILLEA NOELLIL NOELL GREVILLEA 1 GALLON PINKJRED FLOWERS
LOMANDRA ‘BREEZE’ MAT RUSH 1 GALLON MEDIUM GRASS
MAHONIA 'SOFT CARESS' SOFT CARESS MAHONIA 1 GALLON YELLOW FLOWERS
TRICHOSTEMA LANATUM WOOLY BLUE CURLS 1 GALLON BLUE FLOWERS

SMALL SHRUBS

co} ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS MEXICAN DAISY 1 GALLON WHITE FLOWERS

MYOPORUM PARVIFOLIUM 'PUTAH CREEK’ CREEPING MYOPORUM 1 GALLON GREEN FOLIAGE
NEPETA 'WALKER'S LOW’ CATMINT 1 GALLON BLUE FLOWERS

BIOTREATMENT SHRUBS
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO! SMALL CAPE RUSH 1 GALLON GRASS
JUNCUS PATENS BLUE RUSH 1 GALLON GRAY GREEN FOLIAGE

NOTES:
1. 3" THICK BARK MULCH IN ALL PLANTER AREAS.
2. NON-FLOATABLE COMPOSTED BARK MULCH THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE STORM WATER CONTROL PLAN SHALL BE SPECIFIED FOR BIOTREATMENT CELLS AND FLOW THROUGH PLANTERS.

CITY OF SAN MATEO TREE REQUIREMENTS

PROPOSED TREES ON SITE (NOT INCLUDING STREET TREES) = 91 TREES
173 PARKING STALLS. 1 TREE FOR EVERY 3 STALLS = 58 TREES REQUIRED
TOTAL PLANTING AREA = 36,460 SF. 1 TREE FOR EVERY 400 SF OF LANDSCAPED AREA = 91 TREES REQUIRED

PLANTING PLAN NOTES

CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL LABOR, MATERIALS, AND EQUIPMENT NECESSARY TO FURNISH AND INSTALL PLANT MATERIAL AS SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS AND AS DESCRIBED IN THE
SPECIFICATIONS,

UNLESS DESIGNATED ON THE DRAWINGS OTHERWISE, STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS AND HARDSCAPE SHALL BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO PLANTING OPERATIONS.
PLANT LIST ON THE DRAWINGS SHALL BE USED AS A GUIDE ONLY. CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKEOFF AND VERIFY SIZES AND QUANTITIES BY PLAN CHECK.

A SOIL MANAGEMENT REPORT SHALL BE PROVIDED BY LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR AND SOIL AMENDMENTS SHALL BE FOLLOWED PER THE REPORT. PHYSICAL COPIES OF THE SOIL MANAGEMENT REPORT
SHALL BE PROVIDED TO THE CLIENT, PROJECT LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND LOCAL AGENCY AS REQUIRED. THE SOIL MANAGEMENT REPORT SHALL CONFORM TO STATE AB1881 WATER EFFICIENT
LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE (WELO) OR LOCAL AGENCY ADOPTED WELO. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN A SOILS MANAGEMENT REPORT AFTER GRADING OPERATIONS AND PRIOR TO PLANT INSTALLATION

SAMPLES OF FERTILIZERS, ORGANIC AMENDMENT, SOIL CONDITIONERS, AND SEED SHALL BE SUBMITTED PRIOR TO INCORPORATION. CONTRACTOR SHALL FURNISH TO THE OWNER'S AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE FOR SUCH FURNISHED MATERIALS.

ALL WORK ON THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM, INCLUDING HYDROSTATIC, COVERAGE, AND OPERATIONAL TESTS AND THE BACKFILLING AND COMPACTION OF TRENCHES SHALL BE PERFORMED PRIOR TO
PLANTING OPERATIONS.

LOCATIONS OF PLANT MATERIAL SHALL BE REVIEWED ON SITE BY THE OWNER'S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
TREES SHALL BE PLANTED NO CLOSER THAN TEN FEET (10') FROM UTILITIES.
TREES PLANTED WITHIN FIVE FEET (5') OF HARDSCAPE OR STRUCTURES SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH A ROOT BARRIER AS APPROVED BY THE OWNER'S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.

CONTRACTOR MUST CONTACT THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ARBORIST AT 650-522-7420 TO VERIFY SPECIES (EVEN IF SHOWN ON THE PLANS), LOCATIONS, AND QUANTITIES OF ALL STREET TREES PRIOR TO
ORDERING MATERIAL. IF STREET TREES ARE TO BE PLANTED IN TREE WELLS, FINAL LOCATION OF TREE WELLS SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE ARBORIST PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALK.

ALL PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE 3" THICK BARK MULCH LAYER. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE SAMPLE OF BARK MULCH FOR APPROVAL. BARK MULCH SHALL BE LYNGSO SMALL FIR BARK (3/4" TO 1-1/2")
OR APPROVED EQUAL

ALL PLANT MATERIAL SHALL BE SELECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AMERICAN STANDARD FOR NURSERY STOCK (ANSI Z60.1)

FOR STANDARD FORM TREES, CALIPER SIZE SHALL BE MEASURED 6" ABOVE THE SOIL LINE FOR CALIPERS EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN 4" FOR CALIPERS GREATER THAN 4", CALIPER SHALL BE MEASURES 12"
ABOVE THE SOIL LINE. FOR MULTI-TRUNK TREES THE CALIPER SHALL BE ESTABLISHED BY TAKING THE AVERAGE OF THE CALIPER OF THE TWO LARGEST TRUNKS.

CALIPER IS MEASURED 6" ABOVE ORIGINATION POINT OF THE SECOND LARGEST TRUNK OR 6” ABOVE GROUND IF ALL TRUNKS ORIGINATE FROM THE SOIL.

CALIPER SIZES STANDARDS:
15 GALLON: 0.75-1.25"

24" BOX: 1.25-2"

36" BOX: 2-3.5"

48" BOX: 3.5-5"

60" BOX: 4-6"

WATER NEEDS CATEGORY BASED ON WUCOLS IV (JANUARY 2014) LANDSCAPE COEFFICIENT METHOD:
CATEGORY PERCENTAGE OF ETo

(H) HIGH: 0.7-0.9

(M) MEDIUM: 0.4-0.6

(L) Low: 0.1-0.3

(VL) VERY LOW: <0.1

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

Author

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMiiHt-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PROJECT

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE

CONCEPTUAL
PLANTING LEGEND,
NOTES, AND DETAILS

L2



--- page 384 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:18 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

~ SARATOGA DRIVE
LIMIT OF WORK

<>
a

Ee ee Oe
——> =

ae

s £2 eee SESS SOS ESI

acarararararere, SOR ORR ssecee SSS ORK oS se Matatetetetetatetetetstetetetatatatetstetseatanets

rotatatetotetetacavetetoteteracasetetetetaravsvetetehetereceteteten fe tetaronerecetonenes 50eeee SRR RRR KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK RR KKK
SO

x

ne 2
retatatatatatatetetetetetehehetetetetetatatatetatetatatetetetetetene oe eetatatatatetatatatetetetetetatetetetehehetetetetetetetetetete

TCM 15 | |

S05

|
|
|

MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

=

ALEK

NOTES:

1. SEE SHEET L4 FOR IRRIGATION DETAILS. PROJECT NUMBER

2. SEE SHEET L2 FOR PLANTING LEGEND, NOTES AND P204582.00
DETAILS.

IRRIGATION ZONE LEGEND: Author

INLINE DRIP FOR SHRUBS AND GROUNDCOVER
AREAS.
LOW VOLUME BUBBLERS FOR TREES. 12/10/2020

DATE

SPRAY FOR TURFBLOCK AREAS.

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

DRIP FOR BIOTREATMENT AREAS.

TREATMENT CONTROL MEASURE
SEE STORMWATER TREATMENT PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION

IRRIGATION DESIGN CRITERIA:

. FINAL DESIGN SHALL CONFORM TO AB1881 OR CITY ADOPTED WATER
EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE.

. ALL PLANTING AREAS SHOWN WILL BE COMMONLY MAINTAINED BY THE
OWNER AND IRRIGATED BY AN AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM.

. IRRIGATION SYSTEMS WILL BE PERMANENT BELOW GROUND AUTOMATED BOULDER
SYSTEMS ADEQUATE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF ALL
PLANT MATERIAL. THESE SYSTEMS WILL BE INSTALLED AS SOON AS ASSOCIATES
PRACTICAL AFTER GRADING AND PRIOR TO PLANT MATERIAL INSTALLATION
AND HYDROSEEDING.

_ ALL TURF, TREE, SHRUB AND GROUNDCOVER AREAS WILL BE IRRIGATED BY A
PERMANENT, AUTOMATIC, UNDERGROUND IRRIGATION SYSTEM. ALL SPRAY
AREAS WILL BE IRRIGATED BY HIGH EFFICIENCY MATCHED PRECIPITATION
RATE POP-UP SPRAY HEADS. TURF, TREE, SHRUB, AND GROUND COVER ARCHITECTS
AREAS SHALL BE ON SEPARATE VALVES ACCORDING TO PLANT WATER
REQUIREMENTS AND EXPOSURE.

. ALL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SHALL BE DESIGNED, MAINTAINED AND MANAGED Boulder Associates, Inc.
TO MEET OR EXCEED MINIMUM EFFICIENCY Architecture + Interior Design
. ALL IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT SHALL BE SCREENED APPROPRIATELY FROM 26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
VIEW IN PUBLIC AREAS TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT POSSIBLE. San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
. THE FINAL IRRIGATION PLAN SHALL ACCURATELY AND CLEARLY IDENTIFY: www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

LOCATIONS AND SIZES OF WATER POINTS OF CONNECTION.
. LOCATION, TYPE AND SIZE OF ALL COMPONENTS OF THE IRRIGATION

SYSTEM, INCLUDING AUTOMATIC CONTROLLERS, MAIN AND LATERAL
LINES, VALVES, SPRINKLER HEADS, RAIN SWITCHES, AND QUICK AAA Ti--
COUPLERS.
STATIC WATER PRESSURE AT THE POINTS OF CONNECTION. Land Use Entitlements
. FLOW RATE (GALLONS PER MINUTE), REMOTE CONTROL VALVE SIZE, Land Planning
AND DESIGN OPERATING PRESSURE (PSI) FOR EACH STATION. Landecape /vchiieckure
. HYDROZONE INFORMATION TABLE. Nitty Decer?
. WATER USE CALCULATIONS. Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance
8. ANEW IRRIGATION WATER METER SHALL BE INSTALLED AS PART OF 1570 Oakiend Road (408) 487-2200
LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS, LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED. San Jose, CA95131_ HMHca.com

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

*

\

GRAPHIC SCALE
1530 60

‘SHEET TITLE

HYDROZONE PLAN

(In Feet )
1 inch = 30 feet

L3



--- page 385 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:18 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

NOTES: (1) POSITION BUBBLER TUBING STAKES PVC
1. BUBBLER DISTANCE TO ROOT OVER ROOT BALL COATED 12 GAUGE WIRE

BALL WILL VARY DEPENDING ON

U STAKES QUANTITY AS

THE CONTAINER SIZE OF THE <2) FLOOD BUBBLER NEEDED TO SECURE

PLANT. NOZZLE (SEE LEGEND

. PLACE ALL BUBBLERS ON FOR MODEL)
UPHILL SIDE OF SLOPE IF (3) UV RADIATION

APPLICABLE CONCEAL ALL RESISTANT 1/2" PVC
EQUIPMENT UNDER MULCH. SCHED 40 (MIPT X

TUBING (2 MINIMUM)
SALCO OR EQUAL

LP.S. FLEXIBLE SCH 40
PVC HOSE (BLACK)

. INSTALL ALL IN ACCORDANCE SLIP) MALE ADAPTER ) SOIL RING (SEE

WITH MANUFACTURER'S
RECOMMENDATIONS.

PLANTING DETAILS)

<7) FINISHED GRADE

() 12" PVC SCH 40 (MIPT X
SLIP) MALE ADAPTER UV
RADIATION RESISTANT

PVC SCH 40 TEE OR ELL
3/A" X 3/4" X 1/2" (SLIP
XSLIP X FIPT)

PVC LATERAL PIPE

MULCH PER
SPECIFICATIONS

12) PLANT CROWN

(13) ROOT BALL

( F) TREE BUBBLER

NOTE:

1, THE TOTAL LENGTH OF ALL INTERCONNECTED DRIP LINE
SHALL NOT EXCEED THE MAXIMUM RUN LENGTH

ay DRIPLINE AUTOMATIC FLUSH VALVE
PLUMBED TO FLUSH MANIFOLD AT
LOW POINT

(2) PVC FLUSH MANIFOLD

(3) DRIPLINE MANIFOLD-TO-ELBOW
CONNECTION

() DRIPLINE MANIFOLD-TO-TEE
CONNECTION

(3) DRIPLINE OPERATION INDICATOR
REMOTE CONTROL VALVE WITH
FILTER AND PRESSURE REGULATOR

(7) PVC SUPPLY MANIFOLD

ZONE PERIMETER
(9) DRIPLINE LATERAL

AIR/VACUUM RELIEF LATERAL
DRIPLINE BLANK TUBING CENTERED
ON MOUND OR BERM

ay DRIPLINE AIR/VACUUM RELIEF VALVE
PLUMBED TO DRIPLINE BLANK
TUBING AT EACH HIGH POINT

PERIMETER LATERALS 2" TO 4" FROM
EDGE

DRIPLINE CENTER-FEED LAYOUT

NTS,

NOTES:

1, PLACE AGGREGATE PRIOR TO
INSTALLATION OF VALVE BOX

2. INSTALL VALVE BOX SO TOP OF BOX IS

FLUSH WITH ADJACENT HARDSCAPE

(1) VALVE BOX (CARSON 910-12B)
OR EQUAL W/ GREEN LID
FINISHED GRADE! BEFORE
PLANTING
GATE VALVE: SEE LEGEND FOR
MAKE AND MODEL LINE SIZE

) SCH 40 PVC MALE ADAPTOR

(5) PVC SCH 40 MIN 8" LONG
(6) PVC 45 FITTING SCH 40 (TYP.)

(7) PVC SCH 40

2X4 REDWOOD BLOCK (TYP.) 2
PLACES

@) PVC MAINLINE PIPE

6 INCH MIN. DEPTH PEA GRAVEL
SUMP

(©) GATE VALVE
NTS.

OTES:

1. NOT LOCATE REMOTE CONTROL VALVE IN LAWN

a) 18" LENGTH EXPANSION
LOOP
SCOTCH LOK #3577
CONNECTOR SEALING
PACK OR EQUAL

@) ID TAG FOR VALVE
STATION NUMBER
VALVE BOX (CARSON
910-12B) OR EQUAL

TOP OF MULCH

SEE IRRIG. LEGEND
PVC SCH 80 NIPPLE
(CLOSE)

PVC SCH 40 MIN 8" LONG
PVC 45 FITTING SCH 40
PVC SCH 40

SX S$ FITTING
PVC MAINLINE PIPE

6" MIN. DEEP PEA GRAVEL
SUMP

LATERAL LINE CL 200 PVC

(5) BRICK-1 PER CORNER, 4
TOTAL

OOOOH O OO

(D) REMOTE CONTROL VALVE
NTS.

NOTE:

1. VERIFY POWER SOURCE WITH PROJECT

ELECTRICIAN.

2. ALL ELECTRICAL WORK MUST CONFORM TO

LOCAL CODES.

(1) FINISHED GRADE
2-1" PVC CONDUITS FOR 120
VOLT A.C. AND SIGNAL WIRE
IRRIGATION CONTROLLER-SEE
IRRIGATION LEGEND FOR
SPECIFICATION

(4) 24 VOLT CONTROL WIRING
(5) CONCRETE PAD-6" THICK (MIN.)

EXTEND 6" BEYOND EACH SIDE
AND BACK AND 24" IN FRONT

(8) GROUND WIRE

(7) 4" PVC SWEEP ELL ROUND

PLASTIC VALVE BOX SEE
SPECIFICATIONS FOR TYPE

(9) 8 LONG COPPER GROUND ROD

PEDESTAL MOUNT CONTROLLER

N.S.

REMOTE CONTROL VALVE:

NOTES.
TNIPPLES AND FITTINGS TOBE SAME IpT 2) SCH.40 GALVANIZED STEEL NIPPLES-2 TOTAL
SIZE AS BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. SCH. 80 PVC COUPLING- 2 TOTAL

2. DISSIMILAR METALS SHALL BE (4) SCH. 80 PVC 90° ELBOW-2 TOTAL (TxT
SEPARATED BY AN APPROVED CONNECTION)

DIELECTRIC FITTING. (5) PVC MAIN LINE TO POINT OF CONNECTION
(6) BUSH AS NECESSARY FOR SIZE TRANSITION

(7) SCH. 80 PVC MALE ADAPTER-2 TOTAL

CONCRETE SUPPORT BLOCK
POURED CONCRETE BASE-6" MIN.
THICKNESS-EXTEND 4” BEYOND OUTSIDE
DIMENSIONS OF ENCLOSURE

FINISHED GRADE

(1) SCH. 80 PVC NIPPLE-2 TOTAL

(12) PVC MAIN LINE TO IRRIGATION SYSTEM

(13) BACKFLOW ENCLOSURE-SEE NOTE 4.
REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW ANCHOR ROD (TYPICAL)

ASSEMBLY PER IRRIGATION
LEGEND (15) BACKFLOW BLANKET

TS WE on
ENCLOSURE TE a ell Ale

BACKFLOW DEVICE

REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW DEVICE

(A) ENCLOSURE AND BLANKET

10" ROUND PLASTIC VALVE pV MAINLINE
BOX WITH BOLT DOWN LID

(2) FINISHED GRADE (7) MAINLINE FITTING

a a 10" LONG SCH 80 PVC
@ nope ROCK, 6° MIN. THREADED NIPPLE

(4) 3" LONG SCHEDULE 80 PVC QUICK COUPLING VALVE
THREADED NIPPLE 11/4" x 1 1/4" x 3/16" ANGLE

SCH 80 PVC THREADED 90 :
IRON 30" LONG, 2 STAINLESS
DEGREE ELL STEEL STRAPS

IRRIGATION
LEGEND

TOP VIEW

QUICK COUPLING VALVE
TS.

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

Author

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMiiHt-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE

IRRIGATION DETAILS

L4



--- page 386 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/31/2021 1:27:18 PM

TTLBv.110221

LIMIT OF WORK

ON-SITE TREE MITIGATION NOTES

¢ — THIS PROJECT WILL NEED TO CONFORM WITH THE CITY
OF SAN MATEO HERITAGE TREE ORDINANCE

~~ SARATOGA DRIVE

LIMIT OF WORK

MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

TREE PROTECTION LEGEND
DESCRIPTION SYMBOL

TREE TO BE REMOVED

TREE TO REMAIN/PROTECT

PROPOSED TREE, TYPICAL C)

TREE PROTECTION FENCING
(SEE DETAIL, THIS SHEET)

NOTES:

1. PROTECTION FOR TREES SHALL BE
PROVIDED BEFORE GRADING OR
OTHER EQUIPMENT IS ALLOWED ON
THE PROPERTY. WHEN
CONSTRUCTION IS TO TAKE PLACE
BENEATH A TREE CANOPY FENCING
SHALL BE LOCATED PER ARBORIST. IF
CONSTRUCTION OR PAVING IS TO
TAKE PLACE THROUGHOUT THE AREA
BENEATH CANOPY, AND DRIP LINE
FENCING IS NOT PRACTICAL, WATTLE
AND SNOW FENCING SHOULD BE USED
TO PROTECT THE TRUNKS FROM
DAMAGE PER DETAIL.

. PRUNING MAY BE NECESSARY TO
FACILITATE REMOVAL OF DEAD WOOD,
CONFLICT WITH NEW STRUCTURE, OR
REDUCE STRESS AND SHALL BE
CARRIED OUT BY A QUALIFIED
ARBORIST.

. CONSULT WITH ARBORIST TO
DETERMINE FERTILIZING AND
WATERING SCHEDULE FOR EXISTING
TREES PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION TO
REDUCE SHOCK AND STRESS

DRIP LINE

GRAPHIC SCALE

30 60

a) FENCE THE PERIMETER OF DRIP LINE WITH 6!
HIGH CHAIN LINK FENCE. SECURE ONE SIGN
PER ZONE AS DETAILED BELOW OR APPROVED
EQUAL TO FENCE WITH WIRE TIES.

(2) WHERE PROTECTIVE FENCING CAN NOT BE
INSTALLED AT THE DRIPLINE OF THE TREE OR
WHEN FENCING IS REMOVED FOR
CONSTRUCTION, INSTALL LODGE POLE POSTS (4
PER TREE) AROUND TREE AND WRAP TRUNK IN
STRAW WADDLE THEN ORANGE SNOW FENCING
TO BRANCHING STRUCTURE.

CONTRACTOR SHALL CONSULT WITH ARBORIST
FOR METHODS OF TRENCHING FOR
INSTALLATION FOR UTILITIES WITHIN
ROOTZONE.

TREE PROTECTION ZONE |

DO NOT REMOVE EXCEPT FOR UNDER THE =
DIRECTION OF THE PROJECT ARBORIST

DRIP LINE

1,21

Fare
I
= SECTION

(3)

ree) TREE PROTECTION DETAIL

SCALE: NONE

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

Author

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

ran DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

4HiMilHt-

Land Use Entitlements
Land Planning
Landscape Architecture
Civil Engineering
Utility Design
Land Surveying
Stormwater Compliance

1570 Oakland Road (408) 487-2200
San Jose, CA 95131 HMHca.com

PROJECT

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

SHEET TITLE

TREE MITIGATION
PLAN

L5



--- page 387 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB/P204S82.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lrvt

3/26/2021 4:16:05 PM.

‘TMBv.110221

YATES WAY

WAYNE WAY

SARATOGA DRIVE

eC

—CURB CUTS ALTERED FROM

EXISTING LOCATION

—a

SIGN INDICATING MEDICAL
OFFICE ACCESS

7
SIDE YARD SETBACK: 60'

FRONT YARD SETBACK: 30'

©

=O 0

PEDESTRIAN THROUGH ZONE: 5'-6"
oe e

— PROPERTY LINE

O—O-
(cuaOMO

PROPERTY LINE

NEW 6' FENCE

RAMP TO BELOW-GRADE PARKING =

25 STALLS

PEDESTRIAN ZONE

——

PARKING SETBACK: 15' MIN.

REAR YARD SETBACK: 40°

DOOR TO BACK OF
HOUSE CORE

LOADING ZONE

EM. GENERATOR
ENCLOSURE

SECTION
1"=300" *

a}

I
io BuILOING bE

VEGETATIV

OO @

a

YOND

SCREEN

15% SLOPE

ey p2'-o' f+

MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDING

——————

[

f(2) LINEAR
‘ACCELERATOR
/AULTS

MAIN ENTRY.
4 | | | oO

A0.06 | AS.02

SITE PLAN
1" =30'0"

NEW 6' FENCE

| ol| iy
PASSENGER LOADING a alg

4_48'-0" 01} ep-0
19 STALLS (12 Al

MONUMENT SIGN (8'W X 3' H)
NEW BIO CELLS, TYP.

SIDE YARD SETBACK: 30'

NEW TREES, TYP.
ARCHITECTURAL SCREEN WALL
PATIENT THERAPY GARDEN

SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING (18)

OPEN SPACE/PLAZA

LINE OF GARAGE BELOW ~——___

CURB CUTS ALTERED FROM
EXISTING LOCATION

BID | nemwaaa—
PHOTOVOLTAIC CANOPY

PARKING GARAGE A

PROPERTY LINE

CURB CUTS ALTERED FROM §=S|TE PLAN LEGEND

EXISTING LOCATION
TREE

©)

SIGNAGE:
LEFT TURN ONLY

BIO CELL

LANDSCAPING AREA

\)

PROJECT NUMBER

P204582.00

DRAWN BY

S. LIAO

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

& DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

SHEET TITLE

FINAL SITE PLAN

SHEET NUMBER,

AS.02



--- page 388 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.nt

3/26/2021 4:16:00 PM.

TTLBv.110221

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

DRAWN BY

Ss. UAO

DATE
12/10/2020

(A)
LONG TERM

BIKE PARKING REVISIONS
& LOCKERS. 20
SPACES ca
PROVIDED
482 SF

DESCRIPTION

o
°

P.o.
plo.
O°

i

LLL

= : BOULDER
Labey = ; ASSOCIATES
88 SF

oO
‘ood
‘oo}

real

S@SE

FRI ELEV| i
69 SF

ARCHITECTS

pe=
1

ZZ2I\N

4

oe ASC MECH | r a Boulder Associates, Inc.

" VAC PUMP Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

o
99)

loo.
00)

loo

NN

NN

‘oo!
(o¥-}

°.
o

oo

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION

a re

|
- ‘SHEET TITLE
(4) > GARAGE FLOOR PLAN
[ \ GARAGE FLOOR PLAN fj —
A0.06 | A0.01 = 3/32"=1'-0" \]

SHEET NUMBER,

AO.01



--- page 389 ---
BIM 360://P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.rvt

3/26/2021 2:46:50 PM

‘TTBv.110221

LINE OF CANOPY

ABOVE

OS

RAD ONC
12124 SF

Planned: 12,327

1ST FLOOR PLAN
0.06] A002 3/32"=1'-0"

LINE OF CANOPY ABOVE

@)

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

DATE
12/10/2020

AX DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
Boulder Associates 2019

PROJECT
PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE

1ST FLOOR PLAN

‘SHEET NUMBER

A0.02



--- page 390 ---
LINE OF CANOPY __/

BELOW

DATE
12/10/2020

aX DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com
Boulder Associates 2019

PROJECT
PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LINE OF CANOPY BELOW

2ND FLOOR PLAN
0.06 [0.03 3/32"=1'-0"

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lrvt

3/26/2021 2:46:51 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE

2ND FLOOR PLAN

SHEET NUMBER

A0.03



--- page 391 ---
BIM 360://P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.rvt

3/26/2021 2:46:51 PM

‘TTBv.110221

L \ 3RD FLOOR PLAN iS
0.06 | A004 3/32"=1'-0" y

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

DRAWN BY

S. UAO

12/10/2020

REVISIONS

aX DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com
Boulder Associates 2019

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

SHEET TMLE
3RD FLOOR PLAN

‘SHEET NUMBER

A0.04



--- page 392 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lrvt

3/26/2021 2:46:52 PM

‘TTLBv.110221

@ @ ©) @) @)

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com
Boulder Associates 2019

PROJECT
PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION



--- page 393 ---
PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

_— (9)
T.O. ROOF SCREEN COLOR 2 ‘COLOR T.O. ROOF SCREEN
— 161'- 0" S

161'- 0"
MAX. PARAPET re)
155'- 0"

ROOF
147'- 0" &

FLOOR 3
ae

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

— —— _-FLOOR2 Ace Ta $15 ts = = ies | — | L | _ FLOOR2

117'- 0" ¥: : i —t It 4 117'- 0"

ARCHITECTS

s Boulder Associates, Inc.

EAST ELEVATION - YATES WAY Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

T.0. ROOF SCREEN
ow AD. T.O. ROOF SCREEN
161' --0" Tel". 0" &

MAX. PARAPET . MAX. PARAPET.
155-0" & 155'- 0" &

ROOF a jp ROOF
147-0" & 147'- 0" &

PROJECT

ROORS = agek2-6| PMB SAN MATEO
i om ! MEDICAL OFFICE

FLOOR? 4g BUILDING

117'-0"

FLOOR 1
Ao or ~0" "]

| WEST sales - LOADING
48.02 A007 1/16"=1'-0"

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION

BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2L.rvt

MATERIAL LEGEND SHEET TMLE

BUILDING
ELEVATIONS

GFRC PANEL, COLOR TBD

EIFS, COLOR 1

METAL PANEL, COLOR 1

METAL PANEL, COLOR 2

METAL PANEL, COLOR 3
GLAZING, COLOR AND TYPE TBD
PERFORATED METAL SCREEN, COLOR TBD

sommes | AQ) Q7

3/25/2021 7:41:26 AM

‘SHEET NUMBER

‘TTLBv.110221


--- page 394 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB/P204S82.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lrvt

3/25/2021 4:47:55 PM

‘TMBv.110221

MECHANICAL ENCLOSURE

STAFF TOILET PARKING GARAGE

FIRE RISER

| ooo I

OUTPATIENT

CLINIC

MDF

PARKING GARAGE

_T.O. ROOF SCREEN
161'-0" *

FLOOR 3

PARKING GARAGE

oe 7

132'- 0"

FLOOR 2 _@y
117'-0" *

FLOOR 1

a
100'-0" “

GARAGE
87'-0" *

NORTH-SOUTH SECTION

A0.01 | A0.06 3/32" = 1'-0"

T.O. ROOF SCREEN

MECHANICAL ENCLOSURE

|. PUBLIC TLT

|. PUBLIC TLT

|. PUBLIC TLT

STAIR #1

161-0"

FLOOR 3

|_| |_| |_|
6-OR ASC

132'-0"

FLOOR 2

RAD ONC

PARKING GARAGE

117'-0" *

LINEAR
ACCELERATOR VAULT

FLOOR 1

EAST-WEST SECTION

A0.01 | A0.06 == 3/32" = 1'-0"

PARKING GARAGE

wy 100' - 0" &

GARAGE _@)
87'-0" ~

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

DRAWN BY

S. LIAO

DATE
12/10/2020

REVISIONS

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108.
415.796.6720

www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

PROJECT

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

LANNING
RE-APPLICATION

SHEET TITLE

BUILDING SECTIONS

SHEET NUMBER

A0.06



--- page 395 ---
BIM 360;//P204582.00 >MB San Mateo MOB/P204582.00 PMB San Mateo MOB C&S-A2Lrvt

3/25/2021 7:41:26 AM

‘TTLBv.110221

ee ee

PEEL |

2

Hill

sail

a

ee

uy

ele,

PiEe er |

at
Bi

iit ttt

<a

PITT |

PROJECT NUMBER
P204582.00

KW

DATE
12/10/2020

AX DESCRIPTION

BOULDER
ASSOCIATES

ARCHITECTS

Boulder Associates, Inc.
Architecture + Interior Design
26 O'Farrell Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, California 94108
415.796.6720
www.boulderassociates.com
©Boulder Associates 2019

PMB SAN MATEO
MEDICAL OFFICE
BUILDING

PLANNING
PRE-APPLICATION

‘SHEET TITLE

BUILDING
PERSPECTIVES

‘SHEET NUMBER

A0.08



--- page 396 ---
PA-2020-078 / 040 030 180 / Saratoga Yates MOB / MAY 2021 
LOCATION MAP 
FOR REFERENCE ONLY 
1000 feet

--- page 397 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan - Applicable Policies  
Adopted October 18, 2010 
 
Development of the site is guided by the following relevant planning documents: 
 
1. General Plan Vision 2030 
Available online at: http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2021 
 
2. City of San Mateo Zoning Code 
Available online at: https://sanmateo.ca.us.open.law/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27 
 
3. Bay Meadows Specific Plan (Phase I) 
Available online at: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Index/2612 
 
Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies are listed to facilitate further discussion and 
direction for the project at this preliminary stage.  
General Plan Vision 2030 
Land Use Element 
LU 1.10:  
Commercial Development. Encourage industrial, service, retail, and office 
development which is compatible with the desired character of the area and 
with adjacent residential areas in terms of intensity of use, height, bulk and 
design as delineated on the Land Use Plan, Building Height Plan and Building 
Intensity Plan. Commercial development adjacent to residential areas shall 
address concerns pertaining to traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling activities, 
noise, visual impacts, and public safety including hazardous material storage, fire 
safety, air pollutant emissions and odors. 
LU 1.11:  
Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at 
locations delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the 
commercial nodes delineated on the Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.2: 
Land Use Plan. Adopt and maintain the Land Use Plan which graphically displays 
the intended uses and development intensity/density for all land within the 
planning area. 
LU 1.3: 
Land Use Standards. Adopt and maintain the land use categories included in 
Appendix B defining the range of intended uses and linked to development 
intensity/density limits.

--- page 398 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 2 of 9 
 
 
LU 1.5: 
Building Height. Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix 
C, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2, closely matched with the Land Use 
categories and Building Intensity standards. 
LU 2.3:  
Local Employment. Encourage uses which provide opportunities for employment 
of all the City's residents, with emphasis placed on major employers that provide 
high value-added jobs. 
LU 2.5:  
Economic Development Plan. Update and maintain the Economic Development 
Strategy that encourages new private investment, increases employment 
opportunities, ensures a variety of commercial uses, develops a balance between 
high value-added employment and revenue generating business, and promotes 
San Mateo as an economically viable and competitive location. 
GOAL 4c:  
Health and Safety. Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by 
maintaining adequate fire and life safety protection, providing a safe environment 
with a minimum of crime, reducing unreasonable risk to life and property caused 
by flooding, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and managing the use, 
storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. 
LU 4.2:  
Developer's Contribution Policy. Require new development to pay on an 
equitable basis for new or expanded public improvements needed to support the 
new or changed land use or development. 
LU 4.32: 
Recycling and Composting. Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance 
with State requirements. Require provisions for onsite recycling for all new 
development and expand composting of green waste and food scraps, as directed 
by the City’s Climate Action Plan which is an appendix of the General Plan. 
LU 4.33: 
Waste Management. Manage toxic and hazardous wastes by following the goals 
and policies contained in the Safety Element. 
LU 8.6: 
Waste Reduction. Reduce waste sent to landfills by San Mateo’s residents, 
businesses and visitors by a minimum of 75% from 2005 levels by 2020 by 
mandating recycling, setting aggressive waste reduction goals for all development, 
implementing composting programs, and increasing costs for residential and 
commercial waste collection then using increased waste collection revenue to 
provide waste reduction incentives. Supportive actions for waste and reduction 
are detailed in the Climate Action Plan.

--- page 399 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
LU 8.9:  
Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures:  
1.  
Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be 
applied to all construction activities within San Mateo. 
2.  
Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with 
applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos 
containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint 
and asbestos.  
3.  
Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time 
of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include 
the utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the 
length of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and 
utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment 
(alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters).  
PA 7.2: 
Bay Meadows Phase I. The site is designated for mixed use development including 
office land use. The specific heights and intensities of uses are set forth in the 
Specific Plan prepared for the site. The plan assures that adequate buffers and 
screening are developed and maintained, and that the design of the development 
is compatible with adjacent land uses. Maximum height shall be 55 feet, however, 
the Specific Plan may lower height limits for particular elements of development.  
Circulation Element 
C 2.4: 
Transportation Fee Ordinance. Require new developments to pay for on-site 
improvements to meet the needs of development and their proportionate share 
of the costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City of San Mateo. 
Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements 
equitably. The off-site improvements will include intersection and street 
improvements to maintain intersection levels of service, traffic safety 
improvements and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle trips such as 
bicycle system enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction 
measures.

--- page 400 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
C 2.5: 
Traffic Studies. Require site-specific traffic studies for development projects 
where there may be a substantial impact on the local street system. Traffic 
impacts caused by a development project are considered to be unacceptable and 
warrant mitigation if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative 
intersection level of service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C-
2.1; where there may be safety hazards created; or where there may be other 
substantial impacts on the circulation system. 
C 4.1:  
Bicycle Master Plan. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully-connected safe and logical 
bikeways system; support the City's Sustainable Transportation Actions; and 
coordinate with the countywide system. 
C 4.5: 
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Continue to require as a 
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and 
wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged 
sidewalks. Require that utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on 
sidewalks be placed and maintained to permit wheelchair access and pedestrian 
use. Increase awareness of existing trails and routes by promoting these amenities 
to residents. 
C 4.7:  
Pedestrian Safety. Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of 
intersection and other roadway improvements. 
C 4.9:  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Connections. Implement an area-wide pedestrian and 
bicycle circulation plan which will result in convenient and direct connections 
throughout San Mateo. Implementing connections in the Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) area and into adjacent neighborhoods 
and districts is a priority. 
GOAL 5:  
Provide an adequate parking supply for new development. 
C 5.1:  
Parking Standards.  
a. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply as a condition of development approval.  
b. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply for change and/or expansion of land use resulting in increased 
parking demand.

--- page 401 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
C 6.2:  
Single Occupancy Vehicles. Reduce single occupant automobile usage for local 
trips by implementing flexible alternative transportation programs within San 
Mateo such as bike share programs, car share programs, additional local shuttles 
for Caltrain connections and other programs that support reduced single-
occupant vehicle trips. Partners and program opportunities are identified and in 
the Climate Action Plan. 
Urban Design Element 
UD 2.7: 
Respect Existing Scale. Encourage new commercial development to respect the 
scale of surrounding buildings by providing breaks in the building face at spacings 
common to buildings in the area and by stepping back upper floors. 
UD 2.8: 
Trademark Building Forms. Discourage ‘signature’ or trademark building forms or 
colors where they would contribute to the visual clutter of the area. 
UD 2.14: 
Sustainable Design and Building Construction. Require new development and 
building alterations to conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and 
subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to 
sustainable building construction. 
UD 2.15:  
Integrate Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design 
features and elements into the building early in the design process. Important 
considerations include:  
a.  
Use of recycled, sustainably harvested, or locally sourced building 
materials such as siding, paving, decking, and insulation. 
b.  
Preservation and/or adaptive reuse of structures is preferred over 
demolition. Recycle and reuse materials on-site from dismantling and/or 
demolition of a building or site improvements as much as possible. c. 
Consideration of heat reflecting roof systems to reduce roof heat gain. 
Balance the benefits of light colored roofs with aesthetics. 
UD 2.16:  
Design and Placement of Solar Access and Panels. Encourage applicants to 
incorporate solar energy systems into their projects. Building owners can minimize 
non-renewable heating and cooling methods and maximize solar heat gain by 
using solar panels and innovative building design features such as the use of 
overhangs, having south-facing windows and planting trees that provide shade.

--- page 402 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
a. 
Building placement and adjacencies should be considered such that they 
do not unreasonably affect the solar access on neighboring residential 
properties. 
b. 
Solar panels and other roof-mounted equipment should be integrated into 
building design so as not to detract from the appearance of a home and 
reduce obtrusiveness. 
c. 
Roof mounted solar energy equipment and panel should be located below 
ridgelines and on sides of roof away from street view wherever possible. 
Non-glare and non-reflective type panels should be utilized. 
d. 
The design and placement of roof-mounted solar panels should account 
for the heights of existing trees and future growth. This applies to both 
trees on-site and on neighboring properties, including Heritage Trees and 
street trees. 
Conservation and Open Space Element 
C/OS 6.6: 
New Development Street Trees. Require street tree planting as a condition of all 
new developments in accordance with the adopted Street Tree Master Plan. 
C/OS 6.7:  
Street Tree Planting. Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the 
City. 
C/OS 6.8:  
Street Tree Preservation. Preserve existing street trees; ensure adequate siting, 
selection, and regular maintenance of City trees, including neighborhood 
participation, for the purpose of keeping the trees in a safe and aesthetic 
condition. 
C/OS 9.1:  
Development Requirements. Require new developments to protect and enhance 
the character of scenic roadways and trails designated on Figure C/OS-4, including 
but not limited to treatment of signs and screening, land uses, and preservation 
of view corridors.  
C/OS 10.1:  
Public Open Space Design. Review planning applications for opportunities to 
promote exceptional design and use of public open spaces in new developments 
and new public buildings.  
Safety Element 
S 1.3: 
Erosion Control. Require erosion control measures for all development sites 
where grading activities are occurring, including those having landslide deposits,

--- page 403 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 7 of 9 
 
 
past erosion problems, the potential for storm water quality impacts, or slopes of 
15% or greater which are to be altered.  
S 2.5: 
Stormwater Drainage System. Implement the improvements identified in the City 
of San Mateo’s seven watershed areas to improve and maintain drainage capacity 
adequate to convey water during a typical storm event.  
Noise Element 
N 2.1: 
Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City’s existing 
noise control ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to 
neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and b) 
restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
N 2.2: 
Minimize Noise Impact.  Protect all "noise sensitive" land uses listed in tables N-
1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB 
(LDN) or above at the common property line, or new uses which generate noise 
levels of 60 dB (LDN) or above at the property line, excluding ambient noise levels. 
N 2.3: 
Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise 
sensitive” in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise 
generated by new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into 
development design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit new uses that generate 
noise levels of 65 dB (Ldn) or above at the property line, excluding existing 
ambient noise levels. 
 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
 
• The Office Campus Area establishes a high-quality corporate headquarters environment 
including executive and administrative office, warehousing, multipurpose facilities and 
structured parking. 
 
• Building Entries: Primary building entries shall be accessed directly from a publicly 
accessible street or walkway. All building entries should be clearly expressed with 
recesses, overhangs, special materials and/or detailing. Front doors should be substantial 
in appearance and one shall be to see through it if an adjacent window is not provided.

--- page 404 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
• Façade Composition: Unless an exceptional quality of design and materials can be 
demonstrated, building facades should have three recognizable design elements: a base, 
a middle, and a top. 
 
• Façade Consistency: All facades shall receive high-quality materials, finishes, and 
detailing. To ensure visual interest and an appropriate scale, reveals and recesses are 
encouraged at windows, doors, and eaves. 
 
• Fenestration: Windows should face all public streets, walkways and open spaces.  
 
• Loading and Service Areas: Loading and service areas should not face public streets and 
plazas.  Views of loading and service areas from streets, plazas, and the freeway should 
be screened.  
 
• Materials and Finishes: Exterior materials and finishes should convey a sense of integrity, 
permanence, and durability. 
 
• Parking Landscaping: Parking lot landscaping shall be provided per City Code, including 
providing a landscape setback along street frontages adjacent to residential areas up to a 
maximum of 10 feet. At least 10 percent of open parking areas are to be landscaped. Open 
parking areas are to be screened along street frontages and adjacent to residential areas. 
Parking lot islands shall be landscaped; for each three parking spaces at least one tree 
shall be planted within the parking lot landscaped area in addition to any required street 
trees. Planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic with a six inch 
concrete curb. 
 
• Parking Lots and Garages: Parking lots and garages should be positioned away from public 
streets and behind buildings. 
  
• Roofs: Mansard and wood shingle roofs are not permitted. Simple roof forms that reflect 
a building’s floor plan and massing are encouraged. 
 
• Rooftop Equipment: Mechanical equipment shall be screened from view. Integrating the 
mechanical equipment enclosure into the roof forms or recessing behind architectural 
elements are recommended. 
 
• Walls and Fences: Walls and fences shall be constructed out of attractive, long-lasting 
materials, such as wood, masonry or stone. 
 
• Building Entries: Primary building entries shall front directly onto the Campus Green with 
the following exceptions: the primary entrance to the warehouse building (building #1)

--- page 405 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2020-078, Saratoga Drive and Yates Way. Pre-Application 
Page 9 of 9 
 
 
shall face the visitor entry drive and shall be visible from the Campus Green and 
connected directly with the Campus Green via a pedestrian path. 
 
• Building Height Limits: The maximum allowable height within the Office Campus Area is 
55 feet. The maximum number of stories is three stories along Saratoga Drive. 
 
• Build-To Lines: Build-to line compliance is on a building by building basis such that 80 
percent of each build-to line shall consist of a building wall or arcade at the location 
parallel to Saratoga Drive and setback 30 feet from the property line. 
 
• On-Site Landscaping: Street trees shall be planted 30 feet on-center within the front 
setback areas along Saratoga Drive. 
 
• Parking Frontage: Parking lots shall not comprise more than 25% of the total frontage 
along Saratoga Drive and along the edge of the Campus Green at buildout of the Office 
Campus.   
 
• Vehicular Entries: Access to below grade parking shall be from a surface parking area and 
not from a street. Pedestrian walks shall accompany vehicular entries to the area.

--- page 406 ---
PROJECT DATA SHEET 
NAME: 
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way 
Medical Office Building 
Preliminary-Application 
PA: 
PA-2020-078 
ADDRESS: 
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way 
(No Address) 
LAND AREA: 
161,376 SF (3.7 AC) 
ZONING: 
BMSP 
(Bay Meadows Specific Plan) 
APN: 
040-030-180 
FLOOR AREA 
Office 
Underground Parking - Exempt 
Total (minus exemptions) 
PROPOSED 
86,000 SF 
41,454 SF 
86,000 SF 
 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
86,317 GSF* 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): 
 
PROPOSED 
0.53 FAR 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
0.65 (aggregate allowable)* 
BUILDING HEIGHT 
 
PROPOSED 
49’-0” 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
55’-0” 
STORIES 
PROPOSED 
3 
MAXIMUM 
3 
SETBACKS: 
Front (north/Saratoga Dr.): 
Left Side (west): 
Right Side (east/Yates Way): 
Rear (south): 
 
PROPOSED 
30’ 
113’ 
62’ 
120’ 
MINIMUM REQUIRED** 
30’ 
40’ 
15’ 
40’ 
LOT COVERAGE 
PROPOSED 
19% 
MAXIMUM 
45% (aggregate allowable) 
PARKING STALLS 
Standard: 
Compact: 
Total:  
(Parking Ratio) 
PROPOSED 
258 
--- 
258 
(3.0 stalls per 1,000 GSF) 
MINIMUM REQUIRED*** 
257 
Optional, up to 40% 
257 
(2.99 stalls per 1,000 GSF) 
LOADING SPACES 
PROPOSED 
2 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
1 
BICYCLE PARKING 
Long-Term: 
Short-Term: 
Total: 
PROPOSED 
20 
18 
38 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
7 
17 
24 
OPEN SPACE 
PROPOSED 
82% 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
30% (aggregate allowable) 
NOTES: 
*See Bay Meadows Specific Plan (Phase I), Table III-3, Office Campus Standards, page III-52, which notes a maximum 
permitted floor area of 900,000 SF and FAR of 0.65 (aggregate allowable) for the Office Campus area. City records 
(PA16-084) indicate that the adjacent Franklin Templeton office campus developed 813,683 SF of building floor area. 
This results in 86,317 SF remaining for the Office Campus area. 
**See Bay Meadows Specific Plan (Phase I), Figure III-9, Office Campus Area Urban Design Framework 
***Required minimum parking for projects under 100,000 SF: 1 space / 335 GSF = 246 spaces; Maximum aggregate 
parking: 4.2 spaces / 1,000 sq ft = 361 spaces

--- page 407 ---
PA 2020-078 
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way Medical Office Pre-Application 
SAMPLE FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL 
 
 
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) – APPROVAL FINDINGS (SMMC 27.08.030):  
 
The application shall be approved if the Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
 
1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character 
of the neighborhood; 
2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City;  
3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; 
5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security.

--- page 408 ---
www.boulderassociates.com | 800.499.7796  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
 
DATE 
 
May 27, 2021  
TIME 
 
7:00 PM 
LOCATION Zoom Meeting 
 
 
 
ATTENDEES 
Public Attendees: 
1. 
Kirsten 
krst45@gmail.com 
2. 
Rita 
mstrand1978@yahoo.com 
3. 
Mark 
mark3k@yahoo.com 
4. 
Kelly Moran 
moran@sonic.net 
5. 
Helen Johnson 
hhkkpp2001@yahoo.com 
6. 
Hector Alvarez 
hcalvarez@gmail.com 
7. 
Gil Gordon 
gil.gordon@gmail.com 
8. 
Anderson Yee 
anderson.yee@sbcglobal.net 
9. 
Tom Rosenberger 
Thomas.rosenberger@franklintempleton.com 
10. Catherine 
starbuckssf@hotmail.com 
11. Dan 
lilygentleman@yahoo.com 
 
Project Sponsor: 
 
Ben Rosenfeld - Pacific Medical Builders - Developer/Owner 
 
Pietro Martinez - Pacific Medical Builders - Developer/Owner 
 
Jake Rohe - Pacific Medical Builders - Developer/Owner 
 
Derek Danzinger - Katz & Associates - PR  
 
Greg Parks - Katz & Associates - PR 
 
Michael Williams - Boulder Associates - Architect 
 
City Staff: 
 
Julia Klein - Acting Planning Manager - City of San Mateo 
 
Linda Ly - Associate Planner - City of San Mateo 
 
PURPOSE 
To present the development project to neighbors and provide an opportunity for Q and A. 
 
SUMMARY 
Presentation: 
1. 
Introductions 
2. 
PMB History and Experience 
3. 
Project Status 
4. 
Project Design 
5. 
Site Context/Community 
6. 
Community Input 
7. 
Next Steps 
8. 
Thank you

--- page 409 ---
www.boulderassociates.com | 800.499.7796  
Page 2 of 2 
Q&A: 
1.
CEQA - there is a concern about the amount of noise, traffic & CO2 impacts that may result from the development.
Answer from the owner: Traffic Study and CEQA clearance will be required as a part of the project’s entitlement.
2.
Building/Site Design - Appreciated the overall presentation. More trees to reduce CO2 emissions
3.
Program - Wants to know if there is a Covid 19 Unit? Answer from the Owner:  No there is not unit being planned.
4.
Construction Noise - a concerns about construction hours. Answer from the City:  there are very specific rules regarding
construction activities including hours of operation.
5.
Trash Pickup - request to move away from residential side of property
6.
Bike Path Connectivity - Due to missing ramp, the connection from Derby to the FTI does not work. Consider creating
ramp at the bend on Yates that is currently owned by adjacent HOA as part of this project.
7.
Plaza - Concern about the location not being public enough
a.
Move towards the corner of Yates and Saratoga
b.
Create more opportunities for seating/Places for respite along Saratoga
c.
A Kaiser Facility at Redwood was offered as an example
8.
Bay Meadows CC&Rs may prohibit vehicular cut through from Yates to Derby
9.
Entrance revision suggestion - it was not clear what was meant by this comment and there was difficulty getting
clarification.
10. Access to neighboring homes existing solar panels- there is a concern about the height of the proposed building and the
impact it would have on the PV’s on their house, also the Visual Impact on sunlight Answer from Owner:  Visual impacts
and Shading study will be included as a part of the entitlement process
11. Construction Start - When will the construction start? Answer from Owner: Projected to start by the end of next year. Will
take approximately 14 - 18 months depending on programs and construction supply chain.
12. Emergency Room- Is there an ER? Answer from Owner:  No there is not, the facility would only provide Outpatient
Services.
13. Final note from Linda, the Planning Commission Study Session is on June 22 not the 23rd, as shown on the slide.
The foregoing constitutes Boulder Associates’ and PMB’s understanding of the meeting. If you have any corrections or additions to make, please respond in writing within seven days of 
receipt.

--- page 410 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Gil Gordon 
Sent:
Friday, January 22, 2021 8:21 PM
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Comments regarding "Saratoga Drive and Yates Way (Medical Office)" pre-app plans
I've looked at the information provided here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4459/Saratoga‐Drive‐and‐Yates‐Way‐
Medical‐Off and I have some questions and comments for your consideration. 
1. Is it known who will occupy the medical office? 
2. Is there information yet on how many workers and patients are expected to use this site daily? 
3. Is there any chance of reducing the parking requirements? Seems like a shame to pave over so much space 
especially right on a bus line (292) and near the train station. It would be great to reduce the above ground 
parking, and maybe some of the reduction could be made up underground? 
4. A driveway that exits onto Saratoga seems like it could be potentially dangerous with drivers trying to turn right 
and then quickly get over to the left turn lane so they can execute a U turn at yates. Maybe better to only allow 
entry on Saratoga, or just only have a driveway on yates? 
5. Any chance of re‐orienting the mass of the building so that the bulk is closer Yates, which backs onto Franklin's 
parking lots rather than closer to Saratoga and the housing on Wayne and the Bay Meadows Phase II housing. 
Thanks, 
Gil

--- page 411 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer 
  
Sent: Monday, March 15, 2021 7:13 PM 
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments regarding two developments that are in the early stages  
 
Dear San Mateo planners,  
 
I am writing about two developments that are in the early stages — a proposed 40‐unit residential building at 222 
S. Fremont St. and a medical office building at Saratoga Drive and Yates Way.  
 
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/san‐mateo‐developments‐in‐early‐stages/article_62bd773a‐74c7‐
11eb‐968a‐e3879d19514f.html 
 
Regarding the residential building, there should be more units and more should be made affordable to low‐income 
residents. San Mateo has one home affordable to every 10 low‐wage workers. There needs to be more affordable 
options available, and this new development is an opportunity for that.  
 
There should also be studio options. When living alone, a studio can sometimes feel safer as you’re able to see 
your entire apartment at any given time. Studios can also accommodate two people. Having studio option(s) would 
also allow more units to be added.  
 
Also, parking should be reduced for both residents and guests and parking spots should come at an additional 
charge, not a guaranteed number for each unit.  
 
“Cheap, excessive parking has been linked to more drive‐alone commutes, worse traffic congestion, higher rents, 
and all the other social costs of over‐reliance on cars for urban mobility... Analysis “inferring causality” offers 
“compelling evidence that parking provision is a cause of citywide automobile use.”” 
 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016‐01‐12/study‐the‐strongest‐evidence‐yet‐that‐abudant‐parking‐
causes‐more‐driving 
 
This development is so close to transit options, we should do all possible to encourage less driving and more multi‐
modal transportation use.  
 
Regarding the medical office building, we should no longer be building developments with parking lots. To 
accommodate parking, there should instead be a parking garage below the building.  
 
The building should also have an entrance that is easily accessible from the 292 bus stop.  
 
With the space saved from not having a parking lot, the city should consider putting additional housing here. 
Imagine if the workers in the medical office building could live in the same complex as their work! This proposed 
medical office building is very close to the Whole Foods and a burgeoning walkable area. We should do as much as 
possible to create live/work spaces.  
 
Also, this medical office building should have space necessary to accommodate a childcare facility. All future 
buildings should have this as part of their planning. We have great childcare needs and not enough spaces. Again, 
for the workers in this building, and/or the people in the surrounding community this would be a huge boon. In 
order to do this, the planners would have to make sure that there was adequate indoor AND outdoor space 
available to accommodate the demands of a childcare facility.  
 
In addition, planners should also consider having a childcare facility as part of the the residential building 
mentioned above, and this should be seriously considered for every building that is built. Many people who enter a

--- page 412 ---
building, for work or home, have childcare needs, and to have your work or home and your childcare facility be 
within the same building is an ideal situation!  
 
Thank you for taking the time to read and consider my comments. I hope that since these developments are in the 
early stages that the comments have a good chance of being incorporated.  
 
Thank you!  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Kristie Eglsaer

--- page 413 ---
1
Linda Ly
From:
Margarita Strand 
Sent:
Tuesday, June 22, 2021 12:17 PM
To:
Linda Ly; Planning; Planning Commission
Subject:
PA 2020-078 Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way Office Medical Building Pre-Application: Public Comment
Dear Linda and Planning Commission of San Mateo team 
 
In preparation for the upcoming Planning Commission Regular Meeting (scheduled for June 22, 2021 at 7 
PM PST), I would like to share several comments and concerns. 
I hope they could be addressed at the meeting later this evening. 
 
File ID: 21-4718  
PA 2020-078 
 
1) Per packet p. 354: "As proposed, the project intends to meet on-site parking requirements for a 
building devoted to medical office uses only, which has a higher parking requirement than research 
laboratories or administrative, executive, and professional offices...The project currently proposes below 
and at-grade parking, providing a total of 258 off-street parking spaces..." 
 
Consideration should be given to the expansion of currently proposed underground level garage 
(e.g.  multi-level underground parking) to increase parking spaces capacity, thereby eliminating or at least 
reducing the need in having to pave over the current green space and putting up a parking lot. 
 
Alternatively, recommend working with Franklin Templeton office management team to designate parking 
spaces in their existing parking garage, which is conveniently located at the corner of Yates Way and Park 
Place - right across the street from where the new Medical Office building is proposed to be built.  
It is a 6-level garage with 1,091 parking spaces (source: p. 8 of City of San Mateo Arts Committee 
Meeting, Jan 8, 2018, in reference to Franklin Templeton, San Mateo Campus Expansion, Public Art 
Program Introduction). 
 
In addition, public transit should be leveraged (i.e. Caltrain Hillsdale station is within 20-min of walking 
distance or 5-10-min drive away, and bus 292 stop) 
Commuter shuttle bus could be made available to the future employees of the Medical office building that 
would connect Caltrain Hillsdale Station and Medical Office. 
 
In combination, all of these measures could substantially reduce the number of parking spaces at the 
street level. 
The unused green space could be turned into another public park, rather than public parking, area similar 
to Campus Green with lots of trees and greenery, and walking trails (with potential for public art 
installation). 
 
2) Construction Health Risk Assessment report 
Please specify when the Construction Health Risk Assessment report would be available for public review. 
 
Nearby residents need to be aware what construction emissions are planned to be released during 14-18 
months of construction, such as fugitive dust from soil disturbance and fuel combustion from mobile 
heavy-duty diesel- and gasoline-powered equipment. Fugitive dust is the dominant source of PM10 and 
PM2.5 emissions, which in combination with potential smog coming from wild forest fires like we've 
experience last year, could create hazardous air quality conditions.  
Any carcinogenic hazards also need to be assessed and eliminated. 
Mitigation strategy needs to be put in place to eliminate hazards and mitigate risks. 
 
3) Construction Noise Assessment Reports

--- page 414 ---
2
Please specify when construction noise the Construction Noise report would be available for public review.
Examples of noise reduction: equip all internal combustion engine-driven equipment with mufflers, utilize 
“quiet” models of air compressors and other stationary noise sources where 
technology exists, unnecessary loud equipment idling should be avoided. 
Reduce vibrations from drilling that could cause potential damage to the nearly residential buildings. 
 
4) Traffic Assessment Report 
Please specify when traffic (during and post-construction) available for public review. 
Efforts should be made to reduce traffic congestion caused by anticipated traffic flow to/from the med 
office building. 
 
5) Arborist Report 
Per packet, p. 354: "The applicant has provided a preliminary arborist report, which states that no 
heritage trees are  
proposed for removal." 
Please specify when full Arborist Report would be available for public review. 
 
Thank you, and I look forward to the discussion at Planning Commission Regular Meeting later tonight. 
 
Margarita (Rita) Strand

--- page 415 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION
MEDICAL OFFICE PRE-APPLICATION
SARATOGA DR. AND YATES WAY
(PA-2020-078) 
JUNE 22, 2021

--- page 416 ---
MEETING ITEM PURPOSE
• Study Session to review broader site and building design issues
• Applicant will present proposed design
• Receive public comments 
• Planning Commission provides input on proposed design
• No formal action on the proposed project at this time.

--- page 417 ---
BACKGROUND
• Bay Meadows Specific Plan, Phase I
• Approved in 1997
• 75-acre Development
• Office Campus Area

--- page 418 ---
PROJECT SITE
• Lot size: 161,805 SF (3.7 AC)
• Zoning: BMSP
(Bay Meadows Specific Plan)
• General Plan Land Use: 
Executive Office

--- page 419 ---
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
•
86,000 sq. ft., three-story Office:
•
Outpatient healthcare services for oncology 
patients
•
Research Laboratory
•
Administrative Professional
•
Surface level parking lot and underground parking 
garage
•
Site access at Saratoga Drive and Yates Way
•
Landscape improvements

--- page 420 ---
PUBLIC INPUT
• Neighborhood Meeting (May 27, 2021) and Public Comment Letters (3 individuals):
• 11 members of the public attended
• Comments on site design, more open space, circulation and bike path 
connections
• Concerns on potential congestion, construction noise and proposed location of 
the trash and loading area

--- page 421 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS
1. Building Design
2. Site Plan Design
3. Comments from Planning Commission

--- page 422 ---
DISCUSSION ITEM
1) BUILDING DESIGN
• Contemporary architectural style and materials
• Building base: concrete panels
• Building body: aluminum and glass curtain walls
• Building top: metal panels
• Linear Accelerator Vaults - Screen
RENDERING ALONG SARATOGA DRIVE
RENDERING ALONG YATES WAY

--- page 423 ---
DISCUSSION ITEM
2) SITE PLAN DESIGN
• Connection to Yates Way, Campus Greens 
and bicycle network
• Building Entrance facing the parking lot
• Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way corner
• Linear Accelerator Vault location
• Outdoor public plaza/waiting area

--- page 424 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS
1. Building Design: Is the overall architectural style and design approach of the 
proposed building compatible with the Office Campus Area?
2. Site Plan Design: Provide input on the overall site plan design, including site layout, 
circulation (driveway and bike), proposed building entrance and open space.
3. Does the Planning Commission have any other comments?

--- page 425 ---
NEXT STEPS
• Applicant to file Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
• Design Review and Technical Studies
• Public Hearing by Planning Commission

--- page 426 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION
MEDICAL OFFICE PRE-APPLICATION
SARATOGA DR. AND YATES WAY
(PA-2020-078) 
JUNE 22, 2021

--- page 427 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4769
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Julia Klein, Acting Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 22, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Election of Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Election of Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair.
BACKGROUND:
The Planning Commission should nominate and vote to elect a Chair and Vice Chair.  These two officers will preside for the 
period from July 2021 through June 2022.
Attached are relevant chapters from the City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Chapters 3 & 
4) which describe the duties of the Chair and Vice Chair, as well as the selection process for these two positions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The election of officers is a not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures Chapters 3 & 4 (As amended on May 3, 2021)
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Acting Planning Manager
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7216

--- page 428 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures Study Session 4-19-21 
7 
Chapter 3. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Chair 
A. 
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period. 
B. 
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting. 
C. 
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently: 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum is maintained at the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided testimony and/or 
raised questions, the Chair should: 
a. 
Restate the question coming before the Commission.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair. 
d. 
If necessary, help keep Commissioner questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission. 
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of 
the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Announce the decision of the Commission on all subjects. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should 
see that Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking. 
D. 
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission.

--- page 429 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures Study Session 4-19-21 
8 
E. 
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public. 
2. 
Duties of Vice Chair 
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position. 
3. 
Duties of Commissioners 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings. 
C. 
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meeting or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting. 
4. 
Duties of Staff Liaison 
A. 
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities: 
1. 
Create meeting schedules 
2. 
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports 
3. 
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information. 
4. 
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission. 
5. 
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management. 
6. 
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration. 
B. 
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body. 
C. 
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison or their designee and relayed to the appointed body.

--- page 430 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures Study Session 4-19-21 
9 
5. 
Duties of Administrative Staff 
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to: 
A. 
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public. 
B. 
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting. 
C. 
Produce the action minutes for each meeting. 
D. 
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk. 
6. 
Duties of Council Liaison 
A. 
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions. 
B. 
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.

--- page 431 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures Study Session 4-19-21 
10 
Chapter 4. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair 
1. 
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes. 
2. 
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance. 
3. 
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by the majority of the commission for a one-year 
term and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of 
the commission expire. 
4. 
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention. 
5. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission.