--- page 1 ---
Eugene and Springfield both announce
end of Flock camera usage
KLCC | By Chris Lehman
Published December 5, 2025 at 8:48 PM PST
Nathan Wilk, KLCC
An undated photo of a flock camera in Eugene
The cities of Eugene and Springfield announced Friday evening that they would
discontinue the use of AI-powered license plate cameras connected to the company
called Flock Safety.
The announcements, issued in separate press releases, come after months of public
pushback. Opponents said the cameras could be used to track innocent people and
put vulnerable residents at risk of surveillance by federal agencies. Police argued the
cameras were key in solving numerous cases, including some involving violent crime.
"Effective immediately, the Eugene Police Department has ended its contract with its
current Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) vendor, Flock Safety," read the
Donate

--- page 2 ---
announcement from EPD, which was released at 7:20 p.m. Friday.
"The department has identified vulnerabilities and limitations that raise concerns
about the system’s ability to meet EPD’s operational needs, data security
requirements, and community expectations," the statement continued. "After further
evaluation and internal discussion, the department has decided to discontinue the
contract."
The announcement did not specify what would happen to the cameras themselves:
just that the city's contract with Flock Safety would be terminated. After several
months of operation, the city asked Flock to turn off the cameras in October.
In its announcement, the City of Springfield said the cameras—which had not been
turned on—would be "covered" soon and then removed entirely.
Springfield's press release was issued at 8:18 p.m. Friday. It referenced the
unspecified "vulnerabilities and limitations" that were cited by Eugene Police.
“Our responsibility is to safeguard both the integrity of investigative tools and the trust
our community places in us,” Springfield Deputy Chief George Crolly said in the
press release. “Given what we have learned, we do not have confidence that the
current system provides the level of control and assurance we require.”
But Springfield Police did not rule out using ALPR technology in the future.
“ALPR remains a valuable tool for modern law enforcement," said Springfield Police
Chief Jami Resch in the press release. "We will be seeking ALPR options that meet
our standards for data security, system transparency, and operational control. As we
move forward, we intend to continue our work with community members to ensure
those expectations are clear and are met."
The cameras have faced pushback in a number of communities across Oregon. An
unknown number of private companies use them as well, but at least one recently
decided to move away from the technology, citing "questions and concerns" from the
community.

--- page 3 ---
Meanwhile, the Lane County Sheriff’s Office said at the end of October it had
contracted, but not installed the cameras.
The announcement by Eugene and Springfield come as law enforcement, as recently
as last week, touted the cameras as helping to solve and deter crime.
"While Eugene Police’s automated license plate readers (ALPRs) were in use, stolen
vehicles were recovered 30% faster," read a Eugene Police Department press
release from Nov. 26.
The announcements drew praise from Eyes off Eugene, a group that organized in
opposition to the cameras.
Co-founder Ky Fireside, who is also running for a seat in the Oregon legislature, said
members of the group were "elated" when news broke Friday evening in the
organization's online discussion forum.
"Emojis (were) flying everywhere," said Fireside. "I'm very glad that both of the police
departments have finally realized how dangerous and insecure these systems are."
Members of the group said their advocacy likely played a role in the decision.
"This is very wonderful and exciting victory for the people of Eugene and Springfield
who have rejected Flock's dragnet surveillance," said Kamryn Stringfield. "Of course
we now ask that the Lane County Sheriff take this as a signal to cancel his contract
with Flock too, and we'd like to see see policies drafted that prevent this type of mass
surveillance nightmare from occurring again."
Updated: December 6, 2025 at 12:38 PM PST
This story has been updated with reaction from Eyes Off Eugene.

--- page 4 ---
Tags
Crime, Law & Justice
 
Flock Cameras
Eugene Police Department
Springfield Police Department
Chris Lehman
Chris Lehman has been reporting on Oregon issues since 2006. He joined the
KLCC news department in December 2018 and became News Director in March
2023. Chris was born and raised in Pennsylvania, and graduated from Temple
University with a degree in journalism. His public broadcasting career includes
stops in Louisiana and Illinois. Chris has filed for national programs including
“Morning Edition” and “All Things Considered.”
See stories by Chris Lehman
Related Content
Crime, Law & Justice

--- page 5 ---
OCCU to remove license plate cameras
amidst community concern
Rebecca Hansen-White, December 3, 2025
Community members in Eugene and Springfield have raised concerns for months about
privacy, and potential federal abuse of the data Flock Safety automatic license plate
reader cameras collect.
LISTEN •  1:08
Crime, Law & Justice
Eugene formally pauses Automatic License
Plate Reader camera use
Rebecca Hansen-White, October 14, 2025
The decision came less than a week after the city council unanimously asked city
manager Sarah Medary to pause using the cameras, owned by private company Flock
Safety, until they could discuss privacy and civil rights concerns.

--- page 6 ---
Stay Connected
© 2026 KLCC
KLCC
136 W 8th Ave
Eugene OR 97401
541-463-6000
klcc@klcc.org
Contact Us
FCC Applications

--- page 7 ---
