Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Auburn WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Sep 12 2026

Overview

Auburn WA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Auburn WA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Auburn WA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Significant Success Story

In the spring of 2025, Auburn Police responded to a call for service which resulted in a homicide investigation. During the investigation, APD personnel learned that a specific vehicle was used by the suspects to flee the scene. Using city owned camera footage, APD personnel managed to obtain some video of the suspect vehicle, but the clarity was limited, only allowing APD personnel to gather a general description of its make and model.

However, when APD personnel searched the Flock Safety Camera system in our city, a matching make and model was quickly located, which provided APD with a license plate number. By combining the information from the city owned camera systems with Flock, APD personnel were able to confirm the exact vehicle involved in the homicide. Within six hours, APD personnel entered the license plate into a WA State system as a Be On the Look Out (BOLO) for the awareness of all law enforcement.

Later that day, an officer from an outside agency found the suspect vehicle abandoned on the side of the road. Thanks to the quick identification of the vehicle, APD personnel were able to collect very valuable evidence. This success would not have been possible without Flock. The suspect in the homicide was later arrested and booked into jail.

Recent Success Story

In June of 2026, an Auburn PD officer conducted a preliminary investigation of a vehicle prowl incident. During that investigation, the officer attempted to conduct a traffic stop on a vehicle to interview the driver and sole occupant. The vehicle fled and the officer made the appropriate decision to self-terminate the vehicle pursuit due to the risk posed by the driver's actions but was able to articulate the crime of attempting to elude a police vehicle, a class C felony.

Within hours on the same day, the officer was able to use Flock to locate the vehicle in the Covington area. While preparing the vehicle for impound and evidence processing, the officer noticed the driver walking in the area and contacted him. The driver was subsequently arrested and booked into jail. A search warrant was executed on the vehicle, and a loaded firearm was located inside. The driver's criminal history contains numerous felony convictions. This is an example of fantastic police work involving great decision making by the officer. What initially appeared to be a low-level property crime, quickly escalated into a dangerous incident. In this incident, Flock significantly enhanced the ability of law enforcement to provide efficient resolution to a criminal case involving a firearm and holding a subject accountable according to the law.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

40

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

40

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

626,619

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

273

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, Washington Crime Information Center (WACIC)

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

3,913

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Auburn WA PD data.

Aberdeen WA PD
Adams County WA SO
Arlington PD (WA)
Benton County WA SO
Black Diamond WA PD
Bonney Lake WA PD
Brewster WA PD
Centralia WA PD
Chehalis WA PD
Chelan County WA SO
Cheney WA PD
Cle Elum WA PD
Clyde Hill WA PD
College Place WA PD
Columbia River Drug Task Force WA
Covington WA PD
Des Moines WA PD
East Wenatchee WA PD
Eatonville WA PD [Inactive]
Ellensburg WA PD
Everett (WA) Police Department
Federal Way WA PD
Goldendale WA PD
Grandview WA PD
Granite Falls WA PD
Grant County WA SO
Kennewick WA PD
Kent WA PD
King County International Airport (WA)
Lake Stevens WA PD
Lakewood WA PD
Liberty Lake WA PD
Lincoln County WA SO
Mattawa WA PD
Mill Creek WA PD
Monroe WA PD
Montesano WA PD
Moses Lake WA PD
Mount Vernon WA PD
Mountlake Terrace WA PD
Moxee WA PD
Mukilteo WA PD
Normandy Park WA PD
Olympia WA PD
Orting WA PD
Othello WA PD
Port of Seattle WA PD
Prosser WA PD
Puyallup WA PD
Reardan WA PD
Renton WA PD
Sedro-Woolley WA PD
Selah WA PD
Shelton PD (WA)
Snohomish WA PD
Spokane County WA SO
Spokane WA PD
Sunnyside WA PD
Suquamish WA PD
Toppenish WA PD
Tukwila WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)
Union Gap WA PD
Walla Walla WA PD
Wenatchee WA PD
West Richland WA PD
Westport WA PD
Yakima County WA SO
Yakima WA PD
Yelm WA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Auburn WA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Network Sharing Policy

We share statewide only.

Number of Searches (Definition)

How it differs from the Organization Audit:
The Transparency Portal number is often lower than what you'd see in the Organization Audit CSV. This is because:

- The Transparency Portal de-duplicates repeated activity, e.g., if a user runs essentially the same search multiple times within the same hour (refreshes or minor tweaks), it counts as one.
- The Organization Audit counts every individual search action, including refreshes and minor parameter changes, to provide a complete audit trail.

Provided by Flock Safety