source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4b3f5f958e39586a0db10ba807fd330cce27d5a06c1501e78b4602ef873f2f57
pages: 264
ocr_pages: 88
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
October 10, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 10, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 886 7021 9923  Passcode: 935504
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
29 Baytree Way and 22 De Sabla Road Duplex Condominium Conversion – Tentative Parcel Map and Parking
Variance (PA-2022-064)
Adopt a resolution to approve a Tentative Parcel Map, Variance (Parking and Setbacks), Site Plan and
Architectural Review, and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for the conversion of an
existing duplex from single entity ownership into a condominium which would allow each unit to be individually
owned based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1.

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from environmental review, pursuant to the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Class 1 Section 15301(k) Division of Existing Multiple Family or Single-Family
Residences into Common-Interest Ownership because the project represents a conversion of an existing duplex from
single entity ownership into common ownership condominium units. 
2.
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement – Annual Review and Extension Request (PA-2023-050)
Adopt a Resolution accepting the Annual Reports on the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement finding
that Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC has complied in good faith with the terms of the Development
Agreement for the period covering December 21, 2020 through December 20, 2022; and Recommend to City
Council adoption of an Ordinance to approve a three-year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development
Agreement.
CEQA: In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), the
Development Agreement annual review is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative action that
will not impact the physical environment.
In addition, the City Council certified the Final Environmental Impact report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Transit-
Oriented Development Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, in compliance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) on April 18, 2005. The City Council then approved the Bay Meadows
Specific Plan Amendment, re-certified the Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and statement of
overriding considerations on November 7, 2005. Because there are no substantial changes to the project and no new
information has become available since the time of the EIR, no further CEQA analysis is required at this time (CEQA
Section 21166).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.

--- page 3 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7867
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 10, 2023 
SUBJECT:
29 Baytree Way and 22 De Sabla Road Duplex Condominium Conversion – Tentative Parcel Map and Parking Variance (PA-
2022-064)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a resolution to approve a Tentative Parcel Map, Variance (Parking and Setbacks), Site Plan and Architectural Review, 
and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for the conversion of an existing duplex from single entity 
ownership into a condominium which would allow each unit to be individually owned based on the Findings for Approval 
and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1. 
BACKGROUND:
The property located at 29 Baytree Way and 22 De Sabla Road was constructed as a detached duplex in 1950. Sometime 
after 1969, an unpermitted addition was added connecting both units at the rear. To have the ability to sell each unit 
individually, the applicant has requested to legalize the addition and convert the existing duplex from rental units to for-
sale, condominium units. The subject application includes a Tentative Parcel Map (TMP) to allow the conversion to 
condominium units for individual sale and a Variance from parking (number and stall dimensions) and setbacks (side and 
front yards), and Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) to legalize the unpermitted addition. Since the main duplex 
structures, including the attached garages and setbacks, were approved by the City in 1950, the applicant is asking for 
relief from compliance with current parking and setback standards as compliance would require significant alteration of 
the existing building due to the limited space on site and configuration of the existing structure. 
DISCUSSION:
Site Description
The project site is zoned R2 (Two Family Dwellings), has a total site area of 7,665 square-feet, and fronts both De Sabla 
Road and Baytree Way. The project is currently developed with a two-story duplex attached at the rear that presents as 
two single-family units when viewed from either street. Each unit has its own independent entry, attached garage (one-car 
garage for 29 Baytree Way and two car-garage for 22 De Sabla Road), and backyards that are currently adjoined; but 
separated by a fence with a gate. The neighborhood surrounding the project site consists of a mix of duplex, multi-family, 
and single-family structures with a variety of architectural styles. A site map, showing the project’s location is included as 
Attachment 2.
Project Description
The project consists of a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) to legalize a rear storage room at the 22 De Sabla unit 
that connects both structures and a Tentative Parcel Map (TPM) for the conversion of the existing duplex from single-
entity ownership into condominiums, which would allow each dwelling unit to be individually sold and owned. No 
additions are proposed, and the number of dwelling units will remain unchanged. Due to space constraints, and the

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
already built nature of the units, the applicant is also requesting Variances to parking and setback standards to allow three 
(3) garage parking spaces where four (4) are required, a reduced parking stall size, and to allow reduced front and side 
yard setbacks.
The proposed condominium conversion would result in a 2-story, 2,156 square-foot, 2-bedroom, 2.5 bathroom unit with 
an attached two-car garage and 4,000 square feet of exclusive use outdoor area for the 22 De Sabla Road address; a 2-
story 1,853 square-foot 2-bedroom, 1-bathroom unit with an attached one-car garage and 2,930 square-feet of exclusive 
use outdoor area for the 29 Baytree Way address; and a common area of 735 square-feet along the east side yard for 
access to utility meters (i.e. gas, water, electric). The project plans are included in Attachment 3.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan
Per the General Plan Land Use Map, the project site is designated as R2 (Two Family Dwellings) property. A list of 
applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s compliance are contained in the Findings of Approval in 
Attachment 1. 
Zoning
The Zoning designation of the subject property is R2 (Two Family Dwellings). No additions or changes are proposed with 
the exception of a slight reconfiguration of the storage area at 22 De Sabla to remove a door and window along a façade 
that fronts the backyard. No other exterior changes to the building are proposed. As stated, the main building was 
constructed in 1950 and is non-conforming in regard to the parking (size and number) and setbacks (front and sides). The 
structure is in conformance with all other applicable Zoning Code development standards as outlined in the Factual Data 
Sheet included in Attachment 4.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The project requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval to legalize an unpermitted bathroom and 
storage room approximately 260 square-feet in size at the rear of the 22 De Sabla unit that connects both structures. This 
single-story addition is not visible from the street and is screened from the closest adjacent neighbor by good neighboring 
fencing and vegetation. Though this room connects both structures, there is no interior access between the units. No 
expansion of this area is proposed, however, minor changes to remove a door and window along a façade that fronts the 
interior backyard area are proposed. The storage room has a low-pitched (3.5:12 slope) gable roof and a painted stucco 
finish that is consistent with and complimentary to the existing main duplex units. The project has been conditioned to 
require building permits for this previously unpermitted structure in order to meet Fire and safety standards prior to Final 
Map approval. Photos of the existing duplex structure with the storage room connecting addition are included in 
Attachment 5. 
Sudivision (Conversion to Condominiums)
The conversion of residential structures under single ownership into condominiums which can be owned separately is 
permitted by the Subdivision Regulations (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.65) subject to the review and approval 
by the Planning Commission. An application for condominium conversion requires that the project conform to all 
applicable Zoning standards in effect at the time of application, requires information detailing the physical condition and 
safety of the existing building(s) in relation to current building and safety codes through a property report, and requires 
that the property owner disclose the number of tenants in each unit and state the specific relocation assistance provided 
to existing tenants in the event they do not purchase their respective units. 
A property report submitted by the applicant detailing and assessing the condition of the roof, foundation, mechanical 
equipment, electrical, plumbing, and structural elements of the building can be found in Attachment 6. No issues with the 
structure were found. Conditions of approval relating to energy conservation measures, sound control between both units 
and inspections to ascertain that the structures are consistent with the public health and safety regulations prior to map 
recordation consistent with SMMC 26.65.60 (Condominium Conversion Conditions) have been included. Additionally, no 
tenant relocation assistance is required as no tenants have been on site since it was purchased by the current owners in 
2019.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
As noted previously, the structure is existing and legal non-conforming for parking and setbacks. Regarding compliance 
with existing standards, the applicant is requesting a Variance as further outlined below: 
Variance
The applicant has requested a parking and setback Variance to allow: 
•
One (1) covered parking space where two (2) covered parking spaces are required for the unit at 29 Baytree Way;
•
A reduced parking stall size of 9 ft. by 17 ft. for the three (3) parking spaces when 10 ft. x 18 ft. is required; 
•
A 3.81-ft. left-side setback where 5 ft. is required for the structure at 22 De Sabla Road; and 
•
A 4.86-ft. right side setback where 5 ft. is required and a 14.31-ft. front yard garage setback where 20-ft. is 
required for the structure at 29 Baytree Way.
Variances may be granted if it is found that: 
•
There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the subject property that do not 
generally apply to other properties in the same zone or neighborhood; 
•
If it is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights that are also possessed by other 
properties in the same zone or neighborhood; 
•
If the variance will not be detrimental to public welfare, health, or safety, and, 
•
If granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the General Plan. 
Due to the irregular shape and double frontage nature of the property, and the constraints that arise when a property is 
already built out, compliance with existing parking and setback standards would require partial demolition and 
reconfiguration of both units. The applicant has requested a Variance from the current parking and setback standards in 
order to retain the existing configuration and footprint of the structure that was approved by the City in 1950 and that is 
commonly found in the surrounding residential neighborhood which was built between the 1940’s and 1950’s. The 
proposed Variance would not increase or decrease the number of units on site, does not result in additional bedrooms nor 
square footage beyond what is already existing on site, and would result in an occupancy and intensity of use that would 
remain substantially the same as the current duplex use. Due to the unique site conditions and the existing development 
on site, there appears to be a sufficient basis to support the findings for granting of the Variance. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a neighborhood meeting on July 19, 2022. Four members of the public attended and inquired about the 
number of condominiums to be built and if any additions were proposed. The applicant clarified that no additions were 
proposed and that only two condominium units would be created. A summary of the neighborhood informational meeting 
is included in Attachment 7. Staff has received no further public comment regarding this application. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from environmental review, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, Class 1 Section 15301(k) Division of Existing Multiple Family or Single-Family Residences into Common-
Interest Ownership because the project represents a conversion of an existing duplex from single entity ownership into 
common ownership condominium units. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In accordance with Government Code Section 65090 and Government Code 
65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, notice for this public hearing was published in a local 
newspaper of general circulation, posted in three public facilities, and noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days 
in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
The interested parties list, which includes any interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be 
added to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map 
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Factual Data Form
Att 5 – Property Photos
Att 6 – Property Report
Att 7 – Neighborhood Informational Meeting Summary Notes
Att 8 – Unit and Tenant Statement
Att 9 – Colors and Materials Board
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7205

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
[RESOLUTION APPROVING A TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP, SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, AND 
VARIANCE FOR PARKING AND SETBACKS TO LEGALIZE A REAR STORAGE ROOM, ALLOW THE CONVERSION OF 
AN EXISTING DUPLEX FROM SINGLE ENTITY OWNERSHIP INTO CONDOMINIUM UNITS FOR INDIVIDUAL SALE 
AND OWNERSHIP AT 29 BAYTREE WAY AND 22 DE SABLA ROAD, AND DETERMINE THAT THE PROJECT 
QUALIFIES FOR A CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION FROM FURTHER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER SECTION 
15301(K) OF THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT] 
 
 
WHEREAS, Howard Belcher (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a planning application PA-
2022-062 with the Planning Division for a Tentative Parcel Map, Parking Variance, and Setback Variance for the 
property located at 29 Baytree Way and 22 De Sabla Road to convert the current duplex structure into 
condominium units eligible for individual sale and ownership and to retain the existing setbacks and parking 
configuration of the current duplex structure which was built in 1950; and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 26.65 authorizes the Planning Commission to 
take final action on tentative parcel maps to convert single-entity ownership structures to condominiums 
eligible for individual sale and ownership; and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.78.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on variances to permit reduce the number of required off-street parking spaces, 
adjust stall dimensions, and permit any yard of less dimension than required by the applicable regulations; and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.020 authorizes the Zoning 
Administrator to take final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) applications for projects of less 
than six dwelling units and less 10,000 square feet of non-residential development; and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.060 states that when a planning 
application is comprised of multiple development approval requests, including one or more which could be final 
with one approval body and one or more which could be final only with another approval body, the approval 
body with the superior level of authority shall consider and act upon the entire planning application; and 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “project” for the purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and 
 
WHEREAS, The City finds the project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Class 1, Section 15301(k), related 
to the Division of Exiting Multiple Family or Single-Family Residences into Common-Interest Ownership; and,  
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on October 10, 2023, duly noticed at 
which all public comments were considered; and

--- page 9 ---
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:  
 
1. The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA under CEQA Class 1, Section 15301(k) as a “Division of Existing Multiple Family or 
Single-Family Residences into Common-Interest Ownership”, since the project represents a 
conversion of an existing duplex from single entity ownership into condominium units and involves 
no expansion of the structure, no new use of the site, and no new impacts.  
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS 
FOLLOWS:  
 
1. The Project conforms to the applicable policies of the Land Use, Urban Design and Housing elements 
of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms with Policy LU1.9 of the Land Use Element, which encourages the 
preservation of single-family and duplex neighborhoods by limiting new development to 
low-density residential uses and LU 1.9(b) which encourages duplex development to provide 
a transition between neighborhoods of differing densities. The proposed Project maintains 
the duplex use as delineated on the Land Use Map and a continuation of this use will 
provide a buffer between the predominantly single-family structures along De Sabla Road 
and large duplex and multifamily structures along Baytree Way. 
 
b. The Project also conforms with Policy H1.8 of the Housing Element which encourages the 
protection of existing residents by offering purchase opportunities and/or long-term leases 
through condominium conversion projects. The Project will convert the existing duplex on 
site into condominiums eligible for induvial ownership thereby increasing purchasing 
opportunities for San Mateo residents.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE THE TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP, SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, and PARKING 
VARIANCE, AND SETBACK VARIANCE (PA-202-062) AT 29 BAYTREE WAY AND 22 DE SABLA ROAD., APN 032-412-
230 BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN 
EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:  
 
1. The Tentative Parcel Map application for the conversion of the existing duplex from single entity 
ownership into condominium units eligible for individual sale and ownership is approved based on 
the following findings: 
a. The project is consistent with the applicable General Plan polices. The project site is 
designated for low-density multi-family residential use. The project proposes to subdivide

--- page 10 ---
an existing lot into two residential condominium units and associated common areas and is 
consistent with the land use and density permitted by the General Plan and Zoning Code.  
 
b. The newly created condominium units are physically suitable for the future proposed 
development in that the existing duplex dwelling on the site will be retained and 
condominium units eligible for individual sale and ownership are an allowed use within the 
R2 zoning district. Additionally, the proposed variance (discussed further below) will not 
impair access to or around the structure for maintenance or emergency egress.  
 
c. The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development in that the lot is level 
and the existing duplex dwelling structure and landscaping on site are proposed to remain. 
Based upon the parcel size, the current site density of 11 du/acre is within the designated 9-
17 du/acre density range for low-density multifamily zoned areas as identified in the 
General Plan.  
 
d. The design of the condominium subdivision will not cause substantial environmental impact 
nor inure fish or wildlife or their habitat in that the project is located in a built urban area, is 
not located within a riparian habitat or other environmentally sensitive area, and will retain 
the existing structure.  
 
e. The design of the condominium subdivision and type of improvements will not cause serious 
public health problems in that adequate sanitary sewer and storm drain facilities serve the 
project. Additionally, the project street frontage is improved with sidewalks and will not 
otherwise constrain the delivery of public services.  
 
f. The design of the condominium subdivision will not conflict with any public utility 
easements granting access through, or use of, the site in that access to the site via the 
existing public rights-of-way from De Sabla Road and Baytree Way will remain. The project 
would create a new 735 square-foot shared access easement along the east property line to 
allow shared access to gas, water, and electric public utility meters.  
 
2. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:  
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that the rear connecting storage room is not visible from the right-of-
way, is a single-story structure that is not visible from neighboring properties as it is 
screened by a good neighbor fence and vegetation. Additionally, the design of the storage 
room provides a provides a cohesive transition between the two duplex structures on site, 
has a low-pitched (3.5:12 slope) gable roof and a painted stucco finish that is consistent with 
and complementary to the roof form and colors and materials of the existing main duplex 
units.

--- page 11 ---
b. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City 
in that the project is consistent with the General Plan and Duplex Design Guidelines and 
satisfies the Zoning Code standards for height, floor area and bicycle parking.  
 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that the 
project site consists of an existing duplex structure that was built in 1950 and that the use 
and intensity of use of the site will remain consistent and will continue to provide 
independent housing for two independent family units. Furthermore, the units will continue 
to present as single-family structures as viewed from the right-of-way matching the 
surrounding single-family neighborhood along De Sabla Road and duplex, multifamily, and 
single-family structures along Baytree Way.  
 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission 
and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on site through the 
requested Variance for parking and setbacks. The project meets the development standards 
for the R2 zoning district with respect to floor area, height, and bicycle parking and will 
provide improves to the sidewalk and drainage capabilities along the De Sabla right-of-way 
to comply with the citywide Pedestrian Master Plan. Furthermore, the project has been 
inspected and conditioned to ensure that the structure meets all applicable provisions of 
the Fire and Building Codes.   
 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings in that the project will be required to conform 
to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval.  
 
3. The Variance application for parking and setbacks (Municipal Code Section 27.78.020) to allow 
reduced stall dimensions and number of parking spaces; and reduction in the front yard garage and 
side yard setbacks for the Project; and the associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on 
the following findings: 
a. There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the 
property that do not apply generally to properties in the same zone or neighborhood in that 
the duplex was built and approved in 1950 with the current parking configuration of 9 ft. by 
17 ft. where 10 ft. by 18 ft. is required for both units and one (1) off-street parking stall 
where two (2) parking stalls are required for the 29 Baytree Way unit. Similarly, the 22 De 
Sabla Road unit has a right-side setback of 4.77-ft. and existing left side setback of 3.81-ft. 
where 5-ft. is required. The 29 Baytree Way unit has an existing substandard front garage 
setback of 14.18-ft. where 20-ft are required per today’s standards and a substandard right-
side setback of 4.86-ft. where 5-ft. is required. The existing number of parking spaces, 
existing parking stall dimensions, and setbacks were approved by the City in 1950; however, 
the City’s regulations have changed over time thereby rendering these as non-conforming 
conditions. Due to the irregular shape and double frontage nature of the lot and existing

--- page 12 ---
structural improvements on the site, compliance with current parking and setback standards 
would require some degree of demolition, structural improvements, and alterations to the 
structure. The variance for parking and setbacks is necessary in order to retain the existing 
configuration and footprint. 
 
b. A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of 
the applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood in that 
similar non-conforming parking stall sizes, reduced number of off-street parking spaces, and 
reduced setbacks are common in the surrounding residential neighborhood which was built 
between the 1940’s and 1950’s.   
 
c. Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or 
welfare or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in 
which the property is located in that the use of the site will remain as a residential use and 
the number of dwelling units on site will not increase. Regarding the setbacks, the reduced 
side yard setbacks maintain more than a three-foot setback from the side property lines to 
allow for adequate access round the structure for maintenance and emergency services and 
egress purposes. Furthermore, the reduced stall dimensions will still allow for the off-street 
parking of vehicles and will not cause an undue impact to the surrounding public street 
parking.  
 
d. Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the General Plan in 
that the project will not alter the current use of the property, nor increase the number of 
units on site, and will enable the structure to be eligible for individual sale and entry 
allowing for a more affordable option for homeowners, families or those looking to 
downsize.

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
22 DE SABLA RD, SAN MATEO, CA 94402-1208; 29 BAYTREE WAY, SAN MATEO, CA 94402-1203 
 PARCEL # 032412230 
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON  
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 BUILDING CODE, SOUND CONTROL, AND ENERGY CONSERVATION – The structural 
elements of the conversion project shall meet, at a minimum, the Building Code in effect in 
the City on the date of the building permit application for the conversion. Calculations by a 
structural or civil engineer or architect shall be required. The project shall also meet sound 
control and energy conservation requirements as follows: 
 
(A) Sound control between units and between units and public areas shall provide an 
airborne sound insulation equal to that required to meet a Sound Transmission Class (STC) 
of forty-three by field testing. Impact Insulation Class (IIC) of forty-three by field testing is 
required. Entrance doors and perimeter seals shall meet a rating of not less than twenty-
six STC. To assure compliance with the above, all units must be field tested and certified by 
an approved testing agency.

--- page 14 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 2 of 12 
 
(B) Energy conservation measures shall be included. Roof and ceiling assemblies shall meet 
the R-20 standard. Exterior openings shall be weather-stripped. If the glazing areas exceed 
the allowable areas of the state energy regulations by ten percent, modifications shall be 
made to bring the structure within the limits specified herein. The energy compliance 
alterations may be made in any manner provided in the state regulations. Calculations by a 
person authorized in the state regulations will be required. Exposed heating ducts and hot 
water piping and hot water tanks shall be insulated. 
 
For the purpose of meeting all the requirements of this subsection (5), all walls, floors and 
other structural elements deemed suspect by the building official, shall be opened for 
inspection and necessary corrections shall be made to the structure prior to receiving 
approval for occupancy. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
5 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
7 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and

--- page 15 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 3 of 12 
 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
8 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all engineering, 
inspection and survey services that may be required during plan check and construction of 
the project. The amount of the deposit shall be $10,000. Public Works plan checking of the 
plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is 
submitted. The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the 
City, for any costs in excess of the deposit. Invoices shall not become delinquent (shall be 
paid within 30 days of receipt). Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full. The City 
will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 PARCEL MAP FOR CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION – As the project is a conversion to 
condominium units, the parcel map shall be subject to final map review in conformance 
with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.52. 
 
It shall be the applicant's responsibility to have a map, prepared by a person authorized to 
practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or deleted and all 
changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.56. 
 
Prior to approval of the map, all public improvements which are necessary to comply with 
present City standards shall be required and completed. The map shall be approved by the 
City Council and recorded with the County Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of any 
building permits. A map guarantee shall be submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title 
company, prior to release of the map to the title company for recordation. 
 
Prior to the City’s release of the map to the title company, the applicant may, at the 
discretion of the Director of Public Works or designee, be required to submit to the City an 
electronic copy of the map in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the 
time of recordation. It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company 
and the County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map

--- page 16 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 4 of 12 
 
recorded after City Council approval. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
11 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
13 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
14 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to approval of the parcel map.  
 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction

--- page 17 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 5 of 12 
 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions. 
 
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review. 
 
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works. 
 
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way:  
 
(A) SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace all sidewalk, curb and 
gutter as shown on the approved plans. Sidewalk, curb and gutter replacement shall be 
constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141B. At the time the planning application was 
filed, a minimum of 455 square feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION – As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection 
and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of 
Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 
7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to building permit issuance. 
The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public Works. If the Form indicates a 
failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer lateral shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit issuance. In addition, 
if the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer 
lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, 
prior to occupancy. (Public Works) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.

--- page 18 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 6 of 12 
 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
16 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway and 
walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be 
improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants 
and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not 
proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new landscaping as described 
above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the building permit plans prior to 
permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed prior to final inspection,  subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for 
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
18 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report 
shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall 
assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall 
be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
19 FINAL SUBDIVISION PUBLIC REPORT – The applicant shall furnish the department of 
community development with a copy of the Department of Real Estate's Conversion Final 
Subdivision Public Report when issued, as well as to all prospective purchasers. The 
applicant shall also notify all tenants of the structure to be converted of each public 
hearing scheduled on the application, in writing, and provide evidence of compliance 
therewith to the City prior to final tentative map approval. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 INSPECTIONS – An inspection of the premises to ascertain that structures are consistent 
with the public health and safety shall be completed at applicant's expense by the City or

--- page 19 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 7 of 12 
 
city's designee prior to final map approval. Approval for occupancy shall not be granted 
until all other conditions of approval have been met and accepted by city as satisfactory. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – All public improvements which are necessary to comply with 
present city standards shall be required and completed prior to approval of the final map. 
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 SAFETY - Hazardous and unsafe conditions shall be alleviated and repaired prior to final 
map approval, even though the condition may have complied with city codes in effect at 
the time of original construction. Other code requirements, as well as conditions of the 
conversion approval, not deemed hazardous or unsafe, if not complete at the time final 
map approval is sought, shall require that a bond in the form and amount acceptable to 
city be posted to ensure such completion prior to approval for occupancy or within one 
year of the approval of the final map, whichever is sooner. Such bonding shall not be 
released until all conditions of approval have been met and accepted by city as 
satisfactory. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 STORAGE ROOM LEGALIZATION – Building permits to legalize the 260 sq. ft. rear storage 
room and bathroom at the 22 De Sabla unit shall be submitted and finaled prior to 
recordation of Final Map or Parcel Map. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
24 COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS –After tentative map approval is granted, 
but prior to a final map being approved, the applicant shall file a copy of the covenants, 
conditions and restrictions with the City Attorney's office. They shall be reviewed and 
approved by the City Attorney for compliance with the provisions of this code, conditions 
of approval or conflicts with local law prior to approval of the final map. The covenants, 
conditions and restrictions for residential conversions shall contain provisions prohibiting 
discrimination because of age, persons of low income, or families with children, unless the 
physical facilities are limited to elderly persons or unsuitable for children and persons of 
low income are unable to qualify for financial assistance to purchase a unit. (CITY 
ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA)

--- page 20 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 8 of 12 
 
 
 
25 CONDITIONS, COVENANTS, AND RESTRICTIONS (CC&R's) - The applicant shall obtain the 
City Attorney's approval of the Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions governing the 
subdivision for consistency with these Conditions of Approval prior to recordation of the 
parcel map. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
26 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING WALL AND ROOF DEMOLITION – The applicant shall not 
demolish any exterior walls or roof structure beyond the demolition approved in this 
planning application approval and subsequent building permit. The applicant shall notify 
the Project Planner if any additional demolition of wall, roof structure, or any other portion 
of the building not originally approved for removal is requested. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
28 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA)

--- page 21 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 9 of 12 
 
 
 
29 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
 
 
32 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
34 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:

--- page 22 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 10 of 12 
 
 
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee finds 
that: 
 
(i) The following criteria are met: 
 
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or 
 
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.  
 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below. 
 
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to

--- page 23 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 11 of 12 
 
the start of the extended construction activity. 
 
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public. 
 
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
 
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards. 
 
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down 
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed. 
 
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
 
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.  
 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
36 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning

--- page 24 ---
PA-2022-064, 29 BAYTREE WAY, CONDO CONVERSION 
As approved on  
Page 12 of 12 
 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
37 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If the applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to 
select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 25 ---
At 2 – LocaƟon Map 
Project Site - 29 
BayTree Way 
Project Site - 22 
De Sabla Road

--- page 26 ---
Vad

JE


--- page 27 ---
Att 3 - 
Project 
Plans
EXISTING 
WALL/PARTITION -
DIMENSION TO 
FACE OF
FINISH, U.O.N.
BUILDIN
GCOMPON
ENT
TO BE
REMOVE
DOR
OWN
ER
ARCHITECTURAL 
& OTHER
A0.0 
COVER 
SHEET
1. ALL SURFACES DESIGNATED TO REMAIN 
SHALL BE PROTECTED
TO ASSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 
DAMAGED IN THE DEMOLITION
PROCESS. ANY ITEMS THAT ARE 
DAMAGED SHALL BE REPAIRED
AT NO ADDITIONAL COST TO THE OWNER. 
WHERE ITEMS HAVE TO
BE REPLACED, MATCH EXISTING 
MATERIALS, WHERE INDICATED,
TO MAXIMUM DEGREE POSSIBLE GIVEN 
PRESENT MATERIAL
AVAILABILITY AND CRAFTSMANSHIP. 
AVOID UNNECESSARY
CUTTING AND PATCHING.
2. DEMOLITION INFORMATION IS SHOWN 
TO FACILITATE THE
REMODEL OF THIS BUILDING. ALL 
DEMOLITION WORK MUST BE
COORDINATED WITH THE 
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS.
COORDINATE AND VERIFY SCOPE OF 
ELECTRICAL AND
MECHANICAL SYSTEM DEMOLITION WITH 
OWNER PRIOR TO
COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
3. IF CONTRACTOR DISCOVERS 
DISCREPANCIES, OMISSIONS OR
HIDDEN CONDITIONS DIFFERING FROM 
DEMOLITION
INFORMATION, GENERAL CONTRACTOR 
TO CONTACT DESIGNER
BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH WORK.
4. PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF 
DEMOLITION, CONTRACTOR TO
SCHEDULE ON-SITE MEETING WITH 
DESIGNER TO REVIEW EXTENT
OF DEMOLITION WORK.
5. GENERAL CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE 
SHORING AND BRACING AS
REQUIRED.
DATUM 
POINT
2'-0" DIMENS
ION
ROBERT 
RUSSELL
29 BAYTREE 
WAY
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94401
A.P.N. 032-41-
2230
1
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
6. IN ALL LOCATIONS OF NEW OPENINGS IN 
EXISTING WALLS,
CAREFULLY CUT AT EDGE OF NEW 
OPENING PRIOR TO REMOVAL.
ALL SAW CUTS ARE TO BE STRAIGHT AND 
NEAT. WHERE
CORNERS ARE REQUIRED TO BE CUT, 
SAW CUTS SHALL MEET AT
THE CORNER AND NOT EXTEND BEYOND 
THAT WHICH IS TO
REMAIN. WHERE SAW CUTTING IS 
IMPOSSIBLE CAREFULLY
CHISEL EXISTING MATERIAL TO PROVIDE 
A NEAT AND STRAIGHT
OUTSIDE EDGE UPON REMOVAL. REFER 
TO ARCHITECTURAL
DRAWINGS AND SCHEDULES FOR 
DIMENSIONS OF OPENINGS.
7. DURING CONSTRUCTION ALL FLOOR 
OPENINGS AND TRENCHES
TO BE PROVIDED WITH TEMPORARY 
BARRIERS OR COVERS.
8. ALL WORK TO BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH OSHA STANDARDS.
ALIGN 
FINISH
SURFAC
ES
ALIG
N
A0.1 
FIRST FLOOR 
AREA DIAGRAM
A0.1.1 SECOND FLOOR 
AREA DIAGRAM
A0.2 
NOT USED
SECTION 
REFERENCE
SHEET 
NUMBER
1
A0.2
EXISTI
NG
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
DEMOLIS
HED
WALL/PARTITIO
N WITH
EXPOSED 
WOOD
FRAMING ON 
INTERIOR
- DIMENSION 
TO FACE
OF FINISH ON
EXTERIOR AND 
FACE
OF FRAMING 
ON
INTERIOR, 
U.O.N.
ARCHITECT
HOWARD BLECHER
BBUD
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, 
CA 94110
TEL: 
415-364-
8478
TEL: 
917-613-
5816
EMAIL: 
howard@bbudesign.
com
www.bbudesign.com
BUILDIN
G
COMPON
ENT
ABOVE
DETAIL 
REFERENCE
SHEET 
NUMBER
1
A0.2
A0.3 
ARBORIST 
REPORT & TREE
PROTECTION 
PLAN
1
A
ELEVATI
ON
REFERE
NCE
A0.3.1 ARBORIST 
REPORT & TREE
PROTECTION 
PLAN
1
A0.2 B
BUILDIN
G
COMPON
ENT
BELOW
1
1
SHEET 
NUMBER
"VESTING TENTATIVE 
PARCEL MAP" BY
OTHERS
2
2
C
NEW 
WALL/PARTITIO
NWOOD STUD 
FRAMING,
DIMENSION TO 
FACE
OF FRAMING, 
U.O.N.
BUILDING 
DEPARTMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
330 W. 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TEL: (650) 522-7172
REVISI
ON
NOTATI
ON
A1.0 
DEMOL ON 
SITE PLANITI
1
3
3
1
NOT IN
CONTR
ACT
A1.0A PROPOSED 
SITE PLAN
A1.0.1 PROPOSED 
SIDEWALK, DRIVEWAY
APPROACH AND 
STREET
NEW WOOD 
STUD
FURRING, 
DIMENSION
TO FACE OF 
FRAMING,
U.O.N.
HOSE 
BIB
HB
G
DISCONTI
NUITY
WOOD 
POST
GAS
CONNEC
TION
IMPROVEM
ENTS
1
1
5. ALL DISRUPTIONS IN THE WEATHER 
PROTECTIVE SURFACES DUE
TO DEMOLITION SHALL BE ADEQUATELY 
PROTECTED TO PREVENT
WEATHER INFILTRATION.
FAX: (650) 522-7171
EMAIL: 
building.info@cityofsanma
teo.org
A2.0 
DEMOLITION 
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
A2.1 
PROPOSED FIRST 
FLOOR PLAN
A2.2 
SECOND FLOOR 
PLAN
2
2
2
2
3
3
FENCEL
INE
CONCR
ETE
24 SYMBOL 
LEGEND
11 
DEMOLITION 
NOTES
8 PROJECT 
DIRECTORY
1. THE INTENT OF THESE DOCUMENTS 
IS TO SHOW ALL ITEMS
NECESSARY TO COMPLETE THE 
PROJECT. FOR ITEMS,
METHODS AND/OR MATERIALS NOT 
SHOWN, THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODES 
OUTLINED ON A/0.0 SHALL
GOVERN.
APPLICABLE CODES: ALL WORK DONE 
UNDER THIS CONTRACT
SHALL COMPLY WITH THE PROVISIONS 
OF THE SPECIFICATIONS,
DRAWINGS & CONSTRUCTION CRITERIA 
SHALL SATISFY ALL
APPLICABLE CODES, ORDINANCES, AND 
REGULATIONS OF ALL
GOVERNING BODIES INVOLVED.
A2.3 
ROOF 
PLAN
A3.0 
DEMOLITION 
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.0.1 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A3.1 
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A3.2 
DEMOLITION 
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.2.1 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A3.3 
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A4.0 
BUILDING SECTIONS
2. 
ALL WORK AND CONSTRUCTION 
SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL
REGULATIONS AND SAFETY 
REQUIREMENTS.
3. 
WHEN CONTRACTOR ACCEPTS 
DELIVERY OF ITEMS NOTED ON
PLANS WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR 
NOT IN CONTRACT,
CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE LOSS AND
DAMAGE TO THESE ITEMS.
4. 
"TYP." SHALL MEAN THAT THE 
CONDITION IS REPRESENTATIVE
FOR SIMILAR CONDITIONS 
THROUGHOUT. UNLESS OTHERWISE
NOTED, DETAILS NOTED "TYP." ARE 
NOT KEYED IN EVERY
LOCATION.
5. 
"SIM." SHALL MEAN COMPARABLE 
CHARACTERISTICS FOR THE
CONDITIONS NOTED. VERIFY 
DIMENSIONS AND ORIENTATION.
6. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL INSPECT 
EXISITING CONDITIONS, WHICH
AFFECT THE WORK SHOWN, AND 
SHALL NOTIFY DESIGNER OF
ANY EXISTING CONDITIONS WHICH 
CONFLICT WITH OR DIFFER
FROM THE NEW WORK SHOWN. 
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT
PROCEED WITH THE WORK UNTIL 
THESE CONFLICTS AND
DIFFERENCES ARE RESOLVED.
2019 Edition of the California Building 
Standards Code and California Code
of Regulations, Title 24
Part 1: California Administrative Code
Part 2: California Building Code
Part 2.5: California Residential Code
Part 3: Electrical Code
Part 4: California Mechanical Code
Part 5: California Plumbing Code
Part 6: California Energy Code
Part 7: Currently Vacant
Part 8: California Historical Building 
Code
Part 9: California Fire Code
Part 10: California Existing Building 
Code
Part 11: California Green Building 
Standards Code (CALGreen)
Part 12: California Referenced 
Standards Code
2
SAN MATEO 
COUNTYWIDE WATER
POLLUTION 
PREVENTION 
PROGRAM
CONSTRUCTION BMP 
PLAN SHEET
7. 
THE CONTRACTOR IS COMPLETELY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
CONDUCT OF THE WORK, INCLUDING 
CONSTRUCTION METHODS
AND PROCEDURES; SITE SAFETY; AND 
METHODS, DESIGN, AND
MATERIALS FOR TEMPORARY VERTICAL 
AND LATERAL
SUPPORT OF EXISTING AND NEW 
STRUCTURES.
8. 
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY 
DIMENSIONS.
9. 
DO NOT SCALE DRAWINGS. IN CASE 
OF CONFLICT, NOTIFY THE
DESIGNER. FLOOR PLAN BY DESIGNER 
SUPERCEDES OTHER
PLANS. DIMENSIONS MARKED "CLEAR" 
SHALL BE MAINTAINED
AND SHALL ALLOW FOR THICKNESS OF 
FINISHES.
10. INTERIOR WALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO 
THE FACE OF STUD U.O.N.
COLUMN DIMENSIONS ARE TO 
CENTERLINE.
23 NOT 
USED
19 NOT 
USED
15 NOT 
USED
7 CODE REVIEW 
INFORMATION
3 DRAWING 
INDEX
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
DATA INFORMATION
Site 
Address:
APN:
29 BAYTREE WAY & 22 DE SABLA 
ROAD, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
032-412-230
Zoning Classification: R2 DISTRICT--
TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS
Lot Size (Sq. Ft.): 7699 SQ. FT.
Permitted Floor Area Ratio: 0.6
Maximum Permitted Floor Area 
(Sq. Ft.): 4619 SQ. FT.
11. THE WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH 
APPLICABLE BUILDING CODES
AND ORDINANCES.
12. CONTRACTOR RETAINS POSSESSION 
OF WASTE MATERIALS
AND IS RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVAL 
FROM SITE AND DISPOSAL
IN A TIMELY FASHION.
13. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY 
ALLOWABLE WORK HOURS FOR
DELIVERIES AND WASTE REMOVAL.
14. FINISH MATERIALS SHALL BE STORED 
AND ACCLIMATED TO THE
PROPER ENCLOSED CONDITIONS AS 
SPECIFIED BY THE
MANUFACTURER.
Floor Area: SEE SHT. A0.1 FOR AREA 
DIAGRAMS AND CALCULATIONS
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
Existing Interior Floor Area to be 
Remodeled: 
8 SQ. FT.
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
HEB
HEB
Total Floor Area for Parking Requirements: SEE SHT. A0.1 FOR 
AREA DIAGRAMS AND CALCULATIONS
Total Covered & Uncovered Parking Stalls: SEE SHT. A0.1 FOR 
AREA DIAGRAMS AND CALCULATIONS
List of All Protected Trees on Site including Species and Size: NOT 
APPLICABLE
Total area of new and rehabilitated landscape area (Sq. Ft.): 0 sq. 
ft.
1
2
3
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
7/10/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
Cubic Yards of Soil 
Disturbance: 0 cubic yards
CONSTRUCTION 
TYPE: V-B
OCCUPANCY GROUP: 
RESIDENTIAL (R-3)
15. 
ALL QUANTITIES MUST BE 
VERIFIED IN FIELD.
SCOPE OF 
WORK:
CONVERT THE TWO (2) EXISTING DWELLING UNITS TO RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS. 
REMOVE AND REPACE SIDEWALK, CURB, GUTTER &
DRIVEWAY APPROACH ALONG THE FRONTAGE OF 22 DE SABLA ROAD.
22 NOT 
USED
18 NOT 
USED
14 NOT 
USED
11 GENERAL 
NOTES
PLASTIC 
LAMINATE
PLASTER
6 PROJECT 
DATA
HEB
&
AN
D
CONN.
CONST. 
CONSTRUCTION
CONT. 
CONTINUOUS
CONTR. 
CONTRACTOR
CONNEC
TION
EQ.
EQU
AL
HM.
I.D.
I.G.
INSU
L.INT.
HOLLOW 
METAL
INSIDE 
DIAMETER
INSULATED 
GLASS
INSULATION
PLA
MPLA
S.
S.M.D. 
SEE 
MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
SPEC. 
SPECIFICATION
@
AT
EQP.
EXT.
E.W.
F.A.
F.D.
F.F.
F.R.
P.F.T.
FDN.
EQUIPMENT
EXTERIOR
EACH WAY
FIRE ALARM
FLOOR DRAIN
FINISH FACE
FIBER 
REINFORCED 
PANEL
FIRE TREATED
FOUNDATION
PLYWD. 
PLYWOOD
SQ.
S&
R
S.S.
SQUARE
SHELF AND 
ROD
STAINLESS 
STEEL
AS 
NOTED
C
CENTERLINE
ACOUSITCAL
ADJACENT
ABOVE FINISH 
FLOOR
ABOVE FINISH 
GRADE
AIR HANDLING 
UNIT
ALUMINUM
PR.
P.T.
PTD.
R.R.D.
REF.
REL.
REQ'
D.RM.
RWD.
R.O.
W.
R.W.
L.
S.A.
PAI
R
ACOU
S.ADJ.
A.F.F.
A.F.G.
A.H.U.
AL.
PRESSURE 
TREATED
PAINTED
CNT
R.CS
CTR.
D.F.
DBL.
DEP
T.DET.
DH
COUNT
ER
INTERI
OR
CASEMENT 
WINDOW
CENTER
LAM
.LAV
.LT.
LAMINA
TE
LAVATO
RY
LIGHT
S.S.D. 
SEE 
STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
RADI
US
STD
.
STL
.STR
.
STANDA
RD
STEEL
STRUCT
URE
DOUGLAS 
FIR
DOUBLE
DEPARTM
ENT
DETAIL
ROOF 
DRAIN
REFRIGER
ATOR
RELOCATE
DREQUIRED
K.E.C
.MAX.
M.C.
MEC
H.MFR.
MGR.
MIN.
MISC
.MTD.
MTL.
(N)
KITCHEN 
EQUIPMENT 
CONTR.
MAXIMUM
MECHANICAL 
CONTRACTOR
MECHANICAL
MANUFACTURER
MANAGER
MINIMUM
MISCELLANEOUS
MOUNTED
APPROX. 
APPROXIMATE
SUSP. 
SUSPENDED
ARC
H.BD.
ARCHITECT
URAL
BOARD
FIN. FL. FINISH 
FLOOR
FL. 
FLOOR
FLUOR. 
FLUORESCENT
T&
BT.V.
T.O
.TB
D
TOP AND 
BOTTOM
TELEVISION
TOP OF
TO BE 
DETERMINED
DOUBLE-HUNG 
WINDOW
DIAMETER
ROO
M
BLD
G.
BK.
BUILDI
NG
BLOCK
DIA
.
REDWO
OD
DIM.
DISP
.DN.
D.S.
DW
G.
DW
(E)
EA.
E.C.
EL.
DIMENSI
ON
DISPENS
ER
DOWN
DOWN 
SPOUT
DRAWING
DISHWAS
HER
EXISTING
EACH
FPR
F.FT.
FIRE PROOF
FOOT/ FEET
FOOTING
GAUGE
GALVANIZED
GRAB BAR
GENERAL 
CONTRACTOR
GLASS
GROUND
RIGHT OF WAY
RAINWATER LEADER
SMOKE ALARM
SELF-ADHERING SHEET FLASHING 
U.O.N. 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
SELF-ADHERED SHEET MEMBRANE V.I.F.
BLK
G.
BM.
BLOCKI
NG
BEAM
TRAN. 
TRANSOM
TYP. 
TYPICAL
FTG.
GA.
GAL
V.
G.B.
G.C.
GL.
GND.
GYP.
H.C.
HSL
HOR.
HT.
B.O.
C.B.
CEM
.
CER
.CFM
CL.
BOTTOM OF
CATCH BASIN
CEMENT
CERAMIC
CUBIC FEET PER 
MINUTE
CLOSET
SAS
FSAS
M
SD
MET
AL
NEW
VERIFY IN 
FIELD
VERT. 
VERTICAL
SMOKE 
DETECTOR
SOLID CORE
COVER 
SHEET
N.I.
C.
NOT IN 
CONTRACT
S.C
.
W/
WIT
H
N.I.K.E.C. NOT IN KITCHEN 
EQUIP. CONTRACT
SCHED. 
SCHEDULE
W.C
.WD.
W/O
W.R
.WR
BWT.
WATER CLOSET
WOOD
WITHOUT
WATER RESISTANT
WEATHER-
RESISTIVE BARRIER
WEIGHT
ELECTRICAL 
CONTRACTOR
ELEVATION
ELECTRICAL
ELEVATOR
N.T.
S.
O.C.
O.D.
OPP.
P.C.
PL.
NOT TO SCALE
ON CENTER
OUTSIDE 
DIAMETER
OPPOSITE
PLUMBING 
CONTRACTOR
PLATE
SEC
T.
S.E.
D.SH
SHT.
SIM.
SL
SECTI
ON
CLR.
CLG.
COL.
CON
C.
CLEAR
CEILING
COLUM
N
CONCR
ETE
GYPS
UM
SEE STRUCTURAL 
DRAWINGS
SINGLE-HUNG 
WINDOW
SHEET
SIMILAR
SLIDER WINDOW
ELEC
.ELEV
.EME
R.ENC
L.
HOLLOW CORE
HORIZONTAL 
SLIDER WINDOW
HORIZONTAL
HEIGHT
A0
.0
EMERGE
NCY
ENCLOS
URE
PROJECT 
LOCATION
WW
M
WELDED 
WIRE MESH
21 
ABBREVIATIO
NS
5 VICINITY 
MAP
N.T.
S.

--- page 28 ---
AREA CALCULATIONS - CODE REFERENCES ARE PER THE 
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE (SMMC)
SEE ALSO SHT. A0.1.1 SECOND 
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
1
22 DE SABLA 
ROAD
PER SMMC 
27.04.200
29 
BAYTREE 
WAY
PER SMMC 
27.04.200
BICYCLE 
PARKING:
WH
FUR
N
PER SMMC 27.64.262(f)(2)(A)) FOR EACH 
TWO-BEDROOM DWELLING:
FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.)
Main Structure(s) (incl. Above 
Grade Covered Parking):
1st Floor
FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.)
Main Structure(s) (incl. Above 
Grade Covered Parking):
1st Floor
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
22 DE SABLA ROAD
REQUIR
ED
29 
BAYTREE 
WYBASEME
NT
1587.
6568.
8
0.0
0.0
0.0
2156.
4
1301.
6551.
1
0.0
0.0
0.0
1852.
7
2nd 
Floor
2nd 
Floor
PER SMMC 
PROVIDED
Exterior Covered 
Storage
Detached Accessory 
Structure(s):
Exclusion: Bicycle 
Parking Facilities
TOTAL:
Exterior Covered 
Storage
Detached Accessory 
Structure(s):
Exclusion: Bicycle 
Parking Facilities
TOTAL:
3
Short-Term Bicycle 
Parking Stalls:
Long-Term Bicycle 
Parking Stalls:
0.1
0
1.2
5
1
2
3
29 
BAYTREE 
WAY
REQUIRED
PER SMMC 
PROVIDED
0.10
1.25
FLOOR AREA FOR 
PARKING (SQ. FT.)
1st Floor
(excludes Garage)
2nd Floor
TOTAL
FLOOR AREA FOR 
PARKING (SQ. FT.)
1st Floor
(excludes garage and 
workshop storage)
2nd Floor
TOTAL
Short-Term Bicycle 
Parking Stalls:
Long-Term Bicycle 
Parking Stalls:
1
2
1135.
9568.
81704.
7
817.
7551.
11368.
8
VEHICLE 
PARKING:
REQUIR
ED
VEHICLE 
PARKING:
REQUIR
ED
BY 
SMMC
PROVID
ED
BY 
SMMC
PROVID
ED
Covered Parking Stalls:
Covered or Uncovered 
Parking Stalls:
12
20
Covered Parking Stalls:
Covered or Uncovered 
Parking Stalls:
11
10
24 AREA 
CALCULATIONS
12 NOT 
USED
8 PROPOSED 
BASEMENT
1/4"=1'
-0"
4 NOT 
USED
PLANTI
NGAREA
1
11
A4.0
PLANTING 
AREA
PLANTING 
AREA
HH: 
8260x2
8
HH: 
8240x4
0CS
HH: 
82
20x24
CON
C
PLANTI
NGAREA
CON
C
F
CS
32X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
POWDER
PLANT
ER
FIREP
IT
OFFI
CE
DINING 
ROOM
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
TUR
F
32X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
DINING 
ROOM
DINING 
ROOM
36X8
0
36X8
0
CON
C
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
CON
C
LAUND
RY
KITCH
EN
LIVING 
ROOM
POWD
ER
REFR
CL.
LIVING 
ROOM
DW
DININ
G
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
ENTRY
BRIC
K
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
DW
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
KITCH
EN
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
HEB
WH
1
2
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
20x2
8HH: 
78
TO 2ND 
FLR.
24X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
PLANT
ER
32X8
0
32X7
6
TO
BASEME
NT
32X80
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA RD
ENTRY
LONG-TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
BAT
H
MODIFI
ED
CONFIN
ED
COMPA
CT
LONG-TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
GARA
GE
DRIVE
WAY
WORKS
HOP
STORA
GE
PARKING 
STALL
98'-0"W X 
17'-0"L
SHORT-
TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
STORA
GE
30X8
0
D
30X8
0
LONG-TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
HEB
W
LONG-
TERM
AS 
NOTED
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
GARA
GE
EART
H
TUR
F
56x2
8HH: 
80
56x2
8HH: 
80
EART
H
EART
H
56x5
0HH: 
72
29 
BAYTREE
GAS 
METER EART
H
FLOOR 
AREA
CALCULA
TION
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA
GAS 
METER
3
29 BAYTREE
ELECTRIC 
METER
FLOOR 
AREA
FOR 
PARKING
CALCULA
TION
22 DE SABLA
ELECTRIC 
METER
FIRST 
FLOOR
AREA 
DIAGRAM
2
DRIVE
WAY
A0
.1
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
21 FIRST 
FLOOR PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 29 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 PROPOSED 
BASEMENT
1/4"=1'
-0"
4 NOT 
USED
11
A4.0
EXISTI
NG
5:12
ATTI
CVEN
T
ATTI
CVEN
T
ROOF 
BELOW
ROOF 
BELOW
ROOF 
BELOW
1
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
40x5
0HH: 
80
40x2
6HH: 
88
ROOF 
BELOW
TO 
1ST
FLR.
ROO
FBELO
W
92X80 
OPENING
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
HAL
L
32X8
0
HAL
L
EXISTI
NG
3.6:12
BEDRO
OM
BEDRO
OM
BEDRO
OM
BAT
H
HEB
22 DE 
SABLA RD
AS 
NOTED
56x2
6HH: 
80
40x3
6HH: 
86
8x32
HH: 
80
ROO
F
BEDRO
OM
BELO
W
56x2
6HH: 
80
FLOOR 
AREA
CALCULA
TION
FLOOR 
AREA
FOR 
PARKING
CALCULA
TION
SECOND 
FLOOR
AREA 
DIAGRAMA0.
1.1
SEE ALSO 24/SHT. A0.1 AREA 
CALCULATIONS
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
21 SECOND 
FLOOR PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 30 ---
1
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
1
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
HEB
HEB
AS 
NOTED
ARBORIST 
REPORT &
TREE 
PROTECTION 
PLANA0
.3
21 TREE 
PROTECTION PLAN

--- page 31 ---
1
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
1
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
HEB
HEB
AS 
NOTED
ARBORIST 
REPORT &
TREE 
PROTECTION 
PLANA0.
3.1
21 ARBORIST REPORT & TREE 
PROTECTION PLAN

--- page 32 ---
OF 1
FOUND TAG ON CHISELLED CROSS,

LEGEND REFERENCES: ZONING PER CORNER RECORD 3234

FEBRUARY 2022

Surveyed by: Date:
GENERAL PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATION: , BPISH 022
LOW DENSITY MULTIFAMILY

PROPERTY LINE (1) "MAP NO. 2, EL CERRITO MAP" ZONING CLASSIFICATION - R2
ADJACENT PARCEL LINES FILED IN 22 MAPS 63, SAN MATEO.

RIGHT OF WAY LINE COUNTY RECORDS

NEW LINE CORNER RECORD, DOCUMENT NO. 3234
EASEMENT LINE ON FILE IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY
DIMENSION LINE SURVEYOR
FENCE LINE ‘
BULOING LINE DOCUMENT NO. 2018-040004 q Checked by
RECORDED MAY 23, 2018 4 = =
WATER METER ‘SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS

ELECTRIC BOX Re, ‘Scale:

CABLE TV BOX

ABBREVIATIONS

APN ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER
cL. CENTER LINE
cu CLEAR
EC EDGE OF CONCRETE
EUCA EXCLUSIVE USE COMMON AREA
FINISHED FLOOR
FINISHED GRADE
LAND SURVEYOR
MONUMENT
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT
TOP OF CURB
REFERENCE NUMBER
MEASURED

BASIS OF BEARINGS

‘THE BEARING BETWEEN THE FOUND

1" COPPER DISK WITH PUNCH "LS 7551"
‘AND FOUND TAG ON CHISELLED CROSS
‘AS SHOWN ON CORNER RECORD 3234.
TAKEN AS NORTH 56°3654" EAST

TWO STORY BUILDING

SPLIT LEVEL
BUILDING

ser an

APN 032-412-270
ROBERT E. SHOLAAS,
TRUSTEE
THE ROBERT E. SHOLAAS
LIVING TRUST

APN 032-412-240
ELIZABETH TSAI, TRUSTEE

THE ELIZABETH TSAI LIVING TRUST

ALLISON KOO, TRUSTEE
ALLISON KOO LIVING TRUST

EXCLUSIVE USE
AREA = 2965.42 SQ FT

SPLIT LEVEL BUILDING

APN 032-412-230
2018-040094
MAY 23, 2018
AREA = 76994 SQ FT

EXCLUSIVE USE

AREA = 4000.24 SQ FT
SPLIT LEVEL BUILDING

71 none

FG 25.75

R=1025.00 L=b3
1624 [rao

SITE DETAIL

GRAPHIC SCALE

10 ° 5 0

SPLIT LEVEL BUILDING

2

|

1 inch = 10 feet

APN 032-412-220
JOHN C. MONEREDINI AND
ARLETTE B. MONFREDINI, TRUSTEES
MONFREDINI FAMILY TRUST U/A 10/30/2003

7

© Founo 1” coPPER DISK
WITH PUNCH “LS 7551"
PER CORNER RECORD 2121

NOTE

‘THE FENCE SEPARATING THE REAR YARDS
AND THE EXCLUSIVE USE COMMON AREAS,
OF BOTH UNITS SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS
ACOMMON AREA

DE SABLA ROAD (50.00" DE)

CONTROL DIAGRAM

GRAPHIC SCALE

C > 9 @ 20

1 inch = 60 feet

BOUNDARY NOTES

PROPERTY AND RIGHT OF WAY LINES SHOWN HEREON ARE BASED UPON RECORD DATA
AND NOT INTENDED TO BE A DETAILED FINAL SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY.
BOUNDARY INFORMATION SHOWN HEREON IS FOR PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY.

ALL ANGLES ARE 90° UNLESS OTHERWISE SHOWN.
ALL DISTANCES ARE MEASURED IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.

DATE OF SURVEY

TOPOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SHOWN HERE IS BASED UPON A FIELD SURVEY PERFORMED
FEBRUARY 1, 2021.

SURVEY REFERENCE

THIS SURVEY IS BASED ON THE LEGAL DESCRIPTION DESCRIBED IN THE FOLLOWING GRANT DEED:
APN 032-412-230 RECORDED MAY 23, 2018, DOCUMENT NUMBER 2018-040094

THIS MAP IS FOR THE CONVERSION OF 2 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL UNITS TO 2 RESIDENTIAL
CONDOMINIUM UNITS.

UTILITY NOTE

UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN HEREON WERE PLOTTED FROM A COMBINATION OF OBSERVED
SURFACE EVIDENCE (CONDITIONS PERMITTING) AND RECORD INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM THE
RESPECTIVE UTILITY COMPANIES AND ARE NOT INTENDED TO REPRESENT THEIR ACTUAL
LOCATIONS. THEREFORE, ALL UTILITIES MUST BE VERIFIED WITH RESPECT TO SIZES, HORIZONTAL
& VERTICAL LOCATIONS BY THE OWNER AND/OR CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO DESIGN OR
CONSTRUCTION. NO RESPONSIBILITY IS ASSUMED BY TRANSAMERICAN ENGINEERS FOR THE
LOCATION AND CAPACITY OF SAID UTILITIES.

PROJECT BENCHMARK - DESCRIPTION

ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON WERE OBTAINED FROM THE BENCHMARK DESCRIBED AS A DISC IN
‘THE TOP OF CURB AT THE SOUTHERLY END OF THE DRIVEWAY AT HOUSE NUMBER 61 BAYWOOD-
AVENUE. SAID BENCHMARK IS BASED UPON NAVD88 AND HAS AN ELEVATION OF 33.642.
OWNER(S)

ROBERT & JULIENNE LORENZEN, ADRIENNE & ROBERT RUSELL AND KIRK & KATHARINE SYME
22.DE SABLAROAD SAN MATEO, CA 94402

TEL. NO. (408) 857-5838 © ROBERT RUSSELL (CONTACT PERSON)

SURVEYOR'S STATEMENT

THIS MAP WAS PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER MY DIRECTION AND IS BASED UPON A FIELD SURVEY,

By. i) P. _ 05/28/2023

BARRY A. PIERCE, LS. 6975
MY LICENSE EXPIRES SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

AS SHOWN

g
Zz
&
iS
a
=

g
Fes
&
w
a

1390 Market Street, Suite 201
San Franco, CA 94102

et (415) 553-4092 Fax. (415) 553-4071
mal: ifo@vansamericanengineers.com

CALIFORNIA

SAN MATEO COUNTY

a
w
a
ir
fe)
(e)
Ww
v4
fal
wl
Ww
a

Lz

os

Uo

ou

go
fe
si

x
2F

ZZ

20

fe)

oa

88

On

EW

zo

25

Sui

ba

rato)
we

On

O4

Ww

ran

ow

KE
eS
<e-
we
fo}

Zz

9

Q

2

a

a

=)

a)

<

vt
©
9°
N
N
fe)
Z
o
<
=
4
my
O
x“
<
o
Ww
>
ke
<
k-
ya
Im
O
Z
od
7)
Ww
>

a
Q
v4
fe}
fe}
w
i
>
E
Zz
5
QO
°
°
Ww
5
<
=
Zz
<
o
<
Q
fo}
o
t
9
o
5
N
4
ui
fay
2
5
Zz
5
Zz
Ww
=
5
(3)
le}
a
Q
<
Py
5
N
oo
N
>
<
=
z
fo}

CITY OF SAN MATEO

Revisions



--- page 33 ---
3
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
FRONT 
SETBACK, TYP.
GARAGE 
SETBACK, TYP.
EAVE/OVERHANG, 
TYP.
FOOTPRINT, 
TYP.
3 FT. TALL 
FENCE, TYP.
SIDE 
SETBACK, 
TYP.
(E)
29 
BAYTREE 
WAY
DRIVE
WAY
6 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
REMOVE (E) 
SHED
FOOTPRINT
, TYP.
EAVE/OVERHA
NG, TYP.
22 DE SABLA 
ROAD
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
6 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
3
7/10/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
HEB
SIDE SETBACK, 
TYP.
GARAGE 
SETBACK, TYP.
FRONT 
SETBACK, TYP.
(E) 
DRIVEWA
Y
HEB
AS 
NOTED
3 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
DEMOLITION 
NOTES:
1. ALL SURFACES DESIGNATED TO REMAIN SHALL BE PROTECTED 
TO ASSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT DAMAGED
DURING DEMOLITION . ANY ITEMS DAMAGED SHALL BE REPAIRED 
AT NO ADDITIONAL COST TO THE OWNER.
WHERE ITEMS HAVE TO BE REPLACED, MATCH EXISTING 
MATERIALS TO MAXIMUM DEGREE POSSIBLE
GIVEN PRESENT MATERIAL AVAILABILITY AND CRAFTSMANSHIP. 
AVOID UNNECESSARY CUTTING AND
PATCHING.
2. DEMOLITION INFORMATION IS SHOWN TO FACILITATE 
PROPOSED WORK. ALL DEMOLITION MUST BE
COORDINATED WITH THE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. 
COORDINATE AND VERIFY SCOPE OF ELECTRICAL
AND MECHANICAL SYSTEM DEMOLITION WITH OWNER PRIOR TO 
COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
3. IF CONTRACTOR DISCOVERS DISCREPANCIES, OMISSIONS OR 
HIDDEN CONDITIONS DIFFERING FROM
DEMOLITION INFORMATION, GENERAL CONTRACTOR TO 
CONTACT DESIGNER BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH
WORK.
DEMOLI
TION
SITE 
PLAN
4. PRIOR TO DEMOLITION, CONTRACTOR TO SCHEDULE ON-SITE 
MEETING WITH DESIGNER TO REVIEW
EXTENT OF DEMOLITION WORK. PRIOR TO CUTTING OF 
OPENINGS IN EXISTING WALLS, CONTRACTOR TO
SCHEDULE ON-SITE MEETING WITH DESIGNER TO REVIEW 
PROCEDURES.
NOTE: TENTATIVE PARCEL 
MAP PREPARED
BY BARRY A. PIERCE, 
LICENSED LAND
SURVEYOR NO. 6975 FOR 
REFERENCE.
A1
.0
9. ALL WORK TO BE DONE IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH OSHA STANDARDS.
21 DEMOLITION SITE PLAN OVER 
TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP BY OTHERS
1"=10'-
0"

--- page 34 ---
1
2
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
FRONT 
SETBACK, TYP.
GARAGE 
SETBACK, TYP.
EAVE/OVERHANG, 
TYP.
FOOTPRINT, 
TYP.
3 FT. TALL 
FENCE, TYP.
SIDE 
SETBACK, 
TYP.
3' MAX. HIGH 
FENCES
AND HEDGES 
WITHIN
SIGHT 
TRIANGLES
(SMMC 
SECTION
27.84.010(b))
(E)
29 
BAYTREE 
WAY
DRIVE
WAY
6 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
FOOTPRINT
, TYP.
EAVE/OVERHA
NG, TYP.
3
22 DE SABLA 
ROAD
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
6 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
HEB
HEB
1
2
3
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
7/10/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
SIDE SETBACK, 
TYP.
GARAGE 
SETBACK, TYP.
FRONT 
SETBACK, TYP.
(E) 
DRIVEWA
Y
HEB
3' MAX. HIGH 
FENCES AND
HEDGES WITHIN 
SIGHT
TRIANGLES 
(SMMC
AS 
NOTED
3 FT. 
TALL
FENCE, 
TYP.
SECTION 
27.84.010(b))
17
A1.0.
1
REPLACE
MENT
ROLLED 
CURB
DEMOLITION 
NOTES:
REPLACE
MENT
GUTT
ER
REPLACE
MENT
SIDEWALK
1. ALL SURFACES DESIGNATED TO REMAIN SHALL BE PROTECTED 
TO ASSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT DAMAGED
DURING DEMOLITION . ANY ITEMS DAMAGED SHALL BE REPAIRED 
AT NO ADDITIONAL COST TO THE OWNER.
WHERE ITEMS HAVE TO BE REPLACED, MATCH EXISTING 
MATERIALS TO MAXIMUM DEGREE POSSIBLE
GIVEN PRESENT MATERIAL AVAILABILITY AND CRAFTSMANSHIP. 
AVOID UNNECESSARY CUTTING AND
PATCHING.
2. DEMOLITION INFORMATION IS SHOWN TO FACILITATE 
PROPOSED WORK. ALL DEMOLITION MUST BE
COORDINATED WITH THE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. 
COORDINATE AND VERIFY SCOPE OF ELECTRICAL
AND MECHANICAL SYSTEM DEMOLITION WITH OWNER PRIOR TO 
COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
3. IF CONTRACTOR DISCOVERS DISCREPANCIES, OMISSIONS OR 
HIDDEN CONDITIONS DIFFERING FROM
DEMOLITION INFORMATION, GENERAL CONTRACTOR TO 
CONTACT DESIGNER BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH
WORK.
PROPO
SED
SITE 
PLAN
4. PRIOR TO DEMOLITION, CONTRACTOR TO SCHEDULE ON-SITE 
MEETING WITH DESIGNER TO REVIEW
EXTENT OF DEMOLITION WORK. PRIOR TO CUTTING OF 
OPENINGS IN EXISTING WALLS, CONTRACTOR TO
SCHEDULE ON-SITE MEETING WITH DESIGNER TO REVIEW 
PROCEDURES.
SYMBOL 
LEGEND:
NOTE: TENTATIVE PARCEL 
MAP PREPARED
BY BARRY A. PIERCE, 
LICENSED LAND
SURVEYOR NO. 6975 FOR 
REFERENCE.
A1.
0A
TRIANGULAR AREA OF PRIVATE 
PROPERTY PER SAN
MATEO MUNCIPAL CODE 
SECTION 27.84.010(b)(2).
9. ALL WORK TO BE DONE IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH OSHA STANDARDS.
21 PROPOSED SITE PLAN OVER 
TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP BY OTHERS
1"=10'-
0"

--- page 35 ---
1
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
4 NOT 
USED
A TYPICAL SECTION OF TYPE "B" CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK (CITY 
OF SAN MATEO STANDARD DETAIL 3-1-141B)
B MISCELLANEOUS DETAILS CURB, GUTTER, AND SIDEWALK (CITY OF 
SAN MATEO STANDARD DETAIL 3-1-141C)
23 CITY OF SAN MATEO STREET 
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
N.T.
S.
3 NOT 
USED
(E) 
ASPHALTI
C
CONCRET
EPAVEMEN
T
4'-0"
REPLACEM
ENT
SIDEWAL
K
2'-6"
V.I.F.
TO MEET
(E) 
PAVEMEN
TSEE 
TYPICAL
DETAIL
8 1/2"
AT 
21A/A1.0.
1
SLOPE: 1/4" 
PER FOOT
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
DEEP 
LIFT
ASPHAL
TIC
CONCR
ETE
520-C-
2500
CONCR
ETE
NOTE
S1. 
REFER TO TYPICAL 
SECTION OF TYPE "B" CURB,
GUTTER AND SIDEWALK AT 
21A/A1.0.1 (CITY OF
SAN MATEO STANDARD 
DETAIL 3-1-141B)
2. 
SEE ADDITIONAL NOTES AT 
21/A1.0.1.
520-C-
2500
CONCR
ETE
BATTE
R 1"
PER 
FOOT
CLASS 2 AGGREGATE 
BASE AT
95% RELATIVE 
COMPACTION OR
AS APPROVED BY 
THE ENGINEER
COMPACTED 
SUBGRADE
HEB
22 CURB, GUTTER, AND 
SIDEWALK SECTION
1"=1'-
0"
10 NOT 
USED
6 NOT 
USED
2 NOT 
USED
NOTE
S:
AS 
NOTED
KEYED FLOOR 
PLAN NOTES:
1. 
FOR EXPANSION JOINTS, WEAKENED 
PLANE JOINTS AND
SCORING SEE DETAIL AT 21B/A1.0.2 
(SAN MATEO STANDARD
3-1-141C).
2. 
PROVIDE AND INSTALL #4 X 12" LONG 
DOWELS AT 18" O.C. MAX.
AT THE END OF UNFINISHED CONC. 
POUR OR WHERE (N)
CONC. JOINS (E) CONC.
SCORE LINE, SEE SCORING DETAIL AT 
23B/A1.0.1 (SAN MATEO
STANDARD 3-1-141C).
1
2 WEAKENED PLANE JOINT, SEE WEAKENED 
PLANE JOINT DETAIL AT
23C/B1.0.1 (SAN MATEO STANDARD 3-1-
141C).
SYMBOL 
LEGEND:
CONCRE
TE
3. 
CONC. SHALL CONTAIN 1 LB. OR 1 
PINT OF LAMP BLACK PER
CU. YD.
(E) 
DRIVEWA
Y
4. 
CURB AND GUTTER TO BE 
POURED MONOLITHIC UNLESS
APPROVED BY CITY ENGINEER
PROPOSED 
SIDEWALK,
DRIVEWAY 
APPROACH AND
STREET 
IMPROVEMENTS
1
2
TYP.,
U.O.N
.
2
2
2
2
A1.
0.1
DE SABLA 
ROAD
2
21 DRIVEWAY, CURB, GUTTER, 
AND SIDEWALK NOTES
17 PROPOSED SIDEWALK AND 
DRIVEWAY APPROACH PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 36 ---
WH
FUR
N
B B 
U D
29 
BAYTREE 
WYBASEME
NT
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesi
gn.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 PROPOSED 
BASEMENT
1/4"=1'
-0"
4 NOT 
USED
27'-
0"±
PLANTI
NGAREA
21
A3.0
11
A4.0
PLANTING 
AREA
PLANTING 
AREA
HH: 
8260x2
8
HH: 
8240x4
0CS
HH: 
82
20x24
CON
C
PLANTI
NGAREA
CON
C
F
CS
32X8
0
14'-
1"±
PLANTI
NGAREA
POWDER
PLANT
ER
21
A3.2
FIREP
IT
OFFI
CE
DINING 
ROOM
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
TUR
F
32X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
DINING 
ROOM
14'-
4"±
DINING 
ROOM
36X8
0
36X8
0
CON
C
21
A3.3
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
CON
C
23
A3.0
11'-7 
1/4"±
LAUND
RY
KITCH
EN
LIVING 
ROOM
POWD
ER
REFR
CL.
LIVING 
ROOM
DW
DININ
G
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
BRIC
K
6 1/4"±
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
26'-8"±
ENTR
Y
6'-7 
1/2"±
3'-
3"±
DW
10'-
3"±
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
KITCH
EN
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
HEB
WH
5'-0 
3/4"±
2
3
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
7/10/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
HH: 
76
56x24
23
A3.1
20x2
8HH: 
78
TO 2ND 
FLR.
24X8
0
PLANTI
NG
PLANT
ER
9'-
6"±
ARE
A
32X7
6
32X8
0
32X7
6
TO
BASEME
NT
32X80
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA RD
ENTRY
2'-11 
5/8"±
BAT
H
8'-1 
1/2"±
4'-2 
1/4"±
7'-6 
3/4"±
REMOVE 
(E)
REMOVE 
(E)
WARDRO
BE
14'-9 
1/2"±
REMOVE (E) 
DOOR
AND INFILL 
OPENING,
SALVAGE 
FOR
WINDOW AND 
INFILL
OPENING, 
SALVAGE
FOR 
OWNER
2'-11 
1/8"±
GARA
GE
DRIVE
WAY
WORKS
HOP
STORA
GE
1'-5 
1/2"±
OWNE
R
38'-8 
1/2"±
5'-11 1/8"±
MODIFI
ED
STORA
GE
REMOVE 
(E)CABINE
TS
30X8
0
D
30X8
0
HEB
5'-10 
1/2"±
11'-9 
1/2"±
CABIN
ET
CABIN
ET
W
11'-
2"±
AS 
NOTED
GARA
GE
EART
H
TUR
F
56x2
8HH: 
80
SHE
D
1'-9 
3/4"±
16'-3 
1/2"±
56x2
8HH: 
80
EART
H
EART
H
56x5
0HH: 
72
29 
BAYTREE
GAS 
METER EART
H
REMOVE (E) 
SHED
3
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA
GAS 
METER
23'-6 
1/2"±
23
A3.2
57'-10 
3/8"±
29 
BAYTRE
EELECTRIC 
METER
22 DE SABLA
ELECTRIC 
METER
DEMOLITION
FIRST 
FLOOR 
PLAN
2
DRIVE
WAY
A2
.0
21
A3.1
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
21 PROPOSED FIRST 
FLOOR PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 37 ---
KEYED FLOOR PLAN NOTES:
WALL-MOUNTED BICYCLE STORAGE 
WITH CAPACITY TO
1
1 1. 
LOCK THE BICYCLE FRAME AND ONE (1) 
WHEEL WITH A U-TYPE
LOCK
2. 
SUPPORT THE BICYCLE IN A STABLE 
POSITION WITHOUT DAMAGE
TO WHEELS, FRAME, OR COMPONENTS.
WH
FUR
N
B B 
U D
3. 
BE SECURELY ANCHORED SO THEY 
CANNOT BE EASILY REMOVED
AND SHALL BE OF SUFFICIENT STRENGTH 
AND DESIGN TO RESIST
VANDALISM AND THEFT.
29 
BAYTREE 
WYBASEME
NT
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesi
gn.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 PROPOSED 
BASEMENT
1/4"=1'
-0"
4 KEYED 
NOTES
27'-
0"±
PLANTI
NGAREA
21
A3.0.
1
11
A4.0
PLANTING 
AREA
PLANTING 
AREA
HH: 
8260x2
8
HH: 
8240x4
0CS
HH: 
82
CON
C
PLANTI
NGAREA
20x2
4
CON
C
F
CS
32X8
0
14'-
1"±
PLANTI
NGAREA
POWDER
PLANT
ER
21
A3.2.
1
FIREP
IT
OFFI
CE
DINING 
ROOM
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
PAVE
RS
TUR
F
32X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
DINING 
ROOM
14'-
4"±
DINING 
ROOM
36X8
0
36X8
0
CON
C
21
A3.3
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
CON
C
23
A3.0.
1
11'-7 
1/4"±
LAUND
RY
KITCH
EN
LIVING 
ROOM
POWD
ER
REFR
CL.
LIVING 
ROOM
DW
DININ
G
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
BRIC
K
6 1/4"±
TUR
F
PAVE
RS
26'-8"±
ENTR
Y
6'-7 
1/2"±
3'-
3"±
DW
10'-
3"±
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
KITCH
EN
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
HEB
HEB
WH
5'-0 
3/4"±
1
1
2
3
1/18/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
7/10/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
23
A3.1
20x2
8HH: 
78
INFILL 
OPENING
TO 2ND 
FLR.
24X8
0
PLANTI
NGAREA
PLANT
ER
9'-
6"±
32X8
0
32X7
6
TO
BASEME
NT
32X80
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA RD
ENTRY
2'-11 
5/8"±
LONG-TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
BAT
H
8'-1 
1/2"±
4'-2 
1/4"±
7'-6 
3/4"±
14'-9 
1/2"±
LONG-
TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
2'-11 
1/8"±
GARA
GE
DRIVE
WAY
WORKS
HOP
STORA
GE
1
2'-6"
1'-5 
1/2"±
38'-8 
1/2"±
5'-11 1/8"±
SHORT-
TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
MODIFIEDCONFINE
D COMPACT
PARKING 
STALL
STORA
GE
SHORT-
TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
30X8
0
D
30X8
0
8'-0"W X 
17'-0"L
LONG-TERM
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
11'-2"±
LONG-TERM
2'-6"
1
HEB
5'-10 
1/2"±
11'-9 
1/2"±
2'-6"
W
AS 
NOTED
BICYCLE 
PARKING
6 FT. CLR. 
HEIGHT
GARA
GE
EART
H
TUR
F
56x2
8HH: 
80
1
1'-9 
3/4"±
16'-3 
1/2"±
56x2
8HH: 
80
EART
H
EART
H
56x5
0HH: 
72
29 
BAYTREE
GAS 
METER EART
H
3
TUR
F
22 DE 
SABLA
GAS 
METER
23'-6 
1/2"±
23
A3.2.
1
57'-10 
3/8"±
29 
BAYTRE
EELECTRIC 
METER
22 DE SABLA
ELECTRIC 
METER
PROPOSED
FIRST 
FLOOR 
PLAN
2
DRIVE
WAY
A2
.1
21
A3.1
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
21 FIRST 
FLOOR PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 38 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
27'-
0"±
21
11
A3.0.
1
A4.0
21
A3.2.
1
EXISTI
NG
5:12
ATTI
CVEN
T
21
A3.3
23
A3.0.
1
ATTI
CVEN
T
ROOF 
BELOW
ROOF 
BELOW
ROOF 
BELOW
58'-
4"±
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
43'-0 
7/8"±
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
3'-
10"±
7'-7 
7/8"±
3'-
3"±
2
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
40x5
0HH: 
80
40x2
6HH: 
88
23
A3.1
ROOF 
BELOW
15'-3 
1/8"±
TO 
1ST
FLR.
ROO
FBELO
W
92X80 
OPENING
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
HAL
L
7'-
3"±
2'-9 
1/2"±
2'-4 
3/8"±
32X8
0
HAL
L
EXISTI
NG
3.6:12
BEDRO
OM
BEDRO
OM
BEDRO
OM
BAT
H
HEB
22 DE 
SABLA RD
2'-4 
3/8"±
AS 
NOTED
56x2
6HH: 
80
40x3
6HH: 
86
8x32
HH: 
80
ROO
F
BEDRO
OM
BELO
W
56x2
6HH: 
80
11'-6 
1/2"±
14'-
6"±
2'-
2"±
8'-7"±
43'-0 
7/8"±
4'-2 
3/8"±
11'-
9"±
19'-
11"±
59'-
0"±
23
A3.2.
1
SECOND 
FLOOR PLAN
2
A2
.2
21
A3.1
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
21 SECOND 
FLOOR PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 39 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
27'-
0"±
21
11
A3.0.
1
A4.0
21
A3.2.
1
EXISTI
NG
5:12
ATTI
CVEN
T
21
A3.3
23
A3.0.
1
ATTI
CVEN
T
58'-
4"±
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
43'-0 
7/8"±
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
2
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
23
A3.1
15'-3 
1/8"±
EXISTI
NG
7.2:12
EXISTI
NG
3.6:12
HEB
ATTI
CVEN
T
AS 
NOTED
11'-6 
1/2"±
43'-0 
7/8"±
19'-
11"±
59'-
0"±
23
A3.2.
1
ROOF 
PLAN
2
A2
.3
21
A3.1
1'-0"
5'-0"
10'-
0"
ALL DIMENSIONS TO 
PHYSICAL OBJECTS
21 ROOF 
PLAN
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 40 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
23 NOT 
USED
19 NOT 
USED
15 NOT 
USED
11 NOT 
USED
7 NOT 
USED
3 NOT 
USED
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1ST 
FLOOR
1ST
FINISHED 
CLG.
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
AS 
NOTED
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
REMOVE (E) 
DOOR,
SALVAGE FOR 
OWNER
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
22 DE 
SABLA RD
FENC
E
DEMOLITION
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
(REAR & SIDE 
ELEVATION)
REMOVE (E) 
WINDOW,
SALVAGE FOR 
OWNER
A3
.0
21 DEMOLITION EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - NORTHWEST
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 41 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
CLG.
1 HR. 
ASSEMBLY
UL DESIGN 
NO. V333
LAP (N) WEATHER RESISTANT 
BARRIER (WRB) 12" OVER
EXISTING BUILDING PAPER OR 
WRB
BASI
C- 1 LAYER FORTIFIBER 
WEATHERSMART
COMMERCIAL WRB W/
- 1 LAYER 2-PLY 
FORTIFIBER JUMBO TEX
BUILDING PAPER
BETTE
R
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
---
1 LAYER GCPAT 
VPS W/
1 LAYER 2-PLY 
FORTIFIBER JUMBO TEX
UNDER "BETTER" OPTION 
REPLACE ALL
SHEATHING TO PROVIDE 
A NEW
SUBSTRATE FOR THE 
VPS
PTD. 5/8" THK. 
GYP. BD.
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
(N) R-15 BATT 
INSULATION IN (E)
WOOD 
FRAMING
SELF-ADHERING AIR 
AND WATER
BARRIER, TYP.
INTERI
OR
EXTERI
OR
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
SELF-FURRING 
METAL LATH
(REAR 
ELEVATION)
WOOD 
FRAMING
7/8" THK. 3-COAT CEMENT 
PLASTER
SYSTEM; INTEGRAL 
ACRYLIC FINISH COAT
OR ACRYLIC PAINT W/ 
PRIMER. SEE
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS 
FOR STUCCO
FINISH.
(N) PLYWOOD 
SHEATHING,
S.S.D.
23 EXTERIOR ELEVATION 
- SOUTHWEST
1/4"=1'-0" 11 
NOT USED
7 TYPICAL CEMENT PLASTER 
WALL ASSEMBLY
3"=1'-
0"
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1ST 
FLOOR
1ST
FINISHED 
CLG.
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
AS 
NOTED
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
INFILL CEMENT 
PLASTER
(STUCCO) 
WALL, SEE
DETAIL 
7/A3.0.1
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
22 DE 
SABLA RD
FENC
E
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
(REAR & SIDE 
ELEVATION)
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A3.
0.1
21 PROPOSED EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - NORTHWEST
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 42 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
MAJO
R
RIDG
E
BEDROOM
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
CLG.
BEDROOM
FINISHED 
FLOOR
GARAGE
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
GARAGE
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
22 DE 
SABLA RD
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
(FRONT 
ELEVATION)
23 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - NORTHEAST
1/4"=1'
-0"
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
MAJOR 
RIDGE
BEDRO
OM
FINISHED 
CLG.
HEB
1ST
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
2ND 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
AS 
NOTED
GARA
GE
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
GARA
GE
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
22 DE SABLA 
RD
(FRONT & SIDE 
ELEVATION)
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONSA3
.1
21 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - SOUTHEAST
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 43 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
23 NOT 
USED
19 NOT 
USED
15 NOT 
USED
11 NOT 
USED
7 NOT 
USED
3 NOT 
USED
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST
AS 
NOTED
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
29 BAYTREE 
WY
(SIDE & REAR 
ELEVATION)
REMOVE (E) 
DOOR,
SALVAGE FOR 
OWNER
22 DE 
SABLA RD
FENC
E
OUTLINE 
OF
DEMOLITION
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
REMOVE (E) 
WINDOW,
SALVAGE FOR 
OWNER
FENC
E
A3
.2
21 DEMOLITION EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - WEST
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 44 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
MAJOR 
RIDGE
BEDRO
OM
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
2ND 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
GARA
GE
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
GARA
GE
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
22 DE 
SABLA RD
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
(FRONT 
ELEVATION)
(REAR & SIDE 
ELEVATION)
23 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - SOUTH
1/4"=1'
-0"
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
HEB
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST
AS 
NOTED
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
1ST FLOOR
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
29 BAYTREE 
WY
(SIDE & REAR 
ELEVATION)
22 DE 
SABLA RD
FENC
E
INFILL CEMENT 
PLASTER
(STUCCO) 
WALL, SEE
DETAIL 
7/A3.0.1
OUTLINE 
OF
FENCE
(SIDE 
ELEVATION)
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONS
A3.
2.1
21 PROPOSED EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - WEST
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 45 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
24 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
12 NOT 
USED
8 NOT 
USED
4 NOT 
USED
23 NOT 
USED
19 NOT 
USED
15 NOT 
USED
11 NOT 
USED
7 NOT 
USED
3 NOT 
USED
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/22/2022 
PERMIT SET
HEB
MAJO
R
RIDG
E
BEDROOM
FINISHED 
CLG.
HEB
1ST
AS 
NOTED
FLOOR
FINISH
ED
CLG.
BEDROOM
FINISHED 
FLOOR
GARA
GE
FINISHED 
CLG.
1ST 
FLOOR
FINISHE
D
FLOOR
GARAGE
FINISHED 
FLOOR
EXTERI
OR
GRADE
22 DE 
SABLA RD
(REAR 
ELEVATION)
EXTERIOR 
ELEVATIONSA3
.3
21 EXTERIOR 
ELEVATION - NORTH
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 46 ---
B B 
U D
BLECHER BUILDING + 
URBAN DESIGN
3343 22ND STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
94110
415-364-8478
www.bbudesign.com
ATTI
C
FIN.
CLG
.
ATTI
C
BEDRO
OM
24 NOT 
USED
23 NOT 
USED
22 NOT 
USED
21 NOT 
USED
20 NOT 
USED
19 NOT 
USED
18 NOT 
USED
17 NOT 
USED
16 NOT 
USED
FIN.
CLG
.
FIN. 
FL.
T.O. FIN. 
FL.31.72 
FT.A.S.L
.
ENTR
Y
KITCH
EN
DINING 
ROOM
OFFI
CE
FIN.
CLG
.
29 
BAYTREE 
WY
FIN. 
FL.
T.O. FIN. 
FL.
26.97 FT.
A.S.L.
GARA
GE
FIN. 
FL.
CRAWLSP
ACE
(E) 
GRADE
23.3 
FT.
A.S.L
.
(E) 
GRADE
22.75 
FT.
A.S.L.
A.S.L. = ABOVE 
SEA LEVEL
15 NOT 
USED
11 BUILDING 
SECTION
1/4"=1'
-0"
NO.: 
DATE:
ISSUE:
BY:
5/24/2023 COMMENT 
RESPONSE
HEB
ATTI
C
ATTI
C
FIN.
CLG
.
HAL
L
BEDRO
OM
HEB
FIN.
CLG
.
AS 
NOTED
FIN. 
FL.
T.O. FIN. 
FL.
31.33 
FT.
A.S.L.
LIVING 
ROOM
DINING 
ROOM
FIN. FL.
22 DE 
SABLA RD
FIN.
CLG
.
T.O. FIN. 
FL.26.67 
FT.A.S.L
.
GARA
GE
(E) 
GRADE
23.6 
FT.A.S.L
.
CRAWLSP
ACE
FIN. 
FL.
(E) 
GRADE
23.0 FT.
A.S.L.
BUILDING 
SECTIONSA4
.0
A.S.L. = ABOVE 
SEA LEVEL
2
13 BUILDING 
SECTION
1/4"=1'
-0"

--- page 47 ---
od,

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution
Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials
1 Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dt or other construction material
‘with aps when rains forcast or if mt actively bing used within

ladys

{1 Use but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust contol

Hazardous Materials

{Label ll hazardous matrals and hazardous wastes (such as
pesticids, pants, thinncr,slvcnts, cl, ol and attr
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations.

Store hazardous materials and wastes in wate ight container, sore
in appropriate sccondary containment, and cover them atthe cad of|
every work day of during wet wether or when rain is forecast

1 Follow manufacturer's application instructions for hazardous
materials and be careful nt to use more than necessary, Do not
apply chemicals outdoors when rin is forecast within 24 hous,

{Arrange for appropriate disposal of al hazardous wastes

Waste Management

{i Cover waste disposal con
every work day and du

ners secre with tarp atthe end of

st weather,

i Check wast disposal containers froquently for leaks and wo make
sure they are not overilled. Never hose down dumpster on the
constuction st

1 Clean or replace portable wiles, and inspect them Frequently fr
leaks and si

{ Dispose ofall wastes and debris properly. Recycle materials and
wastes that cam be rcycled (such a asphalt, concrete, agregate base
material, wood, gyp board, pipe et.)

Dispose of liquid residues from pein, thinners, solvents, glues, nd
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste,

Construction Entrances and Perimeter

Establish and maintain efetive perimeter controls and stabilize all
coastruton entrances and exis to suficcatly contol czosion and
sediment discharges fom site and tracking off site

1 Sweep or vacuum any street racking immediately and secure
‘sediment source to prevent frter tacking, Never hose down sreets
to clean up tacking,

they apply to your project, all year long.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

of
f

—<
Maintenance and Parking

Designate an ara, ited with appropri
whic and equipment parking and story

BMP, for

1 Perfor major wanterance, repair jobs, and vehicle
and equipment washing off sit,

1 refueling or vehicle maintenance must be dane
‘onsite, work ina bermed area away from storm drains
tnd over drip pan or drop clos big enough to callect
Aids, Recycle or dispose of ids a havardous waste

I ehicle or equipment cleaning mest be done onsite,
can with water only ina bormed rca that will not
allow rinse water to run int
iains, or suice waters,

Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite sing soaps,
solvents, dgreasrs or stam ccaning oqupinent.

Spill Prevention and Conteal

Q Keep spl cleanup materials (ergs, absorbents and
«at Liter available atthe constuction site at ll ines.

Inspect vehicles amd equipment fequeniy for ant
repair leaks promply. Use drip pans to cach leaks
uni epaits are made.

Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of
cleamp materials propel

2. Do not hose down surfaces where Aud have spilled.
Use cy cleanup methods (absorbent materials. cat
tite, andr rags}

Sweep up spilled dry materials immediatly: Do not
tayo wash them away with water or buy them.

Clean up spills on dirt areas by digging up and
propery disposing of contaminate sol

2 Report significant spill immediately. You are roquired
by law to repeet al significant releases of hazardous
‘material, including ol. To report a pil 1) Dial 911
‘or your local emergency response numb, 2) Call the
Govemor's Office of Emergency Services Warning
Center, (800) 852-7550 (24 hour),

Earthmoving

Schedule grading and excavation work
during dry weather.

1 Siabitize all denuded areas, insall and
aia termporary erosion contol (such
4s erosion conto fabric or bonded fiber

vegetation is established,

tng vegetation only when

absolutely neessary, and seed or plant
‘vegetation fr erosion contro on slopes
‘oF where construction is not immeiaely
planned

Prevent sediment from migrating offsite
and protect storm drain inks, gute
dite, and drainage courses by installing
and maintaining appropriate BMP, such
as fiber rll sil fences, seinen basins,

Keep excavated sl o site and taster it
to dump tracks on site notin the streets

Contaminated Soils
1 Lfany ofthe fllowing conditions arc
observed test fr eatamination and
contact the Regional Watcr Quality
CContol Board:
~ Unusual sil conditions, discoloration,
orodor.
Abandoned underground tanks
= Abandoned wells
~ Buried barrels, debris or trash,

e liable for

S$ may

Paving/Asphalt Work

Avoid paving and scl coating in wet
‘weather or when rain is forecast, to
proven materials that have not cured
‘oa contacting stormwater runol

Cover storm dai inlets and manholes
when applying seal cout, ack coat, shrry
Seal fog sal,

2 Calle ppopeately
Aispose of excess abrasive gravel or sand,
Do NOT sweep or wash i into guliers

nd rye

1 Do not use water to wash down fresh
asphalt conerete pavement

Sawcutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal

{Q Protect nearby sorm drain nets when
saw eating, Use filter brie, catch basin
inkt files, or gravel bags to keep slury
ut ofthe storm drain system,

Shovel, bosorb, or vacuum saw-cut
slurry and dispose of all waste as soon
4s you are finished in one location o at
tho end ofeach woek day (whichever is
sont)

{Ar savecut sir enters a catch basin, clean
it up immediately.

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets undercover to protet them from
‘in, nol, and wind

Wash out concrete cquipmenvtucks
offite on designated washout
area, where the water wil oi
emporary waste pt nd in aman
‘hat will prevent leaching into the
underlying sil or onto surrounding areas.
Let conerete arden and dispose of as

CD When washing exposed aggregate
provont washwatr fom enter
rains. Block any ial
gutters, hose washwater onto die areas, or
drain onto a berm surface to be pumped
and disposed of properly

Landscaping

1 Protet stockpiled landscaping materials
Som wind and rain by storing them under
tarps all year-round,

Stack bagged material on pallets and
under cover.

© Discontinue application of any eodible
landscape material wihin 2 days bofore @

forccast rain event or during wet weatbse

Painting & Paint Removal

pand Removal

Never cleam brushes or rinse paint
container int a street, gut, storm
dein, o steam

For water-bsed paints, pant out brushes
to the exten possible, end ras into a
dein that goes tothe sanitary sewer.
Never pout paint down a siorm dean.

For cil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible ad clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container. Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents. Dispose of
exces guid 2s hazardous waste

( Paint chips and dust fom now-hazardous
dry stripping and sandblasting may be
seep up or ealleced in plastic drop
cloths and disposed of stash

Q Chena paint stripping residue nd chips
an dust from marin punts o pints
containing lea, mercury, or tibuylti
rst be dispose of as hizandous wast
Lead based paint removal requires a sate-
cmtfied contactor.

Dewatering

Discharges of groundwater or captured
‘unof rom dewatering operations must
be properly managed and disposed. When
possible send dewatering discharge t0
landscaped area or sanitary sewer
discharging tothe sanitary sewer call your
local wastewater treatment plan

Divert run-on water from ofkite away
‘hom al disturbed areas

Cl When dewatering, ntify and obtain
approval from te local municipality
before discharging water ta tect guter
‘stem dru, Filtration or diversion
‘rough a basin, tank, or sediment trap
may be required

G nares of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine whether the ground water mast
be tested, Pumped groundwater may nsed
to be collected ard hauled offsite foe
teeatment and proper disposal


--- page 48 ---
DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
PA NAME: PA22-064 29 Baytree Way Condo 
Conversion (TPM), SPAR, and Variance (VAR)
PA: 2022-064
ADDRESS: 29 Baytree Way and 22 De 
Sabla Road
LOT AREA: 7,699 sq. ft.
ZONING: R2
APN: 032-412-230
FLOOR AREA:  
22 De Salba:    
       29 Baytree Way:
EXISTING (no change)
2156.4 (includes 452 sq.ft. garage) 
1852.7 (incudes 275 sq. ft. garage)
TOTAL: 4,009.1 sq. ft.
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
TOTAL: 4,619 sq. ft.
F.A.R.:                 
0.53
0.6
BLDG. HEIGHT:
22 De Sabla 
29 Baytree Way
 
EXISTING (no change)
22 De Sabla Road 
Plate: 16’-7”
Peak: 22’-1 ½”
Daylight Plane: 12’/45-degree
29 Baytree Way
Plate: 16’-5’’
Peak: 21’-1’’
Daylight Plane:12’/45-degree
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
Plate: 24’
Peak 32’
Daylight Plane 12’/45-degree
STORIES: 2
2
2
UNITS: 2
2
2
SETBACKS:
PROPOSED (no change)
22 De Sabla Road
Front: 20.52’ 
Front (garage): 21.76’ 
Left Side: 3.81’ 
Right Side: 4.77’
Rear: Connected. No rear setback
29 Baytree way 
Front: 15’
Front (garage): 14.18’
Left Side: 15’-10’’
Right Side: 4.86’ 
Rear: Connected. No rear setback
MINIMUM REQUIRED
Front: 15’ 
Front (garage): 20’ 
Left Side: 5’
Right Side: 5’
Rear: 15’ 
PARKING (outside of front & side setback):
22 De Sabla Road 
29 Baytree Way 
PROPOSED
22 De Sabla Road 
Garage (min. 10’x18’/car): 9’x17’
Covered Spaces: 2
29 Baytree Way 
Garage (min 10’x18’): 9’x17’
Covered Spaces: 1 
TOTAL PARKING:
MINIMUM REQUIRED
22 De Sabla Road: 
2 covered 10’x18’ sized  
29 Baytree Way: 
2 covered 10’x18’ sized  
Other: Variance for Parking – Dimension Size (both units) and number of spaces (29 Baytree Way)
Variance for Setbacks: 3.81 and 4.77 side setbacks where 5’ is required (22 De Sabla) 
14.18’ front garage where 20’ is required and 4.86’ side where 5’ is required (29 Baytree Way)

--- page 49 ---
Att 5 - Property Photos 
 
PROPOSED CONDOMINIUM
CONVERSION
29 BAYTREE WAY &
22 DE SABLA ROAD  
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
A.P.N. 032-41-2230
PHOTOGRAPHS: 29 BAYTREE WAY
8/5/2022
VIEW TO SOUTH TOWARD 25 BAYTREE AND 29 BAYTREE
VIEW TO SOUTHWEST TOWARD 29 BAYTREE
VIEW TO NORTHWEST TOWARD 33 BAYTREE AND 29 BAYTREE
VIEW TO NORTHWEST 29 BAYTREE
VIEW TO SOUTH TOWARD 29 BAYTREE
VIEW TO EAST TOWARD 29 BAYTREE

--- page 50 ---
PROPOSED CONDOMINIUM
CONVERSION
29 BAYTREE WAY &
22 DE SABLA ROAD  
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
A.P.N. 032-41-2230
PHOTOGRAPHS: 22 DE SABLA ROAD
8/5/2022
VIEW TO EAST TOWARD 22 DE SABLA AND 25 BAYTREE (GOOGLE)
VIEW TO NORTHEAST TOWARD 22 DE SABLA
VIEW TO NORTH TOWARD 33 BAYTREE AND 22 DE SABLA
VIEW TO EAST TOWARD 22 DE SABLA
VIEW TO NORTH TOWARD 22 DE SABLA
VIEW TO SOUTH TOWARD 22 DE SABLA
VIEW TO WEST TOWARD 22 DE SABLA

--- page 51 ---
Inspection Report
Adrian Russell 
Property Address:
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way
San Mateo CA 94402
PCA Inspections
Patrick Emmett 
1738 Union Street, Suite 201
San Francisco, CA 94123-4425 
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 1 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way 
Att 6 - Property Report

--- page 52 ---
Table of Contents
Cover Page
Table of Contents
Intro Page
1 Site Condition and Exterior Components
2 Kitchen Components and Appliances
3 Bathrooms
4 Interior
5 Electrical System
6 Plumbing System
7 Heating and Cooling Systems
8 Water Heater
9 Garage
10 Foundation, Crawl Space, Basement and Under-
Floor Areas
11 Roofing & Attic
12 Fireplace and Chimney 
General Summary
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 2 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 53 ---
General Info 
Property Address
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way
San Mateo CA 94402
Date of Inspection
2/11/2022 
Report ID
132050
Customer(s)
Adrian Russell
Time of Inspection
09:00 AM
Real Estate Agent
Inspection Details 
In Attendance:
Seller
Property Type:
Single Family (2 story)
Occupancy of Building:
Occupied
Weather:
Clear
Comment Key & Definitions 
Introduction
An inspector is a generalist and not an expert in every trade or specialty. The purpose of an inspection is to cite general 
conditions of the major systems that indicate a need for repair or replacement. When the inspector recommends repair or 
replacement, it is done after a brief, general examination of each of hundreds of items covered by our service. The 
determination of costs or appropriate corrective action must be left to the professionals retained for the detailed evaluation 
and repair. 
The inspector has inspected the major structural components and mechanical systems for signs of significant non-
performance, excessive or unusual wear and general state of repair. Our inspection is conducted in accordance with the 
Standards of Practice of the California Real Estate Inspection Association (CREIA). A copy of the CREIA standards is 
available upon request or on the CREIA web site. The following report is an overview of the conditions observed. 
In this report, there may be specific references to areas and items that were inaccessible. The inspector can make no 
representations regarding conditions that may be present but were concealed or inaccessible for review. With access and 
an opportunity for inspection, reportable conditions may be discovered. Inspection of the inaccessible areas will be 
performed upon arrangement and at additional cost after access is provided. 
Inspected (IN) = The inspector visually observed the item, component or unit and if no other comments were made then it 
appeared to be functioning as intended allowing for normal wear and tear.
Not Inspected (NI) = The inspector did not inspect this item, component or unit and made no representations of whether or 
not it was functioning as intended and will state a reason for not inspecting.
Not Present (NP) = This item, component or unit is not in this building.
Repair or Replace (RR) = The item, component or unit is not functioning as intended, or needs further inspection by a 
qualified contractor. Items, components or units that can be repaired to satisfactory condition may not need replacement.
Re-inspections are only performed on items that were not accessible at the time of the original inspection or items that were 
not examined because the utilities were shut off. Should repairs be necessary, the inspector recommends that repairs be 
made by certified contractors to assure the work complies with the applicable law, including governmental permit, inspection 
and approved requirements. The inspector recommends the buyer request and obtain all receipts from sellers for repairs 
performed by any person, including a written statement indicating the date of repairs. The inspector further recommends the 
seller be asked to provide copies and statements of all such work to serve as final verification of proper installation or repair 
of the cited condition. 
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 3 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 54 ---
The inspector makes no representations as to the extent or presence of code violations, nor does PCA Inspections warrant 
the legal use of this building. This information would have to be obtained from the local building and/or zoning department. 
Be advised that this is not a code compliance inspection. The nature of the building, plumbing and electrical codes is that 
they are constantly being changed, and compliance to these codes is a function of when the cited work was completed and 
whether it was done by a certified and licensed contractor. Be advised that this is a visual examination searching for 
significant anomalies, and not for items that are considered to be part of a routine maintenance program. If there is any 
question regarding such work, the inspector advises questioning the current owner in this regard. 
There may be information pertinent to this property which is a matter of public record. A search of public records is not within 
the scope of this inspection.  PCA Inspections suggests that any interested party or their agent review all appropriate public 
records. Be advised that our recommendations for repair or replacement are made for information only and are not intended 
to suggest whether action should be taken on the cited condition. The inspector has listed items at the end of this report that 
are, in our opinion, major systems having significant non-performance issues. This written report supersedes all verbal 
information and should be considered as our final conclusions in regard to the condition of the property. 
PCA Inspections recognizes that this inspection is for the owner/seller of the property with the possible intention of 
distributing this report to potential buyers.  It is always recommended for a potential buyer to have their own inspection 
performed on the building before the close of escrow.  This report is based on the conditions of the building at the time of the 
inspection.  The conditions of this building and its components can change as this report ages.  No third party, such as a 
potential buyer(s), should solely rely on this report and any information stated in it without talking directly with the inspector 
that performed this inspection about the conditions observed during the inspection.  PCA Inspections offers free phone 
consultations with any potential buyer(s).  For a reduced fee, PCA Inspections can return to the property and perform a 
walk-through inspection of the building with any potential buyer(s) and review any comments made within this report. 
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 4 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 55 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
1. Site Condition and Exterior Components
The evaluation of the site conditions  was performed in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. This includes the identification of such as property 
grade, driveways, walkways, fences, gates, handrails, guardrails, yard walls, carports, patio covers, decks, and balconies. The evaluations of detached 
structures, such as storage sheds and stables is excluded from the scope of the inspection. The inspector does not water test or evaluate subterranean site 
drainage systems, irrigation systems or any mechanical or remotely controlled components, such as driveway gates. Also, the inspector does not evaluate 
any landscape components, such as trees, shrubs, fountains, ponds, statuary, pottery, fire pits, patio fans, heat lamps, and ornamental or decorative 
lighting. Similarly, the inspector does not comment on surface coatings or cosmetic deficiencies and the wear and tear associated with usage or the 
passage of time that would be readily apparent to the average person.
The evaluation of the exterior of the building was performed in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. This includes the identification of wall 
cladding, and an evaluation of common components, fascia and trim, doors, windows, lights, and receptacles. The inspector does not comment on surface 
coatings or cosmetic deficiencies and the wear and tear associated with usage or the passage of time that would be readily apparent to the average 
person.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
1.0 Grading & Drainage
Underground Drainage System: Yes
Adjacent Surface Grade: Flat
Adequate Surface Drainage: Yes
•
1.1 Driveways, Walkways, and Patios
Comments: 
One or more cracks were noted in the driveway, walkway, and/or patio. 
1.1 Item 1(Picture) 
•
1.2 Stoops and Porches
Stoop/Porch Support Structure: Concrete & Masonry, Wood
Comments: 
There was dry rot noted at the subfloor underneath the back porch of 22 De Sabla. This condition 
may worsen over time if not properly addressed. Recommend the dry rot be repaired. 
•
1.3 Retaining Walls
•
1.4 Vegetation
Attached Invasive Foliage: None
•
1.5 Fences and Gates
Comments: 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 5 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 56 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
The fence at the back and front of the property has dry rot.  Recommend it be repaired or 
replaced. 
1.5 Item 1(Picture) 
1.5 Item 2(Picture) 
•
1.6 Wall Cladding/Siding & Trim
Siding Material: Stucco
Exterior Recently Painted: Unknown
Cladding Defects and Damage: None Observed
Comments: 
(1) The exterior wood trim had minor dry rot and/or was damaged at the garage.  This condition 
can cause further deterioration of the trim, siding and framing if not properly repaired and sealed.  
Recommend this be further evaluated by a qualified licensed contractor. 
1.6 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) All exterior penetrations and holes should be properly sealed to prevent water infiltration and 
infestation by animals and pests. 
1.6 Item 2(Picture) 
•
1.7 Eaves, Soffits, and Associated Trim
Eave Defects and Damage: None Observed
•
1.8 Downspouts
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 6 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 57 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
Comments: 
The downspout located at the back of the building is bent and less than half the original diameter. 
This can cause the downspout to get blocked by debris.  Recommend this be repaired.  
1.8 Item 1(Picture) 
•
1.9 Doors and Windows (exterior)
Comments: 
(1) The door at the back of the property was missing. This may lead to unwanted pest infestation.
Recommend the door be replaced.
1.9 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) The back screen door for 29 Baytree was damaged.  Recommend this be repaired or
replaced.
1.9 Item 2(Picture) 
•
1.10 Hose Bibs
•
1.11 Exterior Electrical (Receptacle Outlets & Exterior Lighting)
Receptacle Outlet Back at Property: Yes
•
1.12 Other
Comments: 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 7 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 58 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
An irrigation system at one or more areas around the property.  It is beyond the scope of this this 
inspection to inspect or test its operation or efficiency.  If this is a concern, recommend having the 
system evaluated by a qualified professional. 
1.12 Item 1(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The exterior of the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, 
some areas can go unnoticed. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interests in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be 
considered before purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in 
this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 8 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 59 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
2. Kitchen Components and Appliances
The evaluation of kitchens and appliances conforms to CREIA standards of practice.  The inspector tests kitchen appliances for their functionality, but does 
not evaluate them for their performance or settings or cycles.  Appliances older than ten years may well exhibit decreased efficiency.  The inspector does 
not inspect free-standing appliances, like portable microwaves, ovens, and refrigerators.  Built-in refrigerators and trash-compactors are not included in this 
inspection.  Instant hot-water dispensers, water purifiers, grills or rotisseries, timers, clocks, thermostats, and the self-cleaning capability of ovens are not 
evaluated.  Concealed or countertop lighting is often installed after the initial construction, and cannot always be verified as wired to national standards.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
2.0 Counters and a Representative number of Cabinets
Oven Energy Supply: Electric
Comments: 
(1) One of the kitchen cabinets for 22 De Sabla were loose. Recommend this be repaired.
2.0 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) The grout and/or sealant around the kitchen sink for 29 baytree bathroom shower or tub has
begun to deteriorate and/or is missing.  Recommend this be repaired to prevent water damage.
•
2.1 Sink & Garbage Disposal
Comments: 
There were not immediate shut off valves for the kitchen sink in 22 De Sabla. This may make it 
difficult to shut off the water to the sink for future repairs. Recommend this be corrected. 
2.1 Item 1(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 9 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 60 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
2.2 Item 1(Picture) 
2.2 Item 2(Picture) 
(2) The shut off valve for the dishwasher in 29 baytree was stuck. This may affect the ability to
shut off the water to the dishwasher. Recommend the valve be properly adjusted.
2.2 Item 3(Picture) 
•
2.3 Oven Range, Cooktop & Hood
Oven Anti Tip Device Attached Installed: No
Comments: 
(1) There was no anti tip device installed behind the oven/range.  This device prevents the oven
appliance from tipping over if excess force or weight is applied to the open oven door and could
be a safety hazard.  Recommend installing an anti tip at the back of the oven.
2.3 Item 1(Picture) 
2.3 Item 2(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 10 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way 
•
2.2 Dishwasher
Comments: 
(1) The dishwasher drain line in 29 Baytree did not have a high loop.  This helps prevent waste
water backing up into the dishwater and contamination of the water supply.  Recommend this be
corrected.

--- page 61 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
2.3 Item 3(Picture) 
•
2.4 Built-In Microwave
•
2.5 Refrigerator
•
2.6 Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) & Lights
Comments: 
There were one or more receptacle outlets in the kitchen for 22 De Sabla that were not GFCI 
protected.  Current building standards require kitchen receptacle outlets that serve countertop 
surfaces to be GFCI protected.  This could be a shock hazard.  Recommend replacing all 
unprotected outlets with GFCI outlets. 
2.6 Item 1(Picture) 
2.6 Item 2(Picture) 
2.6 Item 3(Picture) 
•
2.7 Ceiling, Walls, & Flooring
•
2.8 Clothes Washer & Dryer (ex: water & waste connections, fuel or power supply, dryer
venting, etc.)
Dryer Power Source: Electric
Clothes Washer Drain Pan: No
Comments: 
The dryer vent for 29 Baytree was not properly terminated and/or protected on the exterior of the 
building.  This condition could make the building more susceptible to water infiltration and/or pest 
infestation.  Recommend having a dryer wall cap installed and/or properly sealing around the 
penetration.  
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 11 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way 
(2) The fan in the kitchen of 29 Baytree did not turn on. Recommend this be repaired.

--- page 62 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
2.8 Item 1(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The kitchen was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, some areas can 
go unnoticed. The inspection did not involve moving furniture, appliances, personal items and inspecting behind furniture, under rugs or areas obstructed 
from view. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be considered before 
purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in this inspection 
report. 
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 12 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 63 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
3. Bathrooms
The evaluation of bathrooms conforms to CREIA standards of practice.  The inspector tests plumbing fixtures for functional flow in accordance with 
generally accepted practices. The inspection includes testing a representative number of windows and doors, light switches and receptacles. The inspector 
does not evaluate window treatments, move furniture, lift carpets or rugs, empty closets or cabinets. The evaluation of specialty systems such as floor 
heating systems, steam showers, saunas, jetted tubs, etc are excluded from the scope of work of this inspection. 
It is beyond the scope of a general property inspection to flood/leak-test shower pans. This area is the specific responsibility of the WDO inspector. Be 
advised, many WDO inspectors will not flood test shower pans installed over finished areas. This is because the tests are inconclusive and due to the 
possibility of water damage. Please refer to the WDO report for specific information on this issue. No opinions are offered as to the conditions within 
concealed or inaccessible areas.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
3.0 Counters & Cabinets
•
3.1 Plumbing Fixtures
Comments: 
The sink for the downstairs bathroom in 22 De Sabla was leaking at the faucets. Recommend this 
be repaired. 
3.1 Item 1(Picture) 
•
3.2 Sink Drains
Leakage Under Sink: No
Sink Defect: None Found
•
3.3 Toilets and Angle Stop Valves
Loose Toilet: No
Comments: 
The water for the downstairs toilet was turned off. As a result the toilet was unable to be tested. If 
this is a concern, recommend the water for the toilet be turned on and the toilet tested before the 
close of escrow. 
3.3 Item 1(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 13 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 64 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
3.4 Showers and Tubs
Tub/Shower Defects: Sealant/Grout Deteriorated
Comments: 
(1) The grout and/or sealant around the hallway bathroom shower or tub for 22 De Sabla and 29
Baytree has begun to deteriorate and/or is missing.  Recommend this be repaired to prevent
water damage.
3.4 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) The shower door for the bathroom in 22 De Sabla did not close properly. Recommend this be 
repaired.
3.4 Item 3(Picture) 
(3) The bathroom shower for 22 De Sabla leaked from the faucet.  Recommend the fixture be
properly adjusted.
3.4 Item 4(Picture) 
(4) There was a crack in one or more of the shower tiles in the bathroom for 29 Baytree. This may
leave the sub floor susceptible to water intrusion. Recommend this be repaired.
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 14 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 65 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
3.4 Item 5(Picture) 
•
3.5 Ceiling, Walls, & Flooring
Comments: 
One or more cracked floor tiles were noted in the bathroom for 22 De Sabla. This may lead to 
water intrusion into the subflooring. Recommend replacing or sealing the cracked tiles. 
3.5 Item 1(Picture) 
•
3.6 Lights, Exhaust Fans, and Windows
Comments: 
One or more lights in the downstairs bathroom did not turn ON. 
3.6 Item 1(Picture) 
•
3.7 Ground-Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI)
Comments: 
One or more receptacle outlets in the bathroom for 22 De Sabla are not Ground-Fault Circuit 
(GFCI) protected or are not marked as being protected.  Current building standards require 
bathroom receptacle outlets to be GFCI protected.  This could be a shock hazard.  Recommend 
replacing all unprotected outlets with GFCI outlets. 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 15 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 66 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
3.7 Item 1(Picture) 
3.7 Item 2(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The evaluation of bathrooms conforms to CREIA standards of practice.  The inspector tests plumbing fixtures for functional flow in accordance with 
generally accepted practices. The inspection includes testing a representative number of windows and doors, light switches and receptacles. The inspector 
does not evaluate window treatments, move furniture, lift carpets or rugs, empty closets or cabinets. The evaluation of specialty systems such as floor 
heating systems, steam showers, saunas, etc are excluded from the scope of work of this inspection. 
It is beyond the scope of a general property inspection to flood/leak-test shower pans. This area is the specific responsibility of the WDO inspector. Be 
advised, many WDO inspectors will not flood test shower pans installed over finished areas. This is because the tests are inconclusive and due to the 
possibility of water damage. Please refer to the WDO report for specific information on this issue. No opinions are offered as to the conditions within 
concealed or inaccessible areas.
The bathroom(s) were inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, some 
areas can go unnoticed. The inspection did not involve moving furniture, appliances, personal items, and inspecting behind furniture, under bath mats or 
areas obstructed from view. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be 
considered before purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in 
this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 16 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 67 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
4. Interior
In accordance with CREIA standards of practice, the inspection of living rooms, family rooms, dinning rooms, hallways, stairways, and other common areas 
includes the visually accessible areas of walls, floors, cabinets and closets, and includes the testing of a representative number of windows and doors, 
switches and receptacles. The inspector evaluates windows for basic operation and attempt to confirm that at least one widow, exterior door, etc are 
capable of facilitating an emergency exit or egress.  The inspector does not evaluate window treatments, move furniture, lift carpets or rugs, empty closets 
or cabinets.  The inspector may not comment on issues that appear cosmetic in nature.  The inspector may not comment on the cracks that appear around 
windows and doors, or which follow the lines of framing members and the seams of drywall and plasterboard. These cracks are generally a consequence of 
movement, such as wood shrinkage, settling and or seismic activity. Such cracks will often reappear over time, particularly if they are not properly repaired.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
4.0 Smoke Alarms & Carbon Monoxide Detectors Present
Smoke Alarm: Yes
Comments: 
One or more of the smoke alarms in 29 Baytree were a yellowish color.  This can be an indication 
that the smoke alarm(s) are at the end of its expected life span of approximately 10 years.  
Recommend having these smoke alarm replaced.  
4.0 Item 1(Picture) 
•
4.1 Ceiling, Walls, & Flooring
Wall and Ceiling Stains Observed: No
Comments: 
(1) There was deflection noted in the wood flooring at the back door of 29 Baytree. If this is a
concern, recommend the floor be further evaluated by a qualified contractor.
4.1 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) One or more rooms and/or closets contained personal items (ex: furniture, pictures, clothing,
boxes, etc.) which blocked the view of this inspection.  If this is a concern, recommend having the
items moved and have the space re-inspected before the close of escrow.
•
4.2 Doors & Windows (Representative Number)
Comments: 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 17 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 68 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
(1) One or more of the window latches throughout the property were missing and/or damaged.
Recommend this be repaired.
4.2 Item 1(Picture) 
4.2 Item 2(Picture) 
(2) The dead bolt to the front door of 29 Baytree did not properly latch when closed.  Recommend
this door be properly adjusted.
4.2 Item 3(Picture) 
(3) One or more windows throughout the property were stuck shut. Recommend the window(s) be
properly adjusted.
4.2 Item 4(Picture) 
(4) There were several window cranks missing throughout the property. This may be due to child
safety. If this is a concern recommend contacting the current owner for further information.
4.2 Item 5(Picture) 
4.2 Item 6(Picture) 
4.2 Item 7(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 18 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 69 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
4.2 Item 8(Picture) 
4.2 Item 9(Picture) 
•
4.3 Outlets, Switches, Fixtures, & Lights
Adequate Number of Receptacle Outlets: Yes
Non-Grounded 3-Prong Receptacle Outlet: Yes
Comments: 
(1) This building appears to been constructed prior to the requirement that electrical circuits
include a ground connection. There were a number of receptacles installed that had modern three
plug receptacle outlets that did not have a ground wire. This can falsely imply that the appliance
and electrical systems are grounded.  Recommend either 1.) labeling the outlets as not being
ground protected; 2.) switch to two prong receptacle outlets 3.) install Ground Fault Circuit
Interrupter (GFCI) receptacle outlets; or 4.) update the wiring system to current standards.  It is
always encouraged to upgrade the electrical installation to meet current standards and have a
qualified electrical contractor evaluate the system and make appropriate recommendations.
4.3 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) There are one or more cover plates missing on light switches, receptacle outlets, and/or
junction boxes in the bedroom of 29 Baytree.  This a safety hazard.  Recommend this be
corrected.
4.3 Item 2(Picture) 
(3) The electrical receptacle outlet in the dining room of 29 Baytree was loose.  Recommend the
receptacle outlet be properly tightened or replaced.
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 19 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way 
(5) One or more window throughout the property were cracked.  Recommend this be repaired.

--- page 70 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
4.3 Item 3(Picture) 
(4) The dimmer switch for the dining room lights in 22 De Sabla did not work. Recommend this be
repaired.
4.3 Item 4(Picture) 
4.3 Item 5(Picture) 
•
4.4 Steps, Stairs, Interior Balconies, and Railings
Comments: 
The handrail for the stairs in 22 De Sabla was loose. This is a safety hazard. Recommend the 
handrail be properly tightened. 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The interior of the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, 
some areas can go unnoticed. The inspection did not involve moving furniture and inspecting behind furniture, area rugs or areas obstructed from view. 
Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be considered before purchase. It is 
recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 20 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 71 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
5. Electrical System
The evaluation of the electrical system was performed in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. These standards include identifying the type and 
capacity of the service, evaluating panels, overcurrent protection, wiring, electrical grounding, and testing a representative number of light switches and 
receptacles. The evaluation of low-voltage systems, such as telephone, cable, computer network, security, etc. are excluded from the scope of this 
inspection. Older systems will generally not conform to current standards or provide the same degree of service and safety. The inspector is a generalist 
and not specialist.  The inspector does not perform load-calculations to determine if the supply meets the demand of the dwelling. The covers on 
receptacles or junction boxes were not removed as part of this inspection. It is important that any service recommendations and/or recommended upgrades 
be further evaluated by qualified specialists before the removal of transaction inspection contingencies. Further evaluation by a qualified specialist will 
provide information, price quotes and may well identify additional defects and/or recommend further upgrades, the scope and price of which, could effect 
your evaluation of the property.
Sub-Panel
Main Service Panel
Main Service Panel
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
5.0 Electrical Service Entrance, Service Drop, & Service Conductors
Electric Turned ON: Yes
•
5.1 Main Service Panel, Subpanels, & Other Disconnects
Main Disconnect Location: Outside, Next to Meter
Electric Panel Manufacturer: CUTLER HAMMER
Sub-Panel Location: Garage
Panel Labeling: Yes
•
5.2 Over Current Protection Devices (ex: circuit breakers & fuses)
Over Current Protection Type: Fuses
Over Current Proection Defect(s): None Observed
Comments: 
The main and sub panels had fuses as overcurrent protection devices rather than the more 
modern circuit breakers.  The panel and installed fuses are in serviceable condition.  If a fuse 
detects current above the label amps, the fuse should blow and will need to be replaced.  Please 
note this panel design is associated with having fewer receptacle outlets than current standards 
and does not have modern safety features, such as ground-fault circuit interrupters (GFCIs) or 
arc-fault circuit interrupters (AFCIs).  It is recommended to modernize these types of panels and 
associated electrical wires as upgrades and renovations are undertaken. 
•
5.3 Service Grounding System
Grounding Electrodes: No Grounding Equipement Found
Comments: 
No grounding equipment (ex: grounding electrodes conductors or grounding electrodes) were 
found or confirmed during the inspection.  Current standards require at least two grounding 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 21 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 72 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
electrodes. Recommend the service grounding system be further evaluated and updated to 
current standards by an qualified licensed electrician.  
•
5.4 Circuit Wiring
Wiring Methods: Active Knob and Tube
Comments: 
Please note that cloth covered knob and tube wiring was found in the attic of the building and 
registered electricity.  This system is old and does not have the safety protections that newly 
installed electrical systems have.  In addition, this type of wiring may make it more difficult and/or 
more expensive to get home owners insurance policy from some carriers. Recommend consulting 
with an insurance professional about coverage options and considering rewiring the building as 
renovations and improvements are made to the building.  
5.4 Item 1(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The electrical system of the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of 
concern, some areas can go unnoticed. Outlets were not removed and the inspection was only visual. Any outlet not accessible (behind the refrigerator for 
example) was not inspected. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be 
considered before purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in 
this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 22 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 73 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
6. Plumbing System
The plumbing and fuel gas systems were evaluated in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. The plumbing system includes fixtures, potable water 
supply pipes, and drain, waste and vent pipes. Fuel gas piping distribution systems are addressed here as well. Testing ancillary equipment such as water 
filtration, softener, or fire sprinkler systems are excluded from this inspection. 
The condition of the drain pipes is generally related to their age. As part of the inspection, the functional flow of fixtures and drains is observed. Most of the 
drain pipes are concealed, so the pipes condition can only be inferred by observing the draw at the fixtures. Blockages will occur at some point in nearly all 
systems. It is recommended that the main sewer line be video scanned to verify the condition of the pipes and to confirm that the dwelling is properly 
connected to the sewer system.
Much of the drain and water supply pipes are mostly concealed in the walls. In the case of slab foundations, portions are routed under the slab. It is 
possible that issues with the pipes may exist and go undetected for some time because they do not visually manifest themselves. This is a limited visual 
inspection and is not technically exhaustive.  It requires a specialist and sophisticated equipment to test the hidden portions of these systems. Fixture shut-
off valves, pressure regulators, pressure relief valves, etc. were not tested or operated. Water pressure and quality were not tested.  Inspection of lawn 
sprinkler system is beyond the scope of this inspection and excluded from this report. 
It is recommended that the historical water usage records for the property be obtained. Water consumption will obviously vary with the occupants’ usage 
patterns and types of fixtures or systems installed, but the records may give clues to issues that might otherwise go undetected.
Gas Meters
Gas Shut-Off Valve
Gas Shut-Off Valve
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
6.0 Water Supply Pipes, Connections, & Valves
Water Service ON: Yes
Water Shutoff Valve Location: Not Located
Pressure Regulator Present: None Found
Plumbing Water Distribution (inside building): Copper (where visible)
Leakage from Water Supply Pipes: None Observed
Corrosion of Water Pipes: None Observed
Comments: 
(1) One or more of the shut off valves for the sinks in the bathroom were stuck. This may affect
the ability to shut off the water to the sinks. Recommend the valves be properly adjusted.
6.0 Item 1(Picture) 
6.0 Item 2(Picture) 
(2) The water shutoff valve was not located.  It is important to locate this in the event of an
emergency.  Recommend asking the current owner for the location before the close of escrow.
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 23 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 74 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
(3) The wall and/or ceiling in the downstairs bathroom of 29 baytree had possible moisture stain
(s).  It is not possible to determine the exact cause of the stain(s) without further testing.
Recommend asking the current owner about this condition and/or have the stains further
investigated by a qualified professional.
6.0 Item 3(Picture) 
•
6.1 Drain, Waste, and Vent Piping
Plumbing Waste & Venting (inside building): Cast iron
•
6.2 Fuel Gas Supply Piping
Gas Turned ON: Yes
Fuel Pipe Properly Braced: Yes
Corrugated Stainless Steel Tubing (CSST): Yes
Comments: 
Please note yellow corrugated stainless steel tubing (CSST) was noted in the crawl space of 29 
Baytree.  Manufacturers of yellow CSST believe that yellow CSST is safer if properly bonded and 
grounded as required by manufacturer's installation instructions.  Proper bonding and grounding 
of this product can only be determined by a licensed electrical contractor.  Recommend the 
bonding of the CSST be further evaluated by a licensed electrical contractor. 
6.2 Item 1(Picture) 
6.2 Item 2(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The plumbing in the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, 
some areas can go unnoticed. Washing machine drain line for example cannot be checked for leaks or the ability to handle the volume during drain cycle. 
Older buildings with galvanized supply lines or cast iron drain lines can be partially obstructed and working during an inspection but then fails under heavy 
use. If the water is turned off or not used for periods of time (like a vacant building waiting for closing) rust or deposits within the pipes can further clog the 
piping system. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be considered before 
purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in this inspection 
report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 24 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 75 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
7. Heating and Cooling Systems
The evaluation of the heating systems was performed in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. This includes identifying the type, fuel source, and 
examining the system and associated components. There are a wide variety of heating systems, which range from older floor, wall, and gravity furnaces to 
newer forced-air furnaces. Older systems are generally the least energy-efficient. Upgrading older systems is recommended for energy conservation 
reasons and due to the lower cost of use. Parts for older systems may no longer be available. The systems are tested using normal user controls. The 
evaluation of the concealed portions of components, such as the heat exchanger, electronic air-cleaners, humidifiers, in-line duct motors or dampers, etc is 
excluded. The uniformity of air flow or heating was not verified. The efficiency of the system will be reduced by a lack of maintenance, such as dirty air 
filters, etc. Verifying that components or systems are installed in conformance with the manufacturers installation requirements is outside the scope of this 
inspection. 
The sellers or occupants are often the best judges of how well a system works. It would be prudent to ask them about the maintenance history and if they 
have been satisfied with the performance of the system. You may also wish to have a more comprehensive evaluation by a specialist. Most heating 
systems have a design life of 20 years. If the system is more than 10 years old, or if lack of maintenance is suspected, it would be prudent to schedule a 
comprehensive service that includes cleaning motors, fans, and ducts. The air filter should be changed every 2 to 3 months and the unit should have 
biannual maintenance/service.
It is important that any recommendation that the inspector may make for service or a second opinion be scheduled well before the removal of transaction 
inspection contingencies. Those qualified specialists may reveal additional issues or recommend further upgrades that could impact your evaluation of the 
property. This inspection reflects the conditions observed at the time of inspection and does not include any form of warranty or guarantee as to future 
functionality.
Low Efficiency Furnace 
22 De Sabla
Low Efficiency Furnace 
29 Baytree
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
7.0 Heating Equipment
Heater Location: Crawl Space, Garage
Thermostat Location: Hallway
Heating System Operated: Yes
Heat Type: Low Efficiency Furnace, Gravity Furnace
Heater Energy Source: Gas
•
7.1 Distribution & Return System (Ductwork)
Ductwork: Insulated, Possible asbestos sleeving
Comments: 
The furnace duct work appeared to be insulated with possible asbestos material.  This is common 
among older heating systems and typically not a health hazard unless the material is disturbed.  If 
this is a concern, recommend the material be tested and have a qualified hazardous material 
contractor remove the material.  
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 25 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 76 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
7.1 Item 1(Picture) 
7.1 Item 2(Picture) 
•
7.2 Adequate Combustion Air Supply
•
7.3 Vent & Flue System
•
7.4 Cooling & Air Handler Equipment
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The heating and cooling system of this building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all 
areas of concern, some areas can go unnoticed. The inspection is not meant to be technically exhaustive. The inspection does not involve removal and 
inspection behind service door or dismantling that would otherwise reveal something only a licensed heat contractor would discover. Please be aware that 
the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be considered before purchase. It is recommended that 
qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 26 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 77 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
8. Water Heater
Water Heater De Sabla
Water Heater 29 Baytree
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
8.0 Water Heater Condition
Water Heater Location: Garage, Crawl Space
Water Heater Capacity: 30 Gallons
Water Heater Estimated Age: 5 to 7 years, 12+ years
Drain Pan: No
Comments: 
The water heater was functioning but appeared to be close to the end of its expected lifespan. 
The average water heaters' life expectancy is 8 to 12 years. Recommend monitoring and 
establish plans for replacing the appliance if it begins to show signs of deterioration or leaks.   
•
8.1 Temperature Pressure Relief (TPR) Valve
•
8.2 Earthquake Strapping
Earthquake Strap Bracing: Yes
•
8.3 Water Connections
Bonding at Water Heater: No
Water Pipes Insulated: No
Comments: 
There is no copper bonding jumper/ground wire connecting the water lines for 22 De Sabla.  
Current standards require all metal piping systems to be electrically bonded.  This wire should be 
no smaller than a 6 AWG copper wire or equivalent.  Recommend a qualified licensed electrician 
or plumber verifies the metal piping systems are bonded properly. 
•
8.4 Water Heater Energy Supply
Water Heater Power Source: Gas
•
8.5 Adequate Combustion Air Supply
•
8.6 Vent & Flue System
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 27 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 78 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
9. Garage
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
9.0 Garage Ceiling, Walls, Floor & Personnel Door
Garage Drywall: Yes
Self Closing Personnel Door to Interior: No
Comments: 
Safety Recommendation:  The personnel door from the garage into the living space did not have 
a self-close mechanism. Hazardous chemicals are oftentimes stored in garages and/or gases like 
carbon monoxide from car fumes and appliances are produced and can be hazardous to 
occupants.  For optimal safety, we recommend the installation of a self-closing mechanism (ex: 
spring hinge or hydraulic door closer) and weather-stripping on all personnel doors from the 
garage into the living space.
9.0 Item 1(Picture) 
9.0 Item 2(Picture) 
•
9.1 Garage Door, Operation and Safety Systems
Garage Door Type: One automatic
Dedicated Receptacle Outlet for Garage Door: Yes
Comments: 
The garage door for 22 De Sabla was not installed at the time of the inspection. The owner stated 
that the garage door would be fully installed within the next week. If this is a concern, recommend 
contacting the current owner for further information. 
•
9.2 Lights, Outlets, Switches
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 28 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 79 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
10. Foundation, Crawl Space, Basement and Under-Floor Areas
Structures are not uniform, and need only meet the standards of the year in which they were built or renovated. The inspector describes and identifies the 
various foundation types, and the floor, wall, ceiling, and roof structures in accordance with CREIA standards of practice. If the foundation is a slab type, the 
inspector examines the visible portions on the interior surfaces and the exposed portions between grade and the exterior cladding. If it is a raised 
foundation, the inspector will either enter the crawl space to inspect its components, or indicate in what manner it was evaluated. Similarly, the inspector 
identifies the type of wall and roof framing. Per California law, only a registered design professional is considered qualified to comment on the structural 
adequacy or significance of a system.  The inspector is a generalist and is not a qualified specialist. In the absence of any visible areas of concern, the 
inspector may not recommend that you consult with a registered design professional. This should not deter an interested party from seeking the opinion of 
a qualified expert.
The review of the foundation, basement, and/or crawl space includes: Structural components including foundations, floors, walls, columns or piers, ceilings 
and roof.  The inspector shall: Probe structural components where deterioration is suspected; Enter under floor crawl spaces and basements except when 
access is obstructed, when entry could damage the property, or when dangerous or adverse situations are suspected; Report the methods used to observe 
under floor crawl spaces; and report signs of abnormal or harmful water penetration into the building or signs of abnormal or harmful condensation on 
building components. The inspector is not required to: Enter any area or perform any procedure that may damage the property or its components or be 
dangerous to or adversely affect the health of the inspector or other persons.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
10.0 Structural Foundation
Foundation Type: Raised Concrete Perimeter Foundation
Foundation Conditions: Good Condition
Efflorescence Evident: Yes
Comments: 
There were one or more cracks noted in the foundation.  No indications of movement or plain 
differential were noted in the foundation.  No cracks were noted within the interior of the 
structure.  Recommend monitoring this crack(s) for changes over time and/or have the crack(s) 
repaired by a qualified foundation contractor.  
10.0 Item 1(Picture) 
10.0 Item 2(Picture) 
•
10.1 Crawl Space, Subarea, and Basement
Sump Pump Present: None Found
Comments: 
There was dry rot noted at the sub sheathing in one or more areas of the crawl space. This 
condition may worsen over time if not properly addressed. Recommend this be repaired. 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 29 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way 
10.1 Item 1(Picture)

--- page 80 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
10.2 Foundation Anchoring & Cripple Wall Bracing
Sill Plate Anchor to Foundation: Yes
•
10.3 Columns, Piers, and Floor Joists
•
10.4 Ventilation of Foundation Area (Crawl Space or Basement)
Crawl Space/Subarea Ventilation: Yes
Comments: 
One or more of the screens for the crawl space vents for 29 Baytree were damaged. This may 
lead to unwanted pest infestation. Recommend the screens be repaired or replaced. 
10.4 Item 1(Picture) 
•
10.5 Insulation Under Floor System & Vapor Retarders
Under Floor Insulation: NONE
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The structure of the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, 
some areas can go unnoticed. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report should be 
considered before purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the comments in 
this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 30 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 81 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
11. Roofing & Attic
The evaluation of the roof is a visual inspection. The examination of the roof, flashings, related components and drainage systems is conducted in 
accordance with CREIA standards of practice. The inspector attempts to access the roof in order to examine it or indicate the inability to do so. There are 
many different roof types, and every roof will wear differently relative to its age, the number of its layers, the quality of its material, the method of its 
application, its exposure to direct sunlight or to other prevalent weather conditions, and its maintenance. Regardless of the roof's design-life, a roof is only 
as good as the waterproof membrane beneath it. This membrane is not visible and was not evaluated. It is recommended that copies of the installation 
documentation and permit be obtained as they will indicate the actual age of the roof, any applicable guarantee or warranty that may be transferable. 
The general condition and installation is evaluated. It is generally not possible to detect leakage except when it is actually occurring or by using specific 
water tests.  A water test is beyond the scope of this service.  Water stains on ceilings, or on the framing in the attic do not necessarily confirm an active 
leak. Only a roofing contractor can credibly guarantee a roof against leakage.  The inspector cannot, and does not give any guarantees against the future 
performance of the roof or against leakage. This report is not intended to be conclusive regarding the life span of the roofing system or how long it will 
remain watertight in the future.  The inspector examines the accessible/visible portions of the roof. The sellers and or occupants will generally have the 
most intimate knowledge of the roof and of its history. No matter what the condition, the inspector recommends that inquiring of the property owner about 
history of the roof and presence of any roof leaks.
The inspector will not attempt to enter an attic that has inadequate access, is restricted by ducts, in which the insulation obscures the joists, or other 
conditions that may make the area unsafe to access.  The inspector will inspect the attic as best possible from the access point.  When evaluating the 
insulation and ventilation the inspector my use generic terms and approximate measurements.  It is beyond the scope of this inspection to perform R-value 
calculations, energy efficiency calculation of the insulation, and/or attic ventilation calculations.  Insulation may obscure water pipes, electrical conditions, 
junction boxes, exhaust fans, and other components.  No opinions are offered as to the conditions within concealed or inaccessible areas. 
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
11.0 Surface Covering
Roof Covering: Architectural Singles, Modified Bitumen
Viewed Roof Covering from: Walked Roof
Comments: 
The roof surface is beginning to show signs of aging.  Some granule loss was noted and 
fiberglass mesh could be seen along the edges of the shingles.  No leaks were noted at the time 
of the inspection.  It is not possible to determine the remaining life span of a roof. 
11.0 Item 1(Picture) 
•
11.1 Roof Flashing (ex: Drip Edge, Valley Flashing, Headwall Flashing, Kickout Flashing)
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 31 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 82 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
11.2 Skylight, Plumbing Vents, Appliance Vent Flashing, & Other Roof Penetrations
•
11.3 Gutter & Drainage
Comments: 
There is debris in the gutters.  Recommend cleaning the gutters to ensure proper drainage and 
include this as part of routine maintenance.  It may be possible to install gutter guards to protect 
the gutters from debris. 
11.3 Item 1(Picture) 
•
11.4 Roof Framing & Attic Space
Method Used to Observe Attic: From Attic Hatch
Attic Access: Bedroom, Closet
Comments: 
(1) The wall and/or ceiling in the attic had possible moisture stain(s).  It is not possible to
determine the exact cause of the stain(s) without further testing.  Recommend asking the current
owner about this condition and/or have the stains further investigated by a qualified professional.
11.4 Item 1(Picture) 
(2) There was missing sub sheathing in the attic of 29 Baytree. This may leave the building
susceptible to water intrusion. Recommend the attic be monitored for potential leaks in the future.
11.4 Item 2(Picture) 
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 32 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 83 ---
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
11.5 Attic Insulation & Ventilation
Attic Insulation: Blown, Cellulose
Attic Ventilation: Gable vents, Ridge vents
Attic Vents Damaged: No
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
The roof of the building was inspected and reported on with the above information. The evaluation of roof mounted equipment such as TV antennas, 
satellite dishes, etc. is beyond scope of this inspection and specifically excluded. While the inspector makes every effort to find all areas of concern, some 
areas can go unnoticed. Roof coverings and skylights can appear to be leak proof during inspection and weather conditions. Our inspection makes an 
attempt to find a leak but sometimes cannot. Please be aware that the inspector has your best interest in mind. Any repair items mentioned in this report 
should be considered before purchase. It is recommended that qualified contractors be used in your further inspection or repair issues as it relates to the 
comments in this inspection report.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 33 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 84 ---
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
12. Fireplace and Chimney
This evaluation of the fireplaces, chimneys, etc are performed in accordance with CREIA Standards of Practice. The inspection is that of a generalist and is 
not a substitute for a qualified specialists inspection.  This inspection of fireplaces is limited to the areas that can be viewed without dismantling any of 
system and does not include the use of specialized equipment. In keeping with CREIA standards, the inspector does not stress test/"push" masonry 
chimney systems - those tests are of limited value and are not conclusive. The inspector does not guarantee the structural integrity or operational safety of 
a system. No opinions are offered as to the conditions within concealed or inaccessible areas. All flue systems should be video-scanned as part of an 
NFPA Level ll inspection as that is the most reliable method of inspection. Any further evaluation of the system should be scheduled prior to the removal of 
transaction inspection contingencies. The manufacturers installation instructions for any pre-fabricated systems were not reviewed as part of this 
inspection.
IN
NI NP RR Items
•
12.0 Fireplaces (firebox, damper, hearth extension)
Fireplace Type: Masonry
•
12.1 Chimney Exterior, Chimney Flashing, and Spark Arrestor
IN
NI NP RR Items
IN= Inspected, NI= Not Inspected, NP= Not Present, RR= Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 34 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 85 ---
General Summary
PCA Inspections
1738 Union Street, Suite 201
San Francisco, CA 94123-4425
Customer
Adrian Russell
Address
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way
San Mateo CA 94402
The following items or discoveries indicate that these systems or components do not function as intended or adversely 
affects the habitability of the dwelling; or warrants further investigation by a specialist, or requires subsequent 
observation. This summary shall not contain recommendations for routine upkeep of a system or component to keep it in 
proper functioning condition or recommendations to upgrade or enhance the function or efficiency of the home. This 
Summary is not the entire report. The complete report may include additional information of concern to the customer. It is 
recommended that the customer read the complete report.
1. Site Condition and Exterior Components
1.2 
Stoops and Porches
Repair or Replace
There was dry rot noted at the subfloor underneath the back porch of 22 De Sabla. This condition may worsen over 
time if not properly addressed. Recommend the dry rot be repaired.
1.5 
Fences and Gates
Repair or Replace
The fence at the back and front of the property has dry rot.  Recommend it be repaired or replaced.
1.6 
Wall Cladding/Siding & Trim
Repair or Replace
(1) The exterior wood trim had minor dry rot and/or was damaged at the garage.  This condition can cause further
deterioration of the trim, siding and framing if not properly repaired and sealed.  Recommend this be further
evaluated by a qualified licensed contractor.
(2) All exterior penetrations and holes should be properly sealed to prevent water infiltration and infestation by
animals and pests.
1.8 
Downspouts
Repair or Replace
The downspout located at the back of the building is bent and less than half the original diameter. This can cause 
the downspout to get blocked by debris.  Recommend this be repaired. 
1.9 
Doors and Windows (exterior)
Repair or Replace
(1) The door at the back of the property was missing. This may lead to unwanted pest infestation. Recommend the
door be replaced.
(2) The back screen door for 29 Baytree was damaged.  Recommend this be repaired or replaced.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 35 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 86 ---
2. Kitchen Components and Appliances
2.0 
Counters and a Representative number of Cabinets
Repair or Replace
(1) One of the kitchen cabinets for 22 De Sabla were loose. Recommend this be repaired.
(2) The grout and/or sealant around the kitchen sink for 29 baytree bathroom shower or tub has begun to
deteriorate and/or is missing.  Recommend this be repaired to prevent water damage.
2.1 
Sink & Garbage Disposal
Repair or Replace
There were not immediate shut off valves for the kitchen sink in 22 De Sabla. This may make it difficult to shut off 
the water to the sink for future repairs. Recommend this be corrected. 
2.2 
Dishwasher
Repair or Replace
(1) The dishwasher drain line in 29 Baytree did not have a high loop.  This helps prevent waste water backing up
into the dishwater and contamination of the water supply.  Recommend this be corrected.
(2) The shut off valve for the dishwasher in 29 baytree was stuck. This may affect the ability to shut off the water to
the dishwasher. Recommend the valve be properly adjusted.
2.3 
Oven Range, Cooktop & Hood
Repair or Replace
(1) There was no anti tip device installed behind the oven/range.  This device prevents the oven appliance from
tipping over if excess force or weight is applied to the open oven door and could be a safety hazard.  Recommend
installing an anti tip at the back of the oven.
(2) The fan in the kitchen of 29 Baytree did not turn on. Recommend this be repaired.
2.6 
Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) & Lights
Repair or Replace
There were one or more receptacle outlets in the kitchen for 22 De Sabla that were not GFCI protected.  Current 
building standards require kitchen receptacle outlets that serve countertop surfaces to be GFCI protected.  This 
could be a shock hazard.  Recommend replacing all unprotected outlets with GFCI outlets.
2.8 
Clothes Washer & Dryer (ex: water & waste connections, fuel or power supply, dryer venting, etc.)
Repair or Replace
The dryer vent for 29 Baytree was not properly terminated and/or protected on the exterior of the building.  This 
condition could make the building more susceptible to water infiltration and/or pest infestation.  Recommend having 
a dryer wall cap installed and/or properly sealing around the penetration. 
3. Bathrooms
3.1 
Plumbing Fixtures
Repair or Replace
The sink for the downstairs bathroom in 22 De Sabla was leaking at the faucets. Recommend this be repaired. 
3.3 
Toilets and Angle Stop Valves
Repair or Replace
The water for the downstairs toilet was turned off. As a result the toilet was unable to be tested. If this is a concern, 
recommend the water for the toilet be turned on and the toilet tested before the close of escrow. 
3.4 
Showers and Tubs
Repair or Replace
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 36 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 87 ---
(1) The grout and/or sealant around the hallway bathroom shower or tub for 22 De Sabla and 29 Baytree has begun 
to deteriorate and/or is missing.  Recommend this be repaired to prevent water damage.
(2) The shower door for the bathroom in 22 De Sabla did not close properly. Recommend this be repaired. 
(3) The bathroom shower for 22 De Sabla leaked from the faucet.  Recommend the fixture be properly adjusted. 
(4) There was a crack in one or more of the shower tiles in the bathroom for 29 Baytree. This may leave the sub 
floor susceptible to water intrusion. Recommend this be repaired. 
3.5 
Ceiling, Walls, & Flooring
Repair or Replace
One or more cracked floor tiles were noted in the bathroom for 22 De Sabla. This may lead to water intrusion into 
the subflooring. Recommend replacing or sealing the cracked tiles.
3.6 
Lights, Exhaust Fans, and Windows
Repair or Replace
One or more lights in the downstairs bathroom did not turn ON.
3.7 
Ground-Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI)
Repair or Replace
One or more receptacle outlets in the bathroom for 22 De Sabla are not Ground-Fault Circuit (GFCI) protected or 
are not marked as being protected.  Current building standards require bathroom receptacle outlets to be GFCI 
protected.  This could be a shock hazard.  Recommend replacing all unprotected outlets with GFCI outlets.
4.  Interior
4.0 
Smoke Alarms & Carbon Monoxide Detectors Present
Repair or Replace
One or more of the smoke alarms in 29 Baytree were a yellowish color.  This can be an indication that the smoke 
alarm(s) are at the end of its expected life span of approximately 10 years.  Recommend having these smoke alarm 
replaced. 
4.2 
Doors & Windows (Representative Number)
Repair or Replace
(1) One or more of the window latches throughout the property were missing and/or damaged. Recommend this be 
repaired.
(2) The dead bolt to the front door of 29 Baytree did not properly latch when closed.  Recommend this door be 
properly adjusted. 
(3) One or more windows throughout the property were stuck shut. Recommend the window(s) be properly 
adjusted.
(4) There were several window cranks missing throughout the property. This may be due to child safety. If this is a 
concern recommend contacting the current owner for further information. 
(5) One or more window throughout the property were cracked.  Recommend this be repaired.
4.3 
Outlets, Switches, Fixtures, & Lights
Repair or Replace
(1) This building appears to been constructed prior to the requirement that electrical circuits include a ground 
connection. There were a number of receptacles installed that had modern three plug receptacle outlets that did not 
have a ground wire. This can falsely imply that the appliance and electrical systems are grounded.  Recommend 
either 1.) labeling the outlets as not being ground protected; 2.) switch to two prong receptacle outlets 3.) install 
Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) receptacle outlets; or 4.) update the wiring system to current standards.  It is 
always encouraged to upgrade the electrical installation to meet current standards and have a qualified electrical 
contractor evaluate the system and make appropriate recommendations. 
(2) There are one or more cover plates missing on light switches, receptacle outlets, and/or junction boxes in the 
bedroom of 29 Baytree.  This a safety hazard.  Recommend this be corrected. 
(3) The electrical receptacle outlet in the dining room of 29 Baytree was loose.  Recommend the receptacle outlet 
be properly tightened or replaced. 
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 37 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 88 ---
(4) The dimmer switch for the dining room lights in 22 De Sabla did not work. Recommend this be repaired. 
4.4 
Steps, Stairs, Interior Balconies, and Railings
Repair or Replace
The handrail for the stairs in 22 De Sabla was loose. This is a safety hazard. Recommend the handrail be properly 
tightened.
5.  Electrical System
5.3 
Service Grounding System
Repair or Replace
No grounding equipment (ex: grounding electrodes conductors or grounding electrodes) were found or confirmed 
during the inspection.  Current standards require at least two grounding electrodes. Recommend the service 
grounding system be further evaluated and updated to current standards by an qualified licensed electrician. 
6.  Plumbing System
6.0 
Water Supply Pipes, Connections, & Valves
Repair or Replace
(1) One or more of the shut off valves for the sinks in the bathroom were stuck. This may affect the ability to shut off 
the water to the sinks. Recommend the valves be properly adjusted.
(2) The water shutoff valve was not located.  It is important to locate this in the event of an emergency.  
Recommend asking the current owner for the location before the close of escrow.
(3) The wall and/or ceiling in the downstairs bathroom of 29 baytree had possible moisture stain(s).  It is not 
possible to determine the exact cause of the stain(s) without further testing.  Recommend asking the current owner 
about this condition and/or have the stains further investigated by a qualified professional.
8.  Water Heater
8.3 
Water Connections
Repair or Replace
There is no copper bonding jumper/ground wire connecting the water lines for 22 De Sabla.  Current standards 
require all metal piping systems to be electrically bonded.  This wire should be no smaller than a 6 AWG copper 
wire or equivalent.  Recommend a qualified licensed electrician or plumber verifies the metal piping systems are 
bonded properly.
10.  Foundation, Crawl Space, Basement and Under-Floor Areas
10.4 
Ventilation of Foundation Area (Crawl Space or Basement)
Repair or Replace
One or more of the screens for the crawl space vents for 29 Baytree were damaged. This may lead to unwanted 
pest infestation. Recommend the screens be repaired or replaced.
11.  Roofing & Attic
11.3 
Gutter & Drainage
Repair or Replace
There is debris in the gutters.  Recommend cleaning the gutters to ensure proper drainage and include this as part 
of routine maintenance.  It may be possible to install gutter guards to protect the gutters from debris.
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 38 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 89 ---
Home inspectors are not required to report on the following: Life expectancy of any component or system; The causes of the 
need for a repair; The methods, materials, and costs of corrections; The suitability of the property for any specialized use; 
Compliance or non-compliance with codes, ordinances, statutes, regulatory requirements or restrictions; The market value 
of the property or its marketability; The advisability or inadvisability of purchase of the property; Any component or system 
that was not observed; The presence or absence of pests such as wood damaging organisms, rodents, or insects; or 
Cosmetic items, underground items, or items not permanently installed. Home inspectors are not required to: Offer 
warranties or guarantees of any kind; Calculate the strength, adequacy, or efficiency of any system or component; Enter any 
area or perform any procedure that may damage the property or its components or be dangerous to the home inspector or 
other persons; Operate any system or component that is shut down or otherwise inoperable; Operate any system or 
component that does not respond to normal operating controls; Disturb insulation, move personal items, panels, furniture, 
equipment, plant life, soil, snow, ice, or debris that obstructs access or visibility; Determine the presence or absence of any 
suspected adverse environmental condition or hazardous substance, including but not limited to mold, toxins, carcinogens, 
noise, contaminants in the building or in soil, water, and air; Determine the effectiveness of any system installed to control or 
remove suspected hazardous substances; Predict future condition, including but not limited to failure of components; Since 
this report is provided for the specific benefit of the customer(s), secondary readers of this information should hire a licensed 
inspector to perform an inspection to meet their specific needs and to obtain current information concerning this property.
Prepared Using HomeGauge http://www.HomeGauge.com : Licensed To Patrick Emmett
Russell
PCA Inspections 
Page 39 of 39
22 De Sabla Road & 29 Baytree Way

--- page 90 ---
1
WOOD DESTROYING PESTS AND ORGANISMS INSPECTION REPORT
Building No.
Street, City, Zip
Date of Inspection
Number of Pages
22 DE SABLA, SAN MATEO, 94402-1208
06/30/2023
6
TERMINIX INTERNATIONAL, BRANCH #2124
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
PH: 4087415415
Firm Registration No PR 0801
Report No.: 114553-063023165340-1877
Ordered by:
ROBERT RUSSELL
22 DE SABLA SAN MATEO CA 94402-1208
Property Owner or Party of Interest:
ROBERT RUSSELL
22 DE SABLA SAN MATEO CA
94402-1208
Report sent to:
ROBERT RUSSELL
22 DE SABLA SAN MATEO CA 94402-1208
COMPLETE REPORT ☒
LIMITED REPORT ☐
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT ☐
REINSPECTION REPORT ☐
General Description:
2 Story(s),Duplex,Attached Garage,Occupied and Furnished
Inspection Tag Posted:
Garage
Other Tags Posted:
None
An inspection has been made of the structure(s) shown on the diagram in accordance with the Structural Pest Control Act. Detached porches, detached
steps, detached decks and any other structures not on the diagram were not inspected.
Subterranean Termites ☐
Drywood Termites ☐
Fungus / Dryrot ☐
Other Findings ☐
Further Inspection ☒
If any of the above boxes are checked, it indicates that there were visible problems in accessible areas. Read the report for details on checked items.
(PLEASE SEE THE GRAPH DIAGRAM ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE)
Inspected by:
LAFFERTY,
TRAVIS JOSE
State License No.
FR 62442
Signature
You are entitled to obtain copies of all reports and completion notices on this property reported to the Structural Pest Control Board during the preceding two years. To
obtain copies contact: Structural Pest Control Board, 2005 Evergreen Street, Suite 1500, Sacramento, CA 95815
NOTE: Questions or problems concerning the above report should be directed to the manager of the company. Unresolved questions or problems with services performed
may be directed to the Structural Pest Control Board at (916) 561-8708, (800) 737-8188 or www.pestboard.ca.gov.
43M-41 (REV. 04/2015)

--- page 91 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
2
Scale 1:
This graph is a record of a visual, non-destructive inspection by Terminix of certain readily accessible areas of the
identified property for visible termite infestation/damage. Terminix is not responsible for repairs to damages disclosed
above. In addition, hidden damage may exist in concealed, obstructed or inaccessible areas. No attempt to remove
siding, plastic or sheetrock insulation, carpeting, paneling, etc. to search for hidden damage was made. Terminix cannot
guarantee that the damage disclosed by visual inspection of the premises shown above represents the entirety of the
damage which may exist as of the date of the initial control application. Terminix shall not be responsible for repair of
any existing damage including without limitation, any damage which existed in areas or in structural members which
were not accessible for visual inspection as of the date of this graph.

--- page 92 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
3
GENERAL NOTES:
Please see general notes following the findings and recommendations for additional conditions governing this report.
READ THIS DOCUMENT. It explains the scope and limitations of a Structural Pest Control Inspection and Wood
Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report.
A Wood Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report contains findings as to the presence or absence of evidence
of wood destroying insects or organisms (fungi/rot) in visible and accessible areas on the date of inspection. It contains
our recommendations for correcting any infestations, infections or conditions found. The contents of the Wood
Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report are governed by the Structural Pest Control Act and the rules and
regulations of the Structural Pest Control Board.
NOTE: THE FOLLOWING AREAS, WHEN THEY EXIST, ARE CONSIDERED INACCESSIBLE FOR INSPECTION: THE
INTERIORS OF HOLLOW WALLS AND ALL ENCLOSED SPACES BETWEEN A FLOOR OR PORCH DECK AND THE
CEILING OR SOFFIT BELOW; AREAS BETWEEN ABUTTING/ATTACHED ROW HOUSES, TOWNHOUSES,
CONDOMINIUMS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES; PORTIONS OF THE ATTIC CONCEALED OR MADE INACCESSIBLE BY
INSULATION; PORTIONS OF THE ATTIC CONCEALED OR MADE INACCESSIBLE BY DUCTING, PORTIONS OF THE
ATTIC OR ROOF CAVITY CONCEALED DUE TO AN INADEQUATE CRAWL SPACE; THE INTERIORS OF BOXED EAVES;
EAVES CONCEALED BY PATIO COVERS OR OTHER ABUTMENTS; PORTIONS OF THE SUBAREA CONCEALED OR
MADE INACCESSIBLE BY INSULATION; PORTE COCHERES; ENCLOSED BAY WINDOWS; AREAS BENEATH WOOD
FLOORS OVER CONCRETE; AREAS CONCEALED BY BUILT-IN CABINET WORK; AREAS CONCEALED BY FLOOR
COVERINGS, SUCH AS WALL-TO-WALL CARPETING, LINOLEUM, CERAMIC TILE, ETC.; AND AREAS CONCEALED BY
BUILT-IN APPLIANCES.
NOTE: THE FOLLOWING AREAS, WHEN THEY EXIST, ARE CONSIDERED INACCESSIBLE FOR INSPECTION: AREAS
CONCEALED BY INTERIOR FURNISHINGS; AREAS CONCEALED BY FLOOR COVERINGS, SUCH AS AREA RUGS,
THROW RUGS, BATH AND KITCHEN MATS, ETC.; AREAS CONCEALED BY FREE STANDING APPLIANCES; AREAS
CONCEALED BY STORAGE; AREAS CONCEALED BY HEAVY VEGETATION; AND AREAS WHERE LOCKS PREVENTED
ACCESS. THESE AREAS WILL BE INSPECTED FOR A FEE, IF THEY ARE MADE ACCESSIBLE AT THE OWNER’S
EXPENSE. A SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT WILL BE ISSUED AND ANY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS WILL BE
LISTED ALONG WITH ESTIMATES FOR REPAIR AND/OR TREATMENT, IF WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS COMPANY’S
OPERATIONS. NO OPINION IS RENDERED CONCERNING CONDITIONS IN THE AREAS AT THIS TIME.
NOTE: INSPECTIONS ARE MADE AND REPORTS ARE ISSUED ON THE BASIS OF WHAT WAS VISIBLE AND
ACCESSIBLE AT THE TIME OF THE INSPECTION. THE ABSENCE OF VISIBLE EVIDENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING
ORGANISMS IN THE VISIBLE AND ACCESSIBLE PORTIONS OF THE STRUCTURE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WOOD
DESTROYING ORGANISMS ARE NOT PRESENT IN INACCESSIBLE AREAS NOR THAT FUTURE INFESTATIONS WILL
NOT OCCUR. THEREFORE, WE DO NOT ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PRESENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING
ORGANISMS, OR DAMAGE DUE TO SUCH ORGANISMS, IN AREAS THAT WERE NOT VISIBLE AND ACCESSIBLE AT
THE TIME OF THE INSPECTION OR THAT MAY OCCUR IN THE FUTURE.
NOTICE: THIS COMPANY WILL REINSPECT REPAIRS DONE BY OTHERS WITHIN FOUR MONTHS OF THE ORIGINAL INSPECTION.
A CHARGE, IF ANY, CAN BE NO GREATER THAN THE ORIGINAL INSPECTION FEE FOR EACH INSPECTION. THE REINSPECTION
MUST BE DONE WITHIN TEN WORKING DAYS OF REQUEST. THE REINSPECTION IS A VISUAL INSPECTION AND IF INSPECTION
OF CONCEALED AREAS IS DESIRED, INSPECTION OF WORK IN PROGRESS WILL BE NECESSARY, ANY GUARANTEES MUST BE
RECEIVED FROM PARTIES PERFORMING THE REPAIRS.
NOTE: A VISUAL INSPECTION WAS PERFORMED AND THE INSPECTOR DID NOT DEFACE NOR PROBE INTO
FINISHED WINDOW OR DOOR FRAMES, TRIM WORK, FLOOR COVERINGS, WALLS, CEILINGS, OR OTHER FINISHED
SURFACES.
NOTE: THE EXTERIOR AREAS OF THIS STRUCTURE WERE VISUALLY INSPECTED FROM THE GROUND LEVEL. AREAS
OF THE EXTERIOR THAT EXHIBITED VISIBLE SIGNS OF INFESTATION, INFECTION, OR DAMAGE FROM SAME WILL
BE DESCRIBED IN THE BODY OF THIS REPORT.
NOTE: IF ANY INFESTATION, INFECTION, OR DAMAGE IS DISCOVERED IN A CONCEALED AREA DURING THE
COURSE OF PERFORMING ANY RECOMMENDATION IN THIS REPORT, THIS COMPANY WILL ISSUE A SUPPLEMENTAL
REPORT. THIS COMPANY IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTROLLING SUCH INFESTATIONS OR INFECTIONS OR FOR
REPAIRING SUCH DAMAGE. IF THE ADDITIONAL WORK REQUIRED IS WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS COMPANY’S
OPERATIONS, A COST ESTIMATE WILL BE PROVIDED WITH THE SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.
NOTE: THE OWNER OF THIS PROPERTY HAS CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE NORMAL MAINTENANCE
THAT PERTAINS TO THE DETERRENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING ORGANISMS. THESE NORMAL MAINTENANCE
PROCEDURES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO: MAINTENANCE OF THE ROOF, GUTTERS, AND DOWNSPOUTS;
CAULKING AROUND DOORS, WINDOWS, VENTS, TUB AND SHOWER ENCLOSURES; KEEPING SOIL LEVELS BELOW
THE TOP OF THE FOUNDATIONS; KEEPING STORED ITEMS (INCLUDING FIREWOOD) AT LEAST TWELVE (12) INCHES
AWAY FROM THE STRUCTURE; ADJUSTING SPRINKLERS SO THAT THEY DO NOT SPRAY ONTO THE STRUCTURE;
PROHIBITING SOIL FROM CONTACTING THE WOOD COMPONENTS OF THE STRUCTURE; AND PREVENTING
VEGETATION OR OTHER ITEMS FROM BLOCKING VENTS.
SEE BELOW FOR YOUR FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:

--- page 93 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
4
Drywood Termites
Item 2A
FINDING: No evidence of drywood termites was noted in visible and accessible areas at the time of this inspection.
However, the absence of visible evidence is no assurance that future infestations will not occur or that current
infestations do not already exist in areas that are not visible and inaccessible to inspection. Preventative service can be
rendered according to the following recommendation.
RECOMMENDATION: Apply a preventative treatment to exposed wood surfaces and potential entry points on the
exterior, in the attic as well as the subarea (if there is a subarea) with properly labeled an approved termiticide(s). The
terms and conditions of this service are detailed in your program agreement. Annual inspection is required.
Further Inspection
Item 5A
NOTE: In accordance with Section 1991 of the rules and regulations of the Structural Pest Control Board, the upstairs
stall shower was inspected but not water tested. No visible cracks to the pan, staining of the ceiling below or any signs
of leakage were noted at this time. If interested parties are concerned, and upon request with written permission, a
water test will be performed for an additional charge not to exceed the cost of the original inspection. Upon further
inspection a supplemental report will be issued and any findings and recommendations will be listed along with
estimates for repairs and/or treatment, if within the scope of this company’s operations.

--- page 94 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
5
GENERAL NOTES:
NOTE: THE EXTERIOR SURFACE OF THE ROOF HAS NOT BEEN INSPECTED. IF YOU WANT THE WATER TIGHTNESS OF THE ROOF
DETERMINED, YOU SHOULD CONTACT A ROOFING CONTRACTOR WHO IS LICENSED BY THE CONTACTORS STATE LICENSE
BOARD.
NOTICE: REPORTS ON THIS STRUCTURE PREPARED BY VARIOUS REGISTERED COMPANIES SHOULD LIST THE SAME FINDINGS
(I.E. TERMITE INFESTATION, TERMITE DAMAGE, FUNGUS DAMAGE, ETC.). HOWEVER, RECOMMENDATIONS TO CORRECT
THESE FINDINGS MAY VARY FROM COMPANY TO COMPANY. YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO SEEK A SECOND OPINION FROM
ANOTHER COMPANY.
NOTICE TO OWNER: UNDER THE CALIFORNIA MECHANICS LIEN LAW, ANY STRUCTURAL PEST CONTROL COMPANY
WHICH CONTRACTS TO DO WORK FOR YOU, ANY CONTRACTOR, SUBCONTRACTOR, LABORER, SUPPLIER, OR
OTHER PERSON WHO HELPS TO IMPROVE YOUR PROPERTY, BUT IS NOT PAID FOR HIS OR HER WORK OR
SUPPLIES, HAS A RIGHT TO ENFORCE A CLAIM AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY, THIS MEANS THAT AFTER A COURT
HEARING, YOUR PROPERTY COULD BE SOLD BY A COURT OFFICER AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE USED TO
SATISFY THE INDEBTEDNESS. THIS CAN HAPPEN EVEN IF YOU HAVE PAID YOUR STRUCTURAL PEST CONTROL
COMPANY IN FULL IF THE SUBCONTRACTOR, LABORERS, OR SUPPLIERS REMAIN UNPAID.
TO PRESERVE THEIR RIGHT TO FILE A CLAIM OR LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY, CERTAIN CLAIMANTS SUCH AS
SUBCONTRACTORS OR MATERIAL SUPPLIERS ARE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH A DOCUMENT ENTITLED
PRELIMINARY NOTICE. PRIME CONTRACTORS AND LABORERS FOR WAGES DO NOT HAVE TO PROVIDE THIS
NOTICE. A PRELIMINARY NOTICE IS NOT A LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY. ITS PURPOSE IS TO NOTIFY YOU OF
PERSONS WHO MAY HAVE A RIGHT TO FILE A LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY IF THEY ARE NOT PAID.
NOTE: IF DURING THE COURSE OF PERFORMING ANY REPAIRS, ANY FIXTURE OR PLUMBING IS FOUND TO BE
UNSERVICEABLE, DAMAGED, OR DEFECTIVE, THERE WILL BE AN ADDITIONAL CHARGE FOR REPAIR AND/OR
REPLACEMENT, AS NECESSARY.
NOTE: IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT BUILDING PERMITS BE OBTAINED FOR ALL WORK REQUIRING PERMITS, PRIOR
TO BEGINNING THE RECOMMENDED REPAIRS. FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, CONTACT THE LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT. WORK PERFORMED AS REQUIRED UNDER
PERMIT FROM THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT SHOULD BE APPROVED, ACCEPTED, AND SIGNED OFF BY THE
DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO CONSIDERING SUCH WORK TO BE COMPLETED. THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT MAY
REQUIRE INSTALLATION OF SMOKE/HEAT DETECTORS AS A CONDITION OF OBTAINING A BUILDING PERMIT.
Some structures may not comply with building code requirements or may have structural, plumbing, electrical, heating
and air conditioning, or other defects that do not pertain to wood destroying organisms. A Wood Destroying Pest and
Organism Inspection Report does not contain information about such defects as they are not within the scope of the
license of the inspector or the company issuing this report. Nor does a Wood Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection
Report contain information about asbestos or any other environmental or safety hazard. Should interested parties desire
opinions regarding these items, it is recommended that the owner engage the services of a reputable whole house
inspection company.
This property was not inspected for the presence or absence of health related molds or fungi. By California law, we are
neither qualified, authorized, nor licensed to inspect for health related molds or fungi. If you desire information about
the presence or absence of health related molds or fungi, you should contact an industrial hygienist.
The Structural Pest Control Board Mold Policy Statement is as follows:
“Molds, sometimes called mildew, are not wood-destroying organisms. Branch 3 licensees do not have a duty under the
Structural Pest Control Act and related regulations to classify molds as harmful to human health or not harmful to
human health. This does not modify the Structural Pest Control Act or related regulations.”
This statement is being provided to you for informational purposes.

--- page 95 ---
6
NOTICE TO OWNER / TENANT
State law requires that you be given the following information:
CAUTION – PESTICIDES ARE TOXIC CHEMICALS. Structural Pest Control Operators are registered and regulated by the Structural Pest Control
Board, and apply pesticides which are registered and approved for use by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Registration is granted when the state finds that based on existing scientific evidence there are no appreciable
risks if proper use conditions are followed or that the risks are outweighed by the benefits. The degree of risk depends upon the degree of exposure,
so exposure should be minimized.
If within 24 hours following application, you experience headache, dizziness, nausea, tearing, coughing, nose and throat irritation or develop
shortness of breath, double vision, unusual drowsiness and weakness, or tremors, contact your physician or poison control center (see below) and
your pest control operator immediately. If rodenticide ingestion occurs, you may experience symptoms of mild shock and/or bleeding.
For further information, contract any of the following:
Terminix International
1-800-TERMINIX
Poison Control Center
1-800-876-4766
Regulatory information - Structural Pest Control Board
1-916-561-8700
2005 Evergreen St, Ste. 1500, Sacramento, CA 95815-3831
HEALTH QUESTIONS - CALIFORNIA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONERS
Alameda
(510) 670-5232
Marin
(415) 499-6700
San Luis Obispo
(805) 781-5910
Alpine
(see El Dorado)
Mariposa
(209) 966-2075
San Mateo
(650) 363-4700
Amador
(209) 223-6487
Mendocino
(707) 463-4208
Santa Barbara
(805) 681-5600
Butte
(530) 538-7381
Merced
(209) 385-7431
Santa Clara
(408) 918-4600
Calaveras
(209) 754-6504
Modoc
(530) 233-6401
Santa Cruz
(831) 763-8080
Colusa
(530) 458-0580
Mono
See Inyo County
Shasta
(530) 224-4949
Contra Costa
(925) 646-5250
Monterey
(831) 759-7325
Sierra
See Plumas County
Del Norte
(707) 464-7235
Napa
(707) 253-4357
Siskiyou
(530) 841-4025
El Dorado
(530) 621-5520
Nevada
(530) 273-2648
Solano
(707) 784-1310
Fresno
(559) 456-7510
Orange
(714) 447-7100
Sonoma
(707) 565-2371
Glenn
(530) 934-6501
Placer
(530) 889-7372
Stanislaus
(209) 525-4730
Humboldt
(707) 445-7223 ext. 0
Plumas
(530) 283-6365
Sutter
(530) 822-7500
Imperial
(760) 482-4314
Riverside
(951) 955-3045
Tehama
(530) 527-4504
Inyo
(760) 873-7860
Sacramento
(916) 875-6603
Trinity
(530) 623-1356
Kern
(661) 868-6300
San Benito
(831) 637-5344
Tulare
(559) 685-3323
Kings
(559) 582-3211 #2831
San Bernardino
(909) 387-2105
Tuolumne
(209) 533-5691
Lake
(707) 263-0217
San Diego
(858) 694-2739
Ventura
(805) 388-4222
Lassen
(530) 251-8110
San Francisco
(415) 252-3830
Yolo
(530) 666-8140
Los Angeles
(626) 575-5466
San Joaquin
(209) 468-3300
Yuba
(530) 749-5400
Madera
(559) 675-7876
APPLICATION INFORMATION - CALIFORNIA COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
Alameda
(510) 267-8000
Madera
(559) 675-7893
San Joaquin
(209) 468-3411
Alpine
(530) 694-2146
Marin
(415) 499-3696
San Luis Obispo
(805) 781-5500
Amador
(209) 223-6407
Mariposa
(209) 966-3689
San Mateo
(650) 573-2346
Berkley City
(510) 981-5310
Mendocino
(707) 472-2600
Santa Barbara
(805) 681-5102
Butte
(530) 538-7581
Merced
(209) 381-1200
Santa Clara
(408) 885-4214
Calaveras
(209) 754-6460
Modoc
(530) 233-6311
Santa Cruz
(831) 454-4000
Colusa
(530) 458-0380
Mono
(760) 932-7485
Shasta
(530) 225-5591
Contra Costa
(925) 957-5400
Monterey
(831) 755-4500
Sierra
(530) 993-6701
Del Norte
(707) 464-3191
Napa
(707) 253-4231
Siskiyou
(530) 841-4040 ext. 0
El Dorado
(530) 621-6100
Nevada
(530) 265-1450
Solano
(707) 784-8600
Fresno
(559) 445-0666
Orange
(714) 834-8180
Sonoma
(707) 565-4567
Glenn
(530) 934-6588
Pasadena
(626) 744-6004
Stanislaus
(209) 558-5670
Humboldt
(707) 445-6200
Placer
(530) 889-7141
Sutter
(530) 822-7215
Imperial
(760) 482-4438
Plumas
(530) 283-6337
Tehama
(530) 527-6824
Inyo
(760) 783-7868
Riverside
(951) 782-2974
Trinity
(530) 623-8209
Kern
(661) 868-0302
Sacramento
(916) 875-5881
Tulare
(559) 737-4660 ext. 0
Kings
(559) 584-1402 - Ask for “Nurse of
the Day”
San Benito
(831) 637-5367
Tuolumne
(209) 533-7400
Lake
(707) 263-8929
San Bernardino
(909) 387-6280
Ventura
(805) 677-5200
Lassen
(530) 251-8183
San Diego
(619) 515-6555
Yolo
(530) 666-8645
Long Beach City
(562) 570-4000
San Francisco
(415) 554-2500
Yuba
(530) 741-6366
Los Angeles
(213) 240-8117
One or more of the following chemicals may be applied to your property:
ADVANCE (Diflubenzuron) BOR-RAM (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) BORA-CARE (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) BORATHOR
(Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) CIMEXA (Silicon Dioxide) CY-KICK (Cyfluthrin) DRAGNET SFR(Permethrin) DRIONE INSECTICIDE DUST
(Amor, Silica Aerogel, Pyrethrins, Piperonyl Butoxide) PHANTOM (Chlorfenapyr) PRELUDE (Permethrin) PREMISE 75 INSECTICIDE (Imidacloprid)
PT TRI-DIE DUST (Amor, Silica Aerogel, Pyrethrins, Piperonyl Butoxide) RECRUIT HD (Noviflumuron) TAP INSULATION (Orthoboric Acid) TEMPO
WP (Cyfluthrin) TEMPO SC ULTRA (Cyfluthrin) TIM-BOR (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) TERMIDOR (Fipronil) TTRELONA (Novaluron)
VIKANE (Sulfuryl Fluoride) NOTE: Chloropicrin is use as a warning agent on all structural fumigations.
Thank you for calling Terminix. Should you have any questions regarding this report, please call 1-800-TERMINIX.

--- page 96 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
Ultimate Protection Home Pest Inspection
Please pay special attention to findings and comments below as these may indicate conditions that can lead to termite
and pest problems.
EXTERIOR INSPECTION
PROPERTY DETAILS
Linear Feet:
331
Built Pre 1985:
☒
Primary Use:
Duplex
# of Stories:
2
Roof Type:
Shingle Roof
Foundation Type:
Concrete
Construction Type:
Accessible
Crawlspace
Siding:
Stucco
Industry Type:
Square Footage:
Lot Size:
# of Gas Meters:
Cubic Feet:
Eave Height:
Peak Height:
PROPERTY HAS A:
Cistern:
French Drain:
Well:
Visible Pond, Lake, Stream, or Waterway:
Sprinkler System Present:
Exterior Slab (False Porch) Over Basement Area:
Gas Meter Have 3’ Clearance:
CONDUCIVE CONDITIONS
Indications of pests, rodents, termites,
wildlife, or other wood-destroying pests?
☒
Live Subterranean Termites
Found?
☐
Damage Found?
☐
Trees/shrubs on or against
home?
Conditions on or around foundation
conducive to termite attack?
Foundation slab/wall visible?
Conditions allowing water to collect around
structure?
Openings large enough for
pest/rodent/wildlife entry?
Gutters and downspouts clear of debris and
standing water?
Siding Less Than 6" From
Grade:
Styrofoam Insulation or "DRI-VIT" Below
Grade?
Wood embedded in concrete?
Breeding Sites:
Homeowner
Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Address:
22 DE SABLA
City State Zip:
SAN MATEO, CA,94402-1208
Home Phone:
4088575838
Work Phone:

--- page 97 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
INTERIOR INSPECTION
PROPERTY DETAILS
Sump Pump:
A/C - Heat Ducts in or Below Slab:
Plenum A/C - Heat System:
Radiant Heat:
CONDUCIVE CONDITIONS
Indications Of Pests, Rodents, Termites,
Wildlife, Or Other Wood-Destroying Pests?
☒
Live Subterranean Termites Found?
☐
Damage Found?
☐
Obvious Signs Of Leaks?
☐
Musky Odors?
☐
Bath Traps Installed Where Applicable?
☒
Wall Separation/Cracks?
☐
Sagging Or Bouncing Floors?
☐
ATTIC
Number Of Attics:
Attic Access Location:
Inside - Door
Indications Of Pests, Rodents, Termites, Wildlife, Or Other Wood-Destroying Pests?
☐
Adequate Ventilation?
☒
Obvious Signs Of Leaks?
☐
Attic Vents Screened?
☒
Asbestos Present?
☐
CRAWL SPACE
Number Of Crawl Spaces:
Crawl Space Access Location:
Outside
Height Of Crawl Space:
High Point Of Crawl Space:
Low Point Of Crawl Space:
Distance Between Joists:
Depth Of Joists:
# of electrical connections:
Indications of pests, rodents, termites, wildlife, fungi, or other wood-destroying pests?
☒
Wood debris, stored material or structure/ground contact?
☐
Excessive Moisture?
☐
Visible Plumbing Leaks?
☐
Cracked foundation
walls/supports?
☐
Sagging Or Cracked
Floor Joists?
☐
Wood-Earth Contact?
☐
Wood Debris In Crawl
Space?
☐
Inadequate Ventilation In
Crawl Space?
☐
Wood Embedded In
Concrete?
☐
Entire Crawl Space
Accessible?
☒
INSPECTOR’S STATEMENT OF VISIBLE DAMAGE
None
Date:
06/30/2023
TECHNICIAN’S STATEMENT OF VISIBLE DAMAGE
Date:

--- page 98 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
Scale 1:
This graph is a record of a visual, non-destructive inspection by Terminix of certain readily accessible areas of the
identified property for visible termite infestation/damage. Terminix is not responsible for repairs to damages disclosed
above. In addition, hidden damage may exist in concealed, obstructed or inaccessible areas. No attempt to remove siding,
plastic or sheetrock insulation, carpeting, paneling, etc. to search for hidden damage was made. Terminix cannot
guarantee that the damage disclosed by visual inspection of the premises shown above represents the entirety of the
damage which may exist as of the date of the initial control application. Terminix shall not be responsible for repair of any
existing damage including without limitation, any damage which existed in areas or in structural members which were not
accessible for visual inspection as of the date of this graph.

--- page 99 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY ELEMENTS
Exterior Gas
Grill
Water Shut-Off
Sprinkler Shut-Off
Gas Meter
Air Conditioner
Exterior New
Paint
Exterior Weather
Door
Foam Board Insulation
French Drain
Finished Garage
Wall
Interior New Paint
Stall Shower
Stump
Sump Pump
Visible Waterway
Zero Property Line
KEY TO EVIDENCE
Access Holes
Allowing Pest
Entry
Ant Activity
Bed Bug Activity
Bird Activity
Carpenter Ants
Fume
Carpenter Ants
Local Treatment
Carpenter Bee Local
Treatment
Cellulose Debris
Cistern
Cracks In
Foundation Wall
Cracks In Stucco
Dampwood Termites
Drywood
Termites Local
Treatment
Drywood
Termites
(Existing
Customer)
Drywood Termites
Preventative
Treatment
Drywood Termites
Fumigation
Earth Contact
Excessive
Moisture
Excessive Moisture
In Subarea
Exterior Slab Over Basement
Area
Faulty Grade
Faulty Grade At
Vent
Faulty Grade Flash
Wall
Firewood At Foundation
Flaking Peeling
Wall
Flies
Fungus
Gnaw Marks/Debris
(Rodent)
Heavy
Vegetation
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
Duct Work
Inaccessible Area(s)
Attic: Insulation
Inaccessible Area(s) Attic:
No Clearance
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
No Opening
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
Storage
Inaccessible Area(s)
Attic: Closet
Storage
Inaccessible Area(s) Attic:
High Temp
Inaccessible
Area(s) Deck:
No Clearance
Inaccessible
Area(s) Deck:
No Clearance
Inaccessible Area(s)
Garage: Storage
Inaccessible Area(s)
Inaccessible
Subarea
Inadequate
Ventilation
Large Gaps
Mice
Mosquitoes
Missing
Screens/Vent
Covers
Plumbing Leak
Powder Post Beetles Fume
Roaches
Rodents
Rodent Droppings
Rodent Tunneling In
Insulation
Rodent
Tunneling Under
Slab Or
Concrete Pad
Rodent Waste
(Droppings)
Rub Marks (Rodent)
Siding Less Than 6" From
Grade
Spiders
Standing Water
in Subarea
Stucco Below Grade
Styrofoam Insulation Or DRI-
Vit Below Grade
Subterranean
Termites
(Existing
Customer)
Subterranean
Termites
Preventative
Treatment
Subterranean
Termites Liquid
Treatment
Subterranean Termites Local
Treatment
Subterranean
Termites
Curative Bait
Vent Below
Grade
Water Stains
Water Stains: Deck Stucco
Water Stains:
Garage Ceiling
Water Stains:
Attic
Wildlife
Wood Embedded In
Concrete

--- page 100 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
GENERAL TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trench or trench/rod soil adjacent to exterior
foundation walls
Vertically drill exterior attached slabs and treat soil
beneath along point of attachment
Excavate soil beneath dirt-filled porch slab at
point(s) of attachment to the structure and
treat soil beneath
Vertically drill the dirt-filled porch slab and treat the
soil beneath the slab along the point(s) of
attachment to the structure
Drill the exterior foundation wall of a crawl space or basement from the inside and treat the soil immediately
beneath the dirt-filled porch slab by short-rodding along the point(s) of attachment to the structure
Drill through each side of the dirt-filled porch foundation wall per product label specifications and treat the
soil immediately beneath the dirt-filled porch slab by short-rodding along the entire inside perimeter of the
DFP
Drill foundation walls of the dirt-filled porch and treat the soil immediately beneath the slab by long-rodding
adjacent to the entire inside perimeter of the DFP
Trench, remove, and treat soil by the Backfill
Method (see label)
Drill and treat voids of a double brick foundation
wall per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a stone foundation wall
per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a triple brick foundation wall
per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a hollow block
foundation wall per product label
specifications
Drill and treat voids of a brick veneer foundation
wall per product label specifications
Drill and treat all voids of a chimney per
product label specifications
Drill and treat a subterranean termite infested
wooden sill or plate
Drill and treat a subterranean termite infested
wooden joist/s
Drill into voids of termite infested wood and inject
product into inaccessible voids ,termite galleries
and nests
Make small openings into termite shelter
tubes and inject product inside
Make multiple openings into carton nests in building
voids or in trees and make multiple injections of
products to varying depths
Trench, trench and rod, or rod soil of planter box adjacent to the exterior foundation wall according to state
specific treatment standards or to label directions, whichever apply
Install In-ground Monitoring Station
NON-CHEMICAL TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Provide at least 14” clearance between wood
and soil in the crawl space
Install access to ceiling of basement for inspection
and/or treatment
Install door/s to provide access for treating
soil adjacent to plumbing
Install crawl space access door
Install Automatic Vents
Remove cellulose debris and/or any other debris
that would interfere with inspection or treatment in
the crawl space
Remove form boards
Scrape off termite tunnels
Set wooden supports on concrete pads to
properly insulate wood to soil contact
Cut off stucco at least 3” above grade and remove
stucco below grade
Remove wood to ground contacts
Break ground contact on step stringers
Prepare floor surface for drilling
Install a vapor barrier over the soil of a crawl space
Install floor supports to provide additional
support

--- page 101 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
BASEMENT TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Vertically drill basement concrete slab floor
and treat the soil beneath
Drill and treat basement door frames
CRAWL SPACE TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trench or trench/rod soil adjacent to the
inside of the foundation walls of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to the piers
of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to soil
pipes of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to a chimney
of a crawl space
EXCLUSION/WILDLIFE TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trap - Wildlife
Install Mushroom/Turbine Vent Cage - Roof
Seal Mushroom/Termite Vent - In Attic
Install Plumbing Vent Cap - Roof
Screen Gable Vent
Screen Foundation Vent
Screen Soffit Vent
Repair Roof Return
Seal Pipe Penetration
Seal Hole In Wall/Foundation, Floor, Etc.
Install One-Way Door Exclusion Cage
Install Garage Door Seal
Install Dryer Vent Cover - Wall
Install Oven Vent Cover - Wall
Install Oven Vent Cage - Roof
Install Chimney Cap
PRE-CONSTRUCTION TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Vertical treatment zone - trench or trench and
rod soil adjacent to pillars and other interior
foundation elements such as chimneys and
soil pipes
Vertical treatment zone - trench or trench/rod soil
adjacent to utility pipes, plumbing lines, and
conduits that will penetrate through the slab (1
gallon/sqft)
Horizontal treatment zone - make a horizontal
treatment to the entire surface area of soil or
substrate to be covered beneath the concrete
slab
Vertical treatment zone - upon completion of
grading along the outside of the exterior foundation
wall, treat the backfill by trenching or
trenching/rodding the soil adjacent to the exterior
foundation wall
SLAB TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Drill the slab per product label specifications
along the expansion joint where two slabs
meet and treat soil underneath
Treat soil adjacent to plumbing penetrations
Drill the slab along one side of the partition
wall per product label specifications and treat
the soil beneath
Drill the slab along both sides of a load-bearing wall
per product label specifications and treat the soil
beneath
Drill through the exterior foundation wall
immediately below the slab per product label
specifications and treat the soil beneath by
short-rodding from the outside
Vertically drill the slab along the inside perimeter of
the foundation walls and treat the soil beneath the
slab

--- page 102 ---
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other

--- page 103 ---
Summary of Charges
Product
Renewals
Amount
Tax
Discount
Total Amount
Initial Term
WDIR Real Estate
Inspection
$250.00
$0.00
$0.00
$250.00
Grand Total:
$250
Product
Merchandise
Quantity
Purchaser Payments
By signing below, I, the cardholder, have authorized Terminix to process this one-time payment without further signature or
authorization from me.
Mastercard ending in 1685 exp. 1127
$250.00
WDIR Real Estate Inspection
Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023
AUTOPAY: Purchaser authorizes Terminix and affiliates including SMAC to automatically debit Purchaser’s checking account or credit
card, as indicated below, in an amount equal to any recurring service charges due to Terminix under this Agreement within five (5)
days of the date such charge becomes due. This authorization will remain in effect until the fifth business day following Terminix’s
receipt from Purchaser of a written notice to cancel such authorization. Purchaser understands that cancellation of this authorization
does not cancel Purchaser’s obligations under this Agreement.
Terminix Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023
SMAC Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023

--- page 104 ---
TERMINIX.



--- page 105 ---
BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, I UNDERSTAND THAT PERMISSION FOR TERMINIX TO BEGIN WORK IMMEDIATELY
SHALL NOT BE CONSTRUED AS A WAIVER OF ANY OF MY RIGHTS UNDER THIS NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
DATE OF TRANSACTION: 06/30/2023
YOU MAY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION WITHOUT ANY PENALTY OR OBLIGATION, WITHIN THREE BUSINESS
DAYS FROM THE ABOVE DATE.
IF YOU CANCEL, ANY PROPERTY TRADED IN, ANY PAYMENTS MADE BY YOU UNDER THE CONTRACT OR SALE,
ANY NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENT EXECUTED BY YOU WILL BE RETURNED WITHIN 10 BUSINESS DAYS
FOLLOWING RECEIPT BY THE SELLER OF YOUR CANCELLATION NOTICE, AND ANY SECURITY INTEREST
ARISING OUT OF THE TRANSACTION WILL BE CANCELLED.
IF YOU CANCEL, YOU MUST MAKE AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER AT YOUR RESIDENCE, IN SUBSTANTIALLY AS
GOOD CONDITION AS WHEN RECEIVED, ANY GOODS DELIVERED TO YOU UNDER THIS CONTRACT OR SALE, OR
YOU MAY IF YOU WISH, COMPLY WITH THE INSTRUCTIONS OF THE SELLER REGARDING THE SHIPMENT OF THE
GOODS AT THE SELLER’S EXPENSE AND RISK.
IF YOU DO MAKE THE GOODS AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER AND THE SELLER DOES NOT PICK THEM UP WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THE DATE OF YOUR NOTICE OF CANCELLATION, YOU MAY RETAIN OR DISPOSE OF THE GOODS
WITHOUT ANY FURTHER OBLIGATION. IF YOU FAIL TO MAKE THE GOODS AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER, OR IF
YOU AGREE TO RETURN THE GOODS TO THE SELLER AND FAIL TO DO SO, THEN YOU REMAIN LIABLE FOR
PERFORMANCE OF ALL OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
TO CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION, MAIL OR DELIVER A SIGNED AND DATED COPY OF THIS CANCELLATION
NOTICE OR ANY OTHER WRITTEN NOTICE, OR SEND A TELEGRAM TO:
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON, CA 94588-3324
4087415415
NOT LATER THAN MIDNIGHT OF: 07/06/2023
THEREBY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION
Date:
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE
100
PLEASANTON, CA
94588-3324
4087415415
Notice of Cancellation
Inspection ID #:
114553-063023165340-1877
22 DE SABLA
SAN MATEO, CA 94402-1208

--- page 106 ---
Contract #:
114553-063023165340-1877
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Product Labels & Safety Data Sheets
Product Labels & Safety Data Sheets, please visit: https://lycensed.com/orgs/terminix/public/chemical_documents
For NY customers, please select ‘NY’ as your locale

--- page 107 ---
1
WOOD DESTROYING PESTS AND ORGANISMS INSPECTION REPORT
Building No.
Street, City, Zip
Date of Inspection
Number of Pages
29 BAYTREE WAY, SAN MATEO, 94402-1203
06/30/2023
6
TERMINIX INTERNATIONAL, BRANCH #2124
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
PH: 4087415415
Firm Registration No PR 0801
Report No.: 114553-063023154719-9210
Ordered by:
ROBERT RUSSELL
29 BAYTREE WAY SAN MATEO CA 94402-
1203
Property Owner or Party of Interest:
ROBERT RUSSELL
29 BAYTREE WAY SAN MATEO CA
94402-1203
Report sent to:
ROBERT RUSSELL
29 BAYTREE WAY SAN MATEO CA 94402-
1203
COMPLETE REPORT ☒
LIMITED REPORT ☐
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT ☐
REINSPECTION REPORT ☐
General Description:
2 Story(s),Duplex,Attached Garage,Occupied and Furnished
Inspection Tag Posted:
Garage
Other Tags Posted:
None
An inspection has been made of the structure(s) shown on the diagram in accordance with the Structural Pest Control Act. Detached porches, detached
steps, detached decks and any other structures not on the diagram were not inspected.
Subterranean Termites ☐
Drywood Termites ☐
Fungus / Dryrot ☐
Other Findings ☒
Further Inspection ☒
If any of the above boxes are checked, it indicates that there were visible problems in accessible areas. Read the report for details on checked items.
(PLEASE SEE THE GRAPH DIAGRAM ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE)
Inspected by:
LAFFERTY,
TRAVIS JOSE
State License No.
FR 62442
Signature
You are entitled to obtain copies of all reports and completion notices on this property reported to the Structural Pest Control Board during the preceding two years. To
obtain copies contact: Structural Pest Control Board, 2005 Evergreen Street, Suite 1500, Sacramento, CA 95815
NOTE: Questions or problems concerning the above report should be directed to the manager of the company. Unresolved questions or problems with services performed
may be directed to the Structural Pest Control Board at (916) 561-8708, (800) 737-8188 or www.pestboard.ca.gov.
43M-41 (REV. 04/2015)

--- page 108 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
2
Scale 1:
This graph is a record of a visual, non-destructive inspection by Terminix of certain readily accessible areas of the
identified property for visible termite infestation/damage. Terminix is not responsible for repairs to damages disclosed
above. In addition, hidden damage may exist in concealed, obstructed or inaccessible areas. No attempt to remove
siding, plastic or sheetrock insulation, carpeting, paneling, etc. to search for hidden damage was made. Terminix cannot
guarantee that the damage disclosed by visual inspection of the premises shown above represents the entirety of the
damage which may exist as of the date of the initial control application. Terminix shall not be responsible for repair of
any existing damage including without limitation, any damage which existed in areas or in structural members which
were not accessible for visual inspection as of the date of this graph.

--- page 109 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
3
GENERAL NOTES:
Please see general notes following the findings and recommendations for additional conditions governing this report.
READ THIS DOCUMENT. It explains the scope and limitations of a Structural Pest Control Inspection and Wood
Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report.
A Wood Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report contains findings as to the presence or absence of evidence
of wood destroying insects or organisms (fungi/rot) in visible and accessible areas on the date of inspection. It contains
our recommendations for correcting any infestations, infections or conditions found. The contents of the Wood
Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection Report are governed by the Structural Pest Control Act and the rules and
regulations of the Structural Pest Control Board.
NOTE: THE FOLLOWING AREAS, WHEN THEY EXIST, ARE CONSIDERED INACCESSIBLE FOR INSPECTION: THE
INTERIORS OF HOLLOW WALLS AND ALL ENCLOSED SPACES BETWEEN A FLOOR OR PORCH DECK AND THE
CEILING OR SOFFIT BELOW; AREAS BETWEEN ABUTTING/ATTACHED ROW HOUSES, TOWNHOUSES,
CONDOMINIUMS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES; PORTIONS OF THE ATTIC CONCEALED OR MADE INACCESSIBLE BY
INSULATION; PORTIONS OF THE ATTIC CONCEALED OR MADE INACCESSIBLE BY DUCTING, PORTIONS OF THE
ATTIC OR ROOF CAVITY CONCEALED DUE TO AN INADEQUATE CRAWL SPACE; THE INTERIORS OF BOXED EAVES;
EAVES CONCEALED BY PATIO COVERS OR OTHER ABUTMENTS; PORTIONS OF THE SUBAREA CONCEALED OR
MADE INACCESSIBLE BY INSULATION; PORTE COCHERES; ENCLOSED BAY WINDOWS; AREAS BENEATH WOOD
FLOORS OVER CONCRETE; AREAS CONCEALED BY BUILT-IN CABINET WORK; AREAS CONCEALED BY FLOOR
COVERINGS, SUCH AS WALL-TO-WALL CARPETING, LINOLEUM, CERAMIC TILE, ETC.; AND AREAS CONCEALED BY
BUILT-IN APPLIANCES.
NOTE: THE FOLLOWING AREAS, WHEN THEY EXIST, ARE CONSIDERED INACCESSIBLE FOR INSPECTION: AREAS
CONCEALED BY INTERIOR FURNISHINGS; AREAS CONCEALED BY FLOOR COVERINGS, SUCH AS AREA RUGS,
THROW RUGS, BATH AND KITCHEN MATS, ETC.; AREAS CONCEALED BY FREE STANDING APPLIANCES; AREAS
CONCEALED BY STORAGE; AREAS CONCEALED BY HEAVY VEGETATION; AND AREAS WHERE LOCKS PREVENTED
ACCESS. THESE AREAS WILL BE INSPECTED FOR A FEE, IF THEY ARE MADE ACCESSIBLE AT THE OWNER’S
EXPENSE. A SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT WILL BE ISSUED AND ANY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS WILL BE
LISTED ALONG WITH ESTIMATES FOR REPAIR AND/OR TREATMENT, IF WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS COMPANY’S
OPERATIONS. NO OPINION IS RENDERED CONCERNING CONDITIONS IN THE AREAS AT THIS TIME.
NOTE: INSPECTIONS ARE MADE AND REPORTS ARE ISSUED ON THE BASIS OF WHAT WAS VISIBLE AND
ACCESSIBLE AT THE TIME OF THE INSPECTION. THE ABSENCE OF VISIBLE EVIDENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING
ORGANISMS IN THE VISIBLE AND ACCESSIBLE PORTIONS OF THE STRUCTURE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WOOD
DESTROYING ORGANISMS ARE NOT PRESENT IN INACCESSIBLE AREAS NOR THAT FUTURE INFESTATIONS WILL
NOT OCCUR. THEREFORE, WE DO NOT ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PRESENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING
ORGANISMS, OR DAMAGE DUE TO SUCH ORGANISMS, IN AREAS THAT WERE NOT VISIBLE AND ACCESSIBLE AT
THE TIME OF THE INSPECTION OR THAT MAY OCCUR IN THE FUTURE.
NOTICE: THIS COMPANY WILL REINSPECT REPAIRS DONE BY OTHERS WITHIN FOUR MONTHS OF THE ORIGINAL INSPECTION.
A CHARGE, IF ANY, CAN BE NO GREATER THAN THE ORIGINAL INSPECTION FEE FOR EACH INSPECTION. THE REINSPECTION
MUST BE DONE WITHIN TEN WORKING DAYS OF REQUEST. THE REINSPECTION IS A VISUAL INSPECTION AND IF INSPECTION
OF CONCEALED AREAS IS DESIRED, INSPECTION OF WORK IN PROGRESS WILL BE NECESSARY, ANY GUARANTEES MUST BE
RECEIVED FROM PARTIES PERFORMING THE REPAIRS.
NOTE: A VISUAL INSPECTION WAS PERFORMED AND THE INSPECTOR DID NOT DEFACE NOR PROBE INTO
FINISHED WINDOW OR DOOR FRAMES, TRIM WORK, FLOOR COVERINGS, WALLS, CEILINGS, OR OTHER FINISHED
SURFACES.
NOTE: THE EXTERIOR AREAS OF THIS STRUCTURE WERE VISUALLY INSPECTED FROM THE GROUND LEVEL. AREAS
OF THE EXTERIOR THAT EXHIBITED VISIBLE SIGNS OF INFESTATION, INFECTION, OR DAMAGE FROM SAME WILL
BE DESCRIBED IN THE BODY OF THIS REPORT.
NOTE: IF ANY INFESTATION, INFECTION, OR DAMAGE IS DISCOVERED IN A CONCEALED AREA DURING THE
COURSE OF PERFORMING ANY RECOMMENDATION IN THIS REPORT, THIS COMPANY WILL ISSUE A SUPPLEMENTAL
REPORT. THIS COMPANY IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTROLLING SUCH INFESTATIONS OR INFECTIONS OR FOR
REPAIRING SUCH DAMAGE. IF THE ADDITIONAL WORK REQUIRED IS WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS COMPANY’S
OPERATIONS, A COST ESTIMATE WILL BE PROVIDED WITH THE SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.
NOTE: THE OWNER OF THIS PROPERTY HAS CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE NORMAL MAINTENANCE
THAT PERTAINS TO THE DETERRENCE OF WOOD DESTROYING ORGANISMS. THESE NORMAL MAINTENANCE
PROCEDURES INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO: MAINTENANCE OF THE ROOF, GUTTERS, AND DOWNSPOUTS;
CAULKING AROUND DOORS, WINDOWS, VENTS, TUB AND SHOWER ENCLOSURES; KEEPING SOIL LEVELS BELOW
THE TOP OF THE FOUNDATIONS; KEEPING STORED ITEMS (INCLUDING FIREWOOD) AT LEAST TWELVE (12) INCHES
AWAY FROM THE STRUCTURE; ADJUSTING SPRINKLERS SO THAT THEY DO NOT SPRAY ONTO THE STRUCTURE;
PROHIBITING SOIL FROM CONTACTING THE WOOD COMPONENTS OF THE STRUCTURE; AND PREVENTING
VEGETATION OR OTHER ITEMS FROM BLOCKING VENTS.
SEE BELOW FOR YOUR FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:

--- page 110 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
4
Drywood Termites
Item 2A
FINDING: No evidence of drywood termites was noted in visible and accessible areas at the time of this inspection.
However, the absence of visible evidence is no assurance that future infestations will not occur or that current
infestations do not already exist in areas that are not visible and inaccessible to inspection. Preventative service can be
rendered according to the following recommendation.
RECOMMENDATION: Apply a preventative treatment to exposed wood surfaces and potential entry points on the
exterior, in the attic as well as the subarea (if there is a subarea) with properly labeled an approved termiticide(s). The
terms and conditions of this service are detailed in your program agreement. Annual inspection is required.
Other Findings
Item 4A
FINDING: Cellulose debris (wood, paper products) was noted in the subarea.
RECOMMENDATION: Remove and dispose of the cellulose debris of a rakeable size from the subarea.
Further Inspection
Item 5A
NOTE: The stucco siding extends beneath the outside grade level creating/providing possible points of entry for wood
destroying organisms behind the stucco into the structure. No evidence of active infestation/infection was noted at the
time of this inspection as a result of this condition. Periodic inspection is advised.
Item 5B
NOTE: In accordance with Section 1991 of the rules and regulations of the Structural Pest Control Board, the upstairs
stall shower was inspected but not water tested. No visible cracks to the pan, staining of the ceiling below or any signs
of leakage were noted at this time. If interested parties are concerned, and upon request with written permission, a
water test will be performed for an additional charge not to exceed the cost of the original inspection. Upon further
inspection a supplemental report will be issued and any findings and recommendations will be listed along with
estimates for repairs and/or treatment, if within the scope of this company’s operations.

--- page 111 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
5
GENERAL NOTES:
NOTE: THE EXTERIOR SURFACE OF THE ROOF HAS NOT BEEN INSPECTED. IF YOU WANT THE WATER TIGHTNESS OF THE ROOF
DETERMINED, YOU SHOULD CONTACT A ROOFING CONTRACTOR WHO IS LICENSED BY THE CONTACTORS STATE LICENSE
BOARD.
NOTICE: REPORTS ON THIS STRUCTURE PREPARED BY VARIOUS REGISTERED COMPANIES SHOULD LIST THE SAME FINDINGS
(I.E. TERMITE INFESTATION, TERMITE DAMAGE, FUNGUS DAMAGE, ETC.). HOWEVER, RECOMMENDATIONS TO CORRECT
THESE FINDINGS MAY VARY FROM COMPANY TO COMPANY. YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO SEEK A SECOND OPINION FROM
ANOTHER COMPANY.
NOTICE TO OWNER: UNDER THE CALIFORNIA MECHANICS LIEN LAW, ANY STRUCTURAL PEST CONTROL COMPANY
WHICH CONTRACTS TO DO WORK FOR YOU, ANY CONTRACTOR, SUBCONTRACTOR, LABORER, SUPPLIER, OR
OTHER PERSON WHO HELPS TO IMPROVE YOUR PROPERTY, BUT IS NOT PAID FOR HIS OR HER WORK OR
SUPPLIES, HAS A RIGHT TO ENFORCE A CLAIM AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY, THIS MEANS THAT AFTER A COURT
HEARING, YOUR PROPERTY COULD BE SOLD BY A COURT OFFICER AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE USED TO
SATISFY THE INDEBTEDNESS. THIS CAN HAPPEN EVEN IF YOU HAVE PAID YOUR STRUCTURAL PEST CONTROL
COMPANY IN FULL IF THE SUBCONTRACTOR, LABORERS, OR SUPPLIERS REMAIN UNPAID.
TO PRESERVE THEIR RIGHT TO FILE A CLAIM OR LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY, CERTAIN CLAIMANTS SUCH AS
SUBCONTRACTORS OR MATERIAL SUPPLIERS ARE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH A DOCUMENT ENTITLED
PRELIMINARY NOTICE. PRIME CONTRACTORS AND LABORERS FOR WAGES DO NOT HAVE TO PROVIDE THIS
NOTICE. A PRELIMINARY NOTICE IS NOT A LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY. ITS PURPOSE IS TO NOTIFY YOU OF
PERSONS WHO MAY HAVE A RIGHT TO FILE A LIEN AGAINST YOUR PROPERTY IF THEY ARE NOT PAID.
NOTE: IF DURING THE COURSE OF PERFORMING ANY REPAIRS, ANY FIXTURE OR PLUMBING IS FOUND TO BE
UNSERVICEABLE, DAMAGED, OR DEFECTIVE, THERE WILL BE AN ADDITIONAL CHARGE FOR REPAIR AND/OR
REPLACEMENT, AS NECESSARY.
NOTE: IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT BUILDING PERMITS BE OBTAINED FOR ALL WORK REQUIRING PERMITS, PRIOR
TO BEGINNING THE RECOMMENDED REPAIRS. FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, CONTACT THE LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT. WORK PERFORMED AS REQUIRED UNDER
PERMIT FROM THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT SHOULD BE APPROVED, ACCEPTED, AND SIGNED OFF BY THE
DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO CONSIDERING SUCH WORK TO BE COMPLETED. THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT MAY
REQUIRE INSTALLATION OF SMOKE/HEAT DETECTORS AS A CONDITION OF OBTAINING A BUILDING PERMIT.
Some structures may not comply with building code requirements or may have structural, plumbing, electrical, heating
and air conditioning, or other defects that do not pertain to wood destroying organisms. A Wood Destroying Pest and
Organism Inspection Report does not contain information about such defects as they are not within the scope of the
license of the inspector or the company issuing this report. Nor does a Wood Destroying Pest and Organism Inspection
Report contain information about asbestos or any other environmental or safety hazard. Should interested parties desire
opinions regarding these items, it is recommended that the owner engage the services of a reputable whole house
inspection company.
This property was not inspected for the presence or absence of health related molds or fungi. By California law, we are
neither qualified, authorized, nor licensed to inspect for health related molds or fungi. If you desire information about
the presence or absence of health related molds or fungi, you should contact an industrial hygienist.
The Structural Pest Control Board Mold Policy Statement is as follows:
“Molds, sometimes called mildew, are not wood-destroying organisms. Branch 3 licensees do not have a duty under the
Structural Pest Control Act and related regulations to classify molds as harmful to human health or not harmful to
human health. This does not modify the Structural Pest Control Act or related regulations.”
This statement is being provided to you for informational purposes.

--- page 112 ---
6
NOTICE TO OWNER / TENANT
State law requires that you be given the following information:
CAUTION – PESTICIDES ARE TOXIC CHEMICALS. Structural Pest Control Operators are registered and regulated by the Structural Pest Control
Board, and apply pesticides which are registered and approved for use by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Registration is granted when the state finds that based on existing scientific evidence there are no appreciable
risks if proper use conditions are followed or that the risks are outweighed by the benefits. The degree of risk depends upon the degree of exposure,
so exposure should be minimized.
If within 24 hours following application, you experience headache, dizziness, nausea, tearing, coughing, nose and throat irritation or develop
shortness of breath, double vision, unusual drowsiness and weakness, or tremors, contact your physician or poison control center (see below) and
your pest control operator immediately. If rodenticide ingestion occurs, you may experience symptoms of mild shock and/or bleeding.
For further information, contract any of the following:
Terminix International
1-800-TERMINIX
Poison Control Center
1-800-876-4766
Regulatory information - Structural Pest Control Board
1-916-561-8700
2005 Evergreen St, Ste. 1500, Sacramento, CA 95815-3831
HEALTH QUESTIONS - CALIFORNIA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONERS
Alameda
(510) 670-5232
Marin
(415) 499-6700
San Luis Obispo
(805) 781-5910
Alpine
(see El Dorado)
Mariposa
(209) 966-2075
San Mateo
(650) 363-4700
Amador
(209) 223-6487
Mendocino
(707) 463-4208
Santa Barbara
(805) 681-5600
Butte
(530) 538-7381
Merced
(209) 385-7431
Santa Clara
(408) 918-4600
Calaveras
(209) 754-6504
Modoc
(530) 233-6401
Santa Cruz
(831) 763-8080
Colusa
(530) 458-0580
Mono
See Inyo County
Shasta
(530) 224-4949
Contra Costa
(925) 646-5250
Monterey
(831) 759-7325
Sierra
See Plumas County
Del Norte
(707) 464-7235
Napa
(707) 253-4357
Siskiyou
(530) 841-4025
El Dorado
(530) 621-5520
Nevada
(530) 273-2648
Solano
(707) 784-1310
Fresno
(559) 456-7510
Orange
(714) 447-7100
Sonoma
(707) 565-2371
Glenn
(530) 934-6501
Placer
(530) 889-7372
Stanislaus
(209) 525-4730
Humboldt
(707) 445-7223 ext. 0
Plumas
(530) 283-6365
Sutter
(530) 822-7500
Imperial
(760) 482-4314
Riverside
(951) 955-3045
Tehama
(530) 527-4504
Inyo
(760) 873-7860
Sacramento
(916) 875-6603
Trinity
(530) 623-1356
Kern
(661) 868-6300
San Benito
(831) 637-5344
Tulare
(559) 685-3323
Kings
(559) 582-3211 #2831
San Bernardino
(909) 387-2105
Tuolumne
(209) 533-5691
Lake
(707) 263-0217
San Diego
(858) 694-2739
Ventura
(805) 388-4222
Lassen
(530) 251-8110
San Francisco
(415) 252-3830
Yolo
(530) 666-8140
Los Angeles
(626) 575-5466
San Joaquin
(209) 468-3300
Yuba
(530) 749-5400
Madera
(559) 675-7876
APPLICATION INFORMATION - CALIFORNIA COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
Alameda
(510) 267-8000
Madera
(559) 675-7893
San Joaquin
(209) 468-3411
Alpine
(530) 694-2146
Marin
(415) 499-3696
San Luis Obispo
(805) 781-5500
Amador
(209) 223-6407
Mariposa
(209) 966-3689
San Mateo
(650) 573-2346
Berkley City
(510) 981-5310
Mendocino
(707) 472-2600
Santa Barbara
(805) 681-5102
Butte
(530) 538-7581
Merced
(209) 381-1200
Santa Clara
(408) 885-4214
Calaveras
(209) 754-6460
Modoc
(530) 233-6311
Santa Cruz
(831) 454-4000
Colusa
(530) 458-0380
Mono
(760) 932-7485
Shasta
(530) 225-5591
Contra Costa
(925) 957-5400
Monterey
(831) 755-4500
Sierra
(530) 993-6701
Del Norte
(707) 464-3191
Napa
(707) 253-4231
Siskiyou
(530) 841-4040 ext. 0
El Dorado
(530) 621-6100
Nevada
(530) 265-1450
Solano
(707) 784-8600
Fresno
(559) 445-0666
Orange
(714) 834-8180
Sonoma
(707) 565-4567
Glenn
(530) 934-6588
Pasadena
(626) 744-6004
Stanislaus
(209) 558-5670
Humboldt
(707) 445-6200
Placer
(530) 889-7141
Sutter
(530) 822-7215
Imperial
(760) 482-4438
Plumas
(530) 283-6337
Tehama
(530) 527-6824
Inyo
(760) 783-7868
Riverside
(951) 782-2974
Trinity
(530) 623-8209
Kern
(661) 868-0302
Sacramento
(916) 875-5881
Tulare
(559) 737-4660 ext. 0
Kings
(559) 584-1402 - Ask for “Nurse of
the Day”
San Benito
(831) 637-5367
Tuolumne
(209) 533-7400
Lake
(707) 263-8929
San Bernardino
(909) 387-6280
Ventura
(805) 677-5200
Lassen
(530) 251-8183
San Diego
(619) 515-6555
Yolo
(530) 666-8645
Long Beach City
(562) 570-4000
San Francisco
(415) 554-2500
Yuba
(530) 741-6366
Los Angeles
(213) 240-8117
One or more of the following chemicals may be applied to your property:
ADVANCE (Diflubenzuron) BOR-RAM (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) BORA-CARE (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) BORATHOR
(Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) CIMEXA (Silicon Dioxide) CY-KICK (Cyfluthrin) DRAGNET SFR(Permethrin) DRIONE INSECTICIDE DUST
(Amor, Silica Aerogel, Pyrethrins, Piperonyl Butoxide) PHANTOM (Chlorfenapyr) PRELUDE (Permethrin) PREMISE 75 INSECTICIDE (Imidacloprid)
PT TRI-DIE DUST (Amor, Silica Aerogel, Pyrethrins, Piperonyl Butoxide) RECRUIT HD (Noviflumuron) TAP INSULATION (Orthoboric Acid) TEMPO
WP (Cyfluthrin) TEMPO SC ULTRA (Cyfluthrin) TIM-BOR (Disodium Octaborate Tetrahydrate) TERMIDOR (Fipronil) TTRELONA (Novaluron)
VIKANE (Sulfuryl Fluoride) NOTE: Chloropicrin is use as a warning agent on all structural fumigations.
Thank you for calling Terminix. Should you have any questions regarding this report, please call 1-800-TERMINIX.

--- page 113 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
Ultimate Protection Home Pest Inspection
Please pay special attention to findings and comments below as these may indicate conditions that can lead to termite
and pest problems.
EXTERIOR INSPECTION
PROPERTY DETAILS
Linear Feet:
331
Built Pre 1985:
☒
Primary Use:
Duplex
# of Stories:
2
Roof Type:
Shingle Roof
Foundation Type:
Concrete
Construction Type:
Floating Slab
Siding:
Stucco
Industry Type:
Square Footage:
Lot Size:
# of Gas Meters:
Cubic Feet:
Eave Height:
Peak Height:
PROPERTY HAS A:
Cistern:
French Drain:
Well:
Visible Pond, Lake, Stream, or Waterway:
Sprinkler System Present:
Exterior Slab (False Porch) Over Basement Area:
Gas Meter Have 3’ Clearance:
CONDUCIVE CONDITIONS
Indications of pests, rodents, termites,
wildlife, or other wood-destroying pests?
☐
Live Subterranean Termites
Found?
☐
Damage Found?
☐
Trees/shrubs on or against
home?
☒
Conditions on or around foundation
conducive to termite attack?
☐
Foundation slab/wall visible?
☒
Conditions allowing water to collect around
structure?
☐
Openings large enough for
pest/rodent/wildlife entry?
☐
Gutters and downspouts clear of debris and
standing water?
☐
Siding Less Than 6" From
Grade:
☐
Styrofoam Insulation or "DRI-VIT" Below
Grade?
☐
Wood embedded in concrete?
☐
Breeding Sites:
Homeowner
Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Address:
29 BAYTREE WAY
City State Zip:
SAN MATEO, CA,94402-1203
Home Phone:
4088575838
Work Phone:

--- page 114 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
INTERIOR INSPECTION
PROPERTY DETAILS
Sump Pump:
A/C - Heat Ducts in or Below Slab:
Plenum A/C - Heat System:
Radiant Heat:
CONDUCIVE CONDITIONS
Indications Of Pests, Rodents, Termites,
Wildlife, Or Other Wood-Destroying Pests?
☐
Live Subterranean Termites Found?
☐
Damage Found?
☐
Obvious Signs Of Leaks?
☐
Musky Odors?
☐
Bath Traps Installed Where Applicable?
☒
Wall Separation/Cracks?
☐
Sagging Or Bouncing Floors?
☐
ATTIC
Number Of Attics:
Attic Access Location:
Inside - Hatch
Indications Of Pests, Rodents, Termites, Wildlife, Or Other Wood-Destroying Pests?
☐
Adequate Ventilation?
☒
Obvious Signs Of Leaks?
☐
Attic Vents Screened?
☒
Asbestos Present?
☐
CRAWL SPACE
Number Of Crawl Spaces:
Crawl Space Access Location:
Inside
Height Of Crawl Space:
High Point Of Crawl Space:
Low Point Of Crawl Space:
Distance Between Joists:
Depth Of Joists:
# of electrical connections:
Indications of pests, rodents, termites, wildlife, fungi, or other wood-destroying pests?
☐
Wood debris, stored material or structure/ground contact?
☐
Excessive Moisture?
☐
Visible Plumbing Leaks?
☐
Cracked foundation
walls/supports?
☐
Sagging Or Cracked
Floor Joists?
☐
Wood-Earth Contact?
☐
Wood Debris In Crawl
Space?
☐
Inadequate Ventilation In
Crawl Space?
☐
Wood Embedded In
Concrete?
☐
Entire Crawl Space
Accessible?
☒
INSPECTOR’S STATEMENT OF VISIBLE DAMAGE
None
Date:
06/30/2023
TECHNICIAN’S STATEMENT OF VISIBLE DAMAGE
Date:

--- page 115 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
Scale 1:
This graph is a record of a visual, non-destructive inspection by Terminix of certain readily accessible areas of the
identified property for visible termite infestation/damage. Terminix is not responsible for repairs to damages disclosed
above. In addition, hidden damage may exist in concealed, obstructed or inaccessible areas. No attempt to remove siding,
plastic or sheetrock insulation, carpeting, paneling, etc. to search for hidden damage was made. Terminix cannot
guarantee that the damage disclosed by visual inspection of the premises shown above represents the entirety of the
damage which may exist as of the date of the initial control application. Terminix shall not be responsible for repair of any
existing damage including without limitation, any damage which existed in areas or in structural members which were not
accessible for visual inspection as of the date of this graph.

--- page 116 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY ELEMENTS
Exterior Gas
Grill
Water Shut-Off
Sprinkler Shut-Off
Gas Meter
Air Conditioner
Exterior New
Paint
Exterior Weather
Door
Foam Board Insulation
French Drain
Finished Garage
Wall
Interior New Paint
Stall Shower
Stump
Sump Pump
Visible Waterway
Zero Property Line
KEY TO EVIDENCE
Access Holes
Allowing Pest
Entry
Ant Activity
Bed Bug Activity
Bird Activity
Carpenter Ants
Fume
Carpenter Ants
Local Treatment
Carpenter Bee Local
Treatment
Cellulose Debris
Cistern
Cracks In
Foundation Wall
Cracks In Stucco
Dampwood Termites
Drywood
Termites Local
Treatment
Drywood
Termites
(Existing
Customer)
Drywood Termites
Preventative
Treatment
Drywood Termites
Fumigation
Earth Contact
Excessive
Moisture
Excessive Moisture
In Subarea
Exterior Slab Over Basement
Area
Faulty Grade
Faulty Grade At
Vent
Faulty Grade Flash
Wall
Firewood At Foundation
Flaking Peeling
Wall
Flies
Fungus
Gnaw Marks/Debris
(Rodent)
Heavy
Vegetation
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
Duct Work
Inaccessible Area(s)
Attic: Insulation
Inaccessible Area(s) Attic:
No Clearance
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
No Opening
Inaccessible
Area(s) Attic:
Storage
Inaccessible Area(s)
Attic: Closet
Storage
Inaccessible Area(s) Attic:
High Temp
Inaccessible
Area(s) Deck:
No Clearance
Inaccessible
Area(s) Deck:
No Clearance
Inaccessible Area(s)
Garage: Storage
Inaccessible Area(s)
Inaccessible
Subarea
Inadequate
Ventilation
Large Gaps
Mice
Mosquitoes
Missing
Screens/Vent
Covers
Plumbing Leak
Powder Post Beetles Fume
Roaches
Rodents
Rodent Droppings
Rodent Tunneling In
Insulation
Rodent
Tunneling Under
Slab Or
Concrete Pad
Rodent Waste
(Droppings)
Rub Marks (Rodent)
Siding Less Than 6" From
Grade
Spiders
Standing Water
in Subarea
Stucco Below Grade
Styrofoam Insulation Or DRI-
Vit Below Grade
Subterranean
Termites
(Existing
Customer)
Subterranean
Termites
Preventative
Treatment
Subterranean
Termites Liquid
Treatment
Subterranean Termites Local
Treatment
Subterranean
Termites
Curative Bait
Vent Below
Grade
Water Stains
Water Stains: Deck Stucco
Water Stains:
Garage Ceiling
Water Stains:
Attic
Wildlife
Wood Embedded In
Concrete

--- page 117 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
GENERAL TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trench or trench/rod soil adjacent to exterior
foundation walls
Vertically drill exterior attached slabs and treat soil
beneath along point of attachment
Excavate soil beneath dirt-filled porch slab at
point(s) of attachment to the structure and
treat soil beneath
Vertically drill the dirt-filled porch slab and treat the
soil beneath the slab along the point(s) of
attachment to the structure
Drill the exterior foundation wall of a crawl space or basement from the inside and treat the soil immediately
beneath the dirt-filled porch slab by short-rodding along the point(s) of attachment to the structure
Drill through each side of the dirt-filled porch foundation wall per product label specifications and treat the
soil immediately beneath the dirt-filled porch slab by short-rodding along the entire inside perimeter of the
DFP
Drill foundation walls of the dirt-filled porch and treat the soil immediately beneath the slab by long-rodding
adjacent to the entire inside perimeter of the DFP
Trench, remove, and treat soil by the Backfill
Method (see label)
Drill and treat voids of a double brick foundation
wall per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a stone foundation wall
per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a triple brick foundation wall
per product label specifications
Drill and treat voids of a hollow block
foundation wall per product label
specifications
Drill and treat voids of a brick veneer foundation
wall per product label specifications
Drill and treat all voids of a chimney per
product label specifications
Drill and treat a subterranean termite infested
wooden sill or plate
Drill and treat a subterranean termite infested
wooden joist/s
Drill into voids of termite infested wood and inject
product into inaccessible voids ,termite galleries
and nests
Make small openings into termite shelter
tubes and inject product inside
Make multiple openings into carton nests in building
voids or in trees and make multiple injections of
products to varying depths
Trench, trench and rod, or rod soil of planter box adjacent to the exterior foundation wall according to state
specific treatment standards or to label directions, whichever apply
Install In-ground Monitoring Station
NON-CHEMICAL TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Provide at least 14” clearance between wood
and soil in the crawl space
Install access to ceiling of basement for inspection
and/or treatment
Install door/s to provide access for treating
soil adjacent to plumbing
Install crawl space access door
Install Automatic Vents
Remove cellulose debris and/or any other debris
that would interfere with inspection or treatment in
the crawl space
Remove form boards
Scrape off termite tunnels
Set wooden supports on concrete pads to
properly insulate wood to soil contact
Cut off stucco at least 3” above grade and remove
stucco below grade
Remove wood to ground contacts
Break ground contact on step stringers
Prepare floor surface for drilling
Install a vapor barrier over the soil of a crawl space
Install floor supports to provide additional
support

--- page 118 ---
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
BASEMENT TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Vertically drill basement concrete slab floor
and treat the soil beneath
Drill and treat basement door frames
CRAWL SPACE TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trench or trench/rod soil adjacent to the
inside of the foundation walls of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to the piers
of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to soil
pipes of a crawl space
Trench or trench and rod soil adjacent to a chimney
of a crawl space
EXCLUSION/WILDLIFE TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Trap - Wildlife
Install Mushroom/Turbine Vent Cage - Roof
Seal Mushroom/Termite Vent - In Attic
Install Plumbing Vent Cap - Roof
Screen Gable Vent
Screen Foundation Vent
Screen Soffit Vent
Repair Roof Return
Seal Pipe Penetration
Seal Hole In Wall/Foundation, Floor, Etc.
Install One-Way Door Exclusion Cage
Install Garage Door Seal
Install Dryer Vent Cover - Wall
Install Oven Vent Cover - Wall
Install Oven Vent Cage - Roof
Install Chimney Cap
PRE-CONSTRUCTION TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Vertical treatment zone - trench or trench and
rod soil adjacent to pillars and other interior
foundation elements such as chimneys and
soil pipes
Vertical treatment zone - trench or trench/rod soil
adjacent to utility pipes, plumbing lines, and
conduits that will penetrate through the slab (1
gallon/sqft)
Horizontal treatment zone - make a horizontal
treatment to the entire surface area of soil or
substrate to be covered beneath the concrete
slab
Vertical treatment zone - upon completion of
grading along the outside of the exterior foundation
wall, treat the backfill by trenching or
trenching/rodding the soil adjacent to the exterior
foundation wall
SLAB TREATMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Drill the slab per product label specifications
along the expansion joint where two slabs
meet and treat soil underneath
Treat soil adjacent to plumbing penetrations
Drill the slab along one side of the partition
wall per product label specifications and treat
the soil beneath
Drill the slab along both sides of a load-bearing wall
per product label specifications and treat the soil
beneath
Drill through the exterior foundation wall
immediately below the slab per product label
specifications and treat the soil beneath by
short-rodding from the outside
Vertically drill the slab along the inside perimeter of
the foundation walls and treat the soil beneath the
slab

--- page 119 ---
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Other
Other
Other
Other

--- page 120 ---
Summary of Charges
Product
Renewals
Amount
Tax
Discount
Total Amount
Initial Term
WDIR Real Estate
Inspection
$250.00
$0.00
$0.00
$250.00
Grand Total:
$250
Product
Merchandise
Quantity
Purchaser Payments
By signing below, I, the cardholder, have authorized Terminix to process this one-time payment without further signature or
authorization from me.
Mastercard ending in 1685 exp. 1127
$250.00
WDIR Real Estate Inspection
Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023
AUTOPAY: Purchaser authorizes Terminix and affiliates including SMAC to automatically debit Purchaser’s checking account or credit
card, as indicated below, in an amount equal to any recurring service charges due to Terminix under this Agreement within five (5)
days of the date such charge becomes due. This authorization will remain in effect until the fifth business day following Terminix’s
receipt from Purchaser of a written notice to cancel such authorization. Purchaser understands that cancellation of this authorization
does not cancel Purchaser’s obligations under this Agreement.
Terminix Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023
SMAC Authorization
Purchaser Name:
ROBERT RUSSELL
Purchaser (Signature):
Date:
06/30/2023

--- page 121 ---
TERMINIX.



--- page 122 ---
BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, I UNDERSTAND THAT PERMISSION FOR TERMINIX TO BEGIN WORK IMMEDIATELY
SHALL NOT BE CONSTRUED AS A WAIVER OF ANY OF MY RIGHTS UNDER THIS NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
DATE OF TRANSACTION: 06/30/2023
YOU MAY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION WITHOUT ANY PENALTY OR OBLIGATION, WITHIN THREE BUSINESS
DAYS FROM THE ABOVE DATE.
IF YOU CANCEL, ANY PROPERTY TRADED IN, ANY PAYMENTS MADE BY YOU UNDER THE CONTRACT OR SALE,
ANY NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENT EXECUTED BY YOU WILL BE RETURNED WITHIN 10 BUSINESS DAYS
FOLLOWING RECEIPT BY THE SELLER OF YOUR CANCELLATION NOTICE, AND ANY SECURITY INTEREST
ARISING OUT OF THE TRANSACTION WILL BE CANCELLED.
IF YOU CANCEL, YOU MUST MAKE AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER AT YOUR RESIDENCE, IN SUBSTANTIALLY AS
GOOD CONDITION AS WHEN RECEIVED, ANY GOODS DELIVERED TO YOU UNDER THIS CONTRACT OR SALE, OR
YOU MAY IF YOU WISH, COMPLY WITH THE INSTRUCTIONS OF THE SELLER REGARDING THE SHIPMENT OF THE
GOODS AT THE SELLER’S EXPENSE AND RISK.
IF YOU DO MAKE THE GOODS AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER AND THE SELLER DOES NOT PICK THEM UP WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THE DATE OF YOUR NOTICE OF CANCELLATION, YOU MAY RETAIN OR DISPOSE OF THE GOODS
WITHOUT ANY FURTHER OBLIGATION. IF YOU FAIL TO MAKE THE GOODS AVAILABLE TO THE SELLER, OR IF
YOU AGREE TO RETURN THE GOODS TO THE SELLER AND FAIL TO DO SO, THEN YOU REMAIN LIABLE FOR
PERFORMANCE OF ALL OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
TO CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION, MAIL OR DELIVER A SIGNED AND DATED COPY OF THIS CANCELLATION
NOTICE OR ANY OTHER WRITTEN NOTICE, OR SEND A TELEGRAM TO:
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON, CA 94588-3324
4087415415
NOT LATER THAN MIDNIGHT OF: 07/06/2023
THEREBY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION
Date:
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE
100
PLEASANTON, CA
94588-3324
4087415415
Notice of Cancellation
Inspection ID #:
114553-063023154719-9210
29 BAYTREE WAY
SAN MATEO, CA 94402-1203

--- page 123 ---
Contract #:
114553-063023154719-9210
Inspection Date:
06/30/2023
Inspector:
LAFFERTY, TRAVIS JOSE
SAN JOSE
6678 OWENS DR STE 100
PLEASANTON,CA 94588-3324
4087415415
Product Labels & Safety Data Sheets
Product Labels & Safety Data Sheets, please visit: https://lycensed.com/orgs/terminix/public/chemical_documents
For NY customers, please select ‘NY’ as your locale

--- page 124 ---
Page 1 of 1
BBUD
BLECHER BUILDING + URBAN DESIGN
Architecture - Urbanism - Green Building
3343 22nd Street                            415-364-8478
San Francisco, CA 94110    www.bbudesign.com          
July 10, 2023
From:
Howard Blecher, Architect
Blecher Building + Urban Design
3343 22nd Street, San Francisco, CA 94110
415-364-8478
howard@bbudesign.com   
Project Location:
29 BAYTREE WAY & 22 DE SABLA ROAD
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
A.P.N.: 032-41-2230
San Mateo Municipal code
26.65.040 APPLICATION FOR CONVERSION—PRIOR NOTICE.
(b) (6) A statement of the repairs and improvements which will be done prior to sale of the units;
The following repairs and improvements will be done prior to sale of the units:
-
29 Baytree Way
o
None
 
-
22 De Sabla Road
o
None

--- page 125 ---
Att 7 - Neighborhood Meeting Summary Notes
29 Baytree Wy & 22 De Sabla Rd San Mateo Condominium 
Conversion
7/19/2022
INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING 
Correspondence
Meeting Information:
Date: 7/19/2022
Time: 6pm-7pm
Location: Virtual Zoom 
meeting
Date of
Contact
Method of
Contact
Name
Joan Burns
Address
1 Baldwin Ave.
San Mateo, CA
15 El Cerrito
San Mateo, CA
Contact Information 1
650-401-6319
Comments
7/12/2022 
Phone Call
Interested in purchasing dwelling unit if available. She
requested the property owner reach out to her.
Wanted to confirm that project included two (2) 
condomimiums
only
Amy MacDonald
Karen Morical
650-766-6544
650-401-6997
7/15/2022 
Phone Call
32 Baytree Way #4
San Mateo, CA 94402
7/19/2022 
Meeting
Attendance
Wanted clarification on extent of physical work to be 
done.
Arash Daneshzadeh 
Not 
provided.
arashdaneshzadeh@gmail.com
650-759-3825
7/19/2022 
Meeting
Wanted to confirm that project included two (2) 
condomimiums
Attendance & 
only
email

--- page 126 ---
TO: 
Manira Sandhir 
Planning Manager 
City of San Mateo, Planning Division 
330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Ph: (650) 522-7000 
Email: msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org  
website: www.cityofsanmateo.org 
PROJECT LOCATION: 
29 BAYTREE WAY & 22 DE SABLA ROAD 
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 
A.P.N.: 032-41-2230 
OWNER: 
Robert Russell 
29 BAYTREE WAY 
SAN MATEO, CA 94401 
Ph:  (408) 857-5838 
Email: robertrussell831@gmail.com 
August 5, 2022 
RE: Unit and Tenant Statement Per San Mateo Municipal Code 26.65.040(3) 
Number of Units: 2 
Unit  
Size 
Parking Spaces 
29 BAYTREE WAY: 
1870.3 sq. ft. 
1 
22 DE SABLA ROAD: 
2174.0 sq. ft. 
2 
Number of tenants, including number of tenants sixty-two years of age and older: 0 
Sincerely, 
Robert Russell 
Att 8 - Unit and Tenant Statement

--- page 127 ---
PROPOSED CONDOMINIUM
CONVERSION
29 BAYTREE WAY &
22 DE SABLA ROAD  
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
A.P.N. 032-41-2230
MATERIALS BOARD
8/5/2022
22 DE SABLA
29 BAYTREE
(E) PAINTED STUCCO
TO REMAIN
(E) ASHPHALT SHINGLE
ROOFING TO REMAIN
(E) PAINTED BOARD &
BATTEN TO REMAIN
(E) PAINTED BRICK TO
REMAIN
(E) PAINTED BRICK TO
REMAIN
(E) PAINTED STUCCO
TO REMAIN
(E) ASHPHALT SHINGLE
ROOFING TO REMAIN
Att 9 - Colors and Materials Board

--- page 128 ---
29 Baytree Way & 22 De 
Sabla Road 
Condo Conversion
(PA-2022-064)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
October 10, 2023
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
Community Development

--- page 129 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
• Site Address: 29 Baytree Way & 22 De Sabla Road
• Size: 7,699 square-feet (sq. ft.)
• Land Use Designation: Low Density Multi-family
• Zoning: R2 (Two Family Dwellings)
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
2

--- page 130 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
• Condominium conversion to result in: 
• 22 De Sabla Road Unit:
• 2-Story 
• 2,156 sq. ft. (2 bed/2.5 bath)
• Attached 2-car garage
• 4,000 sq. ft. exclusive outdoor area
• 29 Baytree Way Unit: 
• 2-story 
• 1,853 sq. ft. (2 bed/1 bath)
• Attached 1-car garage
• 2,930 sq. ft. of exclusive outdoor area 
• 785 sq. ft. side yard Common Area 
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
3

--- page 131 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND – ENTITLEMENTS (1)
• Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) to legalize a rear 
storage room at the 22 De Sabla 
4

--- page 132 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND – ENTITLEMENTS (2)
• Tentative Parcel Map (TPM) for the condominium conversion 
5

--- page 133 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND – ENTITLEMENTS (3)
• Parking Variance 
• 1-car garage for 29 Baytree Way
• Reduced stall size of 9 ft. by 17 ft. 
6

--- page 134 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND – ENTITLEMENTS (4)
• Setback Variance
• Reduced right (4.86 ft.) and front 
yard (14.31 ft.) setbacks for 29 
Baytree
• Reduced left side (3.81 ft.) and 
right side (4.77 ft.) setbacks for 22 
De Sabla 
7

--- page 135 ---
REVISED RESOLUTION – 
• Minor text corrections
• Belcher to Blecher
• Exiting to Existing 
8

--- page 136 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL 
DETERMINATION 
Exempt pursuant to Class 1 Section 
15301(k) Division of Existing Multiple 
Family or Single-Family Residences into 
Common-Interest Ownership because 
the project represents a conversion of 
an existing duplex from single entity 
ownership into common ownership 
condominium units. 
California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA)
9

--- page 137 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt the revised resolution to approve a Tentative Parcel Map, Variance 
(Parking and Setbacks), Site Plan and Architectural Review, and California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for the conversion of an existing 
duplex from single entity ownership into a condominium which would allow 
each unit to be individually owned based on the Findings for Approval and 
subject to the Conditions of Approvals
10

--- page 138 ---
Thank You 
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
Community Development
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org  
650-522-7205
11

--- page 139 ---
N
|



--- page 140 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND – ENTITLEMENTS (5)
• Variance Findings
•
There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable 
to the subject property that do not generally apply to other properties in the 
same zone or neighborhood; 
•
If it is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property 
rights that are also possessed by other properties in the same zone or 
neighborhood; 
•
If the variance will not be detrimental to public welfare, health, or safety, and, 
•
If granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the 
General Plan. 
13

--- page 141 ---
Thank You
Staff Name
Staff title/Department
Contact Info
14

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7995
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zach Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 10, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement – Annual Review and Extension Request (PA-2023-050)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution accepting the Annual Reports on the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement finding that Bay 
Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC has complied in good faith with the terms of the Development Agreement for the 
period covering December 21, 2020 through December 20, 2022; and Recommend to City Council adoption of an 
Ordinance to approve a three-year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement.
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Meadows Phase II Project is an 83-acre transit-oriented development with a range of land uses, including 
residential, commercial, educational, and public park uses that redeveloped the former Bay Meadows Racetrack, which 
has a main site address of 2600 S. Delaware Street. The Bay Meadows Phase II area is subdivided into 18 development 
blocks: five office blocks, four mixed-use blocks, and nine residential blocks. 
The City Council originally approved the Bay Meadows Phase II Project in November of 2005 in adopting the Bay Meadows 
Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, Environmental Impact Report, and the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement, 
which governs the development over an 18-year long timeframe, through December 20, 2023. Ordinance No. 17 (2005), 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (Attachment 3), provides an 18-year timeframe for the vested rights 
of the projects and completion of improvements under the Agreement.  
Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) has requested a three-year extension of the Development Agreement’s 
term, from December 20, 2023 to December 20, 2026. Due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting 
slow-down in the office market, the Bay Meadows Phase II project developer, Wilson Meany (“Applicant”), indicates that 
they are unable to construct the final two blocks (Mixed Use Blocks 2 and 3) within the original Development Agreement 
term ending on December 20, 2023. In addition, staff is requesting the Planning Commission conduct an annual review of 
the Development Agreement. In accordance with Article 6 of the Development Agreement, the Planning Commission is 
required to determine good faith compliance by the owner with the terms of the Development Agreement. 
Development Agreement Extension Request
On August 11, 2023, the Applicant submitted a letter explaining the extension request of the Development Agreement for 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Project (PA-2023-050) for a period of three years. As outlined in the extension request letter 
(Attachment 4), the Applicant is seeking a three-year extension of the Development Agreement to extend the term from 
18 years to 21 years, which extends the term of the Development Agreement to December 20, 2026. The Applicant 
indicates that the extension is necessary due to the COVID-19 pandemic delaying their ability to complete the 
development of the final two blocks (MU2 and MU3) by causing ongoing disruption in the office and financing markets. No

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
other changes to the Development Agreement are being requested. The original Development Agreement was approved 
by Ordinance, and an Ordinance Amendment approval by the City Council would be needed to make the requested change 
to the terms of the Development Agreement. 
Section 3.8 of the Development Agreement states that the City cannot impose any further or additional exactions on the 
development of the project.  The exactions applicable to the Project as provided in the Specific Plan and the Development 
Agreement shall not be modified or renegotiated by the City as a result of any amendment to the Specific Plan, the Project 
Approvals, the Approvals or the Development Agreement which does not materially increase the density or intensity of 
development. As such, no further exactions are sought for the extension request. In addition, Section 11.1 of the 
Development Agreement provides that the City and Developer may amend the Development Agreement by mutual 
consent in writing, and in a manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development 
Agreement Resolution.  
The Draft Ordinance is included as Attachment 2 for the Planning Commission’s recommendation to City Council. Following 
this public hearing, the amendment to the Development Agreement would be brought before the City Council for final 
action. After introduction and adoption of the Ordinance, the Owner and City would execute and record the amendment 
prior to the end of the original Development Agreement term of December 20, 2023. In addition, staff would continue to 
bring an annual review of the Development Agreement to the Planning Commission until the end of the Development 
Agreement’s extended term, if applicable.
 
Annual Review of Development Agreement
The Owner is annually required to submit a letter and additional documentation demonstrating good faith compliance 
with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement. The Planning Commission last conducted the annual review 
at its April 27, 2021 meeting for the period of December 21, 2018 to December 20, 2020. For 2021 and 2022 the Owner 
has also continued to work in good faith to complete the obligations under the Development Agreement.   
The Owner submitted an Annual Review Matrix (Attachment 5) for the period of December 21, 2020 through December 
20, 2022, covering the sixteenth and seventeenth review years that explains compliance with the milestones listed in 
Section 3.2 of the Development Agreement. As outlined in the Annual Review Matrix, there were no milestones required 
for completion during this period and most of the Development Agreement requirements have either been completed or 
are considered ongoing pending completion of the remaining building blocks. The attached matrix demonstrates that the 
Owner has complied with all applicable requirements of the Development Agreement for the review period of December 
21, 2020 through December 20, 2022.
Current Development Status
Construction within the Bay Meadows Phase II area has continued since the last annual review in April of 2021. Most 
notably, construction of Office Station Blocks (“STA”) 1 and 5 was completed. In addition, Residential Block (RES) 6 
commenced vertical construction. In addition, the Applicant obtained Planning Commission approval in 2021 for the last 
two remaining blocks, Mixed-Use Block 2 (MU 2) and Mixed-Use Block 3 (MU 3) providing for 67 residential units, 302,978 
square feet of office use within two buildings, and 14,224 square feet of active uses, which may include retail, restaurant, 
or other uses allowed in the Specific Plan. With MU 2 and MU 3, the total development will result in 1,048 residential units 
and 1,217,826 square feet of office area, which comply with the aggregate range of the Specific Plan. The associated 
Building Permits for MU 2 and MU 3 have been submitted and are in review with staff. As indicated above, the Applicant 
has requested an extension of the Development Agreement to complete construction of the MU 2 and MU 3 blocks.
Finding of Compliance with Development Agreement
The Development Agreement requires the Planning Commission to determine the Owner’s good faith compliance with the 
terms of the Development Agreement. A Resolution documenting the Owner’s compliance with the terms of the 
Development Agreement for the period of December 21, 2020 through December 20, 2022, is included as Attachment 1.
FISCAL IMPACT:
There are no direct fiscal implications to the City’s General Fund associated with this request. The City collected

--- page 144 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
development impact fees at the time of issuance of building permits for development on each block.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), the Development 
Agreement annual review is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative action that will not impact the 
physical environment. 
In addition, the City Council certified the Final Environmental Impact report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Transit-Oriented 
Development Corridor Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, in compliance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) on April 18, 2005.  The City Council then approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment, re-certified the Final EIR for that project, and adopted the findings and statement of overriding 
considerations on November 7, 2005. Because there are no substantial changes to the project and no new information has 
become available since the time of the EIR, no further CEQA analysis is required at this time (CEQA Section 21166).
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No public comments were received prior to the publication of this report. Public comments submitted after publication of 
this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public hearing and posted to 
this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this 
public hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.
•
The City’s “900 List”, which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings for Annual Review
Att 2 – Draft Ordinance with Amendment to the Development Agreement
Att 3 – Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 17 (2005) Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement
Att 4 – Extension Request Letter
Att 5 – Bay Meadows Phase II DA Annual Review Matrix
STAFF CONTACTS:
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7211

--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
FINDING THAT BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS LLC HAS COMPLIED IN GOOD FAITH WITH THE TERMS 
OF THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE 16th and 17th  REVIEW PERIODS 
COVERING DECEMBER 21, 2020 THROUGH DECEMBER 20, 2022
WHEREAS, the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement was adopted by the City Council on 
November 7, 2005 and became effective on December 21, 2005;
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement and City Council Resolution No. 120 (1990) - Establishing 
Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development Agreements requires the annual review of 
the Agreement and all actions taken pursuant to the Development Agreement, and the Planning Commission is 
required to undertake this annual review and determine the good faith compliance by the Owner with the terms 
of the Agreement; 
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) submitted documentation setting forth 
the Owner’s good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement for three (3) 
review periods, from December 21, 2020 through December 20, 2022;
WHEREAS, there were no specific items required to be completed in the sixteenth and seventeenth 
years of the Development Agreement;
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo, in accordance with California Government Code Section 65865.1 
through this Planning Commission has held a public hearing on October 10, 2023 pursuant to the notice required 
by law for the finding of Owner’s compliance in good faith with the terms of the Development Agreement, at 
which hearing the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence;
WHEREAS, the City considered all aspects of the Bay Meadows Phase II development project including 
the Development Agreement and its provisions for this annual review in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan and 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment Environmental Impact Report that was prepared and circulated for 
public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council certified the EIR on April 18, 2005 and re-certified it on 
June 6, 2006 and November 7, 2006.  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), this development 
agreement review is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative action that will not impact the 
physical environment.  The environmental impacts of the Bay Meadows project were previously analyzed in an 
environmental impact report.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:
1.
The Planning Commission has determined in accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 
15378(b)(5), this development agreement review is not a project subject to CEQA because it is 
an administrative action that will not impact the physical environment. The environmental 
impacts of the Bay Meadows project were previously analyzed in an environmental impact 
report.

--- page 146 ---
2.
Both parties to the Development Agreement have complied with the requirements of Articles 
6.2 and 6.3 of the Development Agreement.
3.
The Recitals set forth at the beginning of this Resolution are hereby incorporated as findings 
based on substantial evidence in the record and on that basis are hereby adopted and approved.
4.
The Planning Commission, by at least a majority of its members, hereby finds that based on 
substantial evidence Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC has complied in good faith with 
the terms of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement for the sixteenth and 
seventeenth review periods from December 21, 2020 through December 20, 2022 within the 
meaning of Article 6.3 of the Development Agreement, Section 8(a) of Resolution 120 (1990) 
adopted by the City Council on October 15, 1990,  and Cal. Government Code Section 65865.1. 
5.
A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk.

--- page 147 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Approve a Development Agreement Extension for Bay Meadows Phase II Project (PA-2023-
050)
WHEREAS, the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement was adopted by the City 
Council on November 7, 2005 and became effective on December 21, 2005; 
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) submitted an application 
on August 17, 2023, (PA-2023-050), requesting a three-year extension of the Development 
Agreement, citing the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted ability to complete the 
envisioned development on the Property within the allotted timeframe;
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the parties may 
amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in the manner provided 
for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development Agreement 
Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development Agreement to 
add three (3) years to the Term to facilitate the beneficial development of the Property; 
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement has not been amended or modified except as 
otherwise indicated in this amendment, and neither the Owner nor the City is in default in the 
performance of their respective obligations under the Development agreement; 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on October 10, 2023, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered and recommended that the City Council 
approve the extension request; and
WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on _________, duly noticed, at which 
all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. In accordance with Government Code section 65867.5, the Amendment to the 
Development Agreement is consistent with the City’s General Plan and the Rail Corridor Transit 
Oriented Development Plan and Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment for the 
reasons set forth in the Findings for Approval in the Administrative Report accompanying this 
Ordinance; and
Section 2. The Amendment is compatible with the requirements of the City’s General Plan and 
Zoning Ordinance as outlined in the original project approval, and
Section 3. For the reasons set forth in the Administrative Report accompanying the original 
project approval, the Development Agreement provides substantial public benefits to persons 
residing or owning property outside the boundaries of the development project, beyond the

--- page 148 ---
exactions for public benefits required in the normal development review process under federal, 
state, or local law.; and
Section 4. The Council approves the following amendments to the Agreement in substantially 
the form attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance and authorizes the City Manager to execute the 
amended Development Agreement as follows:
Section 1.15 of the Development Agreement, “The term of this Agreement, commencing 
on the later to occur of (i) the Effective Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated 
challenging the validity of the Enacting Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan 
Amendment, the Specific Plan Amendment or other Project Approval, this Agreement, 
or the Master Tentative Map Approval, the date such legal proceeding is finally 
concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other relevant approval, and 
terminating twenty-one (21) years thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as provided in 
this Agreement.   For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally 
concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment in 
such proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other Project 
Approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the term of this 
Agreement ends on December 20, 2026.”
Section 5. Environmental Determination. A Supplemental Environmental Impact Report to the 
Rail Corridor Plan Environmental Impact Report was prepared for this Project and the City 
Council approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment and re-certified the Final EIR for 
that project and adopted the findings and statement of overriding considerations in accordance 
with Public Resources Code section, section 21061.
Section 6. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be 
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed 
severable and all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 7. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with 
Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 8. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to 
complete., and adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 149 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue, Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071
Attention: Benjamin Saltsman, Esq.
THE AREA ABOVE IS RESERVED FOR RECORDER’S USE
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC
SEPARATE PAGE PURSUANT TO CAL. GOV’T CODE § 27361.6

--- page 150 ---
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC
This FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC 
(“First Amendment”) is dated December ____, 2023, and is by and between the City of 
San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California (“City”), and Bay Meadows 
Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Bay Meadows”).
WHEREAS, City and Bay Meadows are parties to that certain Bay Meadows 
Phase II Development Agreement dated November 21, 2005 and recorded in the Official 
Records of San Mateo County, California (“Official Records”) on January 24, 2006 as 
Instrument Number 2006-011071, as modified by (1) that certain Memorandum of 
Technical Corrections to the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (the 
“Memorandum of Corrections”) dated July 21, 2008 and recorded in the Official Records 
on July 22, 2008 as Instrument Number 2008-084562 and (2) that certain Minor 
Modification to the Development Agreement between The City of San Mateo and Bay 
Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC dated November 21, 2011 and recorded in the 
Official Records on March 26, 2012 as Instrument Number 2012-039872 (collectively, the 
"Development Agreement"), pertaining to the redevelopment of the "Property" described 
therein and on Exhibit “A” attached hereto (the "Property"), commonly known as Bay 
Meadows Phase II, located in the City of San Mateo, State of California; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the parties 
may amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in the manner 
provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development 
Agreement Resolution; 
WHEREAS, the Effective Date of the Development Agreement was  December 21, 
2005, and the Term therefore expires on December 20, 2023;
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted Bay Meadows’ ability to 
complete the envisioned development on the Property;

--- page 151 ---
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development 
Agreement to add three (3) years to the Term to facilitate the beneficial development of 
the Property;
WHEREAS, after conducting a duly noticed public hearing on [October 10, 2023], 
by a vote of [___], the Planning Commission recommended that the City Council approve 
this First Amendment; and
WHEREAS, On [November 6, 2023], the City Council held a duly noticed public 
hearing on this First Amendment and after independent review and consideration, 
approved this First Amendment by first reading of Ordinance No. _____________.  On 
[November 20, 2023], the City Council approved this Agreement by second reading of 
Ordinance ______________.  Ordinance No. ____________ became effective on 
[December 20, 2023].
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 1.51 of the Development Agreement, “Term,” is modified to read 
as follows (with the deletion shown in strike-out form, and additions underlined):
“The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to occur of (i) the Effective Date or 
(ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity of the Enacting Ordinance, the 
MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan Amendment, the Specific Plan Amendment or other 
Project Approval, this Agreement, or the Master Tentative Map Approval, the date such 
legal proceeding is finally concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other relevant 
approval, and terminating eighteen (18) twenty-one (21) years thereafter, unless sooner 
Terminated as provided in this Agreement.   For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall 
be deemed "finally concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order 
or judgment in such proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other 
Project Approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the term of 
this Agreement ends on December 20, 20236.”

--- page 152 ---
2.
The parties intend hereby to modify the Development Agreement only as 
set forth in this First Amendment, and the parties hereby agree that, except as expressly 
modified hereby, the remaining terms of the Development Agreement are hereby 
confirmed and remain in full force and effect and a binding obligation.
3.       The Development Agreement has not been amended or modified either 
orally or in writing except as indicated in this Frist Amendment, and neither Owner nor City 
is in default in the performance of their respective obligations under the Development 
Agreement. 
4.
This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, 
each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which shall 
be deemed to be one and the same instrument.  Electronically transmitted signatures shall 
be deemed originals. 
[SIGNATURES FOLLOW ON NEXT PAGE]

--- page 153 ---
Signature Page – First Amendment (Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement)
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company
_________________________
___________________________
__________________[Print name]
_______________________[print name]
Date:    ________________
Date:  ____________________________
ATTEST:
Approved as to Form:
___________________________
_____________________________
______________, City Clerk
______________, City Attorney

--- page 154 ---
Signature Page – First Amendment (Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement)
NEED TO CONFIRM JURAT FORMAT AND LOCATION OF SIGNING 
PARTIES
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
COUNTY OF __________________)
On ________________, 2023, before me, 
______________________________, a Notary Public, personally 
appeared__________________________________________, who proved to 
me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) 
is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that 
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon 
behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of 
California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature _____________________________________   (Seal)
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
COUNTY OF __________________)
On ________________, 2023, before me, 
______________________________, a Notary Public, personally 
appeared__________________________________________, who proved to 
me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) 
is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that 
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon 
behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of 
California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.

--- page 155 ---
Signature Page – First Amendment (Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement)
Signature _____________________________________   (Seal)

--- page 156 ---
EXHIBIT A TO FIRST AMENDMENT
TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT)
The Property
106521255.2

--- page 157 ---
. - EXHIBIT A
a | iy to ORDINANCE 2005-17

| FINAL-1 1/4/2005 3:24 PM

This document is recorded for the benefit of the

_ City of San Mateo and is entitled to be recorded 2006-011071
free of charge in accordance with Sections 6103 TOr89am ot/24/06 pages ain FEE
and 27383 of the Government Code. Recorded in Official Records

County of San ‘Mateo
When recorded, mail to: Warren Slocum
Assessor-County Clerk-R

Citar SenMecn ome AUN i Wi
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

(SPACE ABOVE LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE)

BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

CITY: The City of San Mateo, a municipal
corporation of the State of California

OWNER: Bay Meadows Land Company,
a Delaware corporation

ORIGINAL


--- page 158 ---
{ ‘a \
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Definitions. ........cceeeee “desuecseveccensevesevasaecsesssseuaeeaecsnaeeesnseessecenesgesecesuseecueeseeaeeeneserer eager 12
1.1. Adoption Date....cccscssssssssessesserecsssesseveseesssssssesssseereseesssssesssanessessserseenseserseenseeres LD
1,2. Application Date. ......ccccsssessseseesaseesnssssesnssesstensesenssersecnstasseasssceceassssasesserereraeas 12
1.3. Approvals. .......... ecevessdesevesssessusrseneeetenaecasecaceneureteaeeessasensasessendssessaseneesanesnsseaesae® 12
1.4, Assignment Agreement....cccsccssccssesssesesesserssseassesssssnsseerseserseasssestresecussesenseaees 12
1.5, BLOCK. ....scesessssseeescscsecessscvenesseserseseseeaesscerescsesesssseceseseessesesesaseesnteeanerseenenseseegens 12
1.6. BMR Units. ...ccccccccccccssessssscerrecsseccesseccnnesscaressesecsaecrsessecsesesssesssasesaeenensaeesanaegnes 12
1.7. CORRS. cecccccsccsssscsscsssesessesessessecsessecenensessccsossanscesnnenecesssesssesseaeseeesaseeseeneesensenenses 12
1.8.. CEQA. eseccccsccscssssnssssseresssssnscscsesnsssssssessecesenesenaasencetereseneaecsanseseeesonsessseenenses 13
1.9, CED vccseccsccsceccessescesssscsscssesssscesscotssesercescceasensonsescacasonessasesssasaseeseseesaeeneessnsenesauenes 13
1.10. City-Wide... seceesesstsssssnessssesssssssescscsensseseseneeneseceeessnenerenenerensesssanenseserenenes 13
L.11, — City Law(s). ncscsessssecsessssscsesssesesessensssneseceeneneacaeasanseeuserersnssanensenesesesesenasaeeee® 13
1.12. City Manager. .....ccccesesssesssesesrererssesseerecsrsessersanassasseesasecaseraaessoesseaseusenseausieegs 13
1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1... ccsscesesereterrececsersenersserereees 13
1.14. | Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10... sss seaeeaeeenee 13
DUS. CPL iseccssesesssssecscesessesersneeresscnrencaentsscaesueeneseseresssnsenssassnssensssneaneeeasenessrarenenes 13
1.16. CPE Factor. ccc cccccscesessseestessseressssnecesstacesneacsensssasensreeneseaaeeessnaeeesernsesagnaaene seat 13
1.17. Design Guidelines. .....ccccseessesreesecenseresssenseaneereresaeees seeeeeseneesnececaceeseeveneeeass 13
1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. ....cscscsessesseseeereeececenenseeseerereeeees 14
1.19, Director. c.ccccccceescesceseccsnsessccrscesceescescnssecnevssasonsrsssnsersuusneassecesaeesseaeeenscssenanenseueny 14
1.20. Effective Date. ......cccsssssscesscstsecsesesersasesanersesesecnesessnensenssetsssennenseaeensesenasooares 14
1.21. EDR. ccccccccccccsccsccsssessssserscescsseseccsnecssssescesseseseveneessesseasrassesieessenesneeentecgeseressasenss 14
1.22. Election to Discontinue Racing, :.....cccsssecssessessesessnresseneeeeessererssersssneeseneeneaees 14
1.23.  _ Emacting Ordinance. .......cssssessssssssseserseseeereeseseenenensecsanessacassereesensessussssesasescueees 15
1.24. Event of Default. ..cc.cccscccccseccssessesscssssesssssensassscssvecsssserssesessecnenrsceeseceenensenees 15
1.25.  —_ EXactions....ccccccsessessesscsscsseeseesteccsesessecuecesersssassentecersessesenensnseneespecenseeesceaenae 15
1.26. Existing City Laws... scesseerecseerees vevceneuceesensceacasscaseneverensesasonseceessasseaseneees 15
1.27. First Phase. ..cccccccccsssssscsesecsceesrescscseesessseeesssecssessescesessesesuseeecsareeseensasesaeanaeen ey 15
1.28. General Plana... cece deneevucuesecssseusessueceseeseseeeeneecassesescsasecuseseseeseasueensneerseaess 15
1.29. General Plan AmendmMent.........: cece tssesensesscessessconeneessrsesesseesnaecnsanenseesereenens 16
1.30, — TPBececccccsvsccesecesscscscsvescecssesssecsesessscceesesceessesssecsevesceenevspecssssesssesseaassrssseansenenasseeees 16
1.31. — Law(S). vcecccssecscessesersceessscsvsnsessscsseeeceesenseseseneessenapeesacesssssacacoasuecssenessssenasseenannens 16
1.32. Map Approvals. ...ccscsscsesssececesssserssessssereessesacsssecesscasenesssseseenssssnsernersesersaeees 16
1.33. Master Tentative Map........:ccccsecssecseecsessressscsesssesssesseerersserersesseseecasonessanasenes 16
1.34. Mitigation Measures. ........ssccccsescssssesseeesrensesceesseesenecsesnsenessesesnensesasprenasenenenes 16
1.35. MMR, .oceceecscececcseccesscscescesscsscessseseecaeesssessesesssceeserssasenerseeesssaneeseneesaesnenaeenes 16
1.36. MOrt gage. ..c.ccccsccscsscscsscrsrscseserssescseesrssesseseeseeeresssnsesesesesensesecesssavesseesesseeansessease ss 16
1.37. Mort gagee. ...cccsseccrorssssscssressscesssesesesesensssesnensnacserersenseanecseceseeversassesnseeenan eee: 17
1.38. OWE. eeeeeeccessectescseeecesssenscesereeececeascesseneeessueteneaeesnanesnees Sesnaeeesenenaeesecsanenseceeees 17
1.39. Party. ciccseccsccceseerrersssssersesseesetsnsssecnsesesecsenansersesersnssesssseerstsnsesssesssenteneenensteseenenes 17
1.40.  —- PerSOnsscccccccccscscesssscevscsesecsseeresssaececessscucersvenseseesssersunesessesenseeaeaaaeeseneereneaneessaess 17
1.41. Processing Fee. .....cscccsesssecsessssessessesscersesesaseessesessenesarassenecaserseasacteraneneneeseeege rs 17
1.42. Project. ..c.cccccsssecsessesssesseeseeersesesesenasceserssesensnenenenerseseenevseseesusecauaseeseeceesearer ements 17

i


--- page 159 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page
1.43. — Project Approvals, oo... ccecsssscssccsesseeseesetensentserenenseeenensrasseecsusaseversnensernessenenerees 17
1.44. POPCrty.c.ccicessesssessssscsesessesssstenersensnerenseseneneressseesenscesseesssnessesersanrsssneeaeseaeasenges 18
1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval...........-.+ neeeceneeesseeaseaceeaesnsecsessenesenssseevsneneaeees 18
1.46. Public Improvements. ......ccccsessereesesessenseeseersesecenseessssentsesesrerensenensessesseneenes 18
1.47. . SPAR. cccesececcssssssscscsssscsssnescescsesccaeeesnsesecuseadsccsrecsusevasseeseerensenuenessesentenssasenseaeenye 18
1,48. Specific Plan. vc. escssessseseeeeeeserereceseaesenseenenses Veveseeseveaesacenesseseeneeseneesseesessesrans 18
1.49. Specific Plan Amendiment. ......cccccsssssseserecesectsnerensnsnsnsecsressseseasesseessesnesseenseecees 18
1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. ........cccccseseseseseevessseesssseerstarerseersseesssersaeesensenses 18
L511, Tertricisccccccssccscsccessssescccsscecsevsscesssensvenacesaeesessesesesessecsesbranepeceseseeuseasnesreraseasneseess 18
1.52. ‘Terminate. ...cccccccccccccsessesscecssssecnrecssesesecosersnesssassesenessenscesesaueesraesenaeeresaeaseeeeaseas 19
1.53. Transferred Property. .......sscccccsseseesscrreeeseeeatenseenesensenes esedenneceactenssesesaeessonseseees 19
1:54. Trip Budget. 0... eesesssesssesseeseeseseesenessneenenessneserassesnescesssessecsecanereesnersnenenenees 19
Effective Date; Term. ......cccccccscssssessecessesssssoressscesssenessneersseensnecnengneessasaenassescerseaseevonsensees 19
2.1. Effective Date. ..ccccsssecsessscssscssesecscesessesssesssesscsesescseseesseesenesensensenseensseeasensonenes 19
2.2. Expiration Of Term...s.sccssssssssssesscssseseseeeesesesscnenerenesnessensceseassereneseesssrenserensnenens 19
General Development of the Project. .......cscsseseseesseecenseencesrersensenacersesasecarsesnesnesseaesnens 20
3.1. PLOjCCt. ..sesesssessescossnsecscenecavsesesssessenesesesesssenceneneneneneasueseensnsassessasseserasseasenens seseeesees 20
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR; First

Phase; Timing of Dedications and Contributions. .......... cc cseeeeeereneneererenaneeees 2]
3.2:1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines. ........cssecseresseenenssaseteeesseerennes 21
3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines, ........ccccsccssessesserseteeseeessettessnereeseees 21
3.2.3. Application for First Phase.......ssesessceeerereseenerseersesssnsreesseseeteeeeeaten 21
3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware. ........ecsscesesessssenerterenenes Vesetsseseneens 21
- 3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park, .....cccecssecsseseeerrsseecrersseteesersnersesensens 22
3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park. ........:csceesseeereeeeens 22
3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right Of Way. .....ccccccsessserteeeteeenennes 22
3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution. «0.0... ccesseeeee pesesseennecaaesaseeneensaseenenenaeesss 22
3.2.9. Limitation. ..ccccccccccccsscscsscsseescsssecssecsseeseensessseessessresaeceeensenssascnaeensaeseneees 22
3.3. Specific Plan... seesessssssesssesesesssessssseeeensssearsnsnseeesseacasenseaesensnesensseneeesesseneerees 23
3.4. Subsequent Projects. ..c.ccccssesscssesessessseeeenesseeeeseseeseneneasecessseasssssensaessaeeesseseneerens 23
3.5, Applicable Laws and Standards.......cssssesesessessseeneseesrereesseesensseecsseseassesenesenens 23
3.6. Other Governmental Permits. ........c:ccscceececsseessrscesessscerenesensesseesesanessrageesneneneens 24
3.7. Processing Fee, ......ccssrcessssssssssseessesstseresssersseseeeeseessneesssesonesssersesausesesseesseesens 24
3.8, No Further Exactions. ....cccccccsccsssessestsesseesseessessccceseasseerensesnsesensessaeeaeeesnensens 24
3.9, Transportation Mitigation Fee. .....cssesseeesrecsesessesseeseensesssenenesessenesanessesentes 25

3.10. | Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee; Consideration for
Early Termination. ......ccssesesesssssesseseesscseesssesesesseccssensiesenersassssssesensnseeesseeseetens 26
3.11.  Review'and Processing of City Approvals. ...... cscs 28
3,12. Extension of Approvals. ......cccccssccssseeseeresesecssenerseneecsseesesnensseeasasenesneseneegeses 29
3.13, — Iinterim USe. cccccecccccccsessesssssecsecssesessnecesersecscssasessseseseeeeesnaecseaeecaseesenecesaaanensegs 29
Subdivision of Property...c.c.scsccssscssssssesesseverscscsseseeessnssenassserensneesascsnsedeaseseeeensneseeasenerges 29

ii


--- page 160 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)

Page
4.1. Master Tentative Map.....ccsceessesssesescees peceasessecesacesersceaeeeeeesesenessecuaeseseassaseaes 29

4.2. Project and Future Tentative Maps. .....ccccscsesessceseesssessreeesenerenssenersesenereeenees 30,
4,3. Government Code Section 66473.7. ......sccsecesseversssecesessesseserserseessnsseneresseeseenes 30
Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project. ....secsscersereeeecserseteres 31
5.1. Application of New City Laws. ...cccccsssssesseesseseneneessneentecnsesreneeasrerseennereeaeney 31
5.2. Conflicting LawS.....cccccccssescsesesescsonssssssrscseesusesenssseeessesccesseeseneeneceenaessasenaees 32
5.3. THU, 00. cesesseseeneescceceesecenevancrevscesuenssancsessscanentenerseesseeasaceneessneneseneenesesaesazeneees 32
5.4. Subsequent Environmental Review. .....sccccsssssseceeesserseeecseeseesecsesnaesreeeneeneeenes 33
5.5. Easements; Improvements; Abandonment. .......c.ccsesseseceeeesceeesseeseeteeres OO
5.6, Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. . secesnevaceneneacesnensesessneessaseneeseatens 34
5.7. Single Integrated Development, ........cccsescerereeseesesensesetetsenenseeenenestertenssenens 34
5.8. ——-— Public Improvements, ...... ccc scssssssssessssseseensseeseeenseenseessseneceeceerensaseeseneeneseaeeres 34
5.8.1, Phasing. ....ccccscsesecsesssseeecsssnesssssssecssccsssseesessessssseeeesesererseseeenseseeseneseneens 35
5.8.2. Stormwater. ......cccsccsccseesreeseereees Levscsessesecenorsensonansrsossessoessanscesersonsaoneensos 35
5.8.3. Rough Grading. ....ccccescsereeceessessssersnessnseseresees seseneeseeneenerseeaeeeeeacenee 36
5.8.4. Improvement Agreemerits and SeCurity........ssssscnereeneeereresereesernes 36
5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvement. .........c cscs ssssccsssssnesesessesersecceeenaseseeneeeas 36
5.9. Parks and Open Space...ccccsccsssseccseesesssesssssssvscsssseecsesessesecssseeseeeeenseaseneseessesees 37
5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvement .........cccsecseeeseeeeeeees 37
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park..... 38
5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks...........csscsesseresecres 38
5.10. Delaware Street. ....c.ccecsccsssscccsssessscssssssescssscesussessneessrscesseensrsessseeeseaseenseeeseenes 38
5.11. Community Facilities District... 0. ccccsssesseresesesenseseeesserssseeseeeaneseneseeeeraeenes 39

5.12. | Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units; Property Set-Aside for

Additional BMR Uniits........ccccssscsssscessesssrersesseeesecsssessscnssnenseesserncessenresseesenens 39
5.13. Waiver of Density Bonu... ccccessecscssessscusserssesceresnensneeseeeeneceeaeensrseesnenpensen es 40
5.14. Traffic Calming Contribution. ........cccesssesesssssseeeseessceeecescsesrsesnssrseqnenaseersearenes 41
5.15. Contribution to Public Art. ccc sereessesecssesscsssseseessesessscenesscneecsseeseee snes 4]
5.16. Contribution to Improve Casanova Park ........scessecsceesseseseresseensessseeenessseseees 42
5.17. Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners ASSOciation. ......eeeccesseseseenseees 42
5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project... cs ssecsesssesresecceeteeessecnsectseereesenes 43
5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming... cccsccesseccssecesseenercssersesenpesssseernensceenes 43
5.20. Loss of Racing Revenue. ........cscccssccsccesceesessecssseeseesserssersesseseceseeseeserseseeenseeees 44
Periodic Review of Compliance... cccseccsssseseeeseccsersessscsccsssssesensecrsneessaereneeeneeeneane 44
6.1. Annual ReViCW. ...ccsesssescesesessscssssecrensnecnenstecnessessaesueceasersenscensesssccesevenseeersseeeeuene 44
6.2. Owner's SUDMISSION.........cccecsccsseetssecsseeececesseseeseesessansccaussdseceseserersedeneersaceneenens 45
6.3. Finding of Compliance, .....ccccesccsssesesseseesssesenenscessessseeseeeceessenenterserensatenesneenees 4S
6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety.......cccssscssesereeeeres 46
6.5. Appeals fo City Council....csccccssssessecsescressescentersssersnessssesensenneneenensessessesneceas 46
6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review.............0.. 47
6.7. Standards. ....cccccsscessesssessessssreseeseseceeesessecssersessectsessseeseveteesesecrsesssarssavseeesasnerenses 48

ill


--- page 161 ---
10.

li.

12.

13,

Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page

6.8. Effect on Transferees. ......c:cecccccsssecssssccesssceescreceeessssesesaeeceeavesseseesesaeeesaneeaes seaeee 48
6.9, Event Of Default. .......cccccssssccssssessscsssseesenecscccseesccnsseseeecsaeseseessuesseneseeaececaneseesaees 49
Permitted Delays; Supersedure by Subsequent Laws. .......scscccresssssseessecsssssseeeeseeseeeees 50
7.1. Permitted Delays. ..........0 desaeeeneenaecasescuceanenseteacensaeessecssesacesesesseeseecadeseussesseeenas 50
7.2. Subsequent Laws, ....cccssscssesssessessececesseesecsesesecsenenessassees seussesesseassessessseeseesees 50
Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys' Fees. ........ccsecseseessseseerseeseeaees 51
8.1. Events Of Default. 00.0... ccccccscccsessccssseccesssenceseceecesseesesseeeceesersssescrsneeeerseseeeseseses 51
8.2. ReiMedies.......ccccscsssecsscesscsnscssesnsecenceessecenesseesesnsecssseeeenaeenseseeeeesseceseeseneeesransesenes 51
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination. ...........cc:cccsseeeeesseeeees 53
8.3.1, Standards. ...cecccsecsecssesssecssesessecssessseessssessvesesessssasusssssvessssseeasseeseess 53

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. ..........cccsecccsssecsenseesessecsssasesneserereeesecerreeesesnes 53

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. ..........ccccccccccsssseecsesseseceseensceceeevsssnenenseeeess 54

8.3.4, Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. .0........cceeecsesecsessereeeees 54

8.4, Effect of Termination.............cccccccssssecceccsssssceeseesesaeeees seeaeceensetesenateseeneeeeeeteeeees 54
8.5. Limitations On ACtiONS.........cccsscecssscecssseeesssscessessececsneenenceessaeesessrarevenseeteseeeses 55
8.6.  ° Waiver; Remedies Cumulative, ........ccsscccssssscsssssesessreecenseessceccessseseecsuneesersssnacees 55
8.7. Attoreys' Fees... ccecssscsseeetecassesesserseeseqsenseseeresssesssessseeaaceceeseneseaasoseeeeseeser es 56
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. 0... .ccccccseesessssessesessseesesesersecessessascseseresesasceesees 57
8.9. Effect of Court Action. .......ccccssccessrssesssreceserscessereecsssnetecsnesesnsesesaeeessseneeesacensenes 57
8.10.  Estoppel Certificate... eeesetcessesses seecseceesaaneeseecesecuaneesecersteseeassessaeeeeeenes 57
Mortgagee Protection; Certain Rights Of Cure.......cccsscsesscssssscsessseeessestecressseseseneeaens 58
9.1, Mortgagee Protection. .....ccicccsseessecsscesccesseesetsescesecasdsesesecanesaseasesasesaserseeaeneeeeee 58
9.2. Mortgagee Not Obligated. oo... ees ccsseseesessesersseereseseseeeesssseessseesnenssesoneeesens 58
9,3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee; Right of Mortgagee to Cure. vc. eeeseeeeeees 58
9,4, Right of City to Cure. w.cccseecssscerssetercrsersenseseeesennecteessseetenseseseseseereneseasseeteetees 60
Transfer and ASSIQMMeDt. 0. ceeeseesctsessssesssssseseseensessecseseasesaressasrsesaseessesesresseaaoes 60
10.1. —- ASSIQIIMENE. 0. eee ecssectesseeseecreenscsecsressassraveeserseseceessnssasersvessacerseseearseseoueyee 60
10.2. — NOtice......ccccecccssscsssovsesvencesscsnsnevessreccessseversrseseeseesesesaeeensaecsensseeseneseseseeseneeereeeea 61
10.3. Assignment Agreement............. saneasenecanescoeeascasesevsseacnsccssnersssessenssssonsasssnsseessoans 62
10.4. Trip Budget. 0. cc ccessscseessesssesccssersegecesesccsenecsseevessecareesessssssarecessenesenseceaes 62
10.5. Covenants Run With The Land. 0... ccceseccsescceesecsssereresesssreneseseeseceeseeseaaea 63
Amendment and Termination, ..........ccccccscccssssecsssseecsssereesenneecsecaseresccsnasessauareesenneeeeesessens 63
11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. ............cccccccssssscceseeesssseceeesseceeesseescesecseeensaaaeeeanena 63
11.2. Recordation, .......cccccccscssscssesssececessceesnseeseseecsessneesessnececseseesaesevsneesessaseesesensneaees 64
NOtIiCES.......ccscssssreecsscecesssestecressesserecseetersenesurneanonenenteperenenss seeueeceseveveveeseeseecesereccecsenseeeees 64
12.1. — POCECUIE. .......cccseseccceessresectseeeceserensuacseneseseseeeseseseessevscaaeasasenesacaaconssauseceeeseaeeeuaes 64
MiscellancouS.......cccscscerseessseescssereesseererseecerersscensenaeenes sssaeeeeseeveeeseraessesesesssasersseeeeeneeeses 65
13.1. Negation of Partnership. «0... cscs lasnepersnenecesuesnssantaarsarcnarseasansosesacsantensseesees 65
13.2. —- Approvalls......ccccsscsseesssssscrstceccteerecceseeessesereerecessecncesensascasovseesesevessecensesessaneasegs 65
13.3. Project Approvals Independent... ccscscessesssesessssssesessesseessessessssenseeereaasenees 66
13.4. Not A Public Dedication. i... cceccsesscecsesseescecessesseeeecesesasseersneeeecesensesereeeeeeeuens 66

iv



--- page 162 ---
13.5.
13.6.
13.7.
13.8.
13.9.

13.10.
13.11,
13.12.
13.13,
13.14.
13.15.

Table of Contents
(Continued)

Page

Severability... csessesersssesseseenecees seseceeeesenecesassesecescearseesercssscneescnaseneaeeeuenease 66
EXIIDItS. oes csessscsessetsescessesecssessescnevsessescesesscasenerscsacsessecanseenessesecseessseesecsessacanenes 67

Entire AQTeCMent. 0... cc ssccssssssscssscssssesssssssscetessevsresnecenesecesuseeeeseseeeseeseereneeens 67
Construction Of AQreCMeNnt........ccccssesssscetsesssseesesssesscecesecesecssensenssatensecuersesnes 67
Further Assurances; Covenant to Sign Documents. ..............60: leeseaveavsesesnensoses 67
Governing LAW, ......ccsscsscssesssscssserscersereceessecasaserecatevercsecessscsecsasesaes baceeneeenenanes 68
References; Terminology......ccccecsseeereerees sensnenessenaneseceaanecsseeanecseersneeseneesacees 68

Signature Paes, ....cscsvseessesssecsessecsssceceeceecseessesnveressssnecseeeseesessseeresseceesreceeenes 69
COMStIUCTIONL.........c:ccccsesssersersseersersnscsscesacessssarsssserscassseeusstsccessscsacssstesssersncsseseses OD
THING, ...ccscsssccssccecesscecseeccseccsesessetesnercetesevessccseecvasansensessasesccatsevsecsssessecsncasseseses OD
Indemnification, ........cesccessssssecssssescesessscecssaseesececenseevsseeceeeescesesevscsssetassvecseseceeeeas 69


--- page 163 ---
EXHIBIT A - Description of Property
EXHIBIT B — Map of Property
EXHIBIT C — Specific Plan
EXHIBIT D - Estimate of Exactions

EXHIBIT E — Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program


--- page 164 ---
THIS BAY MEADOWS PHASE Ii DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the
"A greement") is made and entered into as of this 21stday of _November , 2005, by
and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California ("City"),
and Bay Meadows Land Company, a Delaware corporation ("Owner"), pursuant to the authority

of California Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 and City Resolution No. 120 (1990).

RECITALS:

This Agreement is entered into on the basis of the following facts, understandings and
intentions of the Parties:

A. To strengthen the public planning process, encourage private participation in
comprehensive planning and reduce the economic risk of development, the Legislature of the
State of California adopted Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 authorizing
municipalities to enter into development agreements in connection with the development of real
property within their jurisdiction by qualified applicants with a requisite legal or equitable
interest in the real property which is the subject of such development agreement.

B. The purpose of Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 is to authorize
municipalities, in their discretion, to establish certain development rights in real property for a
period of years regardless of intervening changes in land use regulations.

C. As authorized by Governmental Code Section 65865(c), City has adopted
Resolution No. 120 (1990) establishing the procedures and requirements for the consideration of
development agreements within the City.

D. Owner is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and is

in good standing thereunder and is qualified to do business in the State of California.


--- page 165 ---
E, Owner owns fee title to that property (the "Property") consisting of approximately
eighty-three (83) acres in the area described in Exhibit A attached hereto and shown on Exhibit B
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Currently an existing racetrack,
grandstand and surface parking are located on the Property.

F, On April 22, 1997 by Ordinance 1997-11, City adopted the Bay Meadows
Specific Plan (as amended by the Specific Plan Amendment considered concurrently with this
Agreement, and together with further amendments made from time to time in accordance with
this Agreement shall hereafter be referred to as the "Specific Plan") which covers the Property
together with an approximately seventy-five (75) acre area to the east of the Property (the "Phase
I Property"). At that time, the Phase I Property contained an approximately forty (40) acre
practice track and a thirty-five (35) acre horse boarding area. The Phase I Property has since
been developed with commercial and residential uses. The Specific Plan Amendment is attached
hereto as Exhibit C. No Specific Plan amendment shall require amendment to this Agreement,
unless such Specific Plan amendment would conflict with an express provision of this
Agreement.

G. For more than five years, City has been engaged in an intensive community based
planning process for the transportation corridor area in which the Property is located. The
planning process has involved ‘two city advisory committees and has resulted in adoption, on
June 6, 2005, of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan, a plan
formulated with the express goal of pursuing transit-oriented development within the
transportation corridor along the Caltrain right-of-way.

H. In the course of its long-term planning process, the City has retained an

independent racing industry consultant and based upon the input from that consultant, as well as


--- page 166 ---
review of other materials reporting on the status of the horse racing industry in California, the
City has determined that the confluence of expanded types of gaming at horse racing facilities
outside California, off-track betting in California, low purses in California relative to other states,
and the high cost of boarding and maintaining horses and operating horse racing inside
California in comparison to other states, has and will continue to adversely impact the racing
Operations at the Property and that market pressures on the racing industry are pushing towards
more extensive forms of gambling at racetrack facilities throughout the country, including at the
Property. In balancing the various pressures and trends, the City has determined that the
residents of San Mateo want to limit the potential for expanded gaming at the Property. One of
' the key incentives to the City for entering into this Agreement is to provide Owner with the
assurances that it can develop the Project as contemplated in the Specific Plan Amendment
attached hereto as Exhibit C, in exchange for Owner's obligation to limit any expansion of
gaming on the Property. If transit oriented development as contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment goes forward as planned, gaming uses will be permanently eliminated from the
Property.

I. Consistent with City's goal of pursuing transit oriented development, on June 24,
2003 Owner requested that City (i) approve an amendment to the Specific Plan so as to amend
the land use regulations applicable to the Property ("Specific Plan Amendment"); (ii) amend the
City's General Plan in a manner consistent with the Specific Plan; and (iii) approve a Master
Tentative Map (as hereafter defined) for the Property, with the associated Public Improvements
and the other on- and off-site improvements contemplated by or embodied within the Specific
Plan and the Proj ect Approvals (as hereafter defined), as they may later be further amended,

refined, enhanced or modified (collectively, the "Project").


--- page 167 ---
J. The Project facilitates the City's long-term goal of pursuing transit-oriented
development within the transportation corridor plan area, by proposing a new mixed use
neighborhood that maximizes the uise of transportation alternatives to the private automobile. . In
particular, the Specific Plan is designed to maximize mass transit associated with the express
stop Caltrain Station proposed to be relocated no more than a quarter of a mile from anywhere on
the Property. The Specific Plan is also designed to enhance opportunities for walking and
biking, by providing a linked system of parks and open space and linkages to existing bike paths.
By providing a mix of commercial, residential and retail uses, the Specific Plan will reduce
traffic compared to other development. The Project provides for the dedication, design and
improvement (at no cost to the City) of a 1.5 acre Linear Park and a 1.5 acre Neighborhood Park.
The Project provides for the completion of key components of the City's street-grid, including
new connections at 28th and 31st, and the connection of Pacific to Delaware, increasing
connectivity between the east and west portions of the City, and relieving congestion on
Hillsdale and E] Camino, The Project provides an estimated $9.9 million in transportation
impact fees which will provide a source of funding for the City's local share of the cost to
implement additional rail grade separations at 28th and 31st. The Project will provide an
estimated $2.1 million in wastewater treatment expansion fees, and an estimated $3.3 million in
school fees. Through a hierarchy of on-site stormwater management systems, the Project will
not only be able to retain its own stormwater runoff, it will also provide additional capacity to
_ reduce the severity of the existing flooding conditions in surrounding neighborhoods.
(Collectively, these benefits along with others recited below shall be referred to as "Project

Public Benefits".)


--- page 168 ---
-K, The City has completed an independent fiscal impact analysis that evaluates the
effect of the Bay Meadows Phase II Project upon the City’s municipal costs and revenues, The
fiscal analysis concludes that the Project will have a positive impact upon the City, even when
accounting for the ending of horse racing on the site, and the associated loss of racing related
revenues. Specifically, the Fiscal Analysis found that: 1) fiscal surpluses will accrue as the
project develops beginning in 2008 under the currently assumed development schedule; 2)
projected fiscal surpluses will exceed the current fiscal benefit of race track operations each year
of Project development; and 3) fiscal surpluses are shown to continue through completion of the
new neighborhood, approaching $2 million annually by Project build-out. |

L. As provided in the Specific Plan and documented in the Project EIR and the
Fiscal Impact Analysis, the Bay Meadows Phase II Project will expand employment
oppoftunities in San Mateo by creating a commercial district with capacity of more than one
million square feet of retail, office and service-commercial space. This space may accommodate
more than 3,000 permanent employees, substantially offsetting the loss of the existing 900 jobs
associated with the race track operations, many of whom will be eligible for employment at the
gaming facility planned at the adjacent Expo Center. Additionally, construction and related real
estate industry employment will be generated during the anticipated 20 year construction period
with an annual average of approximately 500 workers.

.M. _ City has determined that the Project is a development for which a development
agreement is appropriate. A development agreement will eliminate uncertainty in the City's land
use planning for the Property and secure orderly development of the Project consistent with the
Specific Plan, assure progressive installation of necessary improvements and mitigation

appropriate to each stage of development of the Project, insure attainment of the maximum


--- page 169 ---
effective utilization of resources within the City at the least economic cost to its citizens, secure
public improvements and amenities that could not otherwise be obtained, and otherwise achieve
the goals and purposes for which the Development Agreement Resolution was enacted by the
City.

N. Owner has committed to develop, cause to be developed, or contribute to
significant infrastructure and other improvements, as well as Project features and fees, to
accommodate this Project and other anticipated regional growth and local projects in excess of
what the Owner could otherwise be legally required to provide (collectively, "Substantial Public
Benefits") The value of Substantial Public Benefits recited below is conservatively estimated to
be over $30 million, not counting the non-monetary benefit of eliminating the potential for
expanded gaming on the Property. The Substantial Public Benefits are as follows:

1, Owner has committed to provide, at no cost to City, a total of fifteen (15)
acres of parks and open space, including a publicly dedicated twelve (12) acre
parcel for a community park, and two (2) one-and-one-half.acre parcels of other
publicly dedicated parks. Assuming the eventual! development of 1,500 units, and
assuming the City's population factor from the 2000 Census of 2.48 residents per
unit, the total acreage devoted to publicly dedicated parks represents a minimum
of 7.56 acres more than the amount of parkland required to serve the Project
(more than double the City's standard requirement), and otherwise required for the
Project under current City Laws. In addition, Owner has committed to provide,
improve and maintain 2.85 acres of additional substantive open space, including a
view corridor, a town square adjacent to the new train station and enhanced

bicycle and pedestrian facilities within the development. The Owner has agreed to


--- page 170 ---
undertake the maintenance of all landscaping, medians and open space (other than
the public parks) in accordance with Section 5.9.3.

2. Owner has agreed to design and construct initial improvements to the new
community park, consisting of one regulation baseball field and one regulation
soccer field, utilizing grass turf, so as to provide immediately useable park land
upon dedication. The City may, at its election, forego the provision of the park
improvements by Owner and instead elect to receive a $1 million cash
contribution towards the development of the new community park improvements
in accordance with the City's ultimate design.

3. Owner has agreed to make a $250,000 contribution to be used for traffic
calming, which contribution is in excess of the City's required traffic mitigation
fee.

4. If after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not
moved forward as described in and pursuant to Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee) the Owner shall advance $4.6 million in
transportation mitigation fees or terminate this Agreement.

5. Owner shall, pursuant to Section 5.10 (Delaware Street), dedicate upon the
demand of the Public Works Director, at no cost to City, the right-of-way to
construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property, as needed by City,
even if required in advance of the timing provided for in the Project Approvals.

6, If after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not

moved forward Owner shall, pursuant to Section 3.10, dedicate at no cost to City,


--- page 171 ---
the right-of-way to construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property,
as needed by City.

7. | The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.15, $1,000,000
to the City to be used for public art and an additional $50,000 to City Arts of San
Mateo for the purpose of funding its campaign for the arts.

8. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.16, $100,000 to
the City to be used to improve or to reimburse the City for improvements to
Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City, when and as
needed. |

9. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.17, $100,000 to
the Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association to be used for planning, design and .
implementation of aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens common areas.

10.  Inorder to facilitate the development of additional below market rate
housing in the Project, the Owner shall dedicate, in accordance with Section
5.12(b), a net acre of land in a Mixed Use Block to be used by the City or its
designee for the construction of moderate, very iow or low-income housing. This
housing shall be provided in addition to the ten percent (10%) below market rate
housing being provided by the Owner as part of the Project. It is expected that the
acre of land to be dedicated in accordance with this Agreement, will provide
sufficient housing such that 15 percent of the total residential units to be
constructed in the Project will be affordable units, thus exceeding the provisions
of Measure H, Measure P and the requirements of the City's existing below

market rate housing program (Resolution 126-92) and adding 50 percent more ~


--- page 172 ---
affordable units and potentially including units that may be affordable to families
below moderate income. This affordable housing will substantially contribute to
meeting the City’s affordable housing objectives set forth in its General Plan
Housing Element.

11. Construction of the Project in accordance with the Specific Plan
Amendment will, by creating an economically viable alternative to racing
operations on the Property, eliminate the potential for future expansion of casino-
style gambling operations. Moreover, Owner agrees that until the earlier to occur
of the second anniversary of the date Owner applies for the Design Guidelines,
and the City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals,
Owner shall not permit the use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing. Upon the City's approval of the First Phase applications, on
conditions satisfactory to Owner, the Owner shall (in accordance with Section
5.19), agree to record a covenant against the Property, restricting the use of the
Property so as to permanently prohibit the right to slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms on expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing.

12. The Project, in accordance with the Specific Plan, is designed and will be
constructed to include state-of-the-art features designed to conserve energy,
minimize the environinental footprint, and promote the sustainable use of non-

renewable natural resources. Specifically, the Owner, in accordance with Section


--- page 173 ---
5.18, shall build a demonstration project composed of 30 market rate units
meeting a LEEDs silver standard, or its equivalent.

13. The Owner agrees, in accordance with Section 5.20, to pay a maximum of
$300,000 annually to the City to compensate for the loss of net City revenues
should Owner delay the commencement of development of the Property following
Owner's election to permanently discontinue racing on the Property.

0. In exchange for the Substantial Public Benefits of the Project, Owner desires to
receive assurances that City shall grant permits and approvals required for the development
of the Project over the Project's estimated 18 year development horizon, in accordance with
procedures provided by law and in this Agreement, and that Owner may proceed with the
Project in accordance with the Existing City Laws. In order to effectuate these purposes, the
Parties desire to enter into this Agreement.

P. City examined the environmental effects of both the Project and the San Mateo |
Rail Corridor Plan in an Environmental Impact Report (the "EIR") prepared and circulated
for public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council certified the EIR on April 18,
2005.

Q. After conducting a duly noticed public hearing pursuant to the Development
Agreement Resolution on July 26, 2005, that was continued to meetings on August 9th, 16th
and September 8th, on September 8, 2005, by a vote of 4-0, with one abstention, the Planning
Commission recommended that the City Council approve this Agreement, based on the
following findings and determinations: that this Agreement is consistent with the objectives,
policies, general land uses and programs specified in the General Plan; is compatible with the

uses authorized in and the regulations prescribed for the land use district in which the

10


--- page 174 ---
Property is located; is in conformity with public convenience, general welfare and good land
use practices; will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the City or
the region surrounding the City; will not adversely affect the orderly development of
property or the preservation of property values within the City; and will promote and
encourage the development of the Project by providing a greater degree of requisite certainty
with respect thereto.

R. Thereafter, on October 17, 2005, the City Council held a duly noticed public
hearing on this Agreement pursuant to the Development Agreement Resolution. At a duly
noticed public meeting November 7, 2005 and after independent review and consideration,
the City Council made the same findings and determinations by its own independent
conclusion, as had the Planning Commission and confirmed that the Project was previously
analyzed by the certified EIR. The City Council also adopted certain mitigation measures for
the Proj ect, approved the Specific Plan Amendment, approved the proposed amendment to
the City's General Plan, and approved the Master Tentative Map for the Property. The City
Council also found this Agreement consistent with the City's General Plan and the Specific
Plan. On that same date, the City Council approved this Agreement by first reading of

006 ., the City Council approved

Ordinance No. 2005-17

this Agreement by second reading of Ordinance 2005-17 °~.. Ordinance No.

2005-17. became effective on November 28 2005.
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority contained in Government Code Sections
65864-65869.5, the Development Agreement Resolution and in consideration of the mutual

covenants and promises of the Parties herein contained, the Parties agree as follows:

11


--- page 175 ---
{. Definitions. Each reference in this Agreement to any of the following terms shall
have the meaning set forth below for each such term. Certain other terms shall have the meaning

set forth for such term in this Agreement.

1.1. Adoption Date. Noven ber 21, 2005 (the date the City
Council adopted the Enacting Ordinance.)

1.2. Application Date. June 24, 2003 (the date City received Owner's
application for the Project Approvals).

1.3. Approvals. Any and all permits or approvals (including conditions
of approval imposed in connection therewith) of any kind or character necessary or appropriate
under the City Laws to confer the requisite lawful right on Owner to develop the Project,
including, but not limited to, subdivision maps, site plan and architecture review, building
permits, use permits, variances, site clearance, grading plans and permits, certificates of
occupancy, cooperative agreements with the JPB, municipal financing (including Mello-Roos
bonds), abandonment of streets or rights-of-way, and right-of-way transfers.

1.4, Assignment Agreement. Defined in Section 10.3.

1.5, Block. A portion of the Project Area, generally bordered by public
right of way or property lines, as shown in the Development Framework Plan of the Specific
Plan, and delineated as a Station block, Mixed Use block or Residential block.

1.6. BMR Units. Defined in Section 5.12.

1.7. CC&Rs. Covenants, conditions and restrictions recorded in the

Official Records of San Mateo County on all or any portion of the Property, imposing covenants
running with the land, equitable servitudes and/or easements governing the design, maintenance,

operation, access and other matters in connection with the real property affected by the CC&Rs.

12


--- page 176 ---
1.8, CEQA. The California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000, et seq.) and the Guidelines thereunder (Title 14, Cal. Code Regs.

§ 15000, et seg.).

1.9. CFD. Defined in Section 5.11.

1.10. City-Wide. Any City Laws generally applicable to a development
or uses of one or more kinds, wherever the same may be located in City.

1.11. City Law(s). The ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations
and official policies of City, governing the permitted uses of land, density, design, improvement
and construction standards and specifications applicable to the development of the Property and
property upon which required off site Public Improvements will be constructed. Specifically, but
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, City Laws shall include the City's General Plan,
the Specific Plan, the City's zoning ordinance and the City's subdivision ordinance.

1.12. City Manager. The City Manager or his or her designee.

1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1.

1.14. Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10.

1.15. CPI. The greater of the Engineering News Record Construction
Cost Index or the consumer price index for San Francisco, California (urban wage earners) most
recently published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (or such other substitute index as the parties
shall mutually agree).

1.16. CPI Factor. The difference between the CPI for the year in
question, and the CPI for the previous year. |

1.17. Design Guidelines. The policies, objectives, rules, illustrations and

details consistent with the Specific Plan Amendment, and adopted in accordance with the

13


--- page 177 ---
Specific Plan Amendment, which govern the design (including bulk, setbacks, materials,
landscaping and parking) of structures and features to be developed in the Property. -

1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. Resolution 120 (1990)
entitled "Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development
Agreements" adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo on October 15, 1990.

1.19. Director. The Director shall mean the Director of Community
Development for the City of San Mateo.

1.20. Effective Date. The later of (i) the date the Enacting Ordinance
takes effect pursuant to City ordinances and charter; or (ii) if the Enacting Ordinance is subject to
a valid referendum proceeding pursuant to Elections Code § 3500, et seq., the date the Enacting
Ordinance is upheld pursuant to such referendum proceeding.

1.21. EIR. Defined in Recital P above.

1.22. | Election to Discontinue Racing. The date when there have been no
horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of Owner's voluntary decision
not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities on the Property, it being
expressly understood that (a) a failure to obtain substantially all of the historic allocation
of racing dates from the horse racing board, or (b) the temporary cessation of racing
activities to accommodate the rehabilitation, reconstruction or renovation of the track
facilities shall not be considered an Election to Discontinue Racing. The date of the
Election to Discontinue Racing shall be April 1 of the calendar year following the year
when there have been no horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of
Owner's voluntary decision not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities

on the Property, except as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 1.22.

14


--- page 178 ---
1.23. Enacting Ordinance. Ordinance No. 2005’ =, enacted by

the City Council on November 21, 200.°, approving this Agreement.

1,24. Event of Default, Defined in Section 8.1.
1.25. Exactions. All exactions, costs, fees, in-lieu fees or payments,
| charges, assessments, dedications or other monetary or non-monetary requirement charged or
imposed by City or by City through an assessment district (or similar entity) in connection with
the development of, construction on, or use of real property, including but not limited to
transportation improvement fees, child care in-lieu fees, art fees, affordable housing fees,
dedication or reservation requirements, facility fees, sewer fees, water connection fees,
obligations for on- or off-site improvements or construction requirements for Public
Improvements, services or other conditions for approval called for in connection with the
development of or construction of the Project under the Existing City Laws, whether such
exactions constitute Public Improvements, mitigation measures in connection with
environmental review of the Project Approvals, or impositions made under applicable City Laws
or in order to make an Approval consistent with applicable City Laws. Exactions shall not |
include Processing Fees.

1.26. Existing City Laws. The City Laws in effect as of the Adoption
Date.

1.27. First Phase. Defined in Section 3.2.3.

1.28. General Plan. The General Plan for the City, entitled "Visions
2005," adopted by the City Council on July 16, 1990, and subsequently amended, as in effect as

of the Adoption Date.

15


--- page 179 ---
1.29. General Plan Amendment. The General Plan amendments
approved by the City Council on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 67-(2005) and November 7,
2005, by Resolution No111 -(2005). |

| 1 30. JPB. The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board.

1.31. Law(s). The laws of the State of California, the Constitution of the
United States and any codes, statutes or mandates in any court decision, state or federal,
thereunder.

1.32. Map Approvals. The Master Tentative Map Approval and the
Project Tentative Map Approval(s).

1.33. Master Tentative Map. The tentative tract map no?'/@approved by
the City Council on November 7, 2005, by Resolution111-(2005) that subdivides the Property
into two parcels consistent with the neighborhood boundaries described in the Specific Plan
Amendment. Such map approval shall be called the "Master Tentative Map Approval."

1.34. Mitigation Measures. The mitigation measures applicable to the
Project developed as part of the EIR process and required to be implemented by Owner, and
adopted as part of the Project Approvals and implemented through the MMRP.

1.35. MMRP. The Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan adopted

as part of the Project Approvals, as it applies to the Project, adopted by the City Council on

07, 2005 ., by Resolution No. 111.

1.36. Mortgage. A mortgage or deed of trust, or other transaction, in
which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or any improvements thereon, is
conveyed or pledged as security, contracted in good faith and for fair value, or a sale and

leaseback arrangement in which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or

16


--- page 180 ---
improvements thereon, is sold and leased back concurrently therewith in good faith and for fair
value.

1.37. Mortgagee. The holder of the beneficial interest under a Mortgage,
or the owner of the Property, or interest therein, under a Mortgage.

| 1.38. Owner, Defined in the opening paragraph of this Agreement.

1.39. Party. City and Owner, and their respective transferees,
determined as of the time in question, and collectively they shall be called the "Parties."

1.40. Person. An individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
trust, governmental agency, administrative tribunal or other form of business or legal entity.

1.41. Processing Fee. A fee imposed by a public entity payable upon the
submission of an application for a permit or approval, which covers only the estimated actual
costs to the public entity of processing that application, and is not an Exaction, and is not only

applicable to the Project.

1.42. Project. Defined in Recital I.

1.43. Project Approvals. The following Approvals for the Proj ect
existing, obtained or enacted by City as of the date hereof, as the same may be updated, amended
or modified from time to time upon application of Owner:

(i) the EIR and MMRP;

(ii) the General Plan Amendment;

(iii) the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
adopted on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 66 (2005);

(iv) the Specific Plan; and

(v) the Master Tentative Map Approval.

17


--- page 181 ---
1.44. Property. The real property described in Exhibit A and shown on
Exhibit B on which Owner intends to develop the Project.

1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval. Any tentative tract map
approved by the City Planning Commission or the City Council at any time in the future, which
subdivides all or a portion of the Master Tentative Map into Blocks as shown in the
Development Framework Pian of the Specific Plan. Each such map shall be called an "Project
Tentative Map."

1.46. Public Improvements. The lands and facilities, both on- and off-
site, to be improved and constructed, and dedicated, as provided by the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Public Improvements include all right-of-way improvements, streets and roads
within the Property; all utilities (such as gas, electricity, cable television, water, sewer and storm
drainage); pedestrian and bicycle paths and trails; parks; the off-site public improvements; the
fair share mitigation measures; and all other improvements and facilities required or called for by
the Mitigation Measures. |

1.47. SPAR. Site plan and architectural review by City, in accordance
with Existing City Laws.

1.48. Specific Plan. Defined in Recital F.

1.49. Specific Plan Amendment. Defined in Recital I.

1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. Defined in Recital N. |

1.51. Term, The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to
occur of (i) the Effective Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity of
the Enacting Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan Amendment, the Specific Plan

Amendment or other Project Approval, this Agreement, or the Master Tentative Map Approval,

18


--- page 182 ---
the date such legal proceeding is finally concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other
relevant approval, and terminating eighteen (18) years thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as
provided in this Agreement. For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally
concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment in such
proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other Project Approval.

1.52. Terminate. The expiration of the Term of this Agreement, whether
by the passage of time or by any earlier occurrence pursuant to any provision of this Agreement.
For purposes hereof, "Terminate" includes any grammatical variant thereof, including
"Termination," "Terminated," and "Terminating."

1.53. Transferred Property. Defined in Section 10.1.

1.54. Trip Budget. Defined in Section 10.4.

2. Effective Date; Term.

2.1. Effective Date. This Agreement shall be dated and the-rights,
duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be effective as of the Effective Date (as
defined in Section 1.20). Not later than ten (10) days after the Adoption Date, City and Owner
shall execute and acknowledge this Agreement, and promptly thereafter the City Clerk shall
cause this Agreement to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of San Mateo, State of
California.

2.2. Expiration of Term. Upon expiration of the Term (as defined in
Section 1:51), this Agreement and all of the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties
hereunder shall Terminate and be of no further force or effect. Upon expiration of the Term,
Owner shall thereafter comply with the provisions of all City Laws then in effect or subsequently

adopted with respect to the Property and/or the Project, except that expiration of the Term

19


--- page 183 ---
(including as a result of Termination of this Agreement) shall not affect any right vested under
Laws (absent this Agreement), or other rights arising from Approvals granted by City for
development of all or any portion of the Project.

3. General Development of the Project.

3.1. Project. Owner shall have the vested right to develop the Project
on the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, and the Approvals as the same may be amended from time to time upon application
of Owner; and City shall have the right to control development of the Property in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, the
Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the overall design,
development and construction of the Project, and all improvements and appurtenances in
connection therewith, including, without limitation, the permitted uses on the Property, the
density and intensity of use, the maximum height and size of buildings, the number of allowable
parking spaces and all Mitigation Measures required in order to minimize or eliminate material
adverse environmental impacts of the Proj ect, All building heights (calculated according to City
Law) shall be fifty-five (55) feet or less. By stating that the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, the Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the
overall design, development and construction of the Project, this Agreement is consistent with
the requirements of California Government Code Section 65865.2 (requiring development
agreements to state permitted uses of the property, the density or intensity of use, the maximum
height and size of proposed buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of land for
public purposes). In the event of any inconsistency between the Specific Plan and this

Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern and control.

20


--- page 184 ---
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR; |
First Phase; Timing of Dedications and Contributions. To the extent that the Project is

developed in phases, the Parties acknowledge that presently Owner cannot predict the timing or
sequence of any such Project phasing. Owner therefore shall have the right to develop the
Project in phases in such order and at such times as Owner deems appropriate within the exercise
of its subjective business judgment and the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Approvals. Nonetheless, Developer agrees to meet the following performance milestones
contained in this Section 3.2.: -

3.2.1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines,

Owner agrees to meet with City staff and present a draft of proposed Design Guidelines
for discussion within six (6) months of the Effective Date.

3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines.

Owner agrees to submit an application for approval of Design Guidelines in accordance
with the Specific Plan, no later than one (1) year from the Effective Date.

3.2.3. Application for First Phase.

Owner agrees to submit its first planning applications for the first portion of anticipated
development, which shall be a Site Development Permit application for the framework streets as
shown in the Specific Plan Amendment, and a SPAR for development of at least one Block (the
"First Phase"), no later than one (1) year from the date the City's approval of the Design
Guidelines is final, and any legal proceedings concerning the validity of the approval are "finally

concluded" as defined in Section 1.51.

3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware.

21


--- page 185 ---
Owner agrees to submit an application for a SPAR fora block along Delaware Avenue
| within three months of a Caltrain's multi-modal train station being completed within the Specific
Plan area.

3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication approximately 12 acres of land adjacent
to Saratoga Drive as a community park within two (2) years of the date of Owner's Election to
Discontinue Racing, pursuant to Section 5.9.1 of this Agreement.

3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication the Linear Park and Neighborhood Park
(described in greater detail at Section 5.9.2) prior to approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park or the Neighborhood Park, respectively.

3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right of Way.

Owner agrees to irrevocably dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
temporary two-lane North-South Delaware pursuant to conditions further detailed in Section 5.10
of this Agreement. Owner also agrees to irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required
to accommodate a two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way,
in the event Owner terminates Agreement as further detailed in Section 3.10 of this Agreement.

3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner agrees to contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming prior to the
issuance of the first building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date
pursuant to Section 5.13 of this Agreement. |

3.2.9. Limitation,

22


--- page 186 ---
Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything else in this Agreement to the contrary, by
entering into this Agreement, Owner shall not be obligated to develop the Property.

3.3. Specific Plan. The Specific Plan adopted by the City in approving
this Project and Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit C. To the extent that Exhibit C is
inconsistent with the Specific Plan as amended from time to time, the Specific Plan then in effect
shall prevail. The Specific Plan may be amended from time to time upon application of Owner
and approval of the City without amending this Agreement, unless the proposed amendment to
the Specific Plan is inconsistent with an express provision of this Agreement, in which case this
Agreement shall also be amended.

3.4. Subseguent Projects. Owner is concerned that City may approve
other projects that place a burden on City's infrastructure without considering the prior approval
of the Project. Therefore, City agrees that so long as Owner submits its First Phase applications,
and commences Project development within the Term, Owner's right to build out and occupy all
buildings in the Project shall not be diminished despite the burden of future development upon
public facilities including, without limitation, roads, water systems, roadways, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, utilities, traffic signals, curb gutters, sidewalks, parks, amenities, recreation areas,
landscaping, landfill, and other off-site improvements which are of benefit to the Project and
other properties in the area.

3.5. Applicable Laws and Standards. Except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, the City Laws and conditions of approval governing permitted uses on the
Property, density, height, design, occupancy and specifications applicable to the Project shall be
the Existing City Laws (regardless of any future changes in the same made by City) and the

conditions of approval set forth in this Agreement and the Project Approvals. City hereby agrees

23


--- page 187 ---
aa

that the Project can be built and occupied on the Property pursuant to the Existing City Laws and
conditions of approval and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Specific
Plan, provided that City may apply and enforce the construction, fire and building codes then in
effect in City at the time Owner applies for building permits for the Project.

3.6. Other Governmental Permits, Owner shall apply for such other
permits and approvals as may be required from other governmental or quasi-governmental
agencies having jurisdiction over the Project as may be required for the development of, or
provision of services to, the Project (including but not limited to any permits or approvals
required from the California Department of Transportation and/or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers in relation to any offsite sewer work). City shall cooperate with Owner in its
endeavors to obtain such permits and approvals and, from time to time at the request of Owner,
shall attempt with due diligence and in good faith to enter into binding agreements with any such
entity in order to assure the availability of such permits and approvals or services. To the extent
allowed by Law, Owner shall be a party or third party beneficiary to any such agreement entitled
to enforce the rights of Owner or City thereunder or the duties and obligations of the Parties
thereto. | |

3.7. Processing Fee. City may charge a Processing Fee for a permit or
approval submitted by Owner, as the Processing Fee is in effect at the time of Owner's
application for that permit or approval.

3.8. No Further Exactions. Except as provided in this Section 3.8 , -
Section 3.9 (Transportation Mitigation Fee) and Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee), City shall not impose any further or additional Exactions on the

development of the Project, whether through the exercise of the police power, the taxing power,

24


--- page 188 ---
design review or any other means, other than those set forth in the Project Approvals, the.
Mitigation Measures, the Existing City Laws and this Agreement. By way of clarification, the
City's art fee shall not apply to the Project, but the childcare fee shall apply to development in the
Project (provided that the City shall grant a credit against any applicable fee for the costs of
childcare facilities provided within the Project). The amount of fees and monetary Exactions
applicable to the Project as of the Effective Date are set forth in Exhibit D. Up to the sixth (6th)
anniversary of the Effective Date, monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall remain as in
effect at the same amount or rate as of the Effective Date as specified in Exhibit D, provided that
from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date and each year thereafter,
monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall be calculated by multiplying the amount or
rate in effect as of the Effective Date by the CPI Factor. The Exactions applicable to the Project
as provided in the Specific Plan and this Agreement shall not be modified or renegotiated by City
as aresult of any amendment to the Specific Plan, the Project Approvals, the Approvals, or this
Agreement which does not materially increase the density or intensity of development. Nothing
in this Agreement is intended to prohibit City from exercising its taxing power in a manner
which will not increase any fee or tax applicable to the Project. The Parties acknowledge that the
provisions contained in this Section 3.8 are intended to implement the intent of the Parties that
Owner have the right to develop the Project pursuant to specified and known criteria and rules,
and that City receive the benefits which will be conferred as a result of such development
without abridging the right of City to act in accordance with its powers, duties and obligations.

3.9. Transportation Mitigation Fee. At the time of issuance of building
permits for development on the Property, Owner shall pay City's fair share transportation

mitigation fee with respect to the portion of the Project for which building permits are sought.

25


--- page 189 ---
The parties understand that City will update the "General Plan Traffic Mitigation Fee Program"
to reflect City's portion of the costs of the grade separations to be constructed by the JPB at 28th
Avenue and 31st Avenue to the approximate amount specified on Exhibit D (‘"Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update"). Up to the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the
transportation mitigation fee applicable to the Project shall remain as in effect at the same
amount or rate as of the Effective Date, or if the Transportation Mitigation Fee Update has
occurred before the sixth (6") anniversary of the Effective Date, as revised as of the date of the
Transportation Mitigation Fee Update, provided that from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of
the Effective Date and each year thereafter, the transportation mitigation fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the amount or rate in effect as of the Effective Date (or the Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update, as the case may be) by the CPI Factor.

3.10. | Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee; Consideration

for Early Termination.

(a) If, at any time on or after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the

following three conditions are satisfied:

(i) the grade separations at 28th Avenue and 31st Avenue are open to traffic,

(ii) | the City has approved Owner's applications for Design Guidelines as well

as Owner's applications for the First Phase, and

(ii) Owner has not demolished the grandstand improvements on the Property,

or has otherwise not ceased all racing and betting operations on the Property,
then either:

(A) Owner shall make an advance payment to City of four million, six

hundred thousand dollars ($4.6 million) in transportation mitigation fees (which

26


--- page 190 ---
are to be applied against any future transportation mitigation fees payable for the
Project) within thirty (30) days of the City providing written notice to Owner of
the occurrence of the three conditions specified above, or

(B) — if (x) Owner does not make such payment within thirty (30) days of such
notice, and (y) Owner has not recorded any final map with respect to the Property,
other than the final map recorded with respect to the Master Tentative Map, then |
| _ this Agreement shall Terminate and as consideration for such Termination, Owner
shall irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way
("Compensatory Right-of-Way"), designed in a manner to be compatible with the
then existing uses on the Property. If Owner develops the Property prior to the
City accepting and improving the Compensatory Right-of-Way, City shall
quitclaim or reconvey to Owner the Compensatory Right-of-Way and Owner shall
improve Delaware Street along the alignment contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment. If this Agreement Terminates pursuant to this Section 3.10,
notwithstanding any other provision of City Law or Law or this Agreement, the
term.of any unexpired Project Tentative Map or Future Map (as defined in
section 4.2) shall expire. If the conditions of this Section 3.10(a)(-iii) are
satisfied, and the Owner has recorded any final map with respect to the Property
(or any portion thereof), other than the final map recorded with respect to the
Master Tentative Map, then Owner must make the payment specified in

subsection 3.10(A), above, and the Agreement shall not Terminate.

27


--- page 191 ---
(b) Owner shall notify City as to its utilization of any advance transportation |
mitigation fees at the time of applying for a SPAR.

3.11. Review and Processing of City Approvals. In connection with any
approval, City shall accept applications for processing and review, and exercise City's discretion
to take action, in a good faith manner which is as expeditious as administratively possible and
which complies with and is consistent with the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and City
shall approve any application for an approval (including but not limited to an application for
Design Guidelines) which so complies and is so consistent with the Project Approvals and this
Agreement. Owner recognizes that City retains discretion with respect to its approval of the
Project's Design Guidelines, SPAR process, and consistency with the Specific Plan, provided
that City shall exercise City's discretion in a manner which will not prevent the development of
the Project for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project
Approvals and this Agreement or with the rate of development, if any, specified in the Project
Approvals. Owner, in a timely manner, shall provide City with all fees, charges, documents,
applications, plans and other information necessary for City to carry out its obligations and cause
its planners, engineers and all other consultants to submit in a timely manner all necessary
materials and documents. All applications for Approvals shall be filed in the manner required
under the applicable City Laws, except that such applications shall contain the caption
"SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT" on the
front sheet of such applications (provided that a failure to include such caption shall not have any
legal effect). The Parties expressly intend to cooperate with one another and diligently work to
implement all land use and building approvals for development of the Project in accordance with

the Project Approvals.

28


--- page 192 ---
3.12. Extension of Approvals. Upon approval of any Project Tentative
Map and the First Phase approvals, the term of each shall be extended until the Termination of
this Agreement notwithstanding any other City Law. Upon the approval of any other subdivision
map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit, the term of such
subdivision map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit shall
extend for five (5) years from the date of approval, provided that approvals obtained in the last
five (5) years of the Term shall extend for the greater of (a) the Term of the Agreement or (b) the
maximum applicable time provided for under City Law.

3.13. Interim Uses.

The Project Approvals do and will provide a mechanism which will ensure that the
Property shall be maintained in an aesthetically pleasing manner at a reasonable economic
expense to Owner on an interim basis prior to and during the development of the Project.

4. Subdivision of Property.

4.1, Master Tentative Map. City approved the Master Tentative Map
as of the date hereof. The Master Tentative Map does not and shall not permit any development
of the Property (including issuance of building or demolition permits) unless and until the City
has granted the following Approvals: (a) the Design Guidelines, (b) the First Phase approvals,
and (c) the design and bonding for the Public Improvements to be constructed with the First
Phase of the Project. The two parcels of the Master Tentative Map shall be held under a single
ownership pursuant to a lot tie agreement to be recorded with the San Mateo County recorder,
and such lot tie agreement shall remain in effect unless and until the Approvals described in the
preceding sentence have been granted, and the grandstand and other existing on-site

improvements have been demolished. Developer agrees if the First Phase of development has

29


--- page 193 ---
not commenced prior to the expiration or earlier Termination of the Term, the two parcels
created by the Master Tentative Map shall be merged.

4,2, Project and Future Tentative Maps. Owner shall have the right,
from time to time or at any time, to apply for one (1) or more Project Tentative Maps,
subdividing the Property into Blocks, as may be necessary in order to develop, lease or finance
- any portion of the Property in connection with development of the Project consistent with the
density, Block and parcel sizes set forth in the Specific Plan. Each Block may be subdivided
further into individual parcels through one or more future tentative maps ("Future Tentative
Maps"). City may grant tentative approval of a Project Tentative Map or Future Tentative Map,
but shall not grant final approval of any final Project Tentative Map, or Future Tentative Map
before the pre-conditions for development (a, b, and c) in Section 4.1 (Master Tentative Map)
have been satisfied.

4.3. Government Code Section 66473.7. Pursuant to Government Code
section 65867.5, City has determined that this Agreement is not subject to the provisions of
Government Code Section 65867.5 because the Master Tentative Map includes only two parcels,
and in any event, the Master Tentative Map and any Project Tentative Maps are exempt from the
requirements of Government Code section 66473.7, concerning water verifications, because the
Project is a residential project proposed on a site within an urbanized area and has previously
been developed for urban uses, and the immediate contiguous properties surrounding the Project
site are, and previously have been, developed for urban uses, all within the meaning of

Government Code section 66473.7(i).

30


--- page 194 ---
5. Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project.
5.1. Application of New City Laws. Nothing herein shall prevent City

from applying to the Property:

(a) new City Laws which do not conflict with this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, the Approvals and Existing City Laws, as described in Section 5.2
(Conflicting Laws) below;

(b) new City Laws which are specifically mandated or required by changes in
State or Federal Laws:

(c) City Laws that are applicable to the following and are in effect at the time
Owner submits an application for a building permit for the Project:

(i) procedural requirements for building and building occupancy
permit application, submittal and issuance;

(ii) | construction standards pursuant to all Uniform Building Codes
incorporated by the San Mateo Municipal Code,

(iii) engineering specifications for construction of any public
improvements such as curbs, gutters and sidewalks, to the extent they do not
conflict with the Project Approvals or Approvals;

(iv) building security requirements adopted pursuant to Title 23 of the
San Mateo Municipal Code;

(v) any requirements applicable upon issuance of a building permit for
which City acts as an administering agent for another governing agency; and

(vi) any sustainability mandates that are uniformly applied as a matter

of adopted City requirements to all new construction of the type in question (i.e.

31


--- page 195 ---
standards applicable to all commercial construction in the City shall apply to
commercial development in the Project and standards applicable to all residential
construction in the City shall apply to residential development in the Project).

5.2. Conflicting Laws. For purposes of Section 5.1 above (Application
of New City Laws), any action or proceeding of the City (whether enacted by the legislative
body or the electorate) that has any of the following effects on the Project shall be considered in
conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws:

(a) limiting or reducing the density or intensity of all or any part of the
Proj ect, or otherwise requiring any reduction in the square footage or total number of —
developable blocks, residential units or other improvements;

(b) limiting the timing or phasing of the Project in any manner
inconsistent with this Agreement or the Project Approvals;

(c) limiting the location of structures, grading, streets or other
improvements on the Property in a manner that is inconsistent with or more restrictive
than the limitations included in the Project Approvals or this Agreement; or

(d) applying to the Project or the Property any law, regulation, or rule
otherwise allowed by this Agreement which is not uniformly applied on a City-Wide
basis to all substantially similar types of development projects or project sites in the City.

The above list of actions is not intended to be comprehensive, but is illustrative of
the types of actions that would conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws.

5.3. Timing, Without limiting the foregoing, no moratorium or similar
limitation affecting building permits or other land use entitlements, or the rate, timing or

' sequencing thereof shall apply to the Project. This Agreement shall not preclude the application

32


--- page 196 ---
to the Project of changes in City Laws, to the extent that such changes are specifically required to
be applied to developments such as this Project by changes in applicable Laws.

5.4, Subsequent Environmental Review. The provisions of CEQA, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to any subsequent Approval for the Project.
The Parties acknowledge, however, that the EIR contains a thoroughgoing analysis of the Project
and Project alternatives and specifies the feasible Mitigation Measures available to eliminate or
reduce to an acceptable level adverse environmental impacts of the Project, and acknowledge
that the City Council issued a statement of overriding considerations in connection with the
Project Approvals, pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations (CEQA Guidelines)

Section 15093. The EIR provides an adequate database and environmental analysis for the
decision to proceed with the Project embodied in the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and
subsequent development of the Project during the Term of this Agreement. The Mitigation
Measures imposed are those appropriate for the implementation of proper planning goals and
objectives and the formulation of Project development guidelines and conditions of approval.
For these reasons, no EJR shall be required by City for any subsequent Approvals implementing
the Project unless the provisions of Public Resources Code § 21 166 apply.

5.5. Easements: Improvements; Abandonments. City shall reasonably
cooperate with Owner in connection with any arrangements for abandoning existing utility or
other easements and facilities and the relocation thereof or creation of any new easements within
the Property necessary or appropriate in connection with the development of the Project; and if
any such easement is owned by City or an agency of City, City or such agency shall, at the
request of Owner, take such action and execute such documents as may be reasonably necessary

to abandon existing easements and relocate them, as necessary or appropriate in connection with

33


--- page 197 ---
the development of the Project in accordance with the Project ‘Approvals. All improvements
required as Exactions pursuant to the-Project Approvals shall be constructed by Owner congruent
with each phase of the Project, as such improvements relate thereto and are necessary with
respect to such phase of the Project development.

5.6. Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. Development of
the Property shall be subject to SPAR and other future City review as provided by the Project
Approvals. The Project Approvals, and all improvement plans prepared in accordance with the
Project Approvals, shall govern the design and scope of all on-site and off-site improvements to
be constructed on or benefiting the Property, including all street widths and dedications.

5.7, Single Integrated Development. City and Owner acknowledge that
the Project is and shall be considered a single integrated development project, and that the

dedications for Public Improvements are an integral part of the Project.

5.8. Public Improvements. Owner shall undertake the design,
development and installation of, and dedicate to City (or a transferee specified by City), or the
applicable responsible agency, the Public Improvements required to be constructed by Owner.
pursuant to the Project Approvals, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.8. The
Public Improvements shall be designed and constructed, and shall contain those improvements
and facilities specified in the Project Approvals and other City Laws, and/or as required by
responsible agencies having jurisdiction. The City Manager shall have the right to impose
further implementing conditions in connection with any Approval in order to insure compliance
with the provisions of this Section 5.8 and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement with
respect to the provision of the Public Improvements, including the timing thereof and

relationship to development of the Project, provided that such conditions are not inconsistent

34


--- page 198 ---
with the Project. Approvals or this Agreement and do not prevent the development of the Project
for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Owner shall obtain such permits and approvals (including review of design and
construction plans) from all responsible agencies having jurisdiction over the Public
Improvements as applicable, and shall provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to City of
attainment of all such permits and approvals prior to the commencement of construction or
installation of any affected Public Improvements. During the SPAR process, City shall identify
those Public Improvements (or portion thereof) associated with the portion of development
approved in the SPAR. Once completed in accordance with City Law, City will accept those
Public Improvements. XC
5.8.1. Phasing. The Parties acknowledge that (i) the need for
infrastructure is related to the actual construction of occupied areas and (ii) the timing of
infrastructure expenditures has significant economic effect. Therefore the Project Approvals
include conditions of approval related to phasing, linking infrastructure improvements (both on-
and off-site) with development of occupied areas as described in the Proj ect Approvals. The
City Manager shall be authorized to implement and modify the phasing conditions, as may be
mutually agreed to by Owner, so as to implement the intention of this Section 5.8.1.
5.8.2. Stormwater. The Project Approvals provide for a 4-acre
dry storage area in the area designated as the Community Park. After dedication of the
| Community Park, City shall maintain the dry storage area in accordance with covenants,
conditions and restrictions ("CC&Rs") to be recorded with the County recorder. The CC&Rs are
to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties, and provide for the maintenance and operation

performance standards necessary for the functioning of the dry storage areas in accordance with

35 |


--- page 199 ---
the Project Approvals. Except as otherwise required by the Regional Water Quality Control
Board, City agrees to honor and perform any obligations imposed upon it under the CC&Rs. In
addition, the Parties acknowledge that a wet storage area shall be provided through the creation
of a stormwater retention pond in the Community Park.

5.8.3. Rough Grading. Owner shall be responsible for the rough
grading of the site and location for each Public Improvement located within the Property
(including the dry storage area, but not the remainder of the 12-acre Community Park if the City
has elected to take the cash payment for park improvements specified in Section 5.9.1 below),
and for the rough grading of any off-site location for a Public Improvement, if Owner is
obligated under the Project Approvals to construct such Public Improvements at such off-site
location.

5.8.4. Improvement Agreements and Security. Owner shall enter

into an improvement agreement providing for the design, construction and installation of any
Public Improvements to be made, constructed or installed as required under the Project |
Approvals. Owner shall post security for the performance of Owner's obligations under each
such improvement agreement in the amount of the construction cost for each Public
Improvement as determined by City (or responsible agency, if applicable) under the applicable
City Law (or responsible agency regulations).

5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvements.

Subject to the Project Approvals, Owner shall design, construct
and install, or cause the design, construction and installation of, all off-site Public Improvements.

Owner shall be responsible for obtaining such approvals, permits and other agreements, and

36


--- page 200 ---
entering into such contractual arrangements,.as may be necessary or appropriate to construct the
off-site Public Improvements.

5.9. Parks and Open Space. Owner shall provide 15 acres of land for
public parks as specified in the Project Approvals, regardless of the number of residential units
ultimately constructed at build-out. No additional park fees (in-lieu or otherwise) shall be
payable with respect to the Project. The park land to be dedicated pursuant to the Proj ect
Approvals shall constitute full pre-payment and satisfaction of any park fees for the Project.

5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvements

Within two (2) years after Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, Owner shall
irrevocably offer to dedicate approximately 12 acres of land adjacent to Saratoga Drive as a
community park ("Community Park"). Prior to acceptance of the offer to dedicate the
Community Park, Owner may use the site of the Community Park for staging of construction
activities. The timing for the dedication of the parks shall be as specified in the Project
Approvals. Programming for the Community Park shall be determined by the City. However, as
additional consideration for this Agreement, the Owner agrees to design and construct interim
improvements to the Community Park consisting of one regulation baseball field and one _
regulation soccer field, utilizing grass turf, in the Community Park so as to provide immediately
usable park land upon dedication. Owner's improvements shall not include lights, sidewalks or
other permanent park infrastructure, with the exception of restroom facilities which may, if
mutually agreeable to the City and Owner, be included as part of the interim park improvements.
Depending on the timing of the City's design process for the Community Park, the City may, at

its election, forego the provision of the park improvements by Owner, and instead elect to

37


--- page 201 ---
: ™,
~

‘ receive a $1 million contribution towards the development of final park improvements in
accordance with the City's ultimate design.
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation-of Linear Park and

Neighborhood Park.

Owner shall irrevocably dedicate 1.5 acres of land as a "Linear Park" and 1.5 acres of
land as a "Neighborhood Park" as a condition of approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park and the Neighborhood Park, respectively. The SPAR
conditions of approval shall specify the precise timing for the dedication and when the park
improvements must be completed, taking into account the staging needs for adjacent
development. Interim construction staging for adj acent development shall be permitted on the
Linear Park and Neighborhood Park sites.

5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks.

Owner shall maintain or cause a property owner's association or similar entity to maintain
all landscaping, medians and open space except for the 15 acres of public parks dedicated to the
City (which shall be maintained by the City at it expense). City shall grant Owner or Owner's

_ successor, agent, contractor or subcontractor a right of entry or encroachment permit to maintain
the landscaping on publicly-owned medians in the Specific Plan Amendment area.
5.10. Delaware Street. Owner acknowledges that the completion of
Delaware Street through the Property will complete the City's north-south street grid as shown
on the City's General Plan. If the City has approved the Owner's Design Guidelines, and the
First Phase approvals, then upon the request of the Public Works Director, Owner shall dedicate
the right-of-way required to accommodate a temporary two-lane North-South Delaware

connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way, designed in a manner to be compatible with the

38


--- page 202 ---
then existing uses on the Property. The City shall pay for the costs to design and construct the
temporary Delaware connection. At such time as the Project Approvals require the construction
of Delaware Street as described in the Specific Plan, the Owner, at its own expense, shall
demolish the temporary Delaware connection and design and construct the permanent Delaware
Street improvements in accordance with the Project Approvals.

5.11. Community Facilities District. At the request of the Owner, the
City shall pursue the use of a Community Facilities District ("CFD") for financing the payment
of capital improvement costs associated with the Public Improvements. Subject to market
conditions and fiscal prudence, the City shall use its best efforts to form such a CFD and issue
and sell bonds in connection therewith. Owner shall consent to the formation of the CFD prior to
the recordation of the first Project Tentative Map for the Project.

5.12. | Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units; Property Set-

Aside for Additional BMR Units.
| (a) In accordance with Existing City Laws, including Measure P, Owner shall set

aside an amount of units equal to 10 percent (10%) of all newly constructed residential units for
occupancy by and being affordable to moderate or lower income households ("BMR Units").
Notwithstanding any provision in the City's Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program in effect
as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E, the 10% percent requirement shall be
applied on a Block by Block basis. Since SPARs will be required on a Block-by-Block basis, the
Block constitutes the development project "site" for purposes of applying the BMR
requirements. The BMR Units shall be spread throughout each product type, provided that at
Owner's election, up to two hundred fifty (250) newly constructed residential units may have

their associated BMR Units located in a different building or parcel on that same Block, but

39


--- page 203 ---
spread throughout those buildings on the same Block. All BMR Units shall have exterior
design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as buildings in which they are
~ located. They shall also have similar access to the unit from the exterior as comparable market
rate units in the building in which they are located. Construction of such BMR Units must have
commenced by the time of issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for any associated
market rate unit on the relevant Block, and diligently pursued to completion.

(b) ‘In addition, Owner shall provide to the City (or to a public or non-profit housing
developer of City's choice), at no cost to the City, approximately one acre of land, located in a
Mixed-Use Block (with the precise location to be determined at Owner's sole election), to be
developed by the City, or the designated public or non-profit agency, solely for low, very low, or
moderate income housing, and designed in accordance with the Specific Plan Amendment and
the Design Guidelines. The Owner shall designate the parcel and offer it to the City within six
(6) months after the commencement of construction of the main street section of Delaware. Prior
to transfer of title to the one acre parcel, a restrictive covenant requiring the use of the property
for low, very low or moderate income housing shall be recorded in favor of Owner and its
assigns, which covenant shall include a power of termination in favor of Owner and its assigns
should the terms of the covenant not be met. The obligations in this Section 5.12 implement the
City's desire to see an increased number of units in the Project set aside as BMR Units. Except
as modified by this Agreement Owner shall comply with City's Below Market Rate
(Inclusionary) Program in effect as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E.

5.13. Waiver of Density Bonus.
Except with respect to the one acre of land that Owner dedicates to the City for purposes

of the development of BMR Units in accordance with Section 5.12 of this Agreement, Owner, on

40


--- page 204 ---
behalf of itself and any assignee or successor in interest, waives any rights, as provided under

state low and moderate income density bonus laws as they exist at the date of execution of this

Agreement or at any time during the Term of this Agreement, to develop the Property or any

portion thereof at residential densities greater than those allowed under the Project Approvals. .
5.14. ‘Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner shall contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming. This contribution is
in addition to the Traffic Mitigation Fee to be paid by the applicant, which also includes funding
for traffic calming. The contribution shall be made as a condition to the issuance of the first
building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date.

5.15. Contribution to Public Art.

In recognition that the City's public art ordinance is not otherwise applicable to the
Project, Owner shall contribute One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to the City to be used for
public art and an additional Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) to City Arts of San Mateo to be
utilized for funding a campaign for the arts, all as provided for in this section 5.15. The
contribution to San Mateo City Arts shall be made no later than ninety (90) days after the
Effective Date of this Agreement. The public art contribution shall-be made to the City in. the
following manner: (a) payment of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($350,000) shall be
made to the City on the day the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in
Section 5.19 of this Agreement; (b) Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) shall be
used by Owner in the development of public art in the Town Square to be developed in

_accordance with the Specific Plan; (c) payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000)

shall be made to the City during the Term of this Agreement on each of the fifth (Sth), tenth

41


--- page 205 ---
(10th), and fifteenth (15th) anniversaries of the commencement of the Term; and (d) a final
payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the .City upon the
expiration of the eighteenth (18th) year of the Term of this Agreement . All payments to the City
shall only be used for art to be located within the Project. The selection and placement of public
art shall be determined by a process established by the City, subject to the reasonable approval of
Owner. Art proposed to be located on private property will be determined by a process that
includes the property owner such that the nature and placement of any art must be approved by
the Owner.

5.16. Contribution to Improve Casanova Park

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the City to be
used to improve Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City. Payment of
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the City on the earlier to occur of
(a) the date on which (i) the Effective Date has occurred and (ii) the City sends Owner notice that
it requires the contribution to complete or reimburse the City for the contemplated park
improvements, or (b) the date the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in

Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.17. Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association.

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the Fiesta
Gardens Homeowners' Association to be used for planning, design and implementation of
aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens parks. Payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars

($100,000) shall be made to the Fiesta Garden Homeowners' Association on the day the Owner

42


--- page 206 ---
sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the provisions and terms of the Design

Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project.

The Owner shall construct, or cause at least one residential building in the Project to be
constructed, in a manner that will achieve a LEED Silver Certification, or its equivalent. This
demonstration project will contain at least 30 units (which units are expected to be all market rate
units) and will be developed within the first 400 residential units developed in the Project.

5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming.

Owner agrees that from and after the Effective Date and until the earlier to occur of (a)
the second anniversary of the date Owner makes application for Design Guidelines, and (b) the
City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals, Owner shall not permit the
use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded
gaming at the track, other than wagering on horse racing. Upon the City's approval of (a)
Owner's application for Design Guidelines and (b) Owner's applications for the First Phase, and
the final conclusion (as defined in Section 1.51) of any legal proceeding(s) with respect thereto,
Owner shall have ninety (90) days to send written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals. If Owner accepts
the terms and conditions thereof, then Owner shall record a covenant against the Property
restricting the use of the Property so as to prohibit the right to operate slot machines, video
lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing , in perpetuity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if within
the ninety day period specified in this Section 5.19, Owner notifies City that it does not accept

the provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines or First Phase approvals, then this Agreement

43


--- page 207 ---
shall Terminate and there shall be no further prohibition on expanded gaming at the Property.
Upon Termination pursuant to this Section 5.19, notwithstanding any other provision of City
Law or Law, any unrecorded tentative maps, shall expire. In no event shall any final map, with
respect to any Project Tentative Map, be recorded unless and until the Owner has accepted the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and First Phase approvals.

5.20. Loss of Racing Revenue.

The Owner agrees to pay a maximum of $300,000 annually to the City to compensate for
the loss of net revenues to the City from the Property should Owner delay the commencement of
development of the Property following Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing. The first annual
payment (if any) shall be due the later to occur of (a) the date the City has approved Owner's
applications for Design Guidelines and Owner's applications for the First Phase, and (b) the
second anniversary of the Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, provided that no payment
shall be due from and after the time a building permit with respect to any development on the
Property has been issued, and work in accordance with that permit has commenced. In
addition, and notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any annual payment to the
City shall be net of general revenues (not including processing or similar fees) the City derives
from the Property from any source after the Effective Date (including, but not limited to,
property taxes, transfer taxes, fees, and sales taxes).

6. Periodic Review of Compliance.

6.1. Annual Review. Each year during the Term of this Agreement,
City and Owner shall review this Agreement, and all actions taken pursuant to the terms of this

Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6.

44


--- page 208 ---
6.2. Owner's Submission. Not less than thirty (30), nor more than sixty
(60), days prior to the first (1st) anniversary of the Bffective Date of this Agreement, and each
anniversary date thereafter, Owner shall submit to the City Clerk, with a copy to the Director, a
letter setting forth Owner's good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and a request that review of such compliance by the Planning Commission be made
in accordance with law. Such letter shall be accompanied by such documents and other
information as may be reasonably necessary and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to undertake the annual review of Owner's good faith compliance with the terms of
this Agreement, and shall also state that such letter is submitted to City pursuant to the
requirements of Government Code § 65865.1, and Section 8(a) of the Development Agreement
Resolution.

6.3. Finding of Compliance. Within forty-five (45) days after Owner
submits its letter, the City shall review the Owner's submission to ascertain whether it contains
sufficient information to determine whether Owner has complied in good faith with the terms of

‘this Agreement. Upon request of the City, Owner shall furnish such additional documents or
information as may be reasonably required and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to make and complete its review hereunder. At the first available duly noticed
regular meeting following receipt of all information requested by the City (if any), the Planning
Commission shall determine the good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6 and Section 8(a) of the
Development Agreement Resolution and Government Code Section 65865.1. At least five (5)
days prior to rendering a decision, the City shall provide to Owner copies of all staff reports and

other information concerning Owner's compliance with the terms of this Agreement. If the

45


--- page 209 ---
Planning Commission finds good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this Agreement,
upon request by Owner, the City Manager shall provide to Owner written confirmation of such ~
finding.

6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety. If the
Planning Commission, on the basis of substantial evidence, finds that the Owner has committed _
an Event of Default, or that the failure of the City to terminate or modify the provisions of this
Agreement would place the residents of the territory subject to this Agreement or the residents of
the City, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health and safety (hereafter, “Danger to
Health and Safety”), it shall specify on the record the respects in which Owner has failed to
comply or the factual basis for a finding of Danger to Health and Safety. The Planning
Commission shall also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance,
which time shall be not less than thirty (30) days, and shall be reasonably related to the time
necessary for Owner to adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the
terms of this Agreement. If the areas of noncompliance specified by the Planning Commission
are not perfected within such reasonable time limits prescribed, then upon recommendation of
the Planning Commission, this Agreement shall be subject to modification or cancellation by the
City Council pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, upon a finding of Danger to Health and Safety, the Planning
Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council regarding modifications to or
termination of this Agreement, pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution.

6.5. Appeals to City Council. If Owner appeals a determination of

noncompliance hereunder to the City Council or the Planning Commission makes a finding of

46


--- page 210 ---
Danger to Health and Safety, both as specified in Section 8 of the Development Agreement
Resolution, then the City Council shall schedule the hearing thereon not earlier than thirty (30)
days and not more than sixty (60) days after Owner files its notice of appeal or the date the
Planning Commission renders its decision, whichever is later. If, after receipt of any written
response of Owner, and after considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public
hearing, the City Council finds and determines on the basis of substantial evidence that the
Owner has not complied in good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the
City Council shall specify to Owner the respects in which Owner has failed to comply, and shall
also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance, which time shall be
not less than thirty (30) days and shall be reasonably related to the time necessary for Owner to
adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

If the areas of noncompliance specified by the City Council are not perfected within such
reasonable time limits herein prescribed, then the City Council may by noticed hearing

terminate, modify or take such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, if after receipt of any written response of Owner, and after
considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public hearing, the City Council finds and
determines on the basis of substantial evidence that failure of the City to terminate or modify the
Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and Safety, then the City Council may terminate or
modify this Agreement in accordance with this Agreement and Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution.

6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review.

In the event that City fails to either (a) conduct the annual review after Owner has met its

submission requirements under Section 6.2 (Owner's Submission), or (b) thereafter notify Owner .


--- page 211 ---
in writing of City's determination as to compliance or noncompliance with this Agreement, and
after having been provided written notice by Owner of City’s failure to conduct that annual
review or make such determination regarding this Agreement and such failure remains uncured
as of December 31 of any year during the Term of this Agreement, Owner shall be deemed in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement until such time as the annual review has taken
place and City has notified Owner of its determination.

6.7. Standards. Each annual review hereunder shall, to the extent
applicable, be subject to the demonstration of compliance by Owner through ascertainable
standards of professional disciplines having the requisite experience and expertise within the
subject matter under review, in order that Owner will have the ability, to the extent applicable, to
demonstrate compliance on an objective basis through information or other data prepared by
Owner and its consultants and submitted with its annual statement of compliance hereunder.
Nothing in this Section 6.7 shall be construed to limit City's discretion in making a determination
based on substantial evidence, as to whether Owner is in good faith compliance or whether
failure of the City to terminate or modify the Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and
Safety.

6.8. Effect on Transferees. If Owner has effected a transfer so that its
interest in the Property has been divided between more than one (1) Party, then the annual
review hereunder shall be conducted separately with respect to each such Party, and the Planning
Commission and/or City Council shall make its determinations and take its actions as authorized
and required separately with respect to each such Party. If the City Council Terminates,
modifies or takes such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development

Agreement Resolution in connection with a determination that such Party has not complied in

48


--- page 212 ---
good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such action shall be effected only as
to the Party as to whom the determination is made and the portions of the Property in which such
Party has an interest, unless the Planning Commission and/or the City Council in its resolution of
Termination, modification or other action further limits the scope of its determination.

6.9. Event of Default. The rights and powers of the City Council under
this Article 6 are in addition to, and shall not limit, the rights of the City to modify, Terminate or

take other action under this Agreement on account of the commission by Owner of an Event of

Default.

49


--- page 213 ---
7. Permitted Delays: Supersedure by Subsequent Laws.

7.1. Permitted Delays. In addition to any specific provisions of this
Agreement, performance by either Party of its obligations hereunder shall be excused during any
period of delay, to the extent that delay is an actual cause of default, caused at any time by
reason of acts of God or civil commotion, riots, strikes, picketing, or other labor disputes,
shortage of materials or supplies, or damage to work in process by reason of fire, floods,
earthquake, or other casualties, restrictions imposed or mandated by governmental or quasi-
governmental entities, enactment of conflicting Laws (including, without limitation, new or
supplementary environmental regulations), litigation, acts or neglect of the other Party, or any
other cause beyond the reasonable control of a Party. Each Party shall promptly notify the other
Party of any delay hereunder as soon as possible after the same has been ascertained. The Parties
shall then meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine how to respond to the delay
so as to meet the purposes and intent of this Agreement. The Term of this Agreement shall be
extended by the period of any delay hereunder, not to cumulatively exceed seven (7) years.

7.2, Subsequent Laws. If any Laws made or enacted after the Effective
Date of this Agreement prevent or preclude compliance with one or more provisions of this
Agreement, then the provisions of this Agreement shall, to the extent feasible, be modified or
suspended as may be necessary to comply with such new Law. Immediately after enactment of
any such new Law, the Parties shall meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine
the feasibility of any such modification or suspension based on the effect such modification or
suspension would have on the purposes and intent of this Agreement. If such modification or
suspension is infeasible , then Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written

notice to City. In addition, at Owner's election, the Term of this Agreement may be extended

50


--- page 214 ---
pursuant to Section 7.1 above for the duration of the period during which such new Law
precludes compliance with the provisions of this Agreement for a period not to exceed 24
months. Owner shall also have the right to challenge the new Law preventing compliance with
the terms of this Agreement, and, in the event such challenge is successful, this Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, except that the Term shall be extended by such
challenge pursuant to Section 7.1 above and the provisions of this Section 7.2.

8. Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys' Fees.

8.1. Events of Default. Subject to any extensions of time by mutual
consent in writing, and subject to the provisions of Section 7.1 regarding permitted delays, any
failure by either Party to perform any material term or provision of this Agreement (including
any failure to comply in good faith with the terms of this Agreement) shall constitute an event of
default ("Event of Default"), (a) if such defaulting Party does not cure such failure within thirty
(30) days following notice of default from the other Party, where such failure is of a nature that
can be cured within such thirty (30) day period, or (b) if such failure is not of a nature which can
be cured within such thirty (30) day period, the defaulting Party does not within such thirty (30)
day period commence substantial efforts to cure stich failure, or thereafter does not within a
reasonable time prosecute to completion with diligence and continuity the curing of such failure.

8.2. Remedies. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the
nondefaulting Party may not exercise any rights or remedies unless and until it has first requested |
in writing that the Parties schedule a meeting to occur before a neutral mediator no later than
thirty (30) days following such notice, to mediate and resolve the dispute. The nondefaulting
Party shall submit a list of three neutral mediators provided by ADR Services, Inc. — San

Francisco (or some other mediation services organization agreeable to both Parties) and dates the

51


--- page 215 ---
mediators are available at the time it requests the meeting. The defaulting Party shall select the
neutral mediator from the list provided. If the dispute is not resolved within forty-five (45) days
after the nondefaulting Party has requested a meeting, and the nondefaulting Party has provided
at least three (3) available business days for such meeting at which its own representative and the
neutral mediator are available at a location within the City of San Mateo, regardless of whether
the Parties have actually met to mediate the dispute, the nondefaulting Party shall have the right,
in addition to all other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, to (a) bring any
proceeding in the nature of specific performance, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, or
mandamus, and/or (b) bring any action at law or in equity as may be permitted by any Law or
this Agreement to compensate the nondefaulting Party for all the detriment proximately caused
by the defaulting Party's failure to perform, or otherwise arising out of the Event of Default, or
which in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, provided however that
(i) Owner shall not have the right to recover monetary damages (compensatory or consequential)
against City, and (ii) City shall only have the right to recover actual, direct (and not
consequential) damages against Owner. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default,
the nondefaulting Party shall have the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3,
but any such Termination shall not affect such Party's right to seek any remedy permitted by this

Agreement on account of the Event of Default for which this Agreement has been terminated.

52


--- page 216 ---
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination.

8.3.1. Standards. A Party may Terminate this Agreement
pursuant to Section 8.1 above on account of the commission by the other Party of an Event of
Default only if, as a result of such Event of Default, the Party seeking to Terminate
demonstrates, on the basis of substantial evidence in the record as a whole, that it will be
deprived of a material benefit under this Agreement.

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. If a Party concludes that it has
the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3.1, such Party shall give to the other
Party notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. If City is the Party seeking to Terminate
this Agreement, City shall then conduct a noticed public hearing before the City Council which
public hearing shall be scheduled for the first regularly-scheduled meeting of the City Council
after the giving of public notice of such hearing in accordance with the applicable City Laws and
applicable Laws; and such notice of public hearing shall be given by City within thirty (30) days
following the date City gives notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. At such hearing
City shall demonstrate on the record the grounds and basis on which it claims the right to
Terminate under Section 8.3.1 above. Upon conclusion of such public hearing, the City Council
shall direct the City Manager to take whatever action the City Council deems necessary or
appropriate in connection with City's notice of intent to Terminate, including to proceed with
Termination of this Agreement, proceedings for modification of this Agreement , or any other
action specified by the City Council in the exercise of its discretion. The public hearing
hereunder shall be concluded within sixty (60) days after it has been opened by the City Council
and the holding of such public hearing hereunder shall be a condition to the initiation by City of

any proceeding at law or in equity in connection with a Party's Termination of this Agreement on

53


--- page 217 ---
() -

account of an Bvent of Default. If Owner is the Party exercising a right of Termination, Owner
shall give City at least 45 days notice of its intent to Terminate. During the 45 day period, the
Parties shall exercise good faith in attempting to resolve the conflict. If the matter cannot be
resolved, only after expiration of the 45 day period may Owner Terminate this agreement. Such
Termination shall be made by sending written notice thereof to the City. |

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. Termination of this
Agreement by a Party on account of an Event of Default shall be effected on the later of (i) the
date specified or required to be specified in a Party's notice of intent to Terminate, or (ii) in the
case of the City, thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to Section
8.3.2 above unless, as a result of such public hearing, the City determines to take actions as an
alternative to or in lieu of Termination, in which event City shall not have the right to Terminate
this Agreement unless and until it has given a subsequent notice of intent to Terminate pursuant
to this Section 8.3.3.

8.3.4. Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. Any

challenge to a Party's Termination of this Agreement on account of an Event of Default by the
other Party shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5(c) or other applicable law. Any challenge to a
Party's claim that an Event of Default has occurred (which does not involve a purported
Termination of this Agreement) shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of San Mateo
County pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5 or other applicable law, and
such Court shall determine the appropriate standard of review. |

8.4. Effect of Termination. If a Party Terminates this Agreement, such

Termination shall not affect any right or duty emanating from any Approvals with respect to the

54


--- page 218 ---
Project or Property approved concurrently or subsequently to the approval of this Agreement, but
the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall otherwise cease as of the date of
such Termination. Upon Termination of this Agreement, City shall retain any and all benefits,
including money or land, previously received by City or that should have been received by City
as of the date of Termination under or in connection with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions, no Termination of this Agreement shall prevent Owner from completing
and occupying buildings or other improvements authorized pursuant to valid building permits or
certificates of occupancy previously approved by City or under construction at the time of
Termination, unless the reason giving rise to the Termination independently affects such building
permits or certificates of occupancy. As used herein, "construction" means work under a valid
permit, and "completing" means completion for beneficial use or occupancy by Owner, or ifa
portion of the Project is intended for use by a lessee or tenant and the lessee or tenant is
responsible for completing the interior improvements, then for such portion "completing" shall
mean such completion except for interior improvements, such as partitions, duct and electrical
runouts, floor coverings, wall coverings, lighting, furniture, trade fixtures, finished ceilings, and

_ other improvements typically constructed by or for tenants of buildings.

8.5. Limitations on Actions. Any action by any third Person to attack,
review, set aside, void or annul any action or decision taken by either Party under this Agreement
shall not be maintained by such Person unless such action or proceeding is commenced within
ninety (90) days after the date such decision or action is made or taken hereunder, or such shorter
period as is prescribed by Law.

8.6. . Waiver; Remedies Cumulative. Failure by a Party to insist upon

the strict performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement by the other Party, irrespective

55


--- page 219 ---
of the length of time for which such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver of such
Party's right to demand strict compliance by such other Party in the future. No waiver by a Party
of an Event of Default shall be effective or binding upon such Party unless made in writing by

_such Party, and no such waiver shall be implied from any omission by a Party to take any action
with respect to such Event of Default. No express written waiver of any Event of Default shall
affect any other Event of Default, or cover any other period of time, other than any Event of
Default and/or period of time specified in such express waiver. All of the remedies permitted or
available to a Party under this Agreement, or at law or in equity, shall be cumulative and not
alternative, and invocation of any such right or remedy shall not constitute a waiver or election
of remedies with respect to any other permitted or available right or remedy.

8.7. Attorneys! Fees. Attorneys' fees in an amount not exceeding
eighty-five dollars ($85) per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000), shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing ofa cost bill) by the prevailing party
in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. "Prevailing Party" within
the meaning of this Section 8.7 shall include, without limitation, a Party who dismisses an action
for recovery hereunder or a portion thereof in exchange for payment of the sums allegedly due,
performance of covenants allegedly breached, or consideration substantially equal to the relief
sought in the action. The above five thousand dollar ($5,000) limit is the total of attorneys’ fees
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number
of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent of this Agreement that neither Party shall
have to pay the other more than five thousand dollar ($5,000) for attorneys’ fees arising out of an

action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.

56


--- page 220 ---
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. City and Owner hereby renounce
the existence of any third party beneficiary to this Agreement and agree that nothing contained
herein shall be construed as giving any Person third party beneficiary status. If any action or
proceeding is instituted by any third Person challenging the validity of any provision of this
Agreement, or any action or decision taken or made hereunder, the Parties shall cooperate in
defending such action or proceeding.

8.9. Effect of Court Action. If any court action or proceeding is
brought by any third Person to challenge any Approval, this Agreement, or any other permit or
approval required from City or any other governmental entity for development or construction of
the Project, or any portion thereof, and without regard to whether or not Owner is a party to or
real party in interest in such action or proceeding, then if such court action or proceeding is likely
to materially affect the timing or cost of development such as to threaten the economic feasibility
of the Project, Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days'
notice in writing to City, given at any time during the pendency of such action or proceeding, or
within ninety (90) days after the final determination therein (including any appeals), irrespective
of the nature of such final determination, and (b) any such action or proceeding shall constitute a
permitted delay under Section 71. |

$8.10. Estoppel Certificate. Either Party may, at any time, and from time
to time, deliver written notice to the other Party requesting such Party to certify in writing that, to
the knowledge of the certifying Party, (a) this Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding
obligation of the Parties, (b) this Agreement has not been amended or modified either orally or in
writing, and if so amended, identifying the amendments, and (c) the requesting Party is hot in

default in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, or if in default, to describe

57


--- page 221 ---
therein the nature and amount of any such defaults. A Party receiving a request hereunder shall

execute and return such certificate within thirty (30) days following the receipt thereof. The

Director shall have the right to execute any certificate requested by Owner hereunder. City

acknowledges that a certificate hereunder may be relied upon by transferees and Mortgages.
9. Mortgagee Protection; Certain Rights of Cure.

9.1. Mortgagee Protection. This Agreement shall be superior and
senior to any lien placed upon the Property, or any portion thereof, including the lien of any
Mortgage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no breach hereof shall defeat, render invalid,
diminish or impair the lien of any Mortgage made in good faith and for value, but all of the terms
and conditions contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon and effective against any
Person (including any Mortgagee) who acquires title to the Property, or any portion thereof, by
foreclosure, trustee's sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise.

9,2. Mortgagee Not Obligated. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 9.1 above, no Mortgagee shall have any obligation or duty under this Agreement to
construct or complete the construction of improvements, or to guarantee such construction or
completion; provided, however, that a Mortgagee shall not be entitled to devote the Property to
any uses or to construct any improvements thereon other than those uses or improvements
provided for or authorized by this Agreement, or otherwise under City Laws.

9,3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee: Right of Mortgagee to Cure. If
City receives notice from a Mortgagee requesting a copy of any notice of default given Owner
hereunder and specifying the address for service thereof, then City shall deliver to such
Mortgagee, concurrently with service thereon to Owner, any notice of an Event of Default or

determination of noncompliance given to Owner. Each Mortgagee shall have the right (but not

58


--- page 222 ---
the obligation) for a period of ninety (90) days after the receipt of such notice from City to cure
or remedy, or to commence to cure or remedy, the Event of Default claimed or the areas of
noncompliance set forth in the City's notice. If the Event of Default or such noncompliance is of
a nature which can only be remedied or cured by such Mortgagee upon obtaining ery |
such Mortgagee shall seek to obtain possession with diligence and continuity through a receiver
or otherwise, and shall thereafter remedy or cure the Event of Default or noncompliance within
ninety (90) days after obtaining possession. If any such Event of Default or noncompliance
cannot, with diligence, be remedied or cured within such ninety (90) day period, then such
Mortgagee shall have such additional time as may be reasonably necessary to remedy or cure
such Event of Default or noncompliance (including but not limited to proceeding to gain
possession of the Property) if such Mortgagee commences cure during such ninety (90) day

period, and thereafter diligently pursues completion of such cure to the extent possible.

59


--- page 223 ---
94, Right of City to Cure. If Owner defaults under any Mortgage, then
City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure such default prior to completion of any
foreclosure or any proceeding to terminate the interest of Owner in the Property. If City invokes
its right to cure hereunder, City shall be entitled to. reimbursement from Owner of all costs and
expenses incurred by City in curing such default. City shall also be entitled to a lien upon any of
the Property, or portion thereof, encumbered by the Mortgage with respect to which Owner has
defaulted, to the extent of such costs and disbursements.

10. Transfer and Assignment.

10.1. Assignment.

Owner shall obtain City's prior written consent to assign or transfer any of its obligations,
at any time before both of the following has occurred: (a) the City has approved the Design .
Guidelines; and (b) the City has approved the First Phase applications. Further, Owner may not
assign or transfer any of its obligations to (a) construct an off-site force main (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (b) pay City $4.6 million in transportation mitigation fees (pursuant to
Section 3.10), (c) dedicate the Community Park to City (pursuant to Section 5.9 (Parks) and the
Project Approvals), (d) construct 28th Avenue, 31st Avenue and Delaware Street (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (e) dedicate land for City to construct Delaware Street if the Project does not
proceed (pursuant to Section 5.10 and 3.10), (f) contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic
calming (pursuant to Section 5.13), (g) design and construct interim improvements for the
Community Park or provide a $1 million contribution towards development of the final park
improvements at the City's election (pursuant to Section 5.9.1), (h) design and construct the
temporary dry storage area in the Community Park (if necessary) or rough grade and construct

the permanent dry storage area (pursuant to the Project Approvals), (i) dedicate the Linear Park

60


--- page 224 ---
and Neighborhood Park (each park is anticipated to be transferred upon development of a Block
_ associated with the park), (j) contribute to public art (pursuant to Section 5.15), (k) contribute
$100,000 for Casanova Park (pursuant to Section 5.16) and (1) contribute to Fiesta Gardens
Homeowners’ Association for aquatic improvements to the common areas pursuant to Section
5.17), without City's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed. Any failure by Owner to obtain required consent shall be curable in
accordance with the provision of Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). Following approval of
the Design Guidelines and First Phase applications, and except as expressly provided in this
Section 10.1, Owner shall have the right, without the consent of City, to assign or transfer all or
any portion of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement to third Persons acquiring
an interest or estate'in all or a portion of the Property (the "Transferred Property"), including, but
not limited to, purchasers or long term ground lessees of individual lots, Blocks, parcels, or of
any of the buildings located within the Property, so long as the Owner provides the City with a
certification that to Owner's reasonable knowledge, the Person acquiring the Transferred
Property has a demonstrated track record with projects of a similar scope and quality, and the
entity or person is capable of qualifying for commercially reasonable financing for the
Transferred Property from a regional bank or other substantial financial institution or equity
source. Notwithstanding the foregoing, City's consent shall not be required for an assignment of
an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or transfer to an equity source,
bank, or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any equitable interest
in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other instrument.

10.2. Notice. If Owner is not required to obtain City's consent to an

assignment or transfer pursuant to Section 10.1, Owner shall give prior written notice to City of

61


--- page 225 ---
its intention to assign or transfer any of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement.
Any failure by Owner to provide such notice shal] be curable in accordance with the provision of
Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). For the purposes of this Section 10.2, an assignment
includes an assignment of an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or
transfer to a bank or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any
equitable interest in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other
instrument. 7

10.3. Assignment Agreement. Any assignee or transferee shall
expressly assume Owner's obligations under this Agreement through an assignment agreement
("Assignment Agreement") to be executed by and between (a) Owner, (b) the assignee or
transferee, and (c) City. Execution of such Assignment Agreement shall thereby relieve Owner
of any responsibility or liability for those assumed obligations under this Agreement, and shall
impose upon the assignee or transferee those assumed obligations. If Owner or the Owner of any
Transferred Property defaults under this Agreement, such default shall not constitute a default by
the Owner of any other portion of the Property hereunder (including, but not limited to the
Owner) and shall not entitle City to terminate or modify this Agreement with respect to such
other portion of the Property or the Owner thereof; provided, however, that nothing herein shall
restrict City from taking action with respect to the portion of the Property or the Owner actually
responsible for the default.

10.4. Trip Budget. Each Assignment Agreement shall specify the
number of PM peak hour trips allocated to the Transferred Property ("Trip Budget") by Owner.
The Assignment Agreement may provide for the Trip Budget to be reduced in the future

(i) where the actual trips (as determined by monitoring) or the forecast trips (as determined at

62


--- page 226 ---
SPAR) generated by the Transferred Property are lower than the Trip Budget, and/or (ii) to
reflect future reductions required by the Approvals for the Project overall. City agrees that the
monitoring and enforcement of the Trip Budget shall be handled through the Approvals and not
through this Agreement, and any failure to comply with the Trip Budget shall not constitute an
Event of Default or other violation of this Agreement in any way whatsoever.

10,5. . Covenants Run With The Land. All of the provisions, agreements,
rights, powers. standards, terms, covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement shall
constitute covenants that shall run with the land comprising the Property, and the burdens and
benefits shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the Parties and their respective
heirs, successors (by merger, consolidation, or otherwise), assigns, devisees, administrators,
representatives, and lessees.

11. Amendment and Termination.

11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. Except as provided in Article 6
(Periodic Review of Compliance) above with respect to City's annual review, this Agreement
may be canceled, modified or amended only by mutual consent of the Parties in writing, and then
only in the manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution. Minor modifications to this Agreement which do not
relate to the Term, permitted uses, density or intensity of use, height or size of buildings,
provisions for reservation and dedication of land, conditions, terms, restrictions and requirements
relating to subsequent discretionary actions, monetary contributions by Owner, or any conditions
or covenants relating to the use of the Property, or like material provisions, shall not be

considered amendments and shall require the giving of notice pursuant to Government Code

63


--- page 227 ---
Section 65867 as specified by Section 65868 thereof, but shall not require a public hearing

before the Parties may make such amendment.

11.2. Recordation. Any amendment, termination or cancellation of this
Agreement shall be recorded by the City Clerk not later than ten (10) days after the effective date
of the action, and such effective date shall be considered the date upon which the City entered
into or determined such amendment, termination or cancellation.

12. Notices.

12.1. . Procedure. Any notice to either Party shall be in writing and given
by delivering the same to such Party in person or by sending the same by registered or certified
mail, or express mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, to the Party's mailing
address. The respective mailing addresses of the Parties are, until changed as hereinafter

provided, the following:

City: City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Director of Community

Development

with a copy to: Office of the City Attorney
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403

Owner: Bay Meadows Land Company
1200 Park Place
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Terrence Fancher

with a copy to: Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue
Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071
Attention: Amy R. Forbes

64


--- page 228 ---
Any Party may change its mailing address at any time by giving written notice of such change to
the other Party in the manner provided herein at least ten (10) days prior to the date such change
is effected. All notices under this Agreement shall be deemed given, received, made or
communicated on the date personal delivery is effected or, if mailed, on the delivery date or
attempted delivery date shown on the return receipt.

13. Miscellaneous.

13.1. Negation of Partnership. The Parties specifically acknowledge that
the Project is a private development, that neither Party is acting as the agent of the other in any
respect hereunder, and that each Party is an independent contracting entity with respect to the
terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Agreement. None of the terms or provisions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to create a partnership between or among the Parties in the
businesses of Owner, the affairs of City, or otherwise, nor shall it cause them to be considered
joint venturers or members of any joint enterprise.

13.2. Approvals. Unless otherwise herein provided, whenever approval,
consent or satisfaction (herein collectively referred to as a "consent") is required of a Party
pursuant to this Agreement, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Consent shall be deemed given if the Party from whom the consent is sought neither approves or
disapproves of the request within thirty (30) days, or such other applicable time period specified
in this Agreement, after receipt of the written request for consent, but not before the Party
requesting the consent has delivered notice to the opposing Party that the thirty (30) day period
has expired, and that it will deem such passage of time to be consent if the opposing Party does
not object within ten (10) calendar days. If a Party shall not consent, the reasons therefore shall

be stated in reasonable detail in writing. Consent by a Party to or of any act or request by the

65


--- page 229 ---
other Party shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary consent to or of any similar or
subsequent acts or requests.

13.3. Project Approvals Independent. All Approvals which may be
granted pursuant to this Agreement, and all Approvals or other land use approvals which have
been or may be issued or granted by the City with respect to the Property, constitute independent
actions and approvals by the City. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any
provision of this Agreement to a particular situation is held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid or unenforceable, or if the City terminates this Agreement for any reason, such
invalidity, unenforceability or termination of this Agreement or any part hereof shall not affect
the validity or effectiveness of any Approvals or other land use approvals. In such cases, such
Approvals will remain in effect pursuant to their own terms, provisions and conditions.

13.4. NotA Public Dedication. Nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to be a gift or dedication of the Property, or of the Project, or portion thereof, to the
general public, for the general public, or for any public use or purpose whatsoever except as
specifically provided as a term of this Agreement, condition of Project Approval or other
approval. Owner shall have the right to prevent or prohibit the use of the Property, or the
Project, or any portion thereof, including common areas and buildings and improvements located
thereon, by any person for any purpose inimical to the operation of a private, integrated Project
as contemplated by this Agreement.

13.5. Severability. Invalidation of any of the provisions contained in
this Agreement, or of the application thereof to any person, by judgment or court order, shall in
no way affect any of the other provisions hereof or the application thereof to any other Person or

circumstance and the same shall remain in full force and effect, unless enforcement of this

66


--- page 230 ---
Agreement as so invalidated would be unreasonable or grossly inequitable under all the
circumstances or would frustrate the purposes of this Agreement.

13.6. Exhibits. Exhibits A, B, D and E listed in the Table of Contents
and referred to herein are deemed incorporated into this Agreement in their entirety. Exhibit C is
not incorporated into this Agreement.

13.7. Entire Agreement. This written Agreement and the Exhibits
contain all the representations and the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the
subject matter hereof. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, any prior
correspondence, memoranda, agreements, warranties or representations are superseded in total
by this Agreement.

13.8. Construction of Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement and
the Exhibits shall be construed as a whole according to their common meaning and not strictly
for or against any Party in order to achieve the objectives and purpose of the Parties. The
. captions preceding the text of each Article, Section, subsection and the Table of Contents are
included only for convenience of reference and shall be disregarded in the construction and
interpretation of this Agreement. Wherever required by the context, the singular shall include
the plural and vice versa, and the masculine gender shall include the feminine or neuter genders,
or vice versa.

13.9. Further Assurances; Covenant to Sign Documents. Each Party

covenants, on behalf of itself and its successors, heirs and assigns, to take all actions and do all
things, and to execute, with acknowledgment or affidavit if required, any and all documents and
writings that may be necessary or proper to achieve the purposes and objectives of this

Agreement.

67


--- page 231 ---
13.10. Governing Law. This Agreement, and the rights and obligations of
the Parties, shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
California.

13.11. References; Terminology. Unless otherwise specified, whenever
in this Agreement, reference is made to the Table of Contents, any Article or Section, or any

_ defined term, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the Table of Contents, Article, Section
or defined term of this Agreement. Exhibits to this Agreement shall be incorporated into this
Agreement as if stated fully herein. The use in this Agreement of the words "including", "such
as" or words of similar import when following any general term, statement or matter shall not be
construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific items or matters, whether or not
language of nonlimitation, such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to", or words of
similar import, are used with reference thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other

items or matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest possible scope of such statement,

term or matter.

68


--- page 232 ---
13.12. Signature Pag es. For convenience, the signatures of the Parties to
this Agreement may be executed and acknowledged on separate pages which, when attached to
this Agreement, shall constitute this as one complete Agreement.

13.13. Construction. This Agreement has been reviewed and revised by
legal counsel for both Owner and City, and no presumption or rule that ambiguities shall be
construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation or enforcement of this
Agreement..

13.14. Time. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of each and
every term and condition hereof.

13.15. Indemnification.

Owner agrees to defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the City, its City Council
members, agents, officers, attorneys, employees, boards and commissions from any litigation,
claim, action or court proceeding brought against any of the foregoing individuals or entities
("Indemnified Parties"), the purpose of which is to attack, set aside, void or annul the Project
Approvals or this Agreement. This indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, damages,
costs, expenses, reasonable attorney fees or expert witness fees that may be asserted or incurred
by Indemnified Parties, arising out of or in connection with the approval of this Agreement or
any Proj ect Approvals. If Owner is required to defend Indemnified Parties in connection with
any litigation, claim, action, or court proceeding, the City shall retain the right to approve any
and all settlements proposed by-Owner, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld from
the City. Owner shall also have the right to approve any and all settlements of any such matters
proposed by the City and relating to this Agreement or the Project Approvals, which approval

shall not be unreasonably withheld from the Owner. City agrees to cooperate with Owner in the

69


--- page 233 ---
defense of the claim, action or proceeding. Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean
that Owner shall defend, indemnify or hold the City or its elected or appointed representatives,
officers, agents and employees harmless from any claims of personal injury, death or property
damage arising from, or alleged to arise from, the maintenance or repair by the City of

_ improvements that have been offered for dedication and accepted by the City or for City's gross

negligence or willful misconduct.

70


--- page 234 ---
WILSON
MEANY

August 11, 2023

Rendell Bustos

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: Proposed Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Extension
Rendell:

We would like to request a three year extension of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement
which expires in December 21, 2023. A draft of the proposed amendment is included with our Planning
Application.

Over the past 18 years, Bay Meadows Land Company and the City of San Mateo have worked closely
together to create a new mixed-use, transit oriented development in San Mateo. Today, Bay Meadows
has 981 homes, 5 office buildings fully leased to high quality companies, three public parks, a high school
and a new below market rate apartment building. As set forth in the Development Agreement, Bay
Meadows Land Company has contributed to San Mateo an array of community benefits valued at over
$30 million dollars. We take great pride in this new neighborhood and hope the City shares our pride.

We are requesting an extension of the Development Agreement to allow us to complete the development
as originally envisioned. The pandemic has delayed our ability to complete the development of the final
two blocks (Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3) by causing ongoing disruption in the office and financing
markets. We have approved Site Plan and Architectural Review plans for both of these blocks which
include both housing and office development. The housing is integral to the existing residential
development at Bay Meadows and includes 7 below market rate units. The office is an important
expansion opportunity for our existing tenant base and offers ground floor retail space along Delaware
Street as well as a future location for a childcare facility.

The Bay Meadows Specific Plan establishes the underlying zoning for property; should markets change in
the future, we will continue to rely on the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines.

Thank you for your consideration of our request. We are available to answer any questions.

Sincerely,

/ On
LEE

wilsonmeany.com Four Embarcadero Center, Sulte 3330 tT 415905 5300
San Francisco, CA 94111 F 415905 5350


--- page 235 ---
Page 1 of 8 
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II 
Development Agreement (Effective 12/21/05) Annual Review Matrix 
September 2023 
Review Period (16th & 17th years):  December 20, 2020 to December 21, 2022 
This matrix provides brief summaries of the provisions of the Development Agreement by and between the City of San Mateo and the Bay Meadows Main Track 
Investors, LLC, adopted by Ordinance No. 2005-17 (hereinafter the "DA" or the "Development Agreement").  For the full requirements, please see the text of the 
Development Agreement. 
 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
MISCELLANEOUS AND ON-GOING 
Annual Review of Development 
Agreement:  Owner submits letter to City 
Clark re: compliance; Compliance to be 
determined by Planning Commission, 
appears to City Council 
6 
No less than 30 nor no more than 60 
days prior to the anniversary date of 
the DA. 
Owner has complied by 
submitting this annual 
review. 
10/21 to 11/20 of each 
year. 
Applications for Approvals  
shall all contain the following language:  
“SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT” 
3.11 
Add language to each Application 
submittal. 
Owner has and will comply 
when appropriate. 
Ongoing. 
Permits Required by Other Agencies 
Project may need permits for one or more 
of these agencies: 
1) Army Corps of Engineers 
2) Fish and Game 
3) JPB 
4) Caltrans 
5) Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District 
5.8 
Prior to issuance of any required 
City permits. 
Ongoing- Owner is 
complying.  
Ongoing.

--- page 236 ---
Page 2 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
PRIOR TO OBTAINING BUILDING PERMITS 
Below Market Rate (BMR) Agreement 
Provide an executed BMR Agreement 
between applicant and the City. 
5.12 
Prior to issuance of any building 
permit for residential units. 
Ongoing - Addressed on a 
building by building basis. 
Building Permit. 
PRIOR TO OBTAINING CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY (C OF O) 
Below Market Rate (BMR) (10%) 
Construction of BMR Units. 
5.12(a) 
Construction must commence prior 
to first Certificate of Occupancy on 
the Block. 
Ongoing - Addressed on a 
building by building basis. 
Prior to Certificate of 
Occupancy.  On-going. 
FEE SUMMARY 
Exaction Inflation and Transportation 
Mitigation Fee 
3.8 
3.9 
Exactions shall be inflated after the 
6th anniversary of the Effective Date 
by the CPI factor 
(Transportation Mitigation Fee 
Update may increase fee prior to 6th 
anniversary.) 
This was effective on 
12/21/11 and is being 
implemented. 
On-going. 
Public Art Contribution of $1,000,000. 
5.15 
1) $350,000 due on day Owner 
sends notice accepting the 
Design Guidelines and First 
Phase approvals; 
2) $100,000 due on the 5th, 
10th and 15th anniversaries 
of the DA 
3) $250,000 to be used by 
Owner for public art in Town 
Square; 
4) $100,000 due on expiration 
of DA in 18th year. 
COMPLETED.  All public 
art, including placement in 
Town Square is installed.  
Payment #1 and #2 
12/21/10 & 12/21/15 
completed.  Future 
payment due 12/21/20. 
All payments due by 
12/21/23 
COMPLETED

--- page 237 ---
Page 3 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Design Guidelines 
Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines.  
Meet with City staff and present a draft of 
Design Guidelines. 
3.2.1 
Within 6 months of Effective Date. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/21/06. 
Due by 6/21/06. 
Design Guidelines 
Submission of Design Guidelines.  Submit 
application for approval of Design 
Guidelines. 
3.2.2 
No later than 1 year from Effective 
Date of Development Agreement. 
COMPLETED by Owner.  
Owner submitted 
application for approval of 
Design Guidelines on July 
11, 2006. 
 
ADOPTED by Planning 
Commission on December 
12, 2006 
Due 12/21/06. 
Adopted 12/12/06. 
Lot Tie 
Owner shall provide a lot tie agreement. 
4.1 
When recording the Master Final 
Map. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
12/15/06 
 
Record Master Final  Map 
4.1 
Record Master Tentative Map. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
8/30/06. 
 
Campaign for the arts contribution of 
$50,000. 
5.15 
90 days after Effective Date. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
3/21/06. 
Due on 3/21/06. 
Site Development Permit application.   
Submit the first planning applications for 
the first portion of anticipated 
development for the framework streets. 
3.2.3 
No later than 1 year from the date 
the City’s approval of the Design 
Guidelines is final, and any legal 
proceedings are "finally concluded."   
COMPLETED by Owner on 
4/19/07. 
12/12/07 pending 
conclusion of legal 
proceedings. 
SPAR for First Phase  
Submit application for first SPAR for at 
least one Block ("First Phase").   
3.2.3 
No later than 1 year from the date 
the City’s approval of the Design 
Guidelines is final, and any legal 
proceedings are "finally concluded."   
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/18/07. 
12/12/07 pending 
conclusion of legal 
proceedings.

--- page 238 ---
Page 4 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
SPAR for Block along Delaware   
Submit application for a SPAR for a block 
along Delaware. 
3.2.4 
Within 3 months of a Caltrain’s multi-
modal train station being completed 
within the Specific Plan area. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/18/07. 
Caltrain station completion. 
Wet Storage Area 
5.8.2 
Wet storage provided by creation of 
storm water retention pond in 
Community Park. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
10/23/07. 
Project Tentative Map. 
Site Development Permit. 
Community Facilities District (CFD) for 
financing payment of capital 
improvement costs associated with 
Public Improvements 
1) Owner requests formation 
2) City responsible for formation of 
CFD and issue/sale of bonds 
3) Owner shall consent to formation 
prior to recordation of first Project 
Tentative Map 
5.11 
City pursues CFD at Owner's 
Request.  Owner shall consent to 
the formation of the CFD prior to the 
recordation of the first Project 
Tentative Map for Project. 
COMPLETED.  CFD 
adopted on 8/11/08. 
Prior to recordation of 
Project Tentative Map. 
Dedication of Linear Park and 
Neighborhood Park 
 
3.2.6 
See also 5.9.2 
Owner to dedicate prior to approval 
of the SPAR for the first Block of the 
development adjacent to the Linear 
Park or the Neighborhood Park.  To 
be addressed in Conditions of 
Approval. 
COMPLETED.  This issue is 
addressed in SPAR 
Conditions of Approval and 
on the final tentative map. 
At time of SPAR 1 
approval. 
Notice Re:  Advance Transportation 
Mitigation Fees. 
Owner shall notify city of its utilization of 
advance $4.6 million payment. 
3.10(b) 
At application for a SPAR. 
COMPLETED.  Advance 
fees were not utilized.   
At SPAR application. 
Advance payment of 
Transportation Mitigation 
Fees would be necessary if 
the JPB had commenced 
construction of the grade 
separations.  This has not 
happened therefore this 
provision is not applicable.

--- page 239 ---
Page 5 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Owner's acceptance or rejection of 
City's approval of Design Guidelines & 
First Phase Approvals.  (Section 3.2.3 
explains that “First Phase” includes the 
Site Development Permit and a SPAR for 
at least one block.) 
 
Section 5.19 also addresses prohibition 
on Expanded Gaming. 
5.19 
Within 90 days of City's approval of 
Design Guidelines, First Phase 
approvals, and final conclusion of 
any legal proceedings. 
All triggers have occurred.   
Action required by 12/31/08. 
COMPLETED on 12/29/08.   
12/31/08. 
Delaware Street 
Owner shall dedicate Delaware to City 
upon request of Public Works, after 
Design Guidelines and First Phase 
approvals. 
5.10 
Upon request from Public Works, 
after Design Guidelines and First 
Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Delaware 
Street has been dedicated 
to the City on the Final 
Map. 
Upon request of Public 
Works. 
Public Art Contribution of $350,000, 
$100,000 and $100,000 ($1,000,000 in 
total). 
5.15 
1) $350,000 due on day Owner 
sends notice accepting the 
Design Guidelines and First 
Phase approvals; 
2) $100,000 due on 5th 
anniversary 
3) $100,000 due on 10th 
anniversary 
COMPLETED according to 
due dates.   
 
See Fee Summary section for 
detail on additional Public Art 
Contribution fees due. 
Due and paid 12/31/08. 
 
 
Due and paid 12/21/10. 
 
Due 12/21/15 and spent 
directly on art with 
approval from Art’s 
Commission. 
Casanova Park contribution of 
$100,000. 
5.16 
1) When Effective Date has 
occurred and City requests 
payment; or 
2) When Owner sends notice 
accepting Design Guidelines 
and First Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Payment 
made on 12/29/08.   
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08.

--- page 240 ---
Page 6 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Fiesta Gardens contribution of 
$100,000. 
5.17 
When Owner sends notice accepting 
Design Guidelines and First Phase 
Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Payment 
made on 12/29/08.   
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08. 
Gaming 
Owner to record a covenant against the 
Property to permanently prohibit 
additional gaming. 
5.19 
Upon owner's acceptance of City’s 
approval of Design Guidelines & 
First Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Covenant 
recorded on 12/29/08. 
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08. 
Development Delay Payment: 
Owner pays $300k for loss of racing 
revenue if development delayed. 
5.20 
2 years after Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue Racing and delay in 
development. 
Not applicable. 
N/A – Construction has 
commenced. 
Community Park:  Interim 
Interim improvements (baseball and 
soccer fields, restrooms) or cash payment 
to City of $1,000,000.  Depends on where 
City is in design process. 
Improvement agreement and financial 
security. 
5.9.1 
See also 3.2.5 
 
COMPLETED. The 
Community Park was 
formally dedicated to the 
City of San Mateo on May 
15, 2012.  The Dedication 
was recorded with the 
County Recorder on that 
same day. 
Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue racing + 2 
years (4/1/2012). 
Advance Payment of Transportation 
Mitigation Fees; Consideration for 
Early Termination. 
If specified conditions exist, Owner shall 
advance $4.6 million in transportation 
mitigation fees or terminate the 
Agreement.  If terminate then owner must 
dedicate Delaware right of way.  If 
specified conditions exist and Owner has 
recorded final map, then $4.6 million 
payment is mandatory and Agreement 
does not terminate. 
3.10(a)  
6 years from the Effective Date; and 
1)  if 28th and 31st are open to 
traffic; and 
2)  City has approved Design 
Guidelines and applications 
for First phase; and 
3)  Grandstand has not been 
demolished or racing 
operations have not ceased. 
No longer applicable.  The 
6th anniversary was 
12/21/11.  On that date, 28th 
and 31st were not open to 
traffic, the City had 
approved the Design 
Guidelines and First phase 
applications, and racing 
had ceased and the 
grandstand was 
demolished.   
Not applicable.

--- page 241 ---
Page 7 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Improvement Agreement and Security 
Improvement agreements and Security 
providing for design, construction and 
installation of Public Improvements. 
5.8.4 
Prior to first Final Map 
COMPLETED. Improvement 
Agreements have been 
executed for all Final Maps 
and Security has been 
posted.   
Completed. 
Below Market Rate (BMR) 
Net acre of land dedication for additional 
BMR.  Owner to decide location within 
mixed-use block. 
5.12(b) 
Owner to designate and offer the 
parcel to City within 6 months after 
the commencement of construction 
of the main street section of 
Delaware. 
COMPLETED concurrent 
with the Nueva School 
approval. 
Completed. 
Affordability Covenant Recorded 
5.12(b) 
Prior to transfer of 1 acre for BMR. 
COMPLETED. Completed 
concurrent with the Nueva 
School approval. 
Completed. 
Traffic Calming payment of $250,000 
3.2.8 
See also 5.14 
Prior to the issuance of the first 
Building Permit following the 7th 
anniversary of the Effective Date. 
COMPLETED. The City of 
San Mateo received this 
payment directly from the 
issuance of the 2nd CFD 
bond in January 2013. 
First permit after 12/21/12.  
Completed. 
Dedication of 12 acre Community Park 
(adjacent to Saratoga Ave.) 
Prior dedication, owner shall construct 
interim improvements including 
baseball/soccer fields or $1 million 
payment to City, depending on where City 
is in design process. 
3.2.5 
See also 5.9.1 
Within 2 years of the date of 
Owner’s election to discontinue 
racing. 
 
COMPLETED. The park was 
accepted by the City in 
2014. 
Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue Racing 
+ 2 yrs (2/1/12). 
Completed. 
Dry Storage Area 
CC&R’s for City maintenance and 
operation for the Dry Storage Area in 
Community Park. 
5.8.2 
At acceptance of Community Park. 
COMPLETED.  The CC&R’s 
were completed prior to the 
City’s acceptance of the 
Offer of Dedication which 
was formally given on May 
15, 2012.  
Prior to City acceptance of 
Community Park. 
Completed.

--- page 242 ---
Page 8 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Green Building Demonstration Project 
Owner will construct one residential 
building with a LEED Silver Certification 
(at least 30 units). 
5.18 
Within first 400 units developed. 
COMPLETE. Residential 
Block 1 has addressed this 
issue.   
Completed. 
Maintenance 
Owner to undertake the maintenance of 
all landscaping, medians and open space 
(except for the 15 acres of public parks 
dedicated to the City which shall be 
maintained by the City at its expense) 
through property owner’s association or 
similar entity. 
5.9.3 
Upon completion of such 
improvements. 
COMPLETE. All public right 
of way has been accepted 
by City and Owner is 
maintaining landscaping 
per this requirement.   
Completed and ongoing.

--- page 243 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Rendell Bustos
Sent:
Tuesday, October 10, 2023 4:07 PM
To:
Rae Parnmukh
Cc:
Clerk; Emily Lesk; Lisa Costa-Sanders; Manira Sandhir; paul@stockbridge.com
Subject:
RE: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions
Hi Rae, 
 
Thanks for the additional comments below and for discussing the agenda item with me just now over the phone. I will 
forward this email thread to the Planning Commission for their consideration at tonight’s Public Hearing. 
 
-Rendell 
 
Rendell Bustos 
Senior Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
From: Rae Parnmukh 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 3:51 PM 
To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders 
<lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com 
Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions 
 
Hi, 
 
Just spoke to Rendell, thank you for the call. 
 
With regards to the meeting tonight, my main concern will be the following; 
- Visual impact of the pits not being developed and finished speedily. Granted I am sure all parties will take effort to 
complete the build out as is possible. 
- Impact of the pits on the home valuations. Expecting that when the pits are fully built out, home values will rise due to 
the completion of the community.  
 
I did ask if there would be some concessions to the city or homeowners due to the delay in buildout.  If it is possible to 
impose a fee for this extension or if it is again requested in three years, that would give both the city and the 
homeowners some confidence that the pits won’t be everlasting. 
 
 
Thank you, 
Raewadee Parnmukh 
 
Would still like a reply from Wilson Meany on the other aspects I brought up if possible.

--- page 244 ---
2
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 14:07 Rae Parnmukh 
 wrote: 
Sure, that would help a lot. Apologies as I am not generally that active in City matters, so clarification on the agenda 
and how it works, what is the main takeaway - verbally will be useful. 
 
Could you try calling me between 3:35pm and 3:45pm? 
 
If I am available, I will answer. 
 
I have a window between meetings at 3:30 to 4pm. 
 
 
 
Thanks, 
Rae 
 
 
 
 
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 13:30 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Rae, 
  
The full packet with the attachments is attached. I think it would be helpful if we discussed this agenda item over the 
phone to clarify the items being considered this evening. Can you let me know your best phone number and when 
you’d be available? I am available today after 3:30 pm.  
  
In case we are not able to connect on the phone, there will be a public comment period for tonight’s Public Hearing 
but the Planning Commission does not have authority in matters regarding the Homeowners Association. You are able 
to join the meeting in-person at the City Hall Council Chambers or join the Zoom 
(www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings) and can comment freely on the agenda topic. 
  
Lastly, I would emphasize that Wilson Meany staff have been cc’d in this correspondence who are reviewing your 
questions and will provide a response, since Homeowners Association matters are their purview.  
  
-Rendell

--- page 245 ---
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eocHko

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 12:16 PM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders
<lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com

Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Hi,

Could you provide:

Att 1—- Resolution with Findings for Annual Review

Att 2 — Draft Ordinance with Amendment to the Development Agreement

Att 3 — Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 17 (2005) Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement

Att 4— Extension Request Letter

Att 5 — Bay Meadows Phase II DA Annual Review Matrix

ls Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”), just another name for Wilson Meany? Or are the entities
completely unrelated?


--- page 246 ---
4
  
As an owner, I am concerned that these pits will remain undeveloped for three more years.  
  
Will tonight’s meeting be the correct forum to express that concern? 
  
As a homeowner in the community, what position is available to me, to hold the approval of this request gating 
further information to be provided in the HOA regard? 
  
Thank you, 
Rae 
  
On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 10:22 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Rae, 
  
Attached is the staff report for tonight’s Planning Commission Public Hearing, which is not related to the 
Homeowner’s Association board composition. Tonight’s Public Hearing is focused on a request to extend the 
Development Agreement, which is an agreement between the City of San Mateo and the land owner to develop the 
Bay Meadows Phase II area. This meeting will be viewable online and will be recorded (please see 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings). 
  
Emily Lesk from Wilson Meany is coordinating on her end to respond to the questions focused on the HOA. These 
questions are not in the purview of the City or Planning Commission. I hope this helps clarify – let me know if you 
have further questions for City staff. 
  
Thanks, 
Rendell

--- page 247 ---
Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eocHno

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Tuesday, October 10, 2023 8:10 AM

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa-Sanders <lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk

<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; paul@stockbridge.com
Subject: Re: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Hi Rendell,

Thanks for the reply, if there is another Wilson Meany rep that can be added to this email it may help since Emily is
one of the board members so may not be impartial.

As part of the this meeting will it be reviewed and recorded, how many units remain to be built that would be sold to
homeowners such that a title would be transferred and recorded from the Declarant or Builder to a homeowner?

This information would answer my question. | believe it is zero since there was prior planning committee approval
that converted what was originally planned to be condos and flats to leased units.

Again it is my thought that with the remaining lots to be built out, Wilson Meany should no longer hold seats on the
HOA Board, and | am looking for the information that proves otherwise.

Is it possible to obtain the documents to be reviewed in the meeting today by pdf or html? | was not able to locate
them on the web


--- page 248 ---
Thanks,

Rae

On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 07:50 Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Good morning Raewadee,

Thank you for cc’ing City staff in your email. | believe your questions would be best addressed by Wilson Meany
staff, so | will look to Wilson Meany to assist you from here.

If you have any questions or comments regarding the Development Agreement Extension or Annual Review being
considered at tonight’s Planning Commission Public Hearing, please let me know.

-Rendell

Rendell Bustos
Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.or

eOocHo

From: Rae Parnmukh

Sent: Monday, October 9, 2023 5:48 PM

To: Emily Lesk <ELesk@wilsonmeany.com>; paul @stockbridge.com; Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Lisa Costa-Sanders <Icostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>; clerk@cityofsanmateo.or

Subject: PA-2023-050 / Bay Meadows Agreement Extension and Annual Review - Homeowner questions

Received the notice in the mail regarding the hearing.


--- page 249 ---
7
As a homeowner in Bay Meadows since 2015, I have been waiting for the HomeOwners Association to be turned 
over to the homeowners fully. 
I have expressed continued concern that the Bay Meadows Homeowners Association is ill-formed with Wilson 
Meany representatives holding the majority of the seats,(3) on the Board.  This has provided Wilson Meany 
unilateral control in decisions that impact homeowners the most. 
  
As part of the review, can it be recorded, what is the ownership interest Wilson Meany has in the "Covered 
Property" or "Annexable territory"?   
  
Without ownership interest, is Wilson Meany correct to hold majority or any board seats in the Bay Meadows 
Homeowners association? 
  
With ownership described, does this extension, also extend their power over the Homeowner's Association for at 
minimum another three years? 
  
All of my concerns, are governed by the following: 
In the Bay Meadows CC&Rs in  
Section 6.3 Classes of Voting Membership 
Section 6.4 Voting Rights 
  
But most specifically BYLAWS OF BAY MEADOWS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ARTICLE 2  
  
2.2 QUALIFICATIONS FOR HOLDING OFFICE. Each Director, except for those initially appointed by Declarant to serve 
as interim Directors until the first annual meeting,must be (a) an Owner who meets the qualifications in this Section 
2.2 or, (b) an agent of Declarant or an agent of a Neighborhood Builder for so long as Declarant or a Neighborhood 
Builder owns or has any interest in any portion of the Covered Property or any portion of the Annexable Territory, 
or (c) appointed to office by exercise of the Class C Board appointment right.  
  
2.3.1 Term for Appointee Directors. Notwithstanding anything in these 
Bylaws to the contrary, all Directors appointed at any time by exercise of the Class C Board 
appointment right shall serve until the earlier of: 
(a) Removal of Director by Declarant; 
(b) The date of the appointed Director’s death or resignation from the Board of Directors;

--- page 250 ---
8
(c) The date that is three (3) years after the date on which the Class C Board appointment right expires; or 
(d) The date on which Declarant no longer owns any portion of the Covered Property or Annexable Territory. 
  
It has been confirmed that there is no longer a Class C Board appointment right, the date as to when this expired 
cannot be obtained from the Board. I believe it was 2020, if this date can be recorded in the review that would be 
helpful as well. 
  
  
Thanks, 
Raewadee Parnmukh 
 
  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited 
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of 
this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the 
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments 
from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 251 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II 
Development Agreement
Annual Review and Extension Request
(PA-2023-050)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
October 10, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Lisa Costa-Sanders, Contract Planner

--- page 252 ---
ITEM OVERVIEW
2
1) Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
2) Development Agreement Extension
3) Development Agreement Annual Review
4) Public Comments
5) Next Steps
6) Recommendation

--- page 253 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II OVERVIEW
3
Location
Project Approvals
Development Overview

--- page 254 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II OVERVIEW
4
Redevelopment of former Bay 
Meadows Main Track
83 Acres, 18 Blocks
Mix of residential, office, retail, 
educational, and public park uses
Location
Project Approvals
Development Overview

--- page 255 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II OVERVIEW
5
Location
Project Approvals
Development Overview
Bay Meadows 
Phase II 
Specific Plan
Environmental 
Impact Report
Development 
Agreement
Bay Meadows 
Phase II Design 
Guidelines
Site Plan and 
Architectural 
Reviews

--- page 256 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II OVERVIEW
6
Aggregate Land Uses (Including MU2 and MU3)
Min.
Max
Proposed
Residential 
Units
1,000
1,250
1,048
Office 
(sq. ft.)
500,000
1,250,000
1,217,826
Location
Project Approvals
Development Overview

--- page 257 ---
23th Avenue



--- page 258 ---
DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT
8
Overview
Extension Request
Annual Review

--- page 259 ---
DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT
9
Overview
Extension Request
Annual Review
18-Year Term
•Effective December 21, 2005
•Expires December 20, 2023
Key Development Agreement Terms
•Buildout according to Specific Plan
•15 Acres of public park space
•10% Affordable housing (Low or Very Low) across 
development
•Land dedication for 68-unit affordable building
Financial Contributions (Above Minimum Requirements)
•Traffic Calming ($250,000)
•Public Art ($1 million)
•Community Arts Campaign ($50,000)
•Casanova Park and Fiesta Gardens ($100,000 each)

--- page 260 ---
DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT
10
Overview
Extension Request
Annual Review
Three-year extension request
•Extends term to December 20, 2026
•Extends term from 18 years to 21 years
Purpose of extension
•Caused by COVID-19 pandemic
•Delayed ability to complete final two blocks (MU 2 and 
MU 3)
No changes to project or Development Agreement
•City is not imposing further exactions (Section 3.8)
•Development Agreement may be amended by mutual 
agreement (Section 11.1)
City Council action required for Amendment

--- page 261 ---
DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT
11
Overview
Extension Request
Annual Review
Annual Review of periods for 16th and 17th years
•Review period of December 21, 2020 through December 
20, 2022
•Owner remains in compliance with terms of the 
Development Agreement
•No specific milestones required during this period
Development of blocks remains ongoing
•RES 6: Under construction
•MU 2 Office: Building permits in review
•MU 3 Office: Building permits in review
•MU 3 Residential: Building permits in review

--- page 262 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS
12
• Received (1) one public comment after agenda packet 
release:
• Requested more information about Homeowners 
Association Board composition
• Forwarded to developer for review/response
• Concern for visual appearance of vacant lots
• Condition of Approval #31 “Aesthetics During 
Construction” requires fencing and maintaining 
pedestrian access during construction

--- page 263 ---
NEXT STEPS
13
1) City Council First Reading of Ordinance 
Amendment: November 6, 2023
2) City Council Second Reading: November 20, 2023
3) Owner and City would execute and record 
amendment prior to December 20, 2023

--- page 264 ---
RECOMMENDATION
14
1) Adopt a Resolution accepting the Annual Reports on 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement 
finding that the Owner has complied in good faith 
with the terms of the Development Agreement for 
the period covering December 21, 2020 through 
December 20, 2022;
2) Recommend City Council adoption of an Ordinance to 
approve a three-year extension of the Bay Meadows 
Phase II Development Agreement.