source: packet.pdf
sha256: 30600d5d9d56adf6908ec0a193dc2cecf5ee91a15338162fc62952c7499ffaa8
pages: 298
ocr_pages: 105
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
August 26, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Caiti Busch
Adam Klafter
Maxwell Schaumkel
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 26, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 858 6451 8083      Passcode: 233170
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.

--- page 2 ---
1.
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement – Annual Review for Year 19 (2024) (PA-2025-024)
Adopt a Resolution finding that Bay Meadows Main Track Investors LLC (“Owner”) has complied in good faith
with the terms of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement for the review period between December
21, 2023, to December 20, 2024.
CEQA: This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
STUDY SESSION
2.
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Updates
Receive a presentation and provide staff with direction on how to proceed with updating the City’s Accessory
Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ordinance.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Election of Officers
Elect Chair and Vice Chair of the Planning Commission
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest

--- page 3 ---
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10221
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 26, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement – Annual Review for Year 19 (2024) (PA-2025-024)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution finding that Bay Meadows Main Track Investors LLC (“Owner”) has complied in good faith with the terms 
of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement for the review period between December 21, 2023, to December 20, 
2024.
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Meadows Phase II Project is an 83-acre transit-oriented development with a range of land uses, including residential, 
commercial, educational, and public park uses that redeveloped the former Bay Meadows Racetrack, which has a main site 
address of 2600 S. Delaware Street. The Bay Meadows Phase II area is subdivided into 18 development blocks: five office 
blocks, four mixed-use blocks, and nine residential blocks. 
The City Council originally approved the Bay Meadows Phase II Project in November of 2005 in adopting the Bay Meadows 
Phase II Specific Plan Amendment, Environmental Impact Report, and the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement, 
which governed the development over an 18-year-long timeframe, through December 20, 2023. The impacts of the COVID-
19 pandemic and the resulting slow-down in the office market resulted in delays to construct the final two blocks (Mixed 
Use Blocks 2 and 3) within the original Development Agreement term ending on December 20, 2023. Thus, per the Owner’s 
request, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2023-10 on November 20, 2023, to grant a three-year extension for the 
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (Attachment 3). This extension changed the 18-year timeframe to 21 years 
for the vested rights of the project under the Agreement until December 20, 2026.
The Planning Commission is required to undertake this annual review and determine the good faith compliance by the 
Owner, in accordance with Article 6 of the Development Agreement. This review is also required per City Council Resolution 
No. 120 (1990), Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development Agreements. The 
Resolution with Findings for the Annual Report for Year 19 is included as Attachment 1, and the Bay Meadows Phase II 
Development Agreement that was adopted in 2005 is included as Attachment 2. 
Annual Review of Development Agreement
The Owner is annually required to submit a letter and additional documentation demonstrating good faith compliance with 
the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement (Attachment 4). The Owner submitted an Annual Review Matrix 
for the period of December 21, 2023, through December 20, 2024, covering the nineteenth review year that explains 
compliance with the milestones listed in Section 3.2 of the Development Agreement. As outlined in the Annual Review 
Matrix, there were no milestones required for completion during this period. Most of the Development Agreement 
requirements have either been completed or are considered ongoing pending completion of the remaining two blocks.  The

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
attached matrix demonstrates that the Owner has complied with all applicable requirements of the Development Agreement 
for the review period of December 21, 2023 through December 20, 2024.
 
Current Development Status
Construction within the Bay Meadows Phase II area has continued in 2024. The most recent construction activities include 
the completion of the core and shell of Office Station Blocks (STA) 1 and 5 in 2022 and 2023, with tenant improvements 
finished in 2024. STA1 received its certificate of occupancy in April 2024, and STA5 certificate of occupancy was issued in 
October 2024. Additionally, Residential Block (RES) 6, a 54-unit multi-family project consisting of 50 apartments and four 
townhomes, was under construction in 2023 and obtained its certificate of occupancy in May 2024.
 
Currently, with the exception of two blocks, the rest of the Bay Meadows Phase II area is fully developed. In 2021, the Owner 
received Planning Commission approval for a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the final two remaining blocks of 
the project: Mixed-Use Block 2 (MU 2) and Mixed-Use Block 3 (MU 3). The approved SPAR provides for the development of 
67 residential units, 302,978 square feet of office space across two buildings, and 14,224 square feet of active uses, including 
retail, restaurant, or other uses permitted under the Specific Plan. Shoring and excavation permits for the two blocks—
covering only the underground structures—are ready to be issued, pending issuance of the associated building and 
superstructure permits. The building permits for MU 2 and MU 3 are currently under review. Construction activity cannot 
commence until the superstructure permits are issued and a pre-construction meeting is held between the Owner’s 
construction team and the City’s Building Division. Since the last annual review, the Owner has been actively working to 
address the remaining comments on the building permit applications and has expressed their intent to obtain the permits 
prior to their expiration in November 2025.
Once the project is fully developed, the total development will result in 1,048 residential units and 1,217,826 square feet
of office area, along with other commercial, educational and recreational uses, which comply with the aggregate range of
the Specific Plan.
Finding of Compliance with Development Agreement
The Development Agreement requires the Planning Commission to determine the Owner’s good faith compliance with the 
terms of the Development Agreement. A Resolution documenting the Owner’s compliance with the terms of the 
Development Agreement for the period of December 21, 2023 through December 20, 2024, is included as Attachment 1.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct fiscal implications to the City’s General Fund associated with this request. The City has collected 
development impact fees at the time of issuance of building permits for development on each block. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings for Annual Review
Att 2 – Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement
Att 3 – Ordinance No. 2023-10 Development Agreement Extension
Att 4 –  Annual Review Letter and Matrix - 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Simin Zakavand, Associate Planner
szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
FINDING THAT BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS LLC HAS COMPLIED IN GOOD FAITH WITH THE TERMS 
OF THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE 19th REVIEW PERIOD COVERING 
DECEMBER 21, 2023 THROUGH DECEMBER 20, 2024
WHEREAS, the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement was adopted by the City Council on 
November 7, 2005 and became effective on December 21, 2005;
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement and City Council Resolution No. 120 (1990) - Establishing 
Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development Agreements requires the annual review of 
the Agreement and all actions taken pursuant to the Development Agreement, and the Planning Commission is 
required to undertake this annual review and determine the good faith compliance by the Owner with the terms 
of the Agreement; 
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“Owner”) submitted documentation setting forth 
the Owner’s good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement for the review 
period from December 21, 2023 through December 20, 2024;
WHEREAS, there were no specific items required to be completed in the nineteenth year of the 
Development Agreement;
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo, in accordance with California Government Code Section 65865.1 
through this Planning Commission has held a public hearing on August 26, 2025 pursuant to the notice required 
by law for the finding of Owner’s compliance in good faith with the terms of the Development Agreement, at 
which hearing the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence;
WHEREAS, the City considered all aspects of the Bay Meadows Phase II development project including 
the Development Agreement and its provisions for this annual review in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan and 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment Environmental Impact Report that was prepared and circulated for 
public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council certified the EIR on April 18, 2005 and re-certified it on 
June 6, 2006 and November 7, 2006.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), this Bay Meadows Phase II 
Development Agreement for the review period between December 21, 2023, to December 20, 
2024 is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative action that will not impact 
the physical environment. The environmental impacts of the Bay Meadows project were 
previously analyzed in an environmental impact report.
2.
Both parties to the Development Agreement have complied with the requirements of Articles 
6.2 and 6.3 of the Development Agreement.

--- page 8 ---
3.
The Recitals set forth at the beginning of this Resolution are hereby incorporated as findings 
based on substantial evidence in the record and on that basis are hereby adopted and approved.
4.
Based on substantial evidence Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC has complied in good 
faith with the terms of the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement for the nineteenth 
review period from December 21, 2023, through December 20, 2024, within the meaning of 
Article 6.3 of the Development Agreement, Section 8(a) of Resolution 120 (1990) adopted by the 
City Council on October 15, 1990, and Government Code Section 65865.1. 
5.
A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk.

--- page 9 ---
Att 2 - Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement with Amendments

--- page 10 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Definitions. 0.0... cccccessessseeserscceeseesecseceesenseseasecasenaesessensersescesereceseeseeeensersessnesasenseeaaeesees 12
1.1, Adoption Date. .......cccesssssssssssssssssssssssessesacecssssssucesseaceaseseseacenseatenevsassevenseatsaes 12
1.2. Application Date. ........ccccceccsessesscsesscsscssssessrnececenesscesenesseseressnssssessuseaeesseseeesenss 12
1.3. Approvals, ......ceccsscsscesceceteseeseeeeeseceneescescecesencescesssnecseeneesseneacensensersereseaseaeeeeeees 12
1.4. Assignment Agreement..........cecsssesecseresesesacsseescesesaeesseeseessesenserenseneeseessnanease 12
1.5. BLOCK. ....ccccesccsceeesecesnsesstseesnsesnescaecseseescaeesensesensceseseseeenscesensecensesacescassesneseneeseses 12
1.6. BMR Units, .......ccssessssecseeesssnsceecsnecsseaseceeeecnssaseassacensesaseqassssaqenseseersssanensensesseenee 12
1.7. COERS. oo eeeeeeeccscsessneeeesenesserserencensenesserenseeeseeseseaesaseseeeeerssesseeeeseseaseasnseracnsassaesaees 12
1.8.. CEQA. eeeecsccescsseessnsseecesaeescescesceesenscsecensessesensecsenecnenssenesseecenseceerensenessesuaeeaesneeenes 13
1.9, CED... eeccccsccsceseceseensescenccseceneenseseescessecseecsecnssrsessenscusesseneessesscensesseaceaseoneeseeasenes 13
1.10. City-Wide... ccc cccscsceresseccerenecsecsensncenersessecsessnscersnsssesasereseeesaesnsosseneceneneeres 13
LLL. City Law(s). ...ceeceecesssenceeceesscacencescesseeeessasceseasonseasesessaseneecenseneeseereseseeasenaeeees 13
1.12. City Manager, occ cceescscenecsccesesesecesecssncesaceaesenesssevsnesnsesseeeasensesasensesssesaeeenee 13
1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1... cceseesseceseeteeteseeeteneenteneenes 13
1.14. | Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10... ce esessesseseeeeee 13
L.15. 0 CRD ee ccccccsecssessesecsesserserencenerssscecenessessecersenssnesssereesecserserensensecensaseeeseusensents 13
1.16. CRE Factor. ccc. cccecsscsceeescesecscesseecsseseenssasensesseasaeseaeeassenecsessesescavsasecseonesseseas 13
1.17. Design Guidelines. .........cceeecssessesssecsrsessecersessesnecsesersscnesesesesassesessesseesesecatents 13
1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. 00.00... cseseseseseceeseeeeneeteeseeeeeeneeeeeeesaes 14
V.19.  DireCtOr. ooo. ececccseteeeceecssceeseseseeeeceusenseeseneeeeseaeseessaeeaeseeceeseaeensnseneesesseneuenes 14
1.20. Effective Date. wo... ccc ccccccssessssseenecseceesecesenscsenseeneesensessnsesscessuaeessesecaecesasoenreees 14
1.21. EIR ee cccsesseteetsetectsesaseasensseeseaeesssessssesseaeeseneesasseneeaeneesseseseeetesereeneesase ‘14
1.22. Election to Discontinue Racing. ............seeesessssersenceseceneestscesesoaseesscsesasenenes 14
1.23.  Emacting Ordinance. .........cccessssesesessesseesscesersensecseesssenceneseasecerseneceseesesensenseeeenss 15
1.24. Event of Default... cecssesssesseeescesessceeseecsaeeseesasennessaecneeseaecarsesecseeseseasens 15
1.25. —-_ EXactiOns...... cece eccssccssseceseeesecceeenssercnseceaeecseecesseenseeeeecseeseneeesaeeecssersaeseneeses 15
1.26. Existing City Laws... cescsssssssscsccnceenscscscesessnssscscngensseeneaseesseseneeneeneeeeenaeees 15
1.27. — First Phase... eee ccscceseessnceeenecseneeesncecnesesncesseeerseessnsesceecesaseesassnsenensaneeaecengees 15
1.28.  . Gemeral Plan... cceesssessscceeesesecesceseesenseesnseasereessaseneesseneneevansensesansonesecenaees 15
1.29. General Plan Amendment. ...........ceccesssssseesseeecnscessesenscesaasesesessesessesesssseeaeesnes 16
1.30. — JPBeisecccccsssseecescessessesecscesssceseessescerensaccecenstseceesesseeseseseesonesessesansonereeseneentansentes 16
1.31. LaW(S). nee eccseeceeseeeeereeeereceaeeeeseesaeeenensstececsseeteeceseeseesssessassserseusnsereesesseenseses 16
1.32. Map Approvals. ......ceccccsecssscessncescecessceessesersceessesscnsensecerseeesscesssaseraessenaeenseesnes 16
1.33. Master Tentative Map. oo... ecccsescssessecessesecseneessercesseceeseesseeersecsaeseesseessneereeeaes 16
1.34. Mitigation Measures. ........cccccccseceesseecseeceseeesnecesseceeacensescesesenseseeseserseseeneeeeesesaes 16
1.35. MMRP. oui. ccesccscsreneceeserscceeeerecssceneesessnsensecersenseccerevensaeeesevsasaassorsessagsensnaagers 16
1.36. —§- Mort Sa Se... eeesssceesccesnecessecesnccecscesesecensseeeeeessescesscererseserseserseeerseseenessessensee 16
1.37. = Mort ga gee. 0... cecesecsecserssessesessrsssessrcsresssssassevercesscsacssesessseraseasssesensanseenaees 17
L.38.  OWMET. cee cccsecesecccnseceesneeeceasceeensneasensnscsseseesesseneeeeneesevecseeesssnseterseeeesaneesses 17
1.39. Party. cee eeeeeeecssseeeessnserecsreeeensucecernscesensaseceseeeusessesesnaeeesscaeeaeccesecneneeeeseeseneasesees 17
1.40. — PerSOML. eee eececceeessscesececsetensccerscnecensecensecensensnsecseeecsesesascesececseesseeeeieesenerseeeeeees 17
1.41. — Processing Fee. .......cecsessessctssssessecssesseesecsssessesscnssecssasenseseeeesenseaseaseeeensenateess 17
V.42. — PLOJOCE. oo eccceseeceseessccessenersenersecenscesvseeersacersesesseeesnasessseesnaceesseeseesenesecaeeenes 17

i


--- page 11 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page
1.43. — Project Approvals. ........ccescscsccecsseseenseesneeseeneseesnensecessesssceseesaneensenseeeeseaaeoneensees 17
1.44. Property... eee csecsccssesecscssaseesesssseeeceseesseceseseneceasesseenseacseaeneesseeusenscatsneeassaaens 18
1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval...........scscssssssssscsessssenssscceeesecsseenesnssnsensensessens 18
1.46. — Public Improvements. ........ ccc sceseeseseessetseceneeseeenseneesensceseeseesasesesussasonecnsses 18
1.47. SPAR. veces cscessssssecscessencesesaearcnesuenesaeeeceesensaeesteneneesasenenesssaseeesesnsasentenessseseees 18
1.48. Specific Pham. 0c. eeseccssssesessssseneesesnecsecsesecseeseesesessaesnesseeeenseneenseeseeeneaneaseeesess 18
1.49. Specific Plan Amendment. ......ccceccscessesscessssssassaeressscsesaeeaseeenscsscaseeeseeesenters 18
1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. 0.0... eeeeesseseeseescesesetenseeenesseeeseeenessseneneeeeeaseseaes 18
LSD, Teri. ceesccserscesenseseceseesseneenecesessseecenscnecesesseeeneedeasseesesseasceseesessessaseeseesees 18
1.52.  Termimate. cece ccccsssssssescsscscescesssecseensescsceasenessceaeetensseeseeaeeseeeeassaesatensseseseneees 19
1.53. Transferred Property... csccssssssseseressesseecseeseeseeesnseusnsenessecssorsnseneeneessasseeees 19
1.54. Trip Budget. 0... ee ccccscsesscsseeseeseesessssenecassacssesssecsecseecaessscasssevseeaesneeenseneasses 19
Effective Date; Term. ...........c:ccccssscessssecessecessnccvssscserecssseensascesecesucssesecesssevsneesecsscscensasecsaes 19
2.1. Effective Date. .......ccccssssssscsescssesceseesesessecseesccecseeseeassseeseeserscseessesesseasesseseenennees 19
2.2. Expiration Of Term .......... cc cesessssssssssscessseeessesscencescesnsenecacecseseesnsesscassceesatsessasses 19
General Development of the Project. ..........cccccssssesesseessecsenscsscncenensencansesensseceesonsacseeass 20
3.1. PLOJOCE. oo .eseeseesscrsescessssesssssearsseesssesessseaseacsensenscnsssuesgesessesseseneesseateasensarcasentenses 20
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR; First

Phase; Timing of Dedications and Contributions. ..........c.cccscssessessescceeseseeneens 21
3.2.1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines. ............ccccssessesseesseeseessecseeeerees 21
3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines. ..0...... ce cceessesseseeeseneenestersenseceneeneenees 21
3.2.3. Application for First Phase... ccc csscseescesseessseesesceseneeaseessssessaseeeeres 21
3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware. ...........ccscesesseseseseseenseeseecseseseeeeeeses 21
' 3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park. oo... ects sseseeseeeetenseeseeeessteeesersaesseee 22
3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park. ...........::ceseeseeeenseees 22
3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right of Way. ........:ccccssceessccserseeeeees 22
3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution. 0.0... ccescsesessesessseseeseesesescesseseeseseneenes 22
3.2.9, Limitation... eecscecseneesesecseeeecenenseseescesensecerseeeseseeneeaeeeeassesseeaeeeeeesaes 22
3.3. Specific Plan. oo... cscesecessseeeccessesceeaseseccsneescsseceesceceneeeeecensneessaeseeeeceseneeeeneeess 23
3.4, Subsequent Projects. ..........:ccssccsscecssseeceeecsccccssccesceccscceeseeceseserseeeenerseneeeseterseeesees 23
3.5. Applicable Laws and Standards. 0.0... cceessssessesetseseseeceesseesseeasseastaceeceseeeeeases 23
3.6. Other Governmental Permits. 20.0.0... eseeesssseesseseccenceseeessaveneseeansatenteneenenseneeees 24
3.7. Processing Fee. .......s..csccsscestcesseestecsecetesneesseesstecsecsasenseseneesaeessecscesueceesetecsteneees 24
3.8. No Further Exactions. .0..0...ccccceccsssscssessencessscesenscecesessseeseeaeecesenseeeesecseeaeeacenees 24
3.9, Transportation Mitigation Fee. ..........ccsseccssecessecesseecsnecesreesseeesseecsreeesseesneesaees 25

3.10. Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee; Consideration for
Early Termination. .0.......ccssccsscssssccecscsscssseseesessaeseecssecsecnessaesecsaeseeeneeseserssaceass 26
3.11. Review and Processing of City Approvals. ...........cccccccsscssscesesscenecseseseeseessessees 28
3.12. Extension of Approvals. ........ccccsssescsscseseeseecsconeetcneeesecsnsecssseneeesesenseseecaserresaes 29
3.13. Interim USes. cic escsesescesernesscseesenssseseeeensarssssersseasenseeeesensonesesseeereseneeneesees 29
Subdivision Of Property.........eeesccssseseceseeceeseseeceeessceesseceassacescacseeeseseeserseeaeeeseqeneeaseseseceres 29

ii


--- page 12 ---
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page
4.1. Master Tentative Map. ou... cscssssssssecessesesscssaceesesseseseeseacensenseseeeeneeseonerseneeeenes 29
4.2. Project and Future Tentative Maps. .........cccccsesssesesresssseeessseeeeseseaeseeeasseeneenenes 30
4.3. Government Code Section 66473.7. .....ccccccssccsseessccesnecsscesensesenessneesenarsaneseenes 30
Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project. 0.0... eeeeeeeeseeeenees 31
5.1, Application of New City Laws. ......ccccsssssssssesssnesessesssseenesnsearensenerensensensesaeenes 31
5.2. Conflicting Laws... eee esssessececsesecssseseeseesessesscesasesseneseaseeeeeeecesenasseneneeeseeaeee 32
5.3. THMing......ccsecsccsssesscsrsesscesseesecensesseesnseseeeeecesesscensecousesecessensecaseneeeceesereeseeenersees 32
5.4. Subsequent Environmental Review, .........cccccscsscseseneserssseessnseneeneesevenrenseneenees 33
5.5. Easements; Improvements; Abandonment. ............::.::ssecsecesseeseessetessesetonseeees 33
5.6. Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. ..........cccsescecsseeseessesecteeeneeens 34
5.7. Single Integrated Development. 00.0.0... cece scesceseeeesceereracesersereneenscaeeeereneensenees 34
5.8. Public Improvements. ........::csccssccssseseeesseccseseecsseesnccetseseccntecaeeeseeeeeseagensessuseneeens 34
5.8.1. PHasing, .... ee eeseesesesecerersccensesscceereeseeesersneeccessnesccesensencersetsnsesecesneeeneeaees 35
5.8.2. Stormwater. 0... ccccscssesscecssesessescssceeseeeesesesaneeceeaseneseeasonesseseeeeseseeseees 35
5.8.3. Rough Grading. 00... ecseesscsseessecssceseessecstessecseeenseecssessenseesesenevenesenessaees 36
5.8.4. Improvement Agreements and Security. 0... cssseeeeseceeeeerserteeeeesees 36
5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvements. ..........cccccessesssesseesecesseessceseesassensesneceeeesnees 36
5.9. Parks and Open Space... .cceccscssssecssssceeceecesesceceseneecenerseesenecenesonerseesenerseeaes 3
5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvement ............ cc eeseeeeeeeeeees 37
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park..... 38
5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks... eee seeseeeeeeeees 38
5.10. Delaware Street... scscccssscsseescssersessessearssessseeseesesessenssessanssessaenenseesereres 38
5.11. Community Facilities District... cece cccessesseeesceeeeeeeeererteeeseesererseesenersesseees 39
5.12. Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units; Property Set-Aside for
Additional BMR Units. .........ccsccssscsesssssscessenseneessessesecenscseeeeesnesuseaesoneeeesseseaenenes 39
5.13. Waiver of Density Bonus... ecccessesscsecesesessceeaseseeeeserensesserenseneerensenseseesenes 40
5.14. — Traffic Calming Contribution. ..0.......ccccsseessscssecessreessreessnccesteeeseeseaeecutessneessnes 41
5.15. Contribution to Public Art. oo... ccecscesceseesesessseenenssseceeneneereeteneereesaneeeessees 4]
5.16. Contribution to Improve Casanova Park .........:ssccsecscseeercenersersseeeerenesaeereeneens 42
5.17. Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association............:ccceesseseeeeees 42
5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project...........esesscssssssensorseeeceseesstaceeceeeesneeanes 43
5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming... ccceceesesesesereneeseesensecereereneensenenaeeanes 43
5.20. Loss of Racing REVenue. .........cccccccscessrsessseesscecsnecesseesenerscscensesecenessnsersteesseeseas 44
Periodic Review of Compliance... ccccsessseecesseeseeeessetseseessesesensessaseceaseserssaseneaseeens 44
6.1. Anmual ROVICW, .....:ccccecsccsssessessessecessssescesssscesasessescesaceaeesacenesasesacesseaseasersseaeeass 44
6.2. Owner's SUDMISSION. 0.00... ecseesecencceneeseeescecnseseseceeeseceeeesenersacenseseesesssneeseesens 45
6.3. Finding of Compliance. ........c..ccccesseeessessresesseecsneessececseressereseseens Leeeeesuneeenseeaceens 45
6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety... eeeeeeeeeeeeee 46
6.5. Appeals to City Counncil. 0.0... ccessecessssnccssesseesseessresnscsseeeseecneesseseseecnesseteneaners 46
6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review................. 47
6.7. Standards... cccsesccsssssseceseessecessessecsecereecesesuecsseeessseaseesseeeeseseaeeseeeseeeneeseeeseneess 48

ili


--- page 13 ---
10.

11.

12.

13.

Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page

6.8. Effect on Transferees. ...........cccccsescecssesessecenecssncecseeceneesenecsscestaeeeeteseueeneseseneeenees 48
6.9. Event of Default... cc cccccccscssssessscessscesceecsseecsscecsneuseesenscesesseneeseuessereenaneesaes 49
Permitted Delays; Supersedure by Subsequent Laws, .0.......cccscescesesseesssereessanesesesaesnees 50
7.1. Permitted Delays. 0.0... csesscessesseneeeseesneonersecassaneensensenscescaessesseeseensesaeeneesnenaes 50
7.2. Subsequent Laws. ........cccecceccseerssseseecesessercnsesseessscseessusessenseesseresesnecnesneseoreseeaers 50
Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys’ Fees. ..........ceseseereeseseseeserenees 5]
8.1. Events of Default. 0... ceecssscsssessesseceseseseceseesseessseonenseescecceessrensessaesenessarenaeeass 51
8.2. REMECIES.........eeeceseessceesseessneeccetersnessnsessneesenceenseceusessaeesnseesaeaseesssseceeuenseseensaesenes 51
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination. ............::ccesseeesssreeeerees 53

8.3.1. Standards. ......cccccecccessecesscsscesssccsesessseecsaeessesenseesrscescessrsenseeasseseeressenees 53

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. ...........:ccsccscecssecsseseesersesecescceecsececaeceeeeneenseees 53

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. .0........ccccesecssceeecessecetsceeeeeesneennesssneeeanees 54

8.3.4. Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. ........ cc cececsessssessceeseneens 54
8.4. Effect of Termination..............::cccccccssscesesseeescscceesesececseeeecseeeseseecesseeecseneeeseseters 54
8.5. Limitations On ACtions.........cccsessscsseesceeesscencecersasesceacesessetsasnesecssaceneeseneseesens 55
8.6. ~ Waiver; Remedies Cumulative. ...........ccccccccsccccessccesccessreececesseceseesseeseserensseees 55
8.7. Attorneys! Fees... .ccccecsssccessscceesecesseesecessneesssaneessacesecsensensenessseseenaneessoneseesseeees 56
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. 0.0... ee eeeeescesseseseessoresseseeescsesensssasseneasessensssesaes 57
8.9. Effect of Court Action, ........cc:ccccssesesssseccssecessecesessnsesecseecensceeseseecesretecsenereeseeters 57
8.10.  Estoppel Certificate... cecsscsessssscescssesssssessscescsscesaseacesenssesersensaeoneesessessaeeas 57
Mortgagee Protection; Certain Rights of Cure. ........cccescsseenecssesenescetersressaeesressaeeeseeens 58
9.1. Mortgagee Protection .........cccscccssccessccereecssseesscessceesssecessesscesenscesceeensceesaeeenseeeenees 58
9.2, Mortgagee Not Obligated. 0.0... esecseceseresserrersneeteceensenscesesseseeuessesnsessseseeeees 58
9.3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee; Right of Mortgagee to Cure. ...... ete eeeeseseeee 58
9.4. Right of City to Cure. 0... eceeeseeesceeeeseecneeeseeeesssseeeeesesaseeseseeasensasoesenenseassaees 60
Transfer and Assignment. .0.......ccceseccsseesecseeeetcessneenesseeersccecceeneeseseneeecenseerscsneeseaesnee veneers 60
10.1.  ASSISTIMENL. .........ceeeeetecerscceessreesssnerecseeeessesesesacescsaceceseseescecerscseenerseasereneesseuees 60
10.2. — NOtiCO. ee ceecceeessccessssenssscccssnecesenstsesscnceecncenscsoeerscseetersetcesretatenaeersssneversnseesars 61
10.3. Assignment Agreement.............cscsscsesseeeccessseeseceeceeceeaeseesecesseaneeceeeereaeenseatenees 62
10.4. Trip Budget. oe. cccssssssecssneesccersenersacerssceesceesesevsrsevscasessasseeesasensasseaeeesnes 62
10.5. Covenants Run With The Land, .0......cccscccssssssecsenscseccsscecacessnersenessneessneeeeeeees 63
Amendment and Termination. ...........ccccscecsenseceseeeesesscesesreecessnacseseaecseneeesessecnsseeseoeencesees 63
11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. ............cecessecessececcesseeessetevecsceeseseeesseaseeeeseeseneesees 63
L1.2. —«- ReCordation. .........ccccccccessceessseceesseesessctsessesseesseceeesnesseensnesceseeecssnereensntecsensecerseeees 64
NOtiCeS..0......cecccesseeeesseeccsnceeessnscesescecessecseesenecesseeeeecsansessacesscesecssuececsuaceeessesessaasescrsercesaes 64
V2.1. PrOCEMUIE. ooo... cece ccecesseccessecessssseceesuceeecseesecsnsesessaaeecesaesessansecseneseenuaeecensaceseeeeees 64
Miscellaneous. .........sscsccssssseeesersecssececsesececssusecessaeecenseaesensceseseesesueesessaasesenecaeneeaeanseseeensaes 65
13.1. Negation of Partnership. .0..... cece essesecseneeceneeserensencenersasseesssensoeseneceseseeeeraes 65
13.2. — Approvals... eee esssscecssscseecensoseseseaessesssceeescnseoesssssseeeensssessnsesersonersersenesessceueas 65
13.3. Project Approvals Independent........... eee seseeeneeecersseeeeneersnsensanoeneetseaeonaetonaes 66
13.4. Not A Public Dedication... cee cssssessscesnecsenscesscerssceesseeensecseneesnersaceersneeseeeees 66

iv


--- page 14 ---
13.5.
13.6.
13.7.
13.8.
13.9.
13.10.
13.11.
13.12.
13.13.
13.14.
13.15.

C (
Page
Table of Contents
(Continued)

Page
Severability. ......0..... bevenveneeneeneeseenenes beseascaceseesneeseesteensenesacenceuessensesanseensess sesreeee 66
EXHUDIES. oo. ec ce seseceeeeseesceseescesessescenerseaceeesucaecasscestesesaesseseesaeeeseseses eeseeaeeneeeeeses 67
Entire Agreement........... esacesensecatsetesesacessseneeees deeseeseesserseneeseesasensseseaneonenes ween 7
Construction of Agreement............ seseeeenaeseecessnceeneseneecensesnseeseesenseees sesessseeeseeees OF
Further Assurances; Covenant to Sign Document. ...........:csscccsessseceeceeseeresseees 67
Governing Law, ........ccecccessereeeeseeees sasesseageecesseseecusensesesseeenseneeseeneraeeneeanees severe 68
References; Terminology............ esseesaeenerseesessensasensensenseseesens saseterssessrsessteatereses O8
Signature Pages............ soevneeescecesersereneeeenenssseeenenes seceeceesseeeeeenevsnessseraeeneceeseaess we 69
COMStIUCTION. .0....ececeseeeseceeseesecseecsteseensees sacveceeeeeaneencensecencenaseeaseaseneseaseres seeveee 69
THM. 00. eeeeeeesseceesesesenseneeseesees sasesseaseeventesceseeeecsesensenseseens saseeccecaeseseesersasensevensenees 69
Indemnification........ seseeseeesacerseeeseneeseaeeses Lasetssetescerseeescerssnseceeneeseeeensensaceenaes veveee 69


--- page 15 ---
EXHIBIT A - Description of Property
EXHIBIT B — Map of Property
EXHIBIT C — Specific Plan
EXHIBIT D — Estimate of Exactions

EXHIBIT E — Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program


--- page 16 ---
THIS BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the
"Agreement") is made and entered into as of this 21stday of _ November , 2005, by
and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California ("City"),
and Bay Meadows Land Company, a Delaware corporation ("Owner"), pursuant to the authority

of California Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 and City Resolution No. 120 (1990).

RECITALS:

This Agreement is entered into on the basis of the following facts, understandings and
intentions of the Parties:

A. To strengthen the public planning process, encourage private participation in
comprehensive planning and reduce the economic risk of development, the Legislature of the
State of California adopted Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 authorizing
municipalities to enter into development agreements in connection with the development of real
property within their jurisdiction by qualified applicants with a requisite legal or equitable
interest in the real property which is the subject of such development agreement.

B. The purpose of Government Code Sections 65864-65869.5 is to authorize
municipalities, in their discretion, to establish certain development rights in real property for a
period of years regardless of intervening changes in land use regulations.

C. As authorized by Governmental Code Section 65865(c), City has adopted
Resolution No. 120 (1990) establishing the procedures and requirements for the consideration of
development agreements within the City.

D. Owner is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and is

in good standing thereunder and is qualified to do business in the State of California.


--- page 17 ---
E. Owner owns fee title to that property (the "Property") consisting of approximately
eighty-three (83) acres in the area described in Exhibit A attached hereto and shown on Exhibit B
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Currently an existing racetrack,
grandstand and surface parking are located on the Property.

F, On April 22, 1997 by Ordinance 1997-11, City adopted the Bay Meadows
Specific Plan (as amended by the Specific Plan Amendment considered concurrently with this
Agreement, and together with further amendments made from time to time in accordance with
this Agreement shall hereafter be referred to as the "Specific Plan") which covers the Property
together with an approximately seventy-five (75) acre area to the east of the Property (the "Phase
I Property"). At that time, the Phase I Property contained an approximately forty (40) acre
practice track and a thirty-five (35) acre horse boarding area. The Phase J Property has since
been developed with commercial and residential uses. The Specific Plan Amendment is attached
hereto as Exhibit C. No Specific Plan amendment shall require amendment to this Agreement,
unless such Specific Plan amendment would conflict with an express provision of this
Agreement.

G. For more than five years, City has been engaged in an intensive community based
planning process for the transportation corridor area in which the Property is located. The
planning process has involved two city advisory committees and has resulted in adoption, on
June 6, 2005, of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan, a plan
formulated with the express goal of pursuing transit-oriented development within the
transportation corridor along the Caltrain right-of-way.

H. In the course of its long-term planning process, the City has retained an

independent racing industry consultant and based upon the input from that consultant, as well as


--- page 18 ---
review of other materials reporting on the status of the horse racing industry in California, the
City has determined that the confluence of expanded types of gaming at horse racing facilities
outside California, off-track betting in California, low purses in California relative to other states,
and the high cost of boarding and maintaining horses and operating horse racing inside
California in comparison to other states, has and will continue to adversely impact the racing
operations at the Property and that market pressures on the racing industry are pushing towards
more extensive forms of gambling at racetrack facilities throughout the country, including at the
Property. In balancing the various pressures and trends, the City has determined that the
residents of San Mateo want to limit the potential for expanded gaming at the Property. One of
the key incentives to the City for entering into this Agreement is to provide Owner with the

assurances that it can develop the Project as contemplated in the Specific Plan Amendment
attached hereto as Exhibit C, in exchange for Owner's obligation to limit any expansion of
gaming on the Property. If transit oriented development as contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment goes forward as planned, gaming uses will be permanently eliminated from the
Property.

I. Consistent with City's goal of pursuing transit oriented development, on June 24,
2003 Owner requested that City (i) approve an amendment to the Specific Plan so as to amend
the land use regulations applicable to the Property ("Specific Plan Amendment"); (ii) amend the
City's General Plan in a manner consistent with the Specific Plan; and (iii) approve a Master
Tentative Map (as hereafter defined) for the Property, with the associated Public Improvements
and the other on- and off-site improvements contemplated by or embodied within the Specific
Plan and the Project Approvals (as hereafter defined), as they may later be further amended,

refined, enhanced or modified (collectively, the "Project").


--- page 19 ---
—
—

J. The Project facilitates the City's long-term goal of pursuing transit-oriented
development within the transportation corridor plan area, by proposing a new mixed use
neighborhood that maximizes the use of transportation alternatives to the private automobile. In
particular, the Specific Plan is designed to maximize mass transit associated with the express
stop Caltrain Station proposed to be relocated no more than a quarter of a mile from anywhere on
the Property. The Specific Plan is also designed to enhance opportunities for walking and
biking, by providing a linked system of parks and open space and linkages to existing bike paths.
By providing a mix of commercial, residential and retail uses, the Specific Plan will reduce
traffic compared to other development. The Project provides for the dedication, design and
improvement (at no cost to the City) of a 1.5 acre Linear Park and a 1.5 acre Neighborhood Park.
The Project provides for the completion of key components of the City's street-grid, including
new connections at 28th and 31st, and the connection of Pacific to Delaware, increasing
connectivity between the east and west portions of the City, and relieving congestion on
Hillsdale and El Camino. The Project provides an estimated $9.9 million in transportation
impact fees which will provide a source of funding for the City's local share of the cost to
implement additional rail grade separations at 28th and 31st. The Project will provide an
estimated $2.1 million in wastewater treatment expansion fees, and an estimated $3.3 million in
school fees. Through a hierarchy of on-site stormwater management systems, the Project will
not only be able to retain its own stormwater runoff, it will also provide additional capacity to
reduce the severity of the existing flooding conditions in surrounding neighborhoods.
(Collectively, these benefits along with others recited below shall be referred to as "Project

Public Benefits".)


--- page 20 ---
oN
a

K. The City has completed an independent fiscal impact analysis that evaluates the
effect of the Bay Meadows Phase II Project upon the City’s municipal costs and revenues. The
fiscal analysis concludes that the Project will have a positive impact upon the City, even when
accounting for the ending of horse racing on the site, and the associated loss of racing related
revenues. Specifically, the Fiscal Analysis found that: 1) fiscal surpluses will accrue as the
project develops beginning in 2008 under the currently assumed development schedule; 2)
projected fiscal surpluses will exceed the current fiscal benefit of race track operations each year
of Project development; and 3) fiscal surpluses are shown to continue through completion of the
new neighborhood, approaching $2 million annually by Project build-out.

L. As provided in the Specific Plan and documented in the Project EIR and the
Fiscal Impact Analysis, the Bay Meadows Phase II Project will expand employment
opportunities in San Mateo by creating a commercial district with capacity of more than one
million square feet of retail, office and service-commercial space. This space may accommodate
more than 3,000 permanent employees, substantially offsetting the loss of the existing 900 jobs
associated with the race track operations, many of whom will be eligible for employment at the
gaming facility planned at the adjacent Expo Center. Additionally, construction and related real
estate industry employment will be generated during the anticipated 20 year construction period
with an annual average of approximately 500 workers.

M. City has determined that the Project is a development for which a development
agreement is appropriate. A development agreement will eliminate uncertainty in the City's land
use planning for the Property and secure orderly development of the Project consistent with the
Specific Plan, assure progressive installation of necessary improvements and mitigation

appropriate to each stage of development of the Project, insure attainment of the maximum


--- page 21 ---
rae ~
oo.

effective utilization of resources within the City at the least economic cost to its citizens, secure
public improvements and amenities that could not otherwise be obtained, and otherwise achieve
the goals and purposes for which the Development Agreement Resolution was enacted by the
City.

N. Owner has committed to develop, cause to be developed, or contribute to
significant infrastructure and other improvements, as well as Project features and fees, to
accommodate this Project and other anticipated regional growth and local projects in excess of
what the Owner could otherwise be legally required to provide (collectively, "Substantial Public
Benefits") The value of Substantial Public Benefits recited below is conservatively estimated to
be over $30 million, not counting the non-monetary benefit of eliminating the potential for
expanded gaming on the Property. The Substantial Public Benefits are as follows:

1. Owner has committed to provide, at no cost to City, a total of fifteen (15)
acres of parks and open space, including a publicly dedicated twelve (12) acre
parcel for a community park, and two (2) one-and-one-half acre parcels of other
publicly dedicated parks. Assuming the eventual development of 1,500 units, and
assuming the City's population factor from the 2000 Census of 2.48 residents per
unit, the total acreage devoted to publicly dedicated parks represents a minimum
of 7.56 acres more than the amount of parkland required to serve the Project
(more than double the City's standard requirement), and otherwise required for the
Project under current City Laws. In addition, Owner has committed to provide,
improve and maintain 2.85 acres of additional substantive open space, including a
view corridor, a town square adjacent to the new train station and enhanced

bicycle and pedestrian facilities within the development. The Owner has agreed to


--- page 22 ---
C

undertake the maintenance of all landscaping, medians and open space (other than
the public parks) in accordance with Section 5.9.3.

2. Owner has agreed to design and construct initial improvements to the new
community park, consisting of one regulation baseball field and one regulation
soccer field, utilizing grass turf, so as to provide immediately useable park land
upon dedication. The City may, at its election, forego the provision of the park
improvements by Owner and instead elect to receive a $1 million cash
contribution towards the development of the new community park improvements
in accordance with the City's ultimate design.

3. Owner has agreed to make a $250,000 contribution to be used for traffic
calming, which contribution is in excess of the City's required traffic mitigation
fee.

4. If after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not
moved forward as described in and pursuant to Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee) the Owner shall advance $4.6 million in
transportation mitigation fees or terminate this Agreement.

5. Owner shall, pursuant to Section 5.10 (Delaware Street), dedicate upon the
demand of the Public Works Director, at no cost to City, the right-of-way to
construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property, as needed by City,
even if required in advance of the timing provided for in the Project Approvals.

6. Lf after six (6) years from the Effective Date, the development has not

moved forward Owner shall, pursuant to Section 3.10, dedicate at no cost to City,


--- page 23 ---
the right-of-way to construct a Delaware Street connection through the Property,
as needed by City.

7. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.15, $1,000,000
to the City to be used for public art and an additional $50,000 to City Arts of San
Mateo for the purpose of funding its campaign for the arts.

8. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.16, $100,000 to
the City to be used to improve or to reimburse the City for improvements to
Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City, when and as
needed.

9. The Owner shall contribute, in accordance with Section 5.17, $100,000 to
the Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association to be used for planning, design and
implementation of aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens common areas.

10. ‘In order to facilitate the development of additional below market rate
housing in the Project, the Owner shall dedicate, in accordance with Section
5.12(b), a net acre of land in a Mixed Use Block to be used by the City or its
designee for the construction of moderate, very low or low-income housing. This
housing shall be provided in addition to the ten percent (10%) below market rate
housing being provided by the Owner as part of the Project. It is expected that the
acre of land to be dedicated in accordance with this Agreement, will provide
sufficient housing such that 15 percent of the total residential units to be
constructed in the Project will be affordable units, thus exceeding the provisions
of Measure H, Measure P and the requirements of the City's existing below

market rate housing program (Resolution 126-92) and adding 50 percent more ~


--- page 24 ---
affordable units and potentially including units that may be affordable to families
below moderate income. This affordable housing will substantially contribute to
meeting the City’s affordable housing objectives set forth in its General Plan
Housing Element.

11. | Construction of the Project in accordance with the Specific Plan
Amendment will, by creating an economically viable alternative to racing
operations on the Property, eliminate the potential for future expansion of casino-
style gambling operations. Moreover, Owner agrees that until the earlier to occur
of the second anniversary of the date Owner applies for the Design Guidelines,
and the City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals,
Owner shall not permit the use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing. Upon the City's approval of the First Phase applications, on
conditions satisfactory to Owner, the Owner shall (in accordance with Section
5.19), agree to record a covenant against the Property, restricting the use of the
Property so as to permanently prohibit the right to slot machines, video lottery
terminals, or other forms on expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing.

12. The Project, in accordance with the Specific Plan, is designed and will be
constructed to include state-of-the-art features designed to conserve energy,
minimize the environmental footprint, and promote the sustainable use of non-

renewable natural resources. Specifically, the Owner, in accordance with Section


--- page 25 ---
5.18, shall build a demonstration project composed of 30 market rate units
meeting a LEEDs silver standard, or its equivalent.

13. The Owner agrees, in accordance with Section 5.20, to pay a maximum of
$300,000 annually to the City to compensate for the loss of net City revenues
should Owner delay the commencement of development of the Property following
Owner's election to permanently discontinue racing on the Property.

O. In exchange for the Substantial Public Benefits of the Project, Owner desires to
receive assurances that City shall grant permits and approvals required for the development
of the Project over the Project's estimated 18 year development horizon, in accordance with
procedures provided by law and in this Agreement, and that Owner may proceed with the
Project in accordance with the Existing City Laws. In order to effectuate these purposes, the
Parties desire to enter into this Agreement.

P, City examined the environmental effects of both the Project and the San Mateo
Rail Corridor Plan in an Environmental Impact Report (the "EIR") prepared and circulated
for public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council certified the EIR on April 18,
2005.

Q. After conducting a duly noticed public hearing pursuant to the Development
Agreement Resolution on July 26, 2005, that was continued to meetings on August 9th, 16th
and September 8th, on September 8, 2005, by a vote of 4-0, with one abstention, the Planning
Commission recommended that the City Council approve this Agreement, based on the
following findings and determinations: that this Agreement is consistent with the objectives,
policies, general land uses and programs specified in the General Plan; is compatible with the

uses authorized in and the regulations prescribed for the land use district in which the

10


--- page 26 ---
Property is located; is in conformity with public convenience, general welfare and good land
use practices; will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the City or
the region surrounding the City; will not adversely affect the orderly development of
property or the preservation of property values within the City; and will promote and
encourage the development of the Project by providing a greater degree of requisite certainty
with respect thereto.

R. Thereafter, on October 17, 2005, the City Council held a duly noticed public
hearing on this Agreement pursuant to the Development Agreement Resolution. At a duly
noticed public meeting November 7, 2005 and after independent review and consideration,
the City Council made the same findings and determinations by its own independent
conclusion, as had the Planning Commission and confirmed that the Project was previously
analyzed by the certified EIR. The City Council also adopted certain mitigation measures for
the Project, approved the Specific Plan Amendment, approved the proposed amendment to
the City's General Plan, and approved the Master Tentative Map for the Property. The City
Council also found this Agreement consistent with the City's General Plan and the Specific
Plan. On that same date, the City Council approved this Agreement by first reading of
Ordinance No. 2005-17. _.- OnNovember 21 _; 2005 _, the City Council approved
this Agreement by second reading of Ordinance 2005-17 . Ordinance No.

2005-17 __ became effective on November 28 2005.
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority contained in Government Code Sections
65864-65869.5, the Development Agreement Resolution and in consideration of the mutual

covenants and promises of the Parties herein contained, the Parties agree as follows:

ll


--- page 27 ---
oof
aa

1. Definitions. Each reference in this Agreement to any of the following terms shall
have the meaning set forth below for each such term. Certain other terms shall have the meaning
set forth for such term in this Agreement.

1.1. Adoption Date. November 21 _., 2005 (the date the City
Council adopted the Enacting Ordinance.)

1.2. Application Date. June 24, 2003 (the date City received Owner's
application for the Project Approvals).

1.3. Approvals. Any and all permits or approvals (including conditions
of approval imposed in connection therewith) of any kind or character necessary or appropriate
under the City Laws to confer the requisite lawful right on Owner to develop the Project,
including, but not limited to, subdivision maps, site plan and architecture review, building
permits, use permits, variances, site clearance, grading plans and permits, certificates of
occupancy, cooperative agreements with the JPB, municipal financing (including Mello-Roos
bonds), abandonment of streets or rights-of-way, and right-of-way transfers.

1.4. Assignment Agreement. Defined in Section 10.3.

1.5. Block. A portion of the Project Area, generally bordered by public
right of way or property lines, as shown in the Development Framework Plan of the Specific
Plan, and delineated as a Station block, Mixed Use block or Residential block.

1.6. BMR Units. Defined in Section 5.12.

1.7. CC&Rs. Covenants, conditions and restrictions recorded in the
Official Records of San Mateo County on all or any portion of the Property, imposing covenants
running with the land, equitable servitudes and/or easements governing the design, maintenance,

operation, access and other matters in connection with the real property affected by the CC&Rs.

12


--- page 28 ---
a
a
1

1.8. CEQA. The California Environmental Quality Act (Public
Resources Code §§ 21000, et seg.) and the Guidelines thereunder (Title 14, Cal. Code Regs.

§ 15000, et seq.).

1.9. CFD. Defined in Section 5.11.

1.10. City-Wide. Any City Laws generally applicable to a development
or uses of one or more kinds, wherever the same may be located in City.

1.11. City Law(s). The ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations
and official policies of City, governing the permitted uses of land, density, design, improvement
and construction standards and specifications applicable to the development of the Property and
property upon which required off site Public Improvements will be constructed. Specifically, but
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, City Laws shall include the City's General Plan,
the Specific Plan, the City's zoning ordinance and the City's subdivision ordinance.

1.12. City Manager. The City Manager or his or her designee.

1.13. Community Park. Defined in Section 5.9.1.

1.14. Compensatory Right-of Way. Defined in Section 3.10.

1.15. CPI. The greater of the Engineering News Record Construction
Cost Index or the consumer price index for San Francisco, California (urban wage earners) most
recently published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (or such other substitute index as the parties
shall mutually agree).

1.16. CPI Factor. The difference between the CPI for the year in
question, and the CPI for the previous year.

1.17. Design Guidelines. The policies, objectives, rules, illustrations and

details consistent with the Specific Plan Amendment, and adopted in accordance with the

13


--- page 29 ---
C C

Specific Plan Amendment, which govern the design (including bulk, setbacks, materials,
landscaping and parking) of structures and features to be developed in the Property.

1.18. Development Agreement Resolution. Resolution 120 (1990)
entitled "Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development
Agreements" adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo on October 15, 1990.

1.19. Director. The Director shall mean the Director of Community
Development for the City of San Mateo.

1.20. Effective Date. The later of (i) the date the Enacting Ordinance
takes effect pursuant to City ordinances and charter; or (ii) if the Enacting Ordinance is subject to
a valid referendum proceeding pursuant to Elections Code § 3500, et seq., the date the Enacting
Ordinance is upheld pursuant to such referendum proceeding.

1.21. EIR. Defined in Recital P above.

1.22. Election to Discontinue Racing. The date when there have been no
horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of Owner's voluntary decision
not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities on the Property, it being
expressly understood that (a) a failure to obtain substantially all of the historic allocation
of racing dates from the horse racing board, or (b) the temporary cessation of racing
activities to accommodate the rehabilitation, reconstruction or renovation of the track
facilities shall not be considered an Election to Discontinue Racing. The date of the
Election to Discontinue Racing shall be April 1 of the calendar year following the year
when there have been no horseracing activities conducted on the Property because of
Owner's voluntary decision not to pursue an allocation of racing dates for racing activities

on the Property, except as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 1.22.

14


--- page 30 ---
1.23. Enacting Ordinance. Ordinance No. 2005-17 , enacted by
the City Council on November 21» 200°, approving this Agreement.

1.24. Event of Default. Defined in Section 8.1.

1.25. Exactions. All exactions, costs, fees, in-lieu fees or payments,
charges, assessments, dedications or other aren or non-monetary requirement charged or
imposed by City or by City through an assessment district (or similar entity) in connection with
the development of, construction on, or use of real property, including but not limited to
transportation improvement fees, child care in-lieu fees, art fees, affordable housing fees,
dedication or reservation requirements, facility fees, sewer fees, water connection fees,
obligations for on- or off-site improvements or construction requirements for Public
Improvements, services or other conditions for approval called for in connection with the
development of or construction of the Project under the Existing City Laws, whether such
exactions constitute Public Improvements, mitigation measures in connection with
environmental review of the Project Approvals, or impositions made under applicable City Laws
or in order to make an Approval consistent with applicable City Laws. Exactions shall not
include Processing Fees.

1.26. Existing City Laws. The City Laws in effect as of the Adoption
Date.

1.27. First Phase. Defined in Section 3.2.3.

1.28. General Plan. The General Plan for the City, entitled "Visions
2005," adopted by the City Council on July 16, 1990, and subsequently amended, as in effect as

of the Adoption Date.

15


--- page 31 ---
oom
—

1.29. General Plan Amendment. The General Plan amendments
approved by the City Council on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 67-(2005) and November 7,
2005, by Resolution No111 -(2005).

1.30. JPB. The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board.

1.31. Law(s). The laws of the State of California, the Constitution of the
United States and any codes, statutes or mandates in any court decision, state or federal,
thereunder.

1.32. Map Approvals. The Master Tentative Map Approval and the
Project Tentative Map Approval(s).

1.33. | Master Tentative Map. The tentative tract map no? /@approved by
the City Council on November 7, 2005, by Resolution111-(2005) that subdivides the Property
into two parcels consistent with the neighborhood boundaries described in the Specific Plan
Amendment. Such map approval shall be called the "Master Tentative Map Approval."

1.34, Mitigation Measures. The mitigation measures applicable to the
Project developed as part of the EIR process and required to be implemented by Owner, and
adopted as part of the Project Approvals and implemented through the MMRP.

1.35. MMRP. The Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan adopted
as part of the Project Approvals, as it applies to the Project, adopted by the City Council on
11/07,2005 _, by Resolution No. 111.

1.36. Mortgage. A mortgage or deed of trust, or other transaction, in
which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or any improvements thereon, is
conveyed or pledged as security, contracted in good faith and for fair value, or a sale and

leaseback arrangement in which the Property, or a portion thereof or an interest therein, or

16


--- page 32 ---
improvements thereon, is sold and leased back concurrently therewith in good faith and for fair
value.

1.37. Mortgagee. The holder of the beneficial interest under a Mortgage,
or the owner of the Property, or interest therein, under a Mortgage.

1.38. Owner. Defined in the opening paragraph of this Agreement.

1.39. Party. City and Owner, and their respective transferees,
determined as of the time in question, and collectively they shall be called the "Parties."

1.40. Person. An individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
trust, governmental agency, administrative tribunal or other form of business or legal entity.

1.41. Processing Fee. A fee imposed by a public entity payable upon the
submission of an application for a permit or approval, which covers only the estimated actual
costs to the public entity of processing that application, and is not an Exaction, and is not only
applicable to the Project.

1.42. Project. Defined in Recital I.

1.43. Project Approvals. The following Approvals for the Project
existing, obtained or enacted by City as of the date hereof, as the same may be updated, amended
or modified from time to time upon application of Owner:

(i) the EIR and MMRP;

Gi) the General Plan Amendment;

(iii) the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
adopted on June 6, 2005, by Resolution No. 66 (2005);

(iv) the Specific Plan; and

(v) the Master Tentative Map Approval.

17


--- page 33 ---
1.44. Property. The real property described in Exhibit A and shown on
Exhibit B on which Owner intends to develop the Project.

1.45. Project Tentative Map Approval. Any tentative tract map
approved by the City Planning Commission or the City Council at any time in the future, which
subdivides all or a portion of the Master Tentative Map into Blocks as shown in the
Development Framework Plan of the Specific Plan. Each such map shall be called an "Project
Tentative Map."

1.46. Public Improvements. The lands and facilities, both on- and off-
site, to be improved and constructed, and dedicated, as provided by the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Public Improvements include all right-of-way improvements, streets and roads
within the Property; all utilities (such as gas, electricity, cable television, water, sewer and storm
drainage); pedestrian and bicycle paths and trails; parks; the off-site public improvements; the
fair share mitigation measures; and all other improvements and facilities required or called for by
the Mitigation Measures. |

1.47. SPAR. Site plan and architectural review by City, in accordance
with Existing City Laws.

1.48. Specific Plan, Defined in Recital F.

1.49. Specific Plan Amendment. Defined in Recital I.

1.50. Substantial Public Benefits. Defined in Recital N.

1.51. Term. The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to
occur of (i) the Effective Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity of
the Enacting Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan Amendment, the Specific Plan

Amendment or other Project Approval, this Agreement, or the Master Tentative Map Approval,

18


--- page 34 ---
the date such legal proceeding is finally concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other
relevant approval, and terminating eighteen (18) years thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as
provided in this Agreement. For purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally
concluded" upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment in such
proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other Project Approval.

1.52. Terminate. The expiration of the Term of this Agreement, whether
by the passage of time or by any earlier occurrence pursuant to any provision of this Agreement.
For purposes hereof, "Terminate" includes any grammatical variant thereof, including
"Termination," "Terminated," and "Terminating."

1.53. Transferred Property. Defined in Section 10.1.

1.54. Trip Budget. Defined in Section 10.4.

2. Effective Date: Term.

2.1. Effective Date. This Agreement shall be dated and the rights,
duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be effective as of the Effective Date (as
defined in Section 1.20). Not later than ten (10) days after the Adoption Date, City and Owner
shall execute and acknowledge this Agreement, and promptly thereafter the City Clerk shall
cause this Agreement to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of San Mateo, State of
California.

2.2, Expiration of Term. Upon expiration of the Term (as defined in
Section 1.51), this Agreement and all of the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties
hereunder shall Terminate and be of no further force or effect. Upon expiration of the Term,
Owner shall thereafter comply with the provisions of all City Laws then in effect or subsequently

adopted with respect to the Property and/or the Project, except that expiration of the Term

19


--- page 35 ---
oN
: H
—

(including as a result of Termination of this Agreement) shall not affect any right vested under
Laws (absent this Agreement), or other rights arising from Approvals granted by City for
development of all or any portion of the Project.

3. General Development of the Project.

3.1. Project. Owner shail have the vested right to develop the Project
on the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, and the Approvals as the same may be amended from time to time upon application
of Owner; and City shall have the right to control development of the Property in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, the
Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the overall design,
development and construction of the Project, and all improvements and appurtenances in
connection therewith, including, without limitation, the permitted uses on the Property, the
density and intensity of use, the maximum height and size of buildings, the number of allowable
parking spaces and all Mitigation Measures required in order to minimize or eliminate material
adverse environmental impacts of the Project. All building heights (calculated according to City
Law) shall be fifty-five (55) feet or less. By stating that the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, the Project Approvals, the Approvals and the Existing City Laws shall control the
overall design, development and construction of the Project, this Agreement is consistent with
the requirements of California Government Code Section 65865.2 (requiring development
agreements to state permitted uses of the property, the density or intensity of use, the maximum
height and size of proposed buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of land for
public purposes). In the event of any inconsistency between the Specific Plan and this

Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern and control.

20


--- page 36 ---
3.2. Milestones: Processing of Design Guidelines and Initial SPAR:
First Phase: Timing of Dedications and Contributions. To the extent that the Project is
developed in phases, the Parties acknowledge that presently Owner cannot predict the timing or
sequence of any such Project phasing. Owner therefore shail have the right to develop the
Project in phases in such order and at such times as Owner deems appropriate within the exercise
of its subjective business judgment and the provisions of this Agreement and the Project
Approvals. Nonetheless, Developer agrees to meet the following performance milestones
contained in this Section 3.2.:
3.2.1. Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines.

Owner agrees to meet with City staff and present a draft of proposed Design Guidelines
for discussion within six (6) months of the Effective Date.

3.2.2. Submission of Design Guidelines.

Owner agrees to submit an application for approval of Design Guidelines in accordance
with the Specific Plan, no later than one (1) year from the Effective Date.

3.2.3. Application for First Phase.

Owner agrees to submit its first planning applications for the first portion of anticipated
development, which shall be a Site Development Permit application for the framework streets as
shown in the Specific Plan Amendment, and a SPAR for development of at least one Block (the
"First Phase"), no later than one (1) year from the date the City's approval of the Design
Guidelines is final, and any legal proceedings concerning the validity of the approval are "finally

concluded" as defined in Section 1.51.

3.2.4. SPAR for Block Along Delaware.

21


--- page 37 ---
Owner agrees to submit an application for a SPAR for a block along Delaware Avenue
within three months of a Caltrain's multi-modal train station being completed within the Specific
Plan area.

3.2.5. Dedication of Community Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication approximately 12 acres of land adjacent
to Saratoga Drive as a community park within two (2) years of the date of Owner's Election to
Discontinue Racing, pursuant to Section 5.9.1 of this Agreement.

3.2.6. Dedication of Linear Park and Neighborhood Park.

Owner agrees to irrevocably offer for dedication the Linear Park and Neighborhood Park
(described in greater detail at Section 5.9.2) prior to approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park or the Neighborhood Park, respectively.

3.2.7. Dedication of Delaware Avenue Right of Way.

Owner agrees to irrevocably dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
temporary two-lane North-South Delaware pursuant to conditions further detailed in Section 5.10
of this Agreement. Owner also agrees to irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required
to accommodate a two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way,
in the event Owner terminates Agreement as further detailed in Section 3.10 of this Agreement.

3.2.8. Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner agrees to contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming prior to the
issuance of the first building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date
pursuant to Section 5.13 of this Agreement.

3.2.9. Limitation.

22


--- page 38 ---
Notwithstanding the foregoing, or anything else in this Agreement to the contrary, by
entering into this Agreement, Owner shall not be obligated to develop the Property.

3.3. Specific Plan. The Specific Plan adopted by the City in approving
this Project and Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit C. To the extent that Exhibit C is
inconsistent with the Specific Plan as amended from time to time, the Specific Plan then in effect
shall prevail. The Specific Plan may be amended from time to time upon application of Owner
and approval of the City without amending this Agreement, unless the proposed amendment to
the Specific Plan is inconsistent with an express provision of this Agreement, in which case this
Agreement shall also be amended.

3.4. Subsequent Projects. Owner is concerned that City may approve
other projects that place a burden on City's infrastructure without considering the prior approval
of the Project. Therefore, City agrees that so long as Owner submits its First Phase applications,
and commences Project development within the Term, Owner's right to build out and occupy all
buildings in the Project shall not be diminished despite the burden of future development upon
public facilities including, without limitation, roads, water systems, roadways, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, utilities, traffic signals, curb gutters, sidewalks, parks, amenities, recreation areas,
landscaping, landfill, and other off-site improvements which are of benefit to the Project and
other properties in the area.

3.5. Applicable Laws and Standards. Except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, the City Laws and conditions of approval governing permitted uses on the
Property, density, height, design, occupancy and specifications applicable to the Project shall be
the Existing City Laws (regardless of any future changes in the same made by City) and the

conditions of approval set forth in this Agreement and the Project Approvals. City hereby agrees

23


--- page 39 ---
that the Project can be built and occupied on the Property pursuant to the Existing City Laws and
conditions of approval and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Specific
Plan, provided that City may apply and enforce the construction, fire and building codes then in
effect in City at the time Owner applies for building permits for the Project.

3.6. Other Governmental Permits. Owner shall apply for such other
permits and approvals as may be required from other governmental or quasi-governmental
agencies having jurisdiction over the Project as may be required for the development of, or
provision of services to, the Project (including but not limited to any permits or approvals
required from the California Department of Transportation and/or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers in relation to any offsite sewer work). City shall cooperate with Owner in its
endeavors to obtain such permits and approvals and, from time to time at the request of Owner,
shall attempt with due diligence and in good faith to enter into binding agreements with any such
entity in order to assure the availability of such permits and approvals or services. To the extent
allowed by Law, Owner shall be a party or third party beneficiary to any such agreement entitled
to enforce the rights of Owner or City thereunder or the duties and obligations of the Parties
thereto.

3.7. Processing Fee. City may charge a Processing Fee for a permit or
approval submitted by Owner, as the Processing Fee is in effect at the time of Owner's
application for that permit or approval.

3.8. No Further Exactions. Except as provided in this Section 3.8 , -
Section 3.9 (Transportation Mitigation Fee) and Section 3.10 (Advance Payment of
Transportation Mitigation Fee), City shall not impose any further or additional Exactions on the

development of the Project, whether through the exercise of the police power, the taxing power,

24


--- page 40 ---
design review or any other means, other than those set forth in the Project Approvals, the
Mitigation Measures, the Existing City Laws and this Agreement. By way of clarification, the
City's art fee shall not apply to the Project, but the childcare fee shall apply to development in the
Project (provided that the City shall grant a credit against any applicable fee for the costs of
childcare facilities provided within the Project). The amount of fees and monetary Exactions
applicable to the Project as of the Effective Date are set forth in Exhibit D. Up to the sixth (6th)
anniversary of the Effective Date, monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall remain as in
effect at the same amount or rate as of the Effective Date as specified in Exhibit D, provided that
from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date and each year thereafter,
monetary Exactions applicable to the Project shall be calculated by multiplying the amount or
rate in effect as of the Effective Date by the CPI Factor. The Exactions applicable to the Project
as provided in the Specific Plan and this Agreement shall not be modified or renegotiated by City
as a result of any amendment to the Specific Plan, the Project Approvals, the Approvals, or this
Agreement which does not materially increase the density or intensity of development. Nothing
in this Agreement is intended to prohibit City from exercising its taxing power in a manner
which will not increase any fee or tax applicable to the Project. The Parties acknowledge that the
provisions contained in this Section 3.8 are intended to implement the intent of the Parties that
Owner have the right to develop the Project pursuant to specified and known criteria and rules,
and that City receive the benefits which will be conferred as a result of such development
without abridging the right of City to act in accordance with its powers, duties and obligations.
3.9, Transportation Mitigation Fee. At the time of issuance of building
permits for development on the Property, Owner shall pay City's fair share transportation

mitigation fee with respect to the portion of the Project for which building permits are sought.

25


--- page 41 ---
The parties understand that City will update the "General Plan Traffic Mitigation Fee Program"
to reflect City's portion of the costs of the grade separations to be constructed by the JPB at 28th
Avenue and 31st Avenue to the approximate amount specified on Exhibit D ("Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update"). Up to the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the
transportation mitigation fee applicable to the Project shall remain as in effect at the same
amount or rate as of the Effective Date, or if the Transportation Mitigation Fee Update has
occurred before the sixth (6) anniversary of the Effective Date, as revised as of the date of the
Transportation Mitigation Fee Update, provided that from and after the sixth (6th) anniversary of
the Effective Date and each year thereafter, the transportation mitigation fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the amount or rate in effect as of the Effective Date (or the Transportation
Mitigation Fee Update, as the case may be) by the CPI Factor.

3.10. | Advance Payment of Transportation Mitigation Fee: Consideration

for Early Termination.

(a) If, at any time on or after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the Effective Date, the
following three conditions are satisfied:
(i) the grade separations at 28th Avenue and 31st Avenue are open to traffic,
(ii) — the City has approved Owner's applications for Design Guidelines as well
as Owner's applications for the First Phase, and
Giii) | Owner has not demolished the grandstand improvements on the Property,
or has otherwise not ceased all racing and betting operations on the Property,
then either:
(A) | Owner shall make an advance payment to City of four million, six

hundred thousand dollars ($4.6 million) in transportation mitigation fees (which

26


--- page 42 ---
are to be applied against any future transportation mitigation fees payable for the
Project) within thirty (30) days of the City providing written notice to Owner of
the occurrence of the three conditions specified above, or

(B) if (x) Owner does not make such payment within thirty (30) days of such
notice, and (y) Owner has not recorded any final map with respect to the Property,
other than the final map recorded with respect to the Master Tentative Map, then
this Agreement shall Terminate and as consideration for such Termination, Owner
shall irrevocably offer to dedicate the right-of-way required to accommodate a
two-lane North-South Delaware connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way
(“Compensatory Right-of-Way"), designed in a manner to be compatible with the
then existing uses on the Property. If Owner develops the Property prior to the
City accepting and improving the Compensatory Right-of-Way, City shall
quitclaim or reconvey to Owner the Compensatory Right-of-Way and Owner shall
improve Delaware Street along the alignment contemplated by the Specific Plan
Amendment. If this Agreement Terminates pursuant to this Section 3.10,
notwithstanding any other provision of City Law or Law or this Agreement, the
term of any unexpired Project Tentative Map or Future Map (as defined in
section 4.2) shall expire. If the conditions of this Section 3.10(a)(i-ili) are
satisfied, and the Owner has recorded any final map with respect to the Property
(or any portion thereof), other than the final map recorded with respect to the
Master Tentative Map, then Owner must make the payment specified in

subsection 3.10(A), above, and the Agreement shall not Terminate.

27


--- page 43 ---
(b) Owner shall notify City as to its utilization of any advance transportation
mitigation fees at the time of applying for a SPAR.

3.11. Review and Processing of City Approvals. In connection with any
approval, City shall accept applications for processing and review, and exercise City's discretion
to take action, in a good faith manner which is as expeditious as administratively possible and
which complies with and is consistent with the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and City
shall approve any application for an approval (including but not limited to an application for
Design Guidelines) which so complies and is so consistent with the Project Approvals and this
Agreement. Owner recognizes that City retains discretion with respect to its approval of the
Project's Design Guidelines, SPAR process, and consistency with the Specific Plan, provided
that City shall exercise City's discretion in a manner which will not prevent the development of
the Project for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project
Approvals and this Agreement or with the rate of development, if any, specified in the Project
Approvals. Owner, in a timely manner, shall provide City with all fees, charges, documents,
applications, plans and other information necessary for City to carry out its obligations and cause
its planners, engineers and all other consultants to submit in a timely manner all necessary
materials and documents. All applications for Approvals shall be filed in the manner required
under the applicable City Laws, except that such applications shail contain the caption
"SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS PHASE Il DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT" on the
front sheet of such applications (provided that a failure to include such caption shall not have any
legal effect). The Parties expressly intend to cooperate with one another and diligently work to
implement all land use and building approvals for development of the Project in accordance with

the Project Approvals.

28


--- page 44 ---
3.12. Extension of Approvals. Upon approval of any Project Tentative
Map and the First Phase approvals, the term of each shall be extended until the Termination of
this Agreement notwithstanding any other City Law. Upon the approval of any other subdivision
map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit, the term of such
subdivision map (other than the Master Tentative Map), SPAR, variance or use permit shall
extend for five (5) years from the date of approval, provided that approvals obtained in the last
five (5) years of the Term shall extend for the greater of (a) the Term of the Agreement or (b) the
maximum applicable time provided for under City Law.

3.13. Interim Uses.

The Project Approvals do and will provide a mechanism which will ensure that the
Property shall be maintained in an aesthetically pleasing manner at a reasonable economic
expense to Owner on an interim basis prior to and during the development of the Project.

4, Subdivision of Property.

4.1. Master Tentative Map. City approved the Master Tentative Map
as of the date hereof. The Master Tentative Map does not and shall not permit any development
of the Property (including issuance of building or demolition permits) unless and until the City
has granted the following Approvals: (a) the Design Guidelines, (b) the First Phase approvals,
and (c) the design and bonding for the Public Improvements to be constructed with the First
Phase of the Project. The two parcels of the Master Tentative Map shall be held under a single
ownership pursuant to a lot tie agreement to be recorded with the San Mateo County recorder,
and such lot tie agreement shall remain in effect unless and until the Approvals described in the
preceding sentence have been granted, and the grandstand and other existing on-site

improvements have been demolished. Developer agrees if the First Phase of development has

29


--- page 45 ---
not commenced prior to the expiration or earlier Termination of the Term, the two parcels
created by the Master Tentative Map shall be merged.

4.2. Project and Future Tentative Maps. Owner shall have the right,
from time to time or at any time, to apply for one (1) or more Project Tentative Maps,
subdividing the Property into Blocks, as may be necessary in order to develop, lease or finance
any portion of the Property in connection with development of the Project consistent with the
density, Block and parcel sizes set forth in the Specific Plan. Each Block may be subdivided
further into individual parcels through one or more future tentative maps ("Future Tentative
Maps"). City may grant tentative approval of a Project Tentative Map or Future Tentative Map,
but shall not grant final approval of any final Project Tentative Map, or Future Tentative Map
before the pre-conditions for development (a, b, and c) in Section 4.1 (Master Tentative Map)
have been satisfied.

4.3. Government Code Section 66473.7. Pursuant to Government Code
section 65867.5, City has determined that this Agreement is not subject to the provisions of
Government Code Section 65867.5 because the Master Tentative Map includes only two parcels,
and in any event, the Master Tentative Map and any Project Tentative Maps are exempt from the
requirements of Government Code section 66473.7, concerning water verifications, because the
Project is a residential project proposed on a site within an urbanized area and has previously
been developed for urban uses, and the immediate contiguous properties surrounding the Project
site are, and previously have been, developed for urban uses, all within the meaning of

Government Code section 66473.7(1).

30


--- page 46 ---
5. Specific Criteria Applicable To Development Of The Project.

5.1. Application of New City Laws. Nothing herein shall prevent City
from applying to the Property: _

(a) new City Laws which do not conflict with this Agreement, the Project
Approvals, the Approvals and Existing City Laws, as described in Section 5.2
(Conflicting Laws) below;

(b) new City Laws which are specifically mandated or required by changes in
State or Federal Laws;

(c) City Laws that are applicable to the following and are in effect at the time
Owner submits an application for a building permit for the Project:

(i) procedural requirements for building and building occupancy
permit application, submittal and issuance;

(ii) construction standards pursuant to all Uniform Building Codes
incorporated by the San Mateo Municipal Code;

(iii) | engineering specifications for construction of any public
improvements such as curbs, gutters and sidewalks, to the extent they do not
conflict with the Project Approvals or Approvals;

(iv) building security requirements adopted pursuant to Title 23 of the
San Mateo Municipal Code;

(v) any requirements applicable upon issuance of a building permit for
which City acts as an administering agent for another governing agency; and

(vi) any sustainability mandates that are uniformly applied as a matter

of adopted City requirements to all new construction of the type in question (i.e.

31


--- page 47 ---
standards applicable to ali commercial construction in the City shall apply to
commercial development in the Project and standards applicable to all residential
construction in the City shall apply to residential development in the Project).

5.2. Conflicting Laws. For purposes of Section 5.1 above (Application
of New City Laws), any action or proceeding of the City (whether enacted by the legislative
body or the electorate) that has any of the following effects on the Project shall be considered in
conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws:

(a) limiting or reducing the density or intensity of all or any part of the
Project, or otherwise requiring any reduction in the square footage or total number of
developable blocks, residential units or other improvements;

(b) limiting the timing or phasing of the Project in any manner
inconsistent with this Agreement or the Project Approvals;

(c) limiting the location of structures, grading, streets or other
improvements on the Property in a manner that is inconsistent with or more restrictive
than the limitations included in the Project Approvals or this Agreement; or

(d) applying to the Project or the Property any law, regulation, or rule
otherwise allowed by this Agreement which is not uniformly applied on a City-Wide
basis to all substantially similar types of development projects or project sites in the City.

The above list of actions is not intended to be comprehensive, but is illustrative of
the types of actions that would conflict with this Agreement and the Existing City Laws.

5.3. Timing. Without limiting the foregoing, no moratorium or similar
limitation affecting building permits or other land use entitlements, or the rate, timing or

sequencing thereof shall apply to the Project. This Agreement shall not preclude the application

32


--- page 48 ---
to the Project of changes in City Laws, to the extent that such changes are specifically required to
be applied to developments such as this Project by changes in applicable Laws.

5.4. Subsequent Environmental Review. The provisions of CEQA, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to any subsequent Approval for the Project.
The Parties acknowledge, however, that the EIR contains a thoroughgoing analysis of the Project
and Project alternatives and specifies the feasible Mitigation Measures available to eliminate or
reduce to an acceptable level adverse environmental impacts of the Project, and acknowledge
that the City Council issued a statement of overriding considerations in connection with the
Project Approvals, pursuant to 14 California Code of Regulations (CEQA Guidelines)

Section 15093. The EIR provides an adequate database and environmental analysis for the
decision to proceed with the Project embodied in the Project Approvals and this Agreement, and
subsequent development of the Project during the Term of this Agreement. The Mitigation
Measures imposed are those appropriate for the implementation of proper planning goals and
objectives and the formulation of Project development guidelines and conditions of approval.
For these reasons, no EIR shall be required by City for any subsequent Approvals implementing
the Project unless the provisions of Public Resources Code § 21 166 apply.

5.5. Easements; Improvements; Abandonments. City shall reasonably
cooperate with Owner in connection with any arrangements for abandoning existing utility or
other easements and facilities and the relocation thereof or creation of any new easements within
the Property necessary or appropriate in connection with the development of the Project; and if
any such easement is owned by City or an agency of City, City or such agency shall, at the
request of Owner, take such action and execute such documents as may be reasonably necessary

to abandon existing easements and relocate them, as necessary or appropriate in connection with

33


--- page 49 ---
the development of the Project in accordance with the Project Approvals. All improvements
required as Exactions pursuant to the Project Approvals shall be constructed by Owner congruent
with each phase of the Project, as such improvements relate thereto and are necessary with
respect to such phase of the Project development.

5.6. Design of On-Site and Off-Site Improvements. Development of
the Property shall be subject to SPAR and other future City review as provided by the Project
Approvals. The Project Approvals, and all improvement plans prepared in accordance with the
Project Approvals, shall govern the design and scope of all on-site and off-site improvements to
be constructed on or benefiting the Property, including all street widths and dedications.

5.7. Single Integrated Development. City and Owner acknowledge that
the Project is and shall be considered a single integrated development project, and that the
dedications for Public Improvements are an integral part of the Project.

5.8. Public Improvements. Owner shall undertake the design,
development and installation of, and dedicate to City (or a transferee specified by City), or the
applicable responsible agency, the Public Improvements required to be constructed by Owner
pursuant to the Project Approvals, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.8. The
Public Improvements shall be designed and constructed, and shall contain those improvements
and facilities specified in the Project Approvals and other City Laws, and/or as required by
responsible agencies having jurisdiction. The City Manager shall have the right to impose
further implementing conditions in connection with any Approval in order to insure compliance
with the provisions of this Section 5.8 and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement with
respect to the provision of the Public Improvements, including the timing thereof and

relationship to development of the Project, provided that such conditions are not inconsistent -

34


--- page 50 ---
a
oo

with the Project Approvals or this Agreement and do not prevent the development of the Project
for the uses, and with the heights, densities and intensities specified in the Project Approvals and
this Agreement. Owner shall obtain such permits and approvals (including review of design and
construction plans) from all responsible agencies having jurisdiction over the Public
Improvements as applicable, and shall provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to City of
attainment of all such permits and approvals prior to the commencement of construction or
installation of any affected Public Improvements. During the SPAR process, City shall identify
those Public Improvements (or portion thereof) associated with the portion of development
approved in the SPAR. Once completed in accordance with City Law, City will accept those
Public Improvements. ‘

5.8.1. Phasing. The Parties acknowledge that (i) the need for
infrastructure is related to the actual construction of occupied areas and (ii) the timing of
infrastructure expenditures has significant economic effect. Therefore the Project Approvals
include conditions of approval related to phasing, linking infrastructure improvements (both on-
and off-site) with development of occupied areas as described in the Proj ect Approvals. The
City Manager shall be authorized to implement and modify the phasing conditions, as may be
mutually agreed to by Owner, so as to implement the intention of this Section 5.8.1.

5.8.2. Stormwater. The Project Approvals provide for a 4-acre
dry storage area in the area designated as the Community Park. After dedication of the
Community Park, City shall maintain the dry storage area in accordance with covenants,
conditions and restrictions ("CC&Rs") to be recorded with the County recorder. The CC&Rs are
to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties, and provide for the maintenance and operation

performance standards necessary for the functioning of the dry storage areas in accordance with

35


--- page 51 ---
the Project Approvals. Except as otherwise required by the Regional Water Quality Control
Board, City agrees to honor and perform any obligations imposed upon it under the CC&Rs. In
addition, the Parties acknowledge that a wet storage area shall be provided through the creation
of a stormwater retention pond in the Community Park.

5.8.3. Rough Grading. Owner shall be responsible for the rough
grading of the site and location for each Public Improvement located within the Property
(including the dry storage area, but not the remainder of the 12-acre Community Park if the City
has elected to take the cash payment for park improvements specified in Section 5.9.1 below),
and for the rough grading of any off-site location for a Public Improvement, if Owner is
obligated under the Project Approvals to construct such Public Improvements at such off-site
location.

5.8.4. Improvement Agreements and Security. Owner shall enter
into an improvement agreement providing for the design, construction and installation of any
Public Improvements to be made, constructed or installed as required under the Project
Approvals. Owner shall post security for the performance of Owner's obligations under each
such improvement agreement in the amount of the construction cost for each Public
Improvement as determined by City (or responsible agency, if applicable) under the applicable
City Law (or responsible agency regulations).

5.8.5. Off-site Public Improvements.

Subject to the Project Approvals, Owner shall design, construct
and install, or cause the design, construction and installation of, all off-site Public Improvements.

Owner shall be responsible for obtaining such approvals, permits and other agreements, and

36


--- page 52 ---
entering into such contractual arrangements, as may be necessary or appropriate to construct the
off-site Public Improvements.

5.9. Parks and Open Space. Owner shall provide 15 acres of land for
public parks as specified in the Project Approvals, regardless of the number of residential units
ultimately constructed at build-out. No additional park fees (in-lieu or otherwise) shall be
payable with respect to the Project. The park land to be dedicated pursuant to the Project
Approvals shall constitute full pre-payment and satisfaction of any park fees for the Project.

5.9.1. Timing of Dedication and Interim Improvements

Within two (2) years after Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, Owner shall
irrevocably offer to dedicate approximately 12 acres of land adjacent to Saratoga Drive as a
community park ("Community Park"). Prior to acceptance of the offer to dedicate the
Community Park, Owner may use the site of the Community Park for staging of construction
activities. The timing for the dedication of the parks shall be as specified in the Project
Approvals. Programming for the Community Park shall be determined by the City. However, as
additional consideration for this Agreement, the Owner agrees to design and construct interim
improvements to the Community Park consisting of one regulation baseball field and one _
regulation soccer field, utilizing grass turf, in the Community Park so as to provide immediately
usable park land upon dedication. Owner's improvements shall not include lights, sidewalks or
other permanent park infrastructure, with the exception of restroom facilities which may, if
mutually agreeable to the City and Owner, be included as part of the interim park improvements.
Depending on the timing of the City's design process for the Community Park, the City may, at

its election, forego the provision of the park improvements by Owner, and instead elect to

37


--- page 53 ---
receive a $1 million contribution towards the development of final park improvements in
accordance with the City's ultimate design.
5.9.2. Dedication and Designation of Linear Park and

Neighborhood Park.

Owner shall irrevocably dedicate 1.5 acres of land as a "Linear Park" and 1.5 acres of
land as a "Neighborhood Park" as a condition of approval of the SPAR for the first Block of
development adjacent to the Linear Park and the Neighborhood Park, respectively. The SPAR
conditions of approval shall specify the precise timing for the dedication and when the park
improvements must be completed, taking into account the staging needs for adjacent
development. Interim construction staging for adjacent development shall be permitted on the
Linear Park and Neighborhood Park sites.

5.9.3. Maintenance of Open Space and Dedicated Parks.

Owner shall maintain or cause a property owner's association or similar entity to maintain
all landscaping, medians and open space except for the 15 acres of public parks dedicated to the
City (which shall be maintained by the City at it expense). City shall grant Owner or Owner's
successor, agent, contractor or subcontractor a right of entry or encroachment permit to maintain
the landscaping on publicly-owned medians in the Specific Plan Amendment area.

5.10. Delaware Street. Owner acknowledges that the completion of
Delaware Street through the Property will complete the City's north-south street grid as shown
on the City's General Plan. If the City has approved the Owner's Design Guidelines, and the
First Phase approvals, then upon the request of the Public Works Director, Owner shali dedicate
the right-of-way required to accommodate a temporary two-lane North-South Delaware

connection, adjacent to the JPB right-of-way, designed in a manner to be compatible with the

38


--- page 54 ---
then existing uses on the Property. The City shall pay for the costs to design and construct the
temporary Delaware connection. At such time as the Project Approvals require the construction
of Delaware Street as described in the Specific Plan, the Owner, at its own expense, shall
demolish the temporary Delaware connection and design and construct the permanent Delaware
Street improvements in accordance with the Project Approvals.

5.11. Community Facilities District. At the request of the Owner, the
City shall pursue the use of a Community Facilities District ("CFD") for financing the payment
of capital improvement costs associated with the Public Improvements. Subject to market
conditions and fiscal prudence, the City shall use its best efforts to form such a CFD and issue
and sell bonds in connection therewith. Owner shall consent to the formation of the CFD prior to
the recordation of the first Project Tentative Map for the Project.

5.12. Minimum Ten Percent Below Market Rate Units: Property Set-

Aside for Additional BMR Units.

(a) In accordance with Existing City Laws, including Measure P, Owner shall set
aside an amount of units equal to 10 percent (10%) of all newly constructed residential units for
occupancy by and being affordable to moderate or lower income households ("BMR Units").
Notwithstanding any provision in the City's Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program in effect
as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E, the 10% percent requirement shall be
applied on a Block by Block basis. Since SPARs will be required on a Block-by-Block basis, the
Block constitutes the development project "site" for purposes of applying the BMR
requirements. The BMR Units shall be spread throughout each product type, provided that at
Owner's election, up to two hundred fifty (250) newly constructed residential units may have

their associated BMR Units located in a different building or parcel on that same Block, but

39


--- page 55 ---
spread throughout those buildings on the same Block . All BMR Units shall have exterior
design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as buildings in which they are
located. They shall also have similar access to the unit from the exterior as comparable market
rate units in the building in which they are located. Construction of such BMR Units must have»
commenced by the time of issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for any associated
market rate unit on the relevant Block, and diligently pursued to completion.

(b) In addition, Owner shall provide to the City (or to a public or non-profit housing
developer of City's choice), at no cost to the City, approximately one acre of land, located in a
Mixed-Use Block (with the precise location to be determined at Owner's sole election), to be
developed by the City, or the designated public or non-profit agency, solely for low, very low, or
moderate income housing, and designed in accordance with the Specific Plan Amendment and
the Design Guidelines. The Owner shall designate the parcel and offer it to the City within six
(6) months after the commencement of construction of the main street section of Delaware. Prior
to transfer of title to the one acre parcel, a restrictive covenant requiring the use of the property
for low, very low or moderate income housing shall be recorded in favor of Owner and its
assigns, which covenant shall include a power of termination in favor of Owner and its assigns
should the terms of the covenant not be met. The obligations in this Section 5.12 implement the
City's desire to see an increased number of units in the Project set aside as BMR Units. Except
as modified by this Agreement Owner shall comply with City's Below Market Rate
(inclusionary) Program in effect as of the Application Date and attached as Exhibit E.

5.13. Waiver of Density Bonus.
Except with respect to the one acre of land that Owner dedicates to the City for purposes

of the development of BMR Units in accordance with Section 5.12 of this Agreement, Owner, on

40


--- page 56 ---
behalf of itself and any assignee or successor in interest, waives any rights, as provided under

state low and moderate income density bonus laws as they exist at the date of execution of this

Agreement or at any time during the Term of this Agreement, to develop the Property or any

portion thereof at residential densities greater than those allowed under the Project Approvals. .
5.14. Traffic Calming Contribution.

Owner shall contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic calming. This contribution is
in addition to the Traffic Mitigation Fee to be paid by the applicant, which also includes funding
for traffic calming. The contribution shall be made as a condition to the issuance of the first
building permit following the seventh (7th) anniversary of the Effective Date.

5.15. Contribution to Public Art.

In recognition that the City's public art ordinance is not otherwise applicable to the
Project, Owner shall contribute One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) to the City to be used for
public art and an additional Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) to City Arts of San Mateo to be
utilized for funding a campaign for the arts, all as provided for in this section 5.15. The
contribution to San Mateo City Arts shall be made no later than ninety (90) days after the
Effective Date of this Agreement. The public art contribution shall be made to the City in the
following manner: (a) payment of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($350,000) shall be
made to the City on the day the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in
Section 5.19 of this Agreement; (b) Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) shall be
used by Owner in the development of public art in the Town Square to be developed in
accordance with the Specific Plan; (c) payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000)

shall be made to the City during the Term of this Agreement on each of the fifth (5th), tenth

Al


--- page 57 ---
(10th), and fifteenth (15th) anniversaries of the commencement of the Term; and (d) a final
payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the City upon the
expiration of the eighteenth (18th) year of the Term of this Agreement . All payments to the City
shall only be used for art to be located within the Project. The selection and placement of public
art shall be determined by a process established by the City, subject to the reasonable approval of
Owner. Art proposed to be located on private property will be determined by a process that
includes the property owner such that the nature and placement of any art must be approved by

the Owner.

5.16. | Contribution to Improve Casanova Park

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the City to be
used to improve Casanova Park in the Glendale Village neighborhood of the City. Payment of
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be made to the City on the earlier to occur of
(a) the date on which (i) the Effective Date has occurred and (ii) the City sends Owner notice that
it requires the contribution to complete or reimburse the City for the contemplated park
improvements, or (b) the date the Owner sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in
Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.17. | Contribution to Fiesta Gardens Homeowners Association.

The Owner shall contribute One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the Fiesta
Gardens Homeowners’ Association to be used for planning, design and implementation of
aquatic improvements in Fiesta Gardens parks. Payment of One Hundred Thousand Dollars

($100,000) shall be made to the Fiesta Garden Homeowners' Association on the day the Owner

42


--- page 58 ---
sends written notice to the City that Owner accepts the provisions and terms of the Design

Guidelines and the First Phase approvals, as specified in Section 5.19 of this Agreement.

5.18. Green Building Demonstration Project.

The Owner shall construct, or cause at least one residential building in the Project to be
constructed, in a manner that will achieve a LEED Silver Certification, or its equivalent. This
demonstration project will contain at least 30 units (which units are expected to be all market rate
units) and will be developed within the first 400 residential units developed in the Project.

5.19. Prohibition on Expanded Gaming.

Owner agrees that from and after the Effective Date and until the earlier to occur of (a)
the second anniversary of the date Owner makes application for Design Guidelines, and (b) the
City's approval of Owner's application for the First Phase approvals, Owner shall not permit the
use of the Property for slot machines, video lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded
gaming at the track, other than wagering on horse racing. Upon the City's approval of (a)
Owner's application for Design Guidelines and (b) Owner's applications for the First Phase, and
the final conclusion (as defined in Section 1.51) of any legal proceeding(s) with respect thereto,
Owner shall have ninety (90) days to send written notice to the City that Owner accepts the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and the First Phase approvals. If Owner accepts
the terms and conditions thereof, then Owner shall record a covenant against the Property
restricting the use of the Property so as to prohibit the right to operate slot machines, video
lottery terminals, or any other forms of expanded gaming at the track, other than wagering on
horse racing , in perpetuity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if within
the ninety day period specified in this Section 5.19, Owner notifies City that it does not accept

the provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines or First Phase approvals, then this Agreement

43


--- page 59 ---
shall Terminate and there shall be no further prohibition on expanded gaming at the Property.
Upon Termination pursuant to this Section 5.19, notwithstanding any other provision of City
Law or Law, any unrecorded tentative maps, shall expire. In no event shall any final map, with
respect to any Project Tentative Map, be recorded unless and until the Owner has accepted the
provisions and terms of the Design Guidelines and First Phase approvals.

5.20. Loss of Racing Revenue.

The Owner agrees to pay a maximum of $300,000 annually to the City to compensate for
the loss of net revenues to the City from the Property should Owner delay the commencement of
development of the Property following Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing. The first annual
payment (if any) shall be due the later to occur of (a) the date the City has approved Owner's
applications for Design Guidelines and Owner's applications for the First Phase, and (b) the
second anniversary of the Owner's Election to Discontinue Racing, provided that no payment
shall be due from and after the time a building permit with respect to any development on the
Property has been issued, and work in accordance with that permit has commenced. In
addition, and notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, any annual payment to the
City shall be net of general revenues (not including processing or similar fees) the City derives
from the Property from any source after the Effective Date (including, but not limited to,
property taxes, transfer taxes, fees, and sales taxes).

6. Periodic Review of Compliance.

6.1. Annual Review. Each year during the Term of this Agreement,
City and Owner shall review this Agreement, and all actions taken pursuant to the terms of this

Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6.

44


--- page 60 ---
6.2. Owner's Submission. Not less than thirty (30), nor more than sixty
(60), days prior to the first (1st) anniversary of the Effective Date of this Agreement, and each
anniversary date thereafter, Owner shall submit to the City Clerk, with a copy to the Director, a
letter setting forth Owner's good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement and a request that review of such compliance by the Planning Commission be made
in accordance with law. Such letter shall be accompanied by such documents and other
information as may be reasonably necessary and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to undertake the annual review of Owner's good faith compliance with the terms of
this Agreement, and shall also state that such letter is submitted to City pursuant to the
requirements of Government Code § 65865.1, and Section 8(a) of the Development Agreement
Resolution.

6.3. Finding of Compliance. Within forty-five (45) days after Owner
submits its letter, the City shall review the Owner's submission to ascertain whether it contains
sufficient information to determine whether Owner has complied in good faith with the terms of
this Agreement. Upon request of the City, Owner shall furnish such additional documents or
information as may be reasonably required and available to Owner to enable the Planning
Commission to make and complete its review hereunder. At the first available duly noticed
regular meeting following receipt of all information requested by the City (if any), the Planning
Commission shall determine the good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of this Article 6 and Section 8(a) of the
Development Agreement Resolution and Government Code Section 65865.1. At least five (5)
days prior to rendering a decision, the City shall provide to Owner copies of all staff reports and

other information concerning Owner's compliance with the terms of this Agreement. If the

45


--- page 61 ---
Planning Commission finds good faith compliance by Owner with the terms of this Agreement,
upon request by Owner, the City Manager shall provide to Owner written confirmation of such
finding.

6.4. Finding of Noncompliance/Danger to Health and Safety. If the
Planning Commission, on the basis of substantial evidence, finds that the Owner has committed
an Event of Default, or that the failure of the City to terminate or modify the provisions of this
Agreement would place the residents of the territory subject to this Agreement or the residents of
the City, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health and safety (hereafter, “Danger to
Health and Safety”), it shall specify on the record the respects in which Owner has failed to
comply or the factual basis for a finding of Danger to Health and Safety. The Planning
Commission shall also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance,
which time shall be not less than thirty (30) days, and shall be reasonably related to the time
necessary for Owner to adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the
terms of this Agreement. If the areas of noncompliance specified by the Planning Commission
are not perfected within such reasonable time limits prescribed, then upon recommendation of
the Planning Commission, this Agreement shall be subject to modification or cancellation by the
City Council pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, upon a finding of Danger to Health and Safety, the Planning
Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council regarding modifications to or
termination of this Agreement, pursuant to this Agreement and the provisions of Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution.

6.5. Appeals to City Council. If Owner appeals a determination of

noncompliance hereunder to the City Council or the Planning Commission makes a finding of

46


--- page 62 ---
Danger to Health and Safety, both as specified in Section 8 of the Development Agreement
Resolution, then the City Council shall schedule the hearing thereon not earlier than thirty (30)
days and not more than sixty (60) days after Owner files its notice of appeal or the date the
Planning Commission renders its decision, whichever is later. If, after receipt of any written
response of Owner, and after considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public
hearing, the City Council finds and determines on the basis of substantial evidence that the
Owner has not complied in good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the
City Council shall specify to Owner the respects in which Owner has failed to comply, and shall
also specify a reasonable time for Owner to meet the terms of compliance, which time shall be
not less than thirty (30) days and shall be reasonably related to the time necessary for Owner to
adequately bring its performance into good faith compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
If the areas of noncompliance specified by the City Council are not perfected within such
reasonable time limits herein prescribed, then the City Council may by noticed hearing
terminate, modify or take such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution. Similarly, if after receipt of any written response of Owner, and after
considering all of the written and oral evidence at such public hearing, the City Council finds and
determines on the basis of substantial evidence that failure of the City to terminate or modify the
Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and Safety, then the City Council may terminate or
modify this Agreement in accordance with this Agreement and Section 8 of the Development
Agreement Resolution.
6.6. Miscellaneous Requirements in Connection With Annual Review.
In the event that City fails to either (a) conduct the annual review after Owner has met its

submission requirements under Section 6.2 (Owner's Submission), or (b) thereafter notify Owner

47


--- page 63 ---
in writing of City's determination as to compliance or noncompliance with this Agreement, and
after having been provided written notice by Owner of City’s failure to conduct that annual
review or make such determination regarding this Agreement and such failure remains uncured
as of December 31 of any year during the Term of this Agreement, Owner shall be deemed in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement until such time as the annual review has taken
place and City has notified Owner of its determination.

6.7. Standards. Each annual review hereunder shall, to the extent
applicable, be subject to the demonstration of compliance by Owner through ascertainable
standards of professional disciplines having the requisite experience and expertise within the
subject matter under review, in order that Owner will have the ability, to the extent applicable, to
demonstrate compliance on an objective basis through information or other data prepared by
Owner and its consultants and submitted with its annual statement of compliance hereunder.
Nothing in this Section 6.7 shall be construed to limit City's discretion in making a determination
based on substantial evidence, as to whether Owner is in good faith compliance or whether
failure of the City to terminate or modify the Agreement will constitute a Danger to Health and
Safety.

6.8. Effect on Transferees. If Owner has effected a transfer so that its
interest in the Property has been divided between more than one (1) Party, then the annual
review hereunder shall be conducted separately with respect to each such Party, and the Planning
Commission and/or City Council shall make its determinations and take its actions as authorized
and required separately with respect to each such Party. If the City Council Terminates,
modifies or takes such other actions as may be specified in Section 8 of the Development

Agreement Resolution in connection with a determination that such Party has not complied in

48


--- page 64 ---
good faith with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, such action shall be effected only as
to the Party as to whom the determination is made and the portions of the Property in which such
Party has an interest, unless the Planning Commission and/or the City Council in its resolution of
Termination, modification or other action further limits the scope of its determination.

6.9. Event of Default. The rights and powers of the City Council under
this Article 6 are in addition to, and shall not limit, the rights of the City to modify, Terminate or
take other action under this Agreement on account of the commission by Owner of an Event of

Default.

49


--- page 65 ---
oo
o™

7. Permitted Delays: Supersedure by Subsequent Laws.

7.1. Permitted Delays. In addition to any specific provisions of this
Agreement, performance by either Party of its obligations hereunder shall be excused during any
period of delay, to the extent that delay is an actual cause of default, caused at any time by
reason of acts of God or civil commotion, riots, strikes, picketing, or other labor disputes,
shortage of materials or supplies, or damage to work in process by reason of fire, floods,
earthquake, or other casualties, restrictions imposed or mandated by governmental or quasi-
governmental entities, enactment of conflicting Laws (including, without limitation, new or
supplementary environmental regulations), litigation, acts or neglect of the other Party, or any
other cause beyond the reasonable control of a Party. Each Party shall promptly notify the other
Party of any delay hereunder as soon as possible after the same has been ascertained. The Parties
shall then meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine how to respond to the delay
so as to meet the purposes and intent of this Agreement. The Term of this Agreement shall be
extended by the period of any delay hereunder, not to cumulatively exceed seven (7) years.

7.2. Subsequent Laws. If any Laws made or enacted after the Effective
Date of this Agreement prevent or preclude compliance with one or more provisions of this
Agreement, then the provisions of this Agreement shall, to the extent feasible, be modified or
suspended as may be necessary to comply with such new Law. Immediately after enactment of
any such new Law, the Parties shall meet and confer reasonably and in good faith to determine
the feasibility of any such modification or suspension based on the effect such modification or
suspension would have on the purposes and intent of this Agreement. If such modification or
suspension is infeasible , then Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written

notice to City. In addition, at Owner's election, the Term of this Agreement may be extended

50


--- page 66 ---
pursuant to Section 7.1 above for the duration of the period during which such new Law
precludes compliance with the provisions of this Agreement for a period not to exceed 24
months. Owner shall also have the right to challenge the new Law preventing compliance with
the terms of this Agreement, and, in the event such challenge is successful, this Agreement shall
remain unmodified and in full force and effect, except that the Term shall be extended by such
challenge pursuant to Section 7.1 above and the provisions of this Section 7.2.

8. Events of Default; Remedies; Termination; Attorneys’ Fees.

8.1. Events of Default. Subject to any extensions of time by mutual
consent in writing, and subject to the provisions of Section 7.1 regarding permitted delays, any
failure by either Party to perform any material term or provision of this Agreement (including
any failure to comply in good faith with the terms of this Agreement) shall constitute an event of
default ("Event of Default"), (a) if such defaulting Party does not cure such failure within thirty
(30) days following notice of default from the other Party, where such failure is of a nature that
can be cured within such thirty (30) day period, or (b) if such failure is not of a nature which can
be cured within such thirty (30) day period, the defaulting Party does not within such thirty (30)
day period commence substantial efforts to cure such failure, or thereafter does not within a
reasonable time prosecute to completion with diligence and continuity the curing of such failure.

8.2. Remedies. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the
nondefaulting Party may not exercise any rights or remedies unless and until it has first requested
in writing that the Parties schedule a meeting to occur before a neutral mediator no later than
thirty (30) days following such notice, to mediate and resolve the dispute. The nondefaulting
Party shall submit a list of three neutral mediators provided by ADR Services, Inc. — San

Francisco (or some other mediation services organization agreeable to both Parties) and dates the

51


--- page 67 ---
aa
oo

mediators are available at the time it requests the meeting. The defaulting Party shall select the
neutral mediator from the list provided. If the dispute is not resolved within forty-five (45) days
after the nondefaulting Party has requested a meeting, and the nondefaulting Party has provided
at least three (3) available business days for such meeting at which its own representative and the
neutral mediator are available at a location within the City of San Mateo, regardless of whether
the Parties have actually met to mediate the dispute, the nondefaulting Party shall have the right,
in addition to all other rights and remedies available at law or in equity, to (a) bring any
proceeding in the nature of specific performance, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, or
mandamus, and/or (b) bring any action at law or in equity as may be permitted by any Law or
this Agreement to compensate the nondefaulting Party for all the detriment proximately caused
by the defaulting Party's failure to perform, or otherwise arising out of the Event of Default, or
which in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, provided however that
(i) Owner shall not have the right to recover monetary damages (compensatory or consequential)
against City, and (ii) City shall only have the right to recover actual, direct (and not
consequential) damages against Owner. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default,
the nondefaulting Party shall have the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3,
but any such Termination shall not affect such Party's right to seek any remedy permitted by this

Agreement on account of the Event of Default for which this Agreement has been terminated.

52


--- page 68 ---
8.3. Standards for Termination; Procedure on Termination.

8.3.1. Standards. A Party may Terminate this Agreement
pursuant to Section 8.1 above on account of the commission by the other Party of an Event of
Default only if, as a result of such Event of Default, the Party seeking to Terminate
demonstrates, on the basis of substantial evidence in the record as a whole, that it will be
deprived of a material benefit under this Agreement.

8.3.2. Procedure for Termination. Ifa Party concludes that it has
the right to Terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.3.1, such Party shall give to the other
Party notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. If City is the Party seeking to Terminate
this Agreement, City shall then conduct a noticed public hearing before the City Council which
public hearing shall be scheduled for the first regularly-scheduled meeting of the City Council
after the giving of public notice of such hearing in accordance with the applicable City Laws and
applicable Laws; and such notice of public hearing shall be given by City within thirty (30) days
following the date City gives notice of its intent to Terminate this Agreement. At such hearing
City shall demonstrate on the record the grounds and basis on which it claims the right to
Terminate under Section 8.3.1 above. Upon conclusion of such public hearing, the City Council
shall direct the City Manager to take whatever action the City Council deems necessary or
appropriate in connection with City's notice of intent to Terminate, including to proceed with
Termination of this Agreement, proceedings for modification of this Agreement , or any other
action specified by the City Council in the exercise of its discretion. The public hearing
hereunder shall be concluded within sixty (60) days after it has been opened by the City Council
and the holding of such public hearing hereunder shall be a condition to the initiation by City of

any proceeding at law or in equity in connection with a Party's Termination of this Agreement on

33


--- page 69 ---
account of an Event of Default. If Owner is the Party exercising a right of Termination, Owner
shall give City at least 45 days notice of its intent to Terminate. During the 45 day period, the
Parties shall exercise good faith in attempting to resolve the conflict. If the matter cannot be
resolved, only after expiration of the 45 day period may Owner Terminate this agreement. Such
Termination shall be made by sending written notice thereof to the City.

8.3.3. Effective Date of Termination. Termination of this
Agreement by a Party on account of an Event of Default shall be effected on the later of (i) the
date specified or required to be specified in a Party's notice of intent to Terminate, or (ii) in the
case of the City, thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to Section
8.3.2 above unless, as a result of such public hearing, the City determines to take actions as an
alternative to or in lieu of Termination, in which event City shall not have the right to Terminate
this Agreement unless and until it has given a subsequent notice of intent to Terminate pursuant
to this Section 8.3.3.

8.3.4. Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. Any
challenge to a Party's Termination of this Agreement on account of an Event of Default by the
other Party shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5(c) or other applicable law. Any challenge to a
Party's claim that an Event of Default has occurred (which does not involve a purported
Termination of this Agreement) shall be subject to review in the Superior Court of San Mateo
County pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5 or other applicable law, and
such Court shall determine the appropriate standard of review.

8.4. Effect of Termination. If a Party Terminates this Agreement, such

Termination shall not affect any right or duty emanating from any Approvals with respect to the

34


--- page 70 ---
Project or Property approved concurrently or subsequently to the approval of this Agreement, but
the rights, duties and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall otherwise cease as of the date of
such Termination. Upon Termination of this Agreement, City shall retain any and all benefits,
including money or land, previously received by City or that should have been received by City
as of the date of Termination under or in connection with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions, no Termination of this Agreement shall prevent Owner from completing
and occupying buildings or other improvements authorized pursuant to valid building permits or
certificates of occupancy previously approved by City or under construction at the time of
Termination, unless the reason giving rise to the Termination independently affects such building
permits or certificates of occupancy. As used herein, "construction" means work under a valid
permit, and "completing" means completion for beneficial use or occupancy by Owner, or if a
portion of the Project is intended for use by a lessee or tenant and the lessee or tenant is
responsible for completing the interior improvements, then for such portion "completing" shall
mean such completion except for interior improvements, such as partitions, duct and electrical
runouts, floor coverings, wall coverings, lighting, furniture, trade fixtures, finished ceilings, and
other improvements typically constructed by or for tenants of buildings.

8.5. Limitations on Actions. Any action by any third Person to attack,
review, set aside, void or annul any action or decision taken by either Party under this Agreement
shall not be maintained by such Person unless such action or proceeding is commenced within
ninety (90) days after the date such decision or action is made or taken hereunder, or such shorter
period as is prescribed by Law.

8.6. Waiver: Remedies Cumulative. Failure by a Party to insist upon

the strict performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement by the other Party, irrespective

55


--- page 71 ---
of the length of time for which such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver of such
Party's right to demand strict compliance by such other Party in the future. No waiver by a Party
of an Event of Default shall be effective or binding upon such Party unless made in writing by
such Party, and no such waiver shall be implied from any omission by a Party to take any action
with respect to such Event of Default. No express written waiver of any Event of Default shall
affect any other Event of Default, or cover any other period of time, other than any Event of
Default and/or period of time specified in such express waiver. All of the remedies permitted or
available to a Party under this Agreement, or at law or in equity, shall be cumulative and not
alternative, and invocation of any such right or remedy shall not constitute a waiver or election
of remedies with respect to any other permitted or available right or remedy.

8.7. Attorneys’ Fees. Attorneys' fees in an amount not exceeding
eighty-five dollars ($85) per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000), shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party
in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. "Prevailing Party” within
the meaning of this Section 8.7 shall include, without limitation, a Party who dismisses an action
for recovery hereunder or a portion thereof in exchange for payment of the sums allegedly due,
performance of covenants allegedly breached, or consideration substantially equal to the relief
sought in the action. The above five thousand dollar ($5,000) limit is the total of attorneys' fees
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number
of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is the intent of this Agreement that neither Party shall
have to pay the other more than five thousand dollar ($5,000) for attorneys' fees arising out of an

action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.

56


--- page 72 ---
8.8. No Third Party Beneficiaries. City and Owner hereby renounce
the existence of any third party beneficiary to this Agreement and agree that nothing contained
herein shall be construed as giving any Person third party beneficiary status. If any action or
proceeding is instituted by any third Person challenging the validity of any provision of this
Agreement, or any action or decision taken or made hereunder, the Parties shall cooperate in
defending such action or proceeding.

8.9. Effect of Court Action. If any court action or proceeding is
brought by any third Person to challenge any Approval, this Agreement, or any other permit or
approval required from City or any other governmental entity for development or construction of
the Project, or any portion thereof, and without regard to whether or not Owner is a party to or
real party in interest in such action or proceeding, then if such court action or proceeding is likely
to materially affect the timing or cost of development such as to threaten the economic feasibility
of the Project, Owner shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days'
notice in writing to City, given at any time during the pendency of such action or proceeding, or
within ninety (90) days after the final determination therein (including any appeals), irrespective
of the nature of such final determination, and (b) any such action or proceeding shall constitute a
permitted delay under Section 7.1. |

8.10. | Estoppel Certificate. Either Party may, at any time, and from time
to time, deliver written notice to the other Party requesting such Party to certify in writing that, to
the knowledge of the certifying Party, (a) this Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding
obligation of the Parties, (b) this Agreement has not been amended or modified either orally or in
writing, and if so amended, identifying the amendments, and (c) the requesting Party is not in

default in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, or if in default, to describe

57


--- page 73 ---
therein the nature and amount of any such defaults. A Party receiving a request hereunder shall
execute and return such certificate within thirty (30) days following the receipt thereof. The
Director shall have the right to execute any certificate requested by Owner hereunder. City
acknowledges that a certificate hereunder may be relied upon by transferees and Mortgagees.

9. Mortgagee Protection: Certain Rights of Cure.

9.1. Mortgagee Protection, This Agreement shall be superior and
senior to any lien placed upon the Property, or any portion thereof, including the lien of any
Mortgage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no breach hereof shall defeat, render invalid,
diminish or impair the lien of any Mortgage made in good faith and for value, but all of the terms
and conditions contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon and effective against any
Person (including any Mortgagee) who acquires title to the Property, or any portion thereof, by
foreclosure, trustee's sale, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise.

9.2. Mortgagee Not Obligated. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 9.1 above, no Mortgagee shall have any obligation or duty under this Agreement to
construct or complete the construction of improvements, or to guarantee such construction or
completion; provided, however, that a Mortgagee shall not be entitled to devote the Property to
any uses or to construct any improvements thereon other than those uses or improvements
provided for or authorized by this Agreement, or otherwise under City Laws.

9.3. Notice of Default to Mortgagee: Right of Mortgagee to Cure. If
City receives notice from a Mortgagee requesting a copy of any notice of default given Owner
hereunder and specifying the address for service thereof, then City shall deliver to such
Mortgagee, concurrently with service thereon to Owner, any notice of an Event of Default or

determination of noncompliance given to Owner. Each Mortgagee shall have the right (but not

58


--- page 74 ---
the obligation) for a period of ninety (90) days after the receipt of such notice from City to cure
or remedy, or to commence to cure or remedy, the Event of Default claimed or the areas of
noncompliance set forth in the City's notice. Ifthe Event of Default or such noncompliance is of
a nature which can only be remedied or cured by such Mortgagee upon obtaining possession,
such Mortgagee shall seek to obtain possession with diligence and continuity through a receiver
or otherwise, and shall thereafter remedy or cure the Event of Default or noncompliance within
ninety (90) days after obtaining possession. If any such Event of Default or noncompliance
cannot, with diligence, be remedied or cured within such ninety (90) day period, then such
Mortgagee shall have such additional time as may be reasonably necessary to remedy or cure
such Event of Default or noncompliance (including but not limited to proceeding to gain
possession of the Property) if such Mortgagee commences cure during such ninety (90) day

period, and thereafter diligently pursues completion of such cure to the extent possible.

59


--- page 75 ---
9.4. Right of City to Cure. If Owner defaults under any Mortgage, then
City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure such default prior to completion of any
foreclosure or any proceeding to terminate the interest of Owner in the Property. If City invokes
its right to cure hereunder, City shall be entitled to.reimbursement from Owner of all costs and
expenses incurred by City in curing such default. City shall also be entitled to a lien upon any of
the Property, or portion thereof, encumbered by the Mortgage with respect to which Owner has
defaulted, to the extent of such costs and disbursements.

10. Transfer and Assignment.

10.1. Assignment.

Owner shali obtain City's prior written consent to assign or transfer any of its obligations,
at any time before both of the following has occurred: (a) the City has approved the Design
Guidelines; and (b) the City has approved the First Phase applications. Further, Owner may not
assign or transfer any of its obligations to (a) construct an off-site force main (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (b) pay City $4.6 million in transportation mitigation fees (pursuant to
Section 3.10), (c) dedicate the Community Park to City (pursuant to Section 5.9 (Parks) and the
Project Approvals), (d) construct 28th Avenue, 31st Avenue and Delaware Street (pursuant to the
Project Approvals), (e) dedicate land for City to construct Delaware Street if the Project does not
proceed (pursuant to Section 5.10 and 3.10), (f) contribute $250,000 for neighborhood traffic
calming (pursuant to Section 5.13), (g) design and construct interim improvements for the
Community Park or provide a $1 million contribution towards development of the final park
improvements at the City's election (pursuant to Section 5.9.1), (h) design and construct the
temporary dry storage area in the Community Park (if necessary) or rough grade and construct

the permanent dry storage area (pursuant to the Project Approvals), (i) dedicate the Linear Park

60


--- page 76 ---
and Neighborhood Park (each park is anticipated to be transferred upon development of a Block
associated with the park), (j) contribute to public art (pursuant to Section 5.15), (k) contribute
$100,000 for Casanova Park (pursuant to Section 5.16) and (1) contribute to Fiesta Gardens
Homeowners’ Association for aquatic improvements to the common areas pursuant to Section
5.17), without City's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed. Any failure by Owner to obtain required consent shall be curable in
accordance with the provision of Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). Following approval of
the Design Guidelines and First Phase applications, and except as expressly provided in this
Section 10.1, Owner shall have the right, without the consent of City, to assign or transfer all or
any portion of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement to third Persons acquiring
an interest or estate in all or a portion of the Property (the "Transferred Property"), including, but
not limited to, purchasers or long term ground lessees of individual lots, Blocks, parcels, or of
any of the buildings located within the Property, so long as the Owner provides the City with a
certification that to Owner's reasonable knowledge, the Person acquiring the Transferred
Property has a demonstrated track record with projects of a similar scope and quality, and the
entity or person is capable of qualifying for commercially reasonable financing for the
Transferred Property from a regional bank or other substantial financial institution or equity
source. Notwithstanding the foregoing, City's consent shall not be required for an assignment of
an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or transfer to an equity source,
bank, or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any equitable interest
in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other instrument.

10.2. Notice. If Owner is not required to obtain City's consent to an

assignment or transfer pursuant to Section 10.1, Owner shall give prior written notice to City of

61


--- page 77 ---
its intention to assign or transfer any of its interest, rights or obligations under this Agreement.
Any failure by Owner to provide such notice shall be curable in accordance with the provision of
Section 8.1 hereof (Events of Default). For the purposes of this Section 10.2, an assignment
includes an assignment of an interest in this Agreement in connection with a conveyance or
transfer to a bank or other financial institution or corporation for financing purposes of any
equitable interest in the Project and/or the Property whether by means of a deed of trust or other
instrument.

10.3. Assignment Agreement. Any assignee or transferee shall
expressly assume Owner's obligations under this Agreement through an assignment agreement
("Assignment Agreement") to be executed by and between (a) Owner, (b) the assignee or
transferee, and (c) City. Execution of such Assignment Agreement shall thereby relieve Owner
of any responsibility or liability for those assumed obligations under this Agreement, and shall
impose upon the assignee or transferee those assumed obligations. If Owner or the Owner of any
Transferred Property defaults under this Agreement, such default shall not constitute a default by
the Owner of any other portion of the Property hereunder (including, but not limited to the
Owner) and shall not entitle City to terminate or modify this Agreement with respect to such
other portion of the Property or the Owner thereof; provided, however, that nothing herein shall
restrict City from taking action with respect to the portion of the Property or the Owner actually
responsible for the default.

10.4. Trip Budget. Each Assignment Agreement shall specify the
number of PM peak hour trips allocated to the Transferred Property ("Trip Budget") by Owner.
The Assignment Agreement may provide for the Trip Budget to be reduced in the future

(i) where the actual trips (as determined by monitoring) or the forecast trips (as determined at

62


--- page 78 ---
SPAR) generated by the Transferred Property are lower than the Trip Budget, and/or (ii) to
reflect future reductions required by the Approvals for the Project overall. City agrees that the
monitoring and enforcement of the Trip Budget shall be handled through the Approvals and not
through this Agreement, and any failure to comply with the Trip Budget shall not constitute an
Event of Default or other violation of this Agreement in any way whatsoever.

10.5. Covenants Run With The Land. All of the provisions, agreements,
rights, powers. standards, terms, covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement shall
constitute covenants that shall run with the land comprising the Property, and the burdens and
benefits shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the Parties and their respective
heirs, successors (by merger, consolidation, or otherwise), assigns, devisees, administrators,
representatives, and lessees.

11. Amendment and Termination.

11.1. Amendment or Cancellation. Except as provided in Article 6
(Periodic Review of Compliance) above with respect to City's annual review, this Agreement
may be canceled, modified or amended only by mutual consent of the Parties in writing, and then
only in the manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 8 of the
Development Agreement Resolution. Minor modifications to this Agreement which do not
relate to the Term, permitted uses, density or intensity of use, height or size of buildings,
provisions for reservation and dedication of land, conditions, terms, restrictions and requirements
relating to subsequent discretionary actions, monetary contributions by Owner, or any conditions
or covenants relating to the use of the Property, or like material provisions, shall not be

considered amendments and shall require the giving of notice pursuant to Government Code

63


--- page 79 ---
Section 65867 as specified by Section 65868 thereof, but shall not require a public hearing
before the Parties may make such amendment.

11.2. Recordation. Any amendment, termination or cancellation of this
Agreement shall be recorded by the City Clerk not later than ten (10) days after the effective date
of the action, and such effective date shall be considered the date upon which the City entered
into or determined such amendment, termination or cancellation.

12. Notices.

12.1. Procedure. Any notice to either Party shall be in writing and given
by delivering the same to such Party in person or by sending the same by registered or certified
mail, or express mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, to the Party's mailing
address. The respective mailing addresses of the Parties are, until changed as hereinafter

provided, the following:

City: City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Director of Community

Development

with a copy to: Office of the City Attorney
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403

Owner: Bay Meadows Land Company
1200 Park Place
San Mateo, California 94403
Attention: Terrence Fancher

with a copy to: Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue
Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071
Attention: Amy R. Forbes

64


--- page 80 ---
——,
1 ?
—

Any Party may change its mailing address at any time by giving written notice of such change to
the other Party in the manner provided herein at least ten (10) days prior to the date such change
is effected. All notices under this Agreement shall be deemed given, received, made or
communicated on the date personal delivery is effected or, if mailed, on the delivery date or
attempted delivery date shown on the return receipt.

13. Miscellaneous.

13.1. Negation of Partnership. The Parties specifically acknowledge that
the Project is a private development, that neither Party is acting as the agent of the other in any
respect hereunder, and that each Party is an independent contracting entity with respect to the
terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Agreement. None of the terms or provisions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to create a partnership between or among the Parties in the
businesses of Owner, the affairs of City, or otherwise, nor shall it cause them to be considered
joint venturers or members of any joint enterprise.

13.2. Approvals. Unless otherwise herein provided, whenever approval,
consent or satisfaction (herein collectively referred to as a "consent") is required of a Party
pursuant to this Agreement, such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Consent shall be deemed given if the Party from whom the consent is sought neither approves or
disapproves of the request within thirty (30) days, or such other applicable time period specified
in this Agreement, after receipt of the written request for consent, but not before the Party
requesting the consent has delivered notice to the opposing Party that the thirty (30) day period
has expired, and that it will deem such passage of time to be consent if the opposing Party does
not object within ten (10) calendar days. Ifa Party shall not consent, the reasons therefore shall

be stated in reasonable detail in writing. Consent by a Party to or of any act or request by the

65


--- page 81 ---
other Party shal] not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary consent to or of any similar or
subsequent acts or requests.

13.3. Project Approvals Independent. All Approvals which may be
granted pursuant to this Agreement, and all Approvals or other land use approvals which have
been or may be issued or granted by the City with respect to the Property, constitute independent
actions and approvals by the City. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any
provision of this Agreement to a particular situation is held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid or unenforceable, or if the City terminates this Agreement for any reason, such
invalidity, unenforceability or termination of this Agreement or any part hereof shall not affect
the validity or effectiveness of any Approvals or other land use approvals. In such cases, such
Approvals will remain in effect pursuant to their own terms, provisions and conditions.

13.4. NotA Public Dedication. Nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to be a gift or dedication of the Property, or of the Project, or portion thereof, to the
general public, for the general public, or for any public use or purpose whatsoever except as
specifically provided as a term of this Agreement, condition of Project Approval or other
approval. Owner shall have the right to prevent or prohibit the use of the Property, or the
Project, or any portion thereof, including common areas and buildings and improvements located
thereon, by any person for any purpose inimical to the operation of a private, integrated Project
as contemplated by this Agreement.

13.5. Severability. Invalidation of any of the provisions contained in
this Agreement, or of the application thereof to any person, by judgment or court order, shall in
no way affect any of the other provisions hereof or the application thereof to any other Person or

circumstance and the same shall remain in full force and effect, unless enforcement of this

66


--- page 82 ---
Agreement as so invalidated would be unreasonable or grossly inequitable under all the
circumstances or would frustrate the purposes of this Agreement.

13.6. Exhibits. Exhibits A, B, D and E listed in the Table of Contents
and referred to herein are deemed incorporated into this Agreement in their entirety. Exhibit C is
not incorporated into this Agreement.

13.7. Entire Agreement. This written Agreement and the Exhibits
contain all the representations and the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the
subject matter hereof. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, any prior
correspondence, memoranda, agreements, warranties or representations are superseded in total
by this Agreement.

13.8. Construction of Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement and
the Exhibits shall be construed as a whole according to their common meaning and not strictly
for or against any Party in order to achieve the objectives and purpose of the Parties. The
captions preceding the text of each Article, Section, subsection and the Table of Contents are
included only for convenience of reference and shall be disregarded in the construction and
interpretation of this Agreement. Wherever required by the context, the singular shall include
the plural and vice versa, and the masculine gender shail include the feminine or neuter genders,
or vice versa.

13.9. Further Assurances: Covenant to Sign Documents. Each Party
covenants, on behalf of itself and its successors, heirs and assigns, to take all actions and do all
things, and to execute, with acknowledgment or affidavit if required, any and all documents and
writings that may be necessary or proper to achieve the purposes and objectives of this

Agreement.

67


--- page 83 ---
13.10. Governing Law. This Agreement, and the rights and obligations of
the Parties, shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
California.

13.11. References: Terminology. Unless otherwise specified, whenever
in this Agreement, reference is made to the Table of Contents, any Article or Section, or any
defined term, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the Table of Contents, Article, Section
or defined term of this Agreement. Exhibits to this Agreement shall be incorporated into this
Agreement as if stated fully herein. The use in this Agreement of the words "including", "such
as" or words of similar import when following any general term, statement or matter shall not be
construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific items or matters, whether or not
language of nonlimitation, such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to", or words of
similar import, are used with reference thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other

items or matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest possible scope of such statement,

term or matter.

68


--- page 84 ---
13.12. Signature Pages. For convenience, the signatures of the Parties to
this Agreement may be executed and acknowledged on separate pages which, when attached to
this Agreement, shall constitute this as one complete Agreement.

13.13. Construction. This Agreement has been reviewed and revised by
legal counsel for both Owner and City, and no presumption or rule that ambiguities shall be
construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation or enforcement of this
Agreement.

13.14. Time. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of each and
every term and condition hereof.

13.15. Indemnification.

Owner agrees to defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the City, its City Council
members, agents, officers, attorneys, employees, boards and commissions from any litigation,
claim, action or court proceeding brought against any of the foregoing individuals or entities
("Indemnified Parties"), the purpose of which is to attack, set aside, void or annul the Project
Approvals or this Agreement. This indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, damages,
costs, expenses, reasonable attorney fees or expert witness fees that may be asserted or incurred
by Indemnified Parties, arising out of or in connection with the approval of this Agreement or
any Project Approvals. If Owner is required to defend Indemnified Parties in connection with
any litigation, claim, action, or court proceeding, the City shall retain the right to approve any
and all settlements proposed by Owner, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld from
the City. Owner shall also have the right to approve any and all settlements of any such matters
proposed by the City and relating to this Agreement or the Project Approvals, which approval

shall not be unreasonably withheld from the Owner. City agrees to cooperate with Owner in the

69


--- page 85 ---
defense of the claim, action or proceeding. Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean
that Owner shall defend, indemnify or hold the City or its elected or appointed representatives,
officers, agents and employees harmless from any claims of personal injury, death or property
damage arising from, or alleged to arise from, the maintenance or repair by the City of
improvements that have been offered for dedication and accepted by the City or for City's gross

negligence or willful misconduct.

70


--- page 86 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and

year first above written.

"City"
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
of the State of California
3 By
City Clerk Mayor
Approved as to Form:
By;
City Attorney

"Owner"

BAY MEADOWS LAND COMPANY,
a Delaware corporation

By. \ neue E. quil—
Its b Qe sc Deut
10857225_7.DOC

State of California
County of San Mateo

Subscribed to and sworn before me on this 9th day of January, 2006,
by JAN EPSTEIN, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis
of satisfactory evidence to be the person who Appeared before me.

71 rthe Gomez}: City Cl¥rk in and
for:the City of San Mateo,
FQunty of San Mateo, State of

Norma


--- page 87 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

State of California
County of San Mateo

On January 11, 2006 before me, Norma Gomez, City Clerk of the City of San Mateo,
California, personally appeared Jan Epstein, Mayor, personally known to me (or proved
to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to
the within instrument and acknowledged to me that she executed the same in her
authorized capacity, and that by her signature on the instrument the person, or entity upon
behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.

f

WITNES

Vl Gan

Nornfa Gamez, City Clerk-
In and for the City of San Mateo
County of San Mateo, State of California

my hand and official seal.



--- page 88 ---
om

STATE OF CALIFORNIA  )
ss.

)
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO )

On Noveyvloer H , 2005 before me, Maureen. €. “i ey , anotary

public in and for said State, personally appeared

personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the
persons) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that
he/she/Athey executed the same in his/herheir authorized capacityttes}, and that by his¢her/thetr
signatureés}-on the instrument the person¢s}; or the entity upon behalf of which the personfs}
acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS Whoo hand and official seal.

“Dhausee®E Seal)

MAUREEN E. RILEY

LA\1492851.1


--- page 89 ---
EXHIBIT A - Description of Property

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as
follows:

Parcel 1, as shown on that certain map entitled “Bay Meadows No. 1, City of San Mateo, San
Mateo County, California”, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of San Mateo County,
State of California, on June 8, 1999 in Book 129 of Maps at page (s) 47 through 57, inclusive.

APN: 040-030-090 JPN: 129-047-000-01 T

72


--- page 90 ---
EXHIBIT B — Map of Property

ro a

SJ Syren aus
\

U/, )
S

pire
yay

c: SSE ei
4 }
ey i
% 4
Y | a
3
A :

Bay Meadows Phase Il- San Mateo, California Site Plan A.
Bay Meadows Land Company

Werkon Menny Sadinn

Coaper, Roberiton & Partren

MeLoand Viranc? Erniack 3 Matnoes, wr

‘Sumiey-rewn ond Assan

Ove Anup Partners May 27, 2006

73


--- page 91 ---
2008-084562

" First eri Title Com y 02:27pm 07/22/08 AG Fee: NO FEE
. QS TMA 9H) Count of pages 7
Escrow No.: v 2 2 Recorded in Official Records

. County of San Mateo
Warren Slocum
Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder

TI i

This document is recorded for the benefit of the iil |
City of San Mateo and is entitled to be recorded

free of charge in accordance with Sections 6103

and 27383 of the Government Code. ;

When recorded, mail to:

Office of the City Attorney
City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE
MEMORANDUM OF TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

This Memorandum of Technical Corrections to the Bay Meadows Phase II Development
Agreement (this "Memorandum") is entered into as of July 2.2, 2008 (the "Effective Date"), by and
among the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California ("City"), Bay Meadows
Land Company, a Delaware limited liability company ("BMLC"), and Bay Meadows Main Track
Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Owner”), with reference to the following facts,
understandings ‘and intentions.

RECITALS:

A. The City and an entity captioned "Bay Meadows Land Company, a Delaware
corporation" (hereinafter referred to as "Land Company"), entered into that certain Bay Meadows Phase II
Development Agreement, dated November 21, 2005, which was recorded on January 24, 2006 as
Instrument No. 2006-011071, in the Official Records of San Mateo County, California (the
"Agreement"), encumbering that certain property more particularly described on Exhibit A attached
hereto (the "Property"). All initially capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Agreement.

B. Owner is, was at the time of execution of the Agreement, and has been at all times since
the execution of same, the owner of the Property. BMLC is the sole member of Bay Meadows Main
Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and thus is a beneficial owner of the
Property. Terrence E. Fancher, currently is, and at the time of the execution of the Development
Agreement was, the President of both BMLC and Owner and the sole manager of the general partner of
the manager of both BMLC and Owner.

C. Upon execution of the recorded Agreement, due to clerical error, the owner was
inadvertently named as Land Company. ;

100479786_5.DOC


--- page 92 ---
D. At all times since execution of the Agreement, Owner has performed the obligations of
the Owner set forth in the Agreement, and the City and Owner have dealt with each other as the correct
parties to the Agreement, which is still in full force and effect.

E. Owner, BMLC and the City would like to execute this Memorandum of Technical
Correction to correct the clerical error in the name of the owner, and confirm the correct name of the
Owner party to the Agreement.

F, At the time of adoption of the Agreement, Paragraph R of the Recitals on page 11 of the
Agreement, concerning the date of adoption and the effective date, was left blank, pending actual
approval and adoption by the City Council. When the blanks were filled in after-the-fact, the inserted text
incorrectly stated that Ordinance 2005-17 "became effective on November 28, 2005." The error was in
good faith because Ordinance 2005-17 recited that it would take effect upon publication, which occurred
November 28, 2005.

G. However, in accordance with California state law which provides that an ordinance
cannot become effective until 30 days after passage, the Agreement did not take effect until December 21,
2005 (thirty (30) days after the adoption of Ordinance 2005-17).

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and conditions contained herein, the
parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The correct name of the Owner in the Agreement is, and has been at all times since the
inception of the Agreement, as follows: "Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company".

2. Each and every reference in the Agreement to Land Company or BMLC as “Owner” -
shall be replaced with a reference to Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, the sole member of which is Bay Meadows Land Company, a Delaware limited
liability company.

3. Notwithstanding the last sentence of Paragraph R of the Recitals on page 11 of the
Agreement, which reads "Ordinance No. 2005-17 became effective on November 28, 2005," or any other
text to the contrary, Ordinance No. 2005-17 became effective on December 21, 2005.

4, The Agreement is in full force and a binding obligation of the Parties. The Agreement
has not been amended or modified either orally or in writing. Neither Owner nor City is in default in the
performance of their respective obligations under the Agreement.

5. Owner represents and warrants to City.that it is a limited liability company organized
under the laws of the State of Delaware and is in good standing thereunder and is qualified to do business
. in the State of California.

6. This Memorandum may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be
an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

100479786_3.DOC


--- page 93 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Memorandum to be executed as of
the day and year first above written.

"OWNER"

BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK.
INVESTORS, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company

By:
Namv: Terrence E. Fancher
Title: President

“BMLC”

BAY MEADOWS LAND COMPANY,
LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company

Name: Terrence E. Fancher
Title: President

100479786_$.DOC


--- page 94 ---
Naw Uwe
STATE OF GAEIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF New Krier )
On at l an 2008 before me, Peynactert Ur Sati Vagja Notary
Public, persorally appeared Tesvence €. EQveh ev _, who proved to me on the basis of

satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s} is/are-subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies}, and that
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the
person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature _ eros hr fete va ,
BERNADETTE M. SULLIVAN
(Sea!) _-Notary Public, State of New York
- Iv 2) No, 018U4813940
Qualified in New York County
Commission Expires June 30, 20/0

- STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF )

On before me, , a Notary
Public, personally appeared , who proved to me on the basis of
satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that

by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the
person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature

(Seal)

100479786_5.DOC


--- page 95 ---
Exhibit A
Legal Description
Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as follows:
Parcel 1, as shown on that certain map entitled "Bay Meadows No. 1, City of San Mateo, San Mateo
County, California", filed in the Office of the County Recorder of San Mateo County, State of California,
on June 8, 1999 in Book 129 of Maps at page(s) 47 through 57, inclusive.

APN: 040-030-090 JPN: 129-047-000-01 T


--- page 96 ---
ACKNOWLEDGED AND APPROVED BY:

CITY OF SAN MATEO,
: a municipal corporation
_ of the State of California

By:___CAvole Pnvwn—

Mayor

Attest:

Approved as to form:

By:
City Attorney

100479786_5.DOC


--- page 97 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF Gan Mateo

On Ooty [G1 AOS before me, [01 C. Dt GrpuPaNotary
Public, persénally appeared avole Orem , who proved to me on the basis of
satisfactory evidence to be the person() whose name(<}is(4re Subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that-hg/she/they executed the same in hig/fier/their-authorized capacity(isX), and that
by hié/her/thei signature(¥) on the instrument the person(&, or the entity upon behalf of which the
oy acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

_ WITNESS i hand and official seal.
Signature APUA t

NIL DIC
voi lon #1779779

‘gar eT Commiss! z
(Seal) 4 Bi ccBRA Notary Public - California §
#8 oy San Mateo County
. Dec 9, 201
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF )

On before me, , a Notary
Public, personally appeared , who proved to me on the basis of
satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose-ndime(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she/they exegufed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that
by his/her/their signature(s) on the ing#timent the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the
person(s) acted, executed the instrufnent.

I certify under PENALTY
paragraph is true and co

PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing

100479786_5.DOC


--- page 98 ---
2012-039872

44:30 am 03/26/12 MT Fee: 39.00
Count of Pages §
Recorded in Official Records
County of San Mateo
Mark Church
Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder
eA
*RO00137 9 3

4 8

RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP
333 S. Grand Avenue, Suite 4900
Los Angeles, California 90071

’ Attention: Amy R. Forbes, Esq.

THE AREA ABOVE IS RESERVED FOR RECORDER'S USE

MINOR MODIFICATION TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN _
TRACK INVESTORS, LLC

SEPARATE PAGE’ PURSUANT TO CAL. GOVT CODE § 27361.6

101187383.6


--- page 99 ---
‘ ©

MINOR MODIFICATION TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN
TRACK INVESTORS, LLC

This MINOR MODIFICATION TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY
MEADOWS MAIN TRACK INVESTORS, LLC (“Minor Modification”) is
dated November 21, 2011, and is by and between the City of San Mateo,
a municipal corporation of the State of California (“City”), and Bay
Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company (“Bay Meadows’).

' WHEREAS, City and Bay Meadows are parties to that certain Bay
Meadows Phase II Development Agreement dated November 21, 2005:and
recorded in the Official Records of San Mateo County, California (“Official
Records”) on January 24, 2006 as Instrument Number 2006-011071, as
modified by that certain Memorandum of T echnical Corrections to the
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement (the “Memorandum of
Corrections’) dated July 21, 2008 and recorded in the Official Records on
July 22, 2008 as Instrument Number 2008-084562 (collectively, the
“Development Agreement”}; and

WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides
that the parties may make minor modifications to the Development
Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to (1) make minor
modifications to the Development Agreement to revise the provisions
relating to proposed interim Community Park improvements, and (2)
clarify the specific dates for certain defined terms in the Development
Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

1. Section 1.20 of the Development Agreement, “Effective Date,”
is modified to add the following sentence to the end of that Section:
“Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Effective.
Date is December 21, 2005.” This modification is consistent with
Paragraph 2 of the Memorandum of Corrections.

2. Section 1.22 of the Development Agreement, “Election to
Discontinue Racing,” is modified to add the following sentence to the end
of that Section: “Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, the date of the Election to Discontinue Racing is April 1, 2010.”

3. Section 1.51 of the Development Agreement, “Term,” is
modified to add the following sentence to the end of that Section:


--- page 100 ---
“Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the term of
this Agreement ends on December 20, 2023.”

4. Section 5.9.1 of the Development Agreement is hereby
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

“No later than April 1, 2012, Owner shall irrevocably offer to
dedicate approximately twelve (12) acres of land adjacent to
Saratoga Drive as a community park (‘Community Park”). Prior to
acceptance of the offer to dedicate the Community Park, Owner
may use the site of the Community Park for staging of construction
activities. The timing for dedication of the parks shall be as
specified in the Project Approvals. Programming for the
Community Park shall be determined by the City. However, as
additional consideration for this Agreement, the Owner shall
design and construct interim improvements to the Community
Park consisting of one or more grass turf fields and other
improvements in the Community Park so as to provide immediately .
usable park land for the project. Interim improvements shall be
completed substantially as described in the attached Exhibit F to
this Agreement (collectively, the “Interim Park Improvements’).
City and Owner agree that Owner shall not commence
construction of the Interim Park Improvements until the earlier to
occur of (1) such time that Owner has consummated the first land
sale with respect to any portion of the Property comprising
developable area, or (2) the commencement of construction on the
first vertical building (the “Park Improvements Trigger Event”).
City further agrees that promptly following the Park Improvements
Trigger Event, City shall issue all required: permits, approvals,
consents and agreements that are required for Owner to commence
and complete construction of the Interim Park Improvements.
Acceptance of the Interim Park Improvements shall be in
accordance with Section 5.8 of this Agreement.”

5. A new Exhibit F is hereby added to the Development
Agreement in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference.

6. The parties intend hereby to modify the Development
Agreement only as set forth in this Minor Modification, and the parties
hereby agree that, except as expressly modified hereby, the remaining
terms of the Development Agreement are hereby confirmed and remain in
full force and effect.

7. This Minor Modification may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an
original, and all of which shall be deemed to be one and the same


--- page 101 ---
‘ ‘ ©

instrument. Electronically transmitted signatures shall be deemed
originals.

[SIGNATURES FOLLOW ON NEXT PAGE]


--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK
INVESTORS, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company

3S E [print name]

ATTEST:

Alot) bid,

Patrice M. s, City Clerk

n, City Attorney

Signature Page — Minor Modification (Bay Meadows Phase I] Development Agreement)


--- page 103 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF Soa MtaPt0 )

On Mork ¢ 2012, before me,
etd L212. Ochs, Wace (‘azet. a NetaryPubke, personally

appeared Sasaw 47. LOF Td , who proved to me
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person{s} whose nametsy

is Jare,subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that
he /she/they executed the same in his/her / their authorized capacityttes},
and that by his/her/tkeix signature(s} on the instrument the person(s},
or the entity upon behalf of which the person{s}acted, executed the
instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State
of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature f (Seal}

Signature Page ~ Minor Modification (Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement)


--- page 104 ---
CALIFORNIA ALL-PURPOSE ACKNOWLEDGMENT

é

«
«
\

NS

SRIAS

SSSI IESSIPS ISIE NIN ID SIE INLD SOV IDSSESSIISIN.

LSID

FOERISIIEN

OV DIIISVE IGPU IENS ION ICDS

USAR EEX OOO BOR ROOTED RESET EREE

State of California

ROG VEX RAV ACS OS CRRA

County of San rand sea

On arch 20, 20/2 before me,
Date

personally appeared

Keneé Adams, Alot Ary fublic
Here (nsert Name and Title Of the Otficer
Kristin Kenaudry a

Name(s} of Signer{s)

Place Notary Seal Above

OPTIONAL

who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged
to me that he/she/fhey executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by
his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the
person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

i certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature:
Signature of Notary Public

Though the information below is not required by law, it may prove valuable to persons relying on the document
and could prevent fraudulent removal and reattachment of this form to another document.

Description of Attached
Title or Type of Document:

Document Date:

Signer(s) Other Than Named Above: , Stu. 447) M7, Lottu $ ‘nan Named Above: Susan, Vf Lotfus Put cé Mf Olds

Capacity(ies) Claimed by Signer(s)
Signer’s Name:Krisdpn Kena udei an
& Corporate Officer — Title(s):
0) Individual!

Partner — (Limited © General
Attorney in Fact

{J
O
0 Trustee
0
Oo

Top of thumb here

Guardian or Conservator
Other:

Signer Is Representing: Fay
Meadows Main [Ya Ke

RIGHT FHUMBPRINT.
SOF SIGNER 2a

Document
(OL Mlodeticafrs al bang Meadows (haseTE- Dev Ayal

Number of Pages: ©

M Olds

Signer’s Name:

(J Corporate Officer — Title(s):

© 2010 National Notary Association - NationalNotary. org + 1-800-US NOTARY (4-800-876-6827)

CIVIL CODE § 1183

meen

IDSGOLOS SORE

SOW SOHDOHASOVES

SOK

SERIF NIRS OOO SOVSOVES OMS

SOS INPRO

OS

SSVI SSVI IIIS

SLSR

OD Individual )
LJ Partner — (Limited O General = of thumb here 2
CZ Attorney in Fact ; 3
O Trustee ss
1 Guardian or Conservator 3
Other: g
5)

a)

Signer Is Representing: 5
3

5

ltem #5907


--- page 105 ---
EXHIBIT A TO MINOR MODIFICATION
(EXHIBIT F TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT)

[Attached.]

Exhibit A


--- page 106 ---
Exhibit F to the Development Agreement
AND
Exhibit A ta the Minor Modification to the evelopment Agreement.

Exctuskana:
1) Sub-drainage of all types expo center casaeteree
2} Soll Amendments =
3} Above-standard Improvements

Note: Improvements are Intended to be “Interim” in nature

LUMIT OF WORK

i BUFFER
PLANTING:

TRESS MLDATTED
LAAGT SHRUBS
GE GROUNDCOVERS

y7\ \ sanatoa
\

bet BASERA 8
200" FOUL WINES f F372)
eS,



--- page 107 ---
NO
NOE
Non
ABSENT: 
None
Ordinance
No. 
2023-10
shall
become
efective
30
days
after
the
date
of
adoption
The
full
text
of
this
ordinance
is
posted
in
the
City
Clerk's
Office
and
a
copy
of
the
full
text
of
the
ordinance
is
published
on
the
City's
website
www.
cityofsanmateo.orq
under
the
link
to
the
City
Council
agenda
for
the
meeting
of
November
20, 
2023.
Is/ 
PATRICE
M. 
OLDS, 
City
Clerk
Date
Published: 
December
5, 
2023
m .- 
a) 
0
C -
d
m
a)
a) 
a
a) 
cG
a) 
cat
O .- 
U
E
E- 
7. 
1.- 
0
3
ca 
n
o
a
Co " 
a `'-. ." '
L7
p„ __ 
C
a) 
O
O
C
C
m
y
u
a) 
V) ,
O
b >, 
N
N
b.' 
O
Q, 
z
O
m
a) 
0
t.} '"
O
0. 
U "
O
U
U ® 
Ce ' 
as
O
v. 
r
C '
O
a -
p
it
T-+ -
0= 
x
m
C
O -
O
C
cv
c) 
c
o
a) 
e) >
a)
im
u
y
C +- ,
C,, 
3
r- i
0
C,
90 "
0C
c
cc
a
up '
O
C
C
C
O
cC
vc
TJ
v
cd
a)
0
v7
U
ce, 
O
m
u
v ^
C
a>
a'% . , 
0)
0
v >, 
O
C .
a
3
O. 
cn .-
PUBLIC
NO
TICE
CITY
OF SAN MATEO
cn
p
a)
Y
a)
7
a)
C-
0
a)
C
G
Q
u
L 
Ti
0
O
P
cC
y
10)
N
O
ci
c0
c.) 
o
C
a)
i

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE 2023-10
Approving the First Amendment to the Development Agreement Between the City of San Mateo and Bay
Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC in Order to Extend the Development Agreement by Three Years for the
Bay Meadows Phase II Project ( PA- 2023- 050) 
WHEREAS, the ordinance approving the Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement was adopted
by the City Council on November 7, 2005, and became effective on December 21, 2005; and
WHEREAS, Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC (“ Owner”) submitted an application on August 17, 
2023 ( PA-2023- 050) requesting a three- year extension of the Development Agreement, citing the COVID- 19
pandemic and its adverse impact on the ability of the Owner to complete the envisioned development on the
Property within the allotted timeframe; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the parties may amend the
Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, and in the manner provided for in Government Code
Section 65868 and Section 8 of the Development Agreement Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development Agreement to add three (3) 
years to the term to facilitate the beneficial development of the Property; and
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement has not been amended or modified except as otherwise
indicated in the First Amendment to the Development Agreement, and neither the Owner nor the City is in
default in the performance of their respective obligations under the Development Agreement; and
WHEREAS, on October 10, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing at which all
public comments were considered and recommended that the City Council approve the extension request; and
WHEREAS, on November 6, 2023, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing at which all public
comments were considered. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. 
In accordance with Government Code section 65867.5, the First Amendment to the
Development Agreement is consistent with the City’ s General Plan, the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented
Development Plan, and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment in that the extension request
provides for the orderly implementation of the Development Agreement in accordance with the San Mateo Rail
Corridor Transit- Oriented Development Plan and the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan. The extension
provides sufficient time for the Owner to complete construction of the final two development blocks, including
public improvements, consistent with the approved Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification ( PA-2020-
053). With the development of the final two development blocks, the overall Bay Meadows Phase II
development will be within the allowable range of office uses and residential density as permitted in the Bay
Meadows Phase II Specific Plan. 
Section 2.  
For the reasons set forth in the Administrative
Report accompanying the original project
approval, the Development Agreement provides substantial public benefits to persons residing or owning
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF452A71- 8676- 421B-9E79-C8F0F1D05E9C

--- page 109 ---
Ordinance No. 2023- 10
Page 2 of 11
Bay Meadows Phase II Development Agreement Extension Request
property outside the boundaries of the development project, beyond the exactions for public benefits required
in the normal development review process under federal, state, or local law. 
Section 3.  
The City Council approves and authorizes the City Manager to execute the First
Amendment to the Development Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance. 
Section 1.5 of the Development Agreement is amended to extend the term to December 20, 2026. 
Section 4.  
Environmental Determination. On April 18, 2005, a Supplemental Environmental
Impact
Report to the Rail Corridor Plan Environmental
Impact Report was prepared for this Project and the City Council
approved the Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment and re-certified the Final EIR for that project and adopted
the findings and statement of overriding considerations
on November 7, 2005 in accordance with Public
Resources Code section 21061. Because there are no substantial changes to the project and no new information
has become available since the time of the EIR, no further environmental analysis is required. 
Section 5. 
Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other
sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
Section 6.  
Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general
circulation, posted in the City Clerk' s Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of
the City Charter. 
Section 7. 
Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on November 6, 
2023, and adopted on November 20, 2023, and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
The foregoing ordinance was adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, State of California by the
following vote:  
AYES:           Council Members Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine and Newsom
NOES:          None
ABSENT:      None
ATTEST: 
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
Amourence Lee, Mayor
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF452A71- 8676- 421B-9E79-C8F0F1D05E9C

--- page 110 ---
County of San Mateo 
Clerk-Recorder 
Mark Church 
555 County Center 
Redwood City, CA 94063 
(650) 363-4500 
Receipt No. : RPT20230070633 
Finalization No.: 2023069444 
Cashier: 
Register: 
90 
015 
Date/Time: 
12/21/2023 08:38 AM 
Item 
Title 
1 
AG 
Agreement 
Document No. : 
Recording Time: 
Recording Total: 
Recording Fee: 
Real Estate Fraud: 
Conform Copy Total: 
Total Amount Due: 
Total Paid 
Check Tendered: 
#10174 
Amount Due: 
THANK YOU 
Count 
1 
2023-067525 
08:38 AM 
$54.00 
$41 . 00 
$3.00 
$10.00 
$54.00 
$54.00 
$0.00 
PLEASE RETAIN THIS RECEIPT 
FOR YOUR RECORDS 
https://www.smcacre.org/ 
12/21/2023 08:40 AM

--- page 111 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY 
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP 
333 S. Grand Avenue, Suite 4900 
Los Angeles, California 90071 
Attention: Benjamin Saltsman, Esq. 
With a copy to: 
Office of the City Attorney 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
2023-067525 CONF 
8:38am 12/21/2023AG Fee: $44.00 
Count of Pages 10 
Recorded in Official Records 
County of San Mateo 
Mark Church 
Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder 
I IIIII I 111111111111111 lllll lllll l!lll lllll ll ll lllll lllll 111111111111111111 
* $ R O O O 3 4 2 3 8 2 4 $ * 
THE AREA ABOVE IS RESERVED FOR RECORDER'S USE 
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC

--- page 112 ---
SEPARATE PAGE PURSUANT TO CAL. GOV'T CODE§ 27361 .6 
II

--- page 113 ---
FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC 
This FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC ("First Amendment") is dated December 20, 2023, and is by 
and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of 
California ("City"), and Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC, a Delaware 
limited liability company ("Bay Meadows"). 
WHEREAS, City and Bay Meadows are parties to that certain Bay Meadows 
Phase II Development Agreement dated November 21, 2005 and recorded in the 
Official Records of San Mateo County, California ("Official Records") on J anuary 
24, 2006 as Instrument Number 2006-011071, as modified by (1) that certain 
Memorandum of Technical Corrections to the Bay Meadows Phase II Development 
Agreement (the "Memorandum of Corrections") dated July 21, 2008 and recorded 
in the Official Records on July 22, 2008 as Instrument Number 2008-084562 
and (2) that certain Minor Modification to the Development Agreement between 
The City of San Mateo and Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC dated 
November 21, 2011 and recorded in the Official Records on March 26, 2012 as 
Instrument Number 2012-039872 (collectively, the "Development Agreement"), 
pertaining to the redevelopment of the "Property" described therein and on 
Exhibit "A" attached hereto (the "Property"), commonly known as Bay Meadows 
Phase II, located in the City of San Mateo, State of California; and 
WHEREAS, Section 11.1 of the Development Agreement provides that the 
parties may amend the Development Agreement by mutual consent in writing, 
and in the manner provided for in Government Code Section 65868 and Section 
8 of the Development Agreement Resolution; and 
WHEREAS, the Effective Date of the Development Agreement was 
December 21, 2005, and the Term therefore expires on December 20, 2023; and 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted Bay Meadows' 
ability to complete the envisioned development on the Property; and 
WHEREAS, the City and Bay Meadows wish to amend the Development 
Agreement to add three (3) years to the Term to facilitate the beneficial 
development of the Property; and

--- page 114 ---
WHEREAS, after conducting a duly noticed public hearing on October 10, 
2023, by a vote of 5-0, the Planning Commission recommended that the City 
Council approve this First Amendment; and 
WHEREAS, On November 6, 2023, the City Council held a duly noticed 
public hearing on this First Amendment and after independent review and 
consideration, approved this First Amendment by first reading of Ordinance No. 
2023-10. On November 20, 2023, the City Council approved this First 
Amendment by second reading of Ordinance 2023-10. Ordinance No. 2023-10 
became effective on December 20, 2023. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.51 of the Development Agreement, "Term," is modified to 
read as follows (with the deletion shown in strike-out form, and additions 
underlined): 
"The term of this Agreement, commencing on the later to occur of (i) the 
Effective Date or (ii) if a legal proceeding is initiated challenging the validity 
of the Enacting Ordinance, the MMRP, the EIR, the General Plan 
Amendment, the Specific Plan Amendment or other Project Approval, this 
Agreement, or the Master Tentative Map Approval, the date such legal 
proceeding is finally concluded upholding the Enacting Ordinance or other 
relevant approval, and terminating eighteen (18) twenty-one (21) years 
thereafter, unless sooner Terminated as provided in this Agreement. For 
purposes hereof, a legal proceeding shall be deemed "finally concluded" 
upon the date of the entry of a final, non-appealable order or judgment in 
such proceeding upholding the validity of the Enacting Ordinance or other 
Project Approval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained 
herein, the term of this Agreement ends on December 20, 2023§.." 
2. 
The parties intend hereby to modify the Development Agreement 
only as set forth in this First Amendment, and the parties hereby agree that, 
except as expressly modified hereby, the remaining terms of the Development 
Agreement are hereby confirmed and remain in full force and effect and a binding 
obligation. 
3. 
The Development Agreement has not been amended or modified 
either orally or in writing except as indicated in this First Amendment, and 
neither Owner nor City is in default in the performance of their respective 
obligations under the Development Agreement. 
2

--- page 115 ---
4. 
This First Amendment may be executed in any number of 
counterparts, each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an original, 
and all of which shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. 
Electronically transmitted signatures shall be deemed originals. 
[SIGNATURES FOLLOW ON NEXT PAGE) 
3

--- page 116 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
~ 
/\ \-f-)( \<.hq i i \c'.-i c.1-n [Print name] 
Date: /J. ,. ).O -){);;2 3 
ATIEST: 
BAY MEADOWS MAIN TRACK 
INVESTORS, LLC, 
a Delaware limited liability company 
Date: 
r 
J 
sanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney 
Signature Page - First Amendment (Bay Meadows Phase 11 Development Agreement)

--- page 117 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this 
certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
.14,,C~......,.......c.....::::---' 2023, before me, 
-
---....:....c..=---=-=-----t,.,.,=-,.....,.,,~........,.s..--
;, a Notary Public, personally 
appeared_ -L-IS-<r-.,....~L...----==---'-L----------' who proved to m e 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) 
is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), 
and that by his/her /their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), 
or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the 
instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State 
of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
Signature 
(Seal} 
DIANA VAZQUEZ 
COMM. #2456274 
z 
Notary Public • California ::o 
Nevada County 
~ 
M Comm. E ires Jul 31, 2027

--- page 118 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
A notary public or other officer completing this 
certificate verifies only the identity of the individual 
who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or 
validity of that document. 
State of California 
County of ___ S_a_n_M_a_t_eo _____ ~ 
On November 20, 2023 
before me, Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
(insert name and title of the officer) 
personally appeared _A_l_ex_ K_h_o_1i_k_ia_n _ ___ _ _____________ _ _ _ 
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are 
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in 
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the 
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENAL TY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing 
paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal.

--- page 119 ---
EXHIBIT A TO FIRST AMENDMENT 
TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, 
The Property 
All that real property situated in the City and County of San Mateo, State of California being 
described as follows: 
Blocks 1, 2, 3 and 10, Lot A and that Designated Remainder, as shown on the Final Map 
entitled "Bay Meadows Phase II, No. 1", as said map was filed for record on August 25, 2010 in 
Book 137 of Maps, at Pages 37 through 46, in the Office of the Recorder of San Mateo County, 
State of California. 
The Property is also described as Parcel 1, as shown on that certain map en titled "Bay 
Meadows No. 1, City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California", filed in the Office of the 
County Recorder of San Mateo County, State of California, on June 8, 1999 in Book 129 of 
Maps at page (s) 47 through 57, inclusive. 
Attached hereto is a plat labeled "Exhibit A - Bay Meadows Project Boundary" and by this 
reference is made a part hereof.

--- page 120 ---
"Exhibit A - Bay Meadows Project Boundary" 
,..._,.......,~~
-,It; 
-
.., 
~ 
~ 
---" 
AVENUE 
1 
_________
_____
___
_________ 
___,Ji

--- page 121 ---
7/28/2025 
Mr. Martin McTaggart 
City Clerk 
City of San Mateo 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403  
 
Re: Bay Meadows Phase II 
    Development Agreement Annual Review for 2024 
 
Dear Mr. McTaggart: 
 
In accordance with Section 6 of the Development Agreement by and between 
the City of San Mateo and Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC approved 
on November 21, 2005 and effective December 21, 2005, and pursuant to the 
requirements of Government Code §65865.1, and Section 8(a) of the 
Development Agreement Resolution, please accept this letter and attached 
Annual Review Matrix as compliance with the aforementioned provisions. 
 
The attached Annual Review Matrix demonstrates Owner’s good faith 
compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement.  In 
accordance with Section 6.2 of the Development Agreement we hereby 
“request that the review of such compliance by the Planning Commission be 
made in accordance with law.”  You will note that no significant activities 
pursuant to the Development Agreement have transpired during this review 
period. 
 
Please let me know if you have any questions or require further 
documentation. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
WILSON MEANY  
As Agent for 
Bay Meadows Main Track Investors, LLC 
 
 
 
Chuck Noll 
Project Manager 
 
cc: 
Simin Zakavand, City of San Mateo 
Janice Thacher, Wilson Meany  
Charles Noll
Digitally signed by Charles Noll 
Date: 2025.07.28 05:59:34 
-07'00'

--- page 122 ---
Page 1 of 8 
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II 
Development Agreement (Effective 12/21/05) Annual Review Matrix 
August 2025 
Review Period (19th Year): December 21, 2023, to December 20, 2024 
This matrix provides brief summaries of the provisions of the Development Agreement by and between the City of San Mateo and the Bay Meadows Main Track 
Investors, LLC, adopted by Ordinance No. 2005-17 (hereinafter the "DA" or the "Development Agreement").  For the full requirements, please see the text of the 
Development Agreement. 
 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
MISCELLANEOUS AND ON-GOING 
Annual Review of Development 
Agreement:  Owner submits letter to City 
Clark re: compliance; Compliance to be 
determined by Planning Commission, 
appeals to City Council 
6 
No less than 30 nor no more than 60 
days prior to the anniversary date of 
the DA. 
Owner has complied by 
submitting this annual 
review. 
10/21 to 11/20 of each 
year. 
Applications for Approvals  
shall all contain the following language:  
“SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT 
AGREEMENT” 
3.11 
Add language to each Application 
submittal. 
Owner has and will comply 
when appropriate. 
Ongoing. 
Permits Required by Other Agencies 
Project may need permits for one or more 
of these agencies: 
1) Army Corps of Engineers 
2) Fish and Game 
3) JPB 
4) Caltrans 
5) Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District 
5.8 
Prior to issuance of any required 
City permits. 
Ongoing- Owner is 
complying.  
Ongoing.

--- page 123 ---
Page 2 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
PRIOR TO OBTAINING BUILDING PERMITS 
Below Market Rate (BMR) Agreement 
Provide an executed BMR Agreement 
between applicant and the City. 
5.12 
Prior to issuance of any building 
permit for residential units. 
Ongoing - Addressed on a 
building by building basis. 
Building Permit. 
PRIOR TO OBTAINING CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY (C OF O) 
Below Market Rate (BMR) (10%) 
Construction of BMR Units. 
5.12(a) 
Construction must commence prior 
to first Certificate of Occupancy on 
the Block. 
Ongoing - Addressed on a 
building by building basis. 
Prior to Certificate of 
Occupancy.  On-going. 
FEE SUMMARY 
Exaction Inflation and Transportation 
Mitigation Fee 
3.8 
3.9 
Exactions shall be inflated after the 
6th anniversary of the Effective Date 
by the CPI factor 
(Transportation Mitigation Fee 
Update may increase fee prior to 6th 
anniversary.) 
This was effective on 
12/21/11 and is being 
implemented. 
On-going. 
Public Art Contribution of $1,000,000. 
5.15 
1) $350,000 due on day Owner 
sends notice accepting the 
Design Guidelines and First 
Phase approvals; 
2) $100,000 due on the 5th, 
10th and 15th anniversaries 
of the DA 
3) $250,000 to be used by 
Owner for public art in Town 
Square; 
4) $100,000 due on expiration 
of DA in 18th year. 
COMPLETED.  All public 
art, including placement in 
Town Square is installed.  
Payment #1 and #2 
12/21/10 & 12/21/15 
completed.  Future 
payment due 12/21/20. 
All payments due by 
12/21/23 
COMPLETED

--- page 124 ---
Page 3 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Design Guidelines 
Presentation of Draft Design Guidelines.  
Meet with City staff and present a draft of 
Design Guidelines. 
3.2.1 
Within 6 months of Effective Date. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/21/06. 
Due by 6/21/06. 
Design Guidelines 
Submission of Design Guidelines.  Submit 
application for approval of Design 
Guidelines. 
3.2.2 
No later than 1 year from Effective 
Date of Development Agreement. 
COMPLETED by Owner.  
Owner submitted 
application for approval of 
Design Guidelines on July 
11, 2006. 
 
ADOPTED by Planning 
Commission on December 
12, 2006 
Due 12/21/06. 
Adopted 12/12/06. 
Lot Tie 
Owner shall provide a lot tie agreement. 
4.1 
When recording the Master Final 
Map. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
12/15/06 
 
Record Master Final  Map 
4.1 
Record Master Tentative Map. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
8/30/06. 
 
Campaign for the arts contribution of 
$50,000. 
5.15 
90 days after Effective Date. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
3/21/06. 
Due on 3/21/06. 
Site Development Permit application.   
Submit the first planning applications for 
the first portion of anticipated 
development for the framework streets. 
3.2.3 
No later than 1 year from the date 
the City’s approval of the Design 
Guidelines is final, and any legal 
proceedings are "finally concluded."   
COMPLETED by Owner on 
4/19/07. 
12/12/07 pending 
conclusion of legal 
proceedings. 
SPAR for First Phase  
Submit application for first SPAR for at 
least one Block ("First Phase").   
3.2.3 
No later than 1 year from the date 
the City’s approval of the Design 
Guidelines is final, and any legal 
proceedings are "finally concluded."   
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/18/07. 
12/12/07 pending 
conclusion of legal 
proceedings.

--- page 125 ---
Page 4 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
SPAR for Block along Delaware   
Submit application for a SPAR for a block 
along Delaware. 
3.2.4 
Within 3 months of a Caltrain’s multi-
modal train station being completed 
within the Specific Plan area. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
6/18/07. 
Caltrain station completion. 
Wet Storage Area 
5.8.2 
Wet storage provided by creation of 
storm water retention pond in 
Community Park. 
COMPLETED by Owner on 
10/23/07. 
Project Tentative Map. 
Site Development Permit. 
Community Facilities District (CFD) for 
financing payment of capital 
improvement costs associated with 
Public Improvements 
1) Owner requests formation 
2) City responsible for formation of 
CFD and issue/sale of bonds 
3) Owner shall consent to formation 
prior to recordation of first Project 
Tentative Map 
5.11 
City pursues CFD at Owner's 
Request.  Owner shall consent to 
the formation of the CFD prior to the 
recordation of the first Project 
Tentative Map for Project. 
COMPLETED.  CFD 
adopted on 8/11/08. 
Prior to recordation of 
Project Tentative Map. 
Dedication of Linear Park and 
Neighborhood Park 
 
3.2.6 
See also 5.9.2 
Owner to dedicate prior to approval 
of the SPAR for the first Block of the 
development adjacent to the Linear 
Park or the Neighborhood Park.  To 
be addressed in Conditions of 
Approval. 
COMPLETED.  This issue is 
addressed in SPAR 
Conditions of Approval and 
on the final tentative map. 
At time of SPAR 1 
approval. 
Notice Re:  Advance Transportation 
Mitigation Fees. 
Owner shall notify city of its utilization of 
advance $4.6 million payment. 
3.10(b) 
At application for a SPAR. 
COMPLETED.  Advance 
fees were not utilized.   
At SPAR application. 
Advance payment of 
Transportation Mitigation 
Fees would be necessary if 
the JPB had commenced 
construction of the grade 
separations.  This has not 
happened therefore this 
provision is not applicable.

--- page 126 ---
Page 5 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Owner's acceptance or rejection of 
City's approval of Design Guidelines & 
First Phase Approvals.  (Section 3.2.3 
explains that “First Phase” includes the 
Site Development Permit and a SPAR for 
at least one block.) 
 
Section 5.19 also addresses prohibition 
on Expanded Gaming. 
5.19 
Within 90 days of City's approval of 
Design Guidelines, First Phase 
approvals, and final conclusion of 
any legal proceedings. 
All triggers have occurred.   
Action required by 12/31/08. 
COMPLETED on 12/29/08.   
12/31/08. 
Delaware Street 
Owner shall dedicate Delaware to City 
upon request of Public Works, after 
Design Guidelines and First Phase 
approvals. 
5.10 
Upon request from Public Works, 
after Design Guidelines and First 
Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Delaware 
Street has been dedicated 
to the City on the Final 
Map. 
Upon request of Public 
Works. 
Public Art Contribution of $350,000, 
$100,000 and $100,000 ($1,000,000 in 
total). 
5.15 
1) $350,000 due on day Owner 
sends notice accepting the 
Design Guidelines and First 
Phase approvals; 
2) $100,000 due on 5th 
anniversary 
3) $100,000 due on 10th 
anniversary 
COMPLETED according to 
due dates.   
 
See Fee Summary section for 
detail on additional Public Art 
Contribution fees due. 
Due and paid 12/31/08. 
 
 
Due and paid 12/21/10. 
 
Due 12/21/15 and spent 
directly on art with 
approval from Art’s 
Commission. 
Casanova Park contribution of 
$100,000. 
5.16 
1) When Effective Date has 
occurred and City requests 
payment; or 
2) When Owner sends notice 
accepting Design Guidelines 
and First Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Payment 
made on 12/29/08.   
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08.

--- page 127 ---
Page 6 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Fiesta Gardens contribution of 
$100,000. 
5.17 
When Owner sends notice accepting 
Design Guidelines and First Phase 
Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Payment 
made on 12/29/08.   
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08. 
Gaming 
Owner to record a covenant against the 
Property to permanently prohibit 
additional gaming. 
5.19 
Upon owner's acceptance of City’s 
approval of Design Guidelines & 
First Phase Approvals. 
COMPLETED.  Covenant 
recorded on 12/29/08. 
Owner’s acceptance of 
First Phase Approvals on 
12/31/08. 
Development Delay Payment: 
Owner pays $300k for loss of racing 
revenue if development delayed. 
5.20 
2 years after Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue Racing and delay in 
development. 
Not applicable. 
N/A – Construction has 
commenced. 
Community Park:  Interim 
Interim improvements (baseball and 
soccer fields, restrooms) or cash payment 
to City of $1,000,000.  Depends on where 
City is in design process. 
Improvement agreement and financial 
security. 
5.9.1 
See also 3.2.5 
 
COMPLETED. The 
Community Park was 
formally dedicated to the 
City of San Mateo on May 
15, 2012.  The Dedication 
was recorded with the 
County Recorder on that 
same day. 
Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue racing + 2 
years (4/1/2012). 
Advance Payment of Transportation 
Mitigation Fees; Consideration for 
Early Termination. 
If specified conditions exist, Owner shall 
advance $4.6 million in transportation 
mitigation fees or terminate the 
Agreement.  If terminate then owner must 
dedicate Delaware right of way.  If 
specified conditions exist and Owner has 
recorded final map, then $4.6 million 
payment is mandatory and Agreement 
does not terminate. 
3.10(a)  
6 years from the Effective Date; and 
1)  if 28th and 31st are open to 
traffic; and 
2)  City has approved Design 
Guidelines and applications 
for First phase; and 
3)  Grandstand has not been 
demolished or racing 
operations have not ceased. 
No longer applicable.  The 
6th anniversary was 
12/21/11.  On that date, 28th 
and 31st were not open to 
traffic, the City had 
approved the Design 
Guidelines and First phase 
applications, and racing 
had ceased and the 
grandstand was 
demolished.   
Not applicable.

--- page 128 ---
Page 7 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Improvement Agreement and Security 
Improvement agreements and Security 
providing for design, construction and 
installation of Public Improvements. 
5.8.4 
Prior to first Final Map 
COMPLETED. Improvement 
Agreements have been 
executed for all Final Maps 
and Security has been 
posted.   
Completed. 
Below Market Rate (BMR) 
Net acre of land dedication for additional 
BMR.  Owner to decide location within 
mixed-use block. 
5.12(b) 
Owner to designate and offer the 
parcel to City within 6 months after 
the commencement of construction 
of the main street section of 
Delaware. 
COMPLETED concurrent 
with the Nueva School 
approval. 
Completed. 
Affordability Covenant Recorded 
5.12(b) 
Prior to transfer of 1 acre for BMR. 
COMPLETED. Completed 
concurrent with the Nueva 
School approval. 
Completed. 
Traffic Calming payment of $250,000 
3.2.8 
See also 5.14 
Prior to the issuance of the first 
Building Permit following the 7th 
anniversary of the Effective Date. 
COMPLETED. The City of 
San Mateo received this 
payment directly from the 
issuance of the 2nd CFD 
bond in January 2013. 
First permit after 12/21/12.  
Completed. 
Dedication of 12 acre Community Park 
(adjacent to Saratoga Ave.) 
Prior dedication, owner shall construct 
interim improvements including 
baseball/soccer fields or $1 million 
payment to City, depending on where City 
is in design process. 
3.2.5 
See also 5.9.1 
Within 2 years of the date of 
Owner’s election to discontinue 
racing. 
 
COMPLETED. The park was 
accepted by the City in 
2014. 
Owner’s Election to 
Discontinue Racing 
+ 2 yrs (2/1/12). 
Completed. 
Dry Storage Area 
CC&R’s for City maintenance and 
operation for the Dry Storage Area in 
Community Park. 
5.8.2 
At acceptance of Community Park. 
COMPLETED.  The CC&R’s 
were completed prior to the 
City’s acceptance of the 
Offer of Dedication which 
was formally given on May 
15, 2012.  
Prior to City acceptance of 
Community Park. 
Completed.

--- page 129 ---
Page 8 of 8 
 
Requirement 
Development 
Agreement 
(DA) Section 
No. 
 
Trigger 
Status 
 
Due Date  
Green Building Demonstration Project 
Owner will construct one residential 
building with a LEED Silver Certification 
(at least 30 units). 
5.18 
Within first 400 units developed. 
COMPLETE. Residential 
Block 1 has addressed this 
issue.   
Completed. 
Maintenance 
Owner to undertake the maintenance of 
all landscaping, medians and open space 
(except for the 15 acres of public parks 
dedicated to the City which shall be 
maintained by the City at its expense) 
through property owner’s association or 
similar entity. 
5.9.3 
Upon completion of such 
improvements. 
COMPLETE. All public right 
of way has been accepted 
by City and Owner is 
maintaining landscaping 
per this requirement.   
Completed and ongoing.

--- page 130 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II 
Development Agreement Annual Review- Year 19
(PA-2025-024)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
August 26, 2025
Simin Zakavand, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 131 ---
ITEM OVERVIEW
2
1) Background
2) Bay Meadows Phase II Overview
3) Current Development Status
4) Development Agreement Annual Review
5) Recommendation

--- page 132 ---
BACKGROUND
3
•
Development Agreement became effective December 
21, 2005, and it was set to expire on December 20, 
2023
•
On November 20, 2023, the City Council adopted an 
Ordinance to grant a three-year extension for the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Development Agreement extending 
the term of the Development Agreement to 21 years
•
The Planning Commission is required to undertake an 
annual review and determine the good faith 
compliance by the Owner with the terms of the 
Development Agreement.

--- page 133 ---
BAY MEADOWS 
PHASE II OVERVIEW
4
• 5 Station Office (STA) Blocks
• 4 Mixed Use (MU) Blocks
• 9 Residential (RES) Blocks
Community Benefits:
• $1 million contribution to Public Art
• 3 new public parks (15 acres total)
• Below Market Rate (BMR) Housing

--- page 134 ---


--- page 135 ---
Development Status
6
RES 6
STA 1
STA 5
Certificate of Occupancy: April 2024
Certificate of Occupancy: October 2024
Certificate of Occupancy: May 2024

--- page 136 ---
7
Mixed-Use Block 2 and 
Mixed-Use Block 3 
(MU 2 & MU 3)
Specific Plan Aggregate Land Uses
Min.
Max
Build out with 
MU2 and MU3
Residential 
Units
1,000
1,250
1,048
Office 
(sq. ft.)
500,000
1,250,000
1,217,826
MU 2
MU 3

--- page 137 ---
Retail Update
BARGE

O-9- Ooh

MIECAAPI OUST. & WINE GAR

SI EWA

juice

CITY OF



--- page 138 ---
Compliance – Annual Review
•  Review period spans from December 21, 2023 to December 
20, 2024
•   No specific items required during this time
•   The Owner has complied with the terms of the Agreement
9

--- page 139 ---
Staff Recommendation 
Adopt a Resolution accepting the Annual Reports on the Bay 
Meadows Phase II Development Agreement finding that the 
Owner has complied in good faith with the terms of the 
Development Agreement for the period covering December 
21, 2023 through December 20, 2024
10

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10279
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 26, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Updates
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation and provide staff with direction on how to proceed with updating the City’s Accessory Dwelling 
Unit (ADU) Ordinance.
BACKGROUND:
Since 2016, the state legislature has passed several State laws to streamline review provisions and promote construction 
of Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) across California. The City of San Mateo adopted its current local ADU Ordinance on 
March 21, 2022 (Attachment 1) to implement local regulations for ADUs in line with State law, with City Council directing 
staff to provide annual updates on implementation. Since adoption in 2022, ADU permitting and construction in San 
Mateo has remained steady, with an average of 77 ADU permits issued annually over the last three years. 
In support of increased ADU production, the City’s adopted Housing Element (2023-2031) included a policy (H1.4) and six 
implementation actions, with one of those actions focused on amending the City’s ADU Ordinance to align it with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development (HCD). In October 2024, the City received a letter from HCD summarizing the agency’s review of the City’s 
ADU Ordinance (Attachment 2). HCD has had statutory authority to review local agencies’ ADU Ordinances since 2016, and 
as of January 1, 2024, also has authority to enforce all state ADU laws. The HCD letter identified specific ordinance 
provisions requiring updates or clarification for compliance. Following receipt of this letter, City staff met with HCD staff to 
review the comments and discuss options for compliance. An official City response letter was sent to HCD in November 
2024 (Attachment 3), with a stated goal to update the ADU Ordinance in 2025. 
In January 2025, HCD also published an updated ADU Handbook (Attachment 4), addressing frequently asked questions 
and summarizing recent changes to state ADU law. One notable change is Senate Bill (SB) 1211, which allows for up to 
eight detached ADUs to be constructed on a lot with an existing multifamily dwelling, provided that the number of ADUs 
does not exceed the number of existing units on the lot. 
Staff are working on updates to the City’s ADU Ordinance to address HCD comments for State law compliance and to 
incorporate staff-initiated revisions to address issues identified since the Ordinance was adopted. This study session will 
focus on the staff recommended changes that address local needs and improve ordinance functionality.
DISCUSSION:
To help inform the ADU Ordinance amendments, staff is seeking feedback from the Planning Commission on the following 
items/questions.

--- page 141 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1)
Height Limit for Detached ADUs 
Current Ordinance Summary: Maximum height for detached ADUs is 16 feet to plate and 24 feet to roof peak, 
measured from existing grade.
State Law Summary: Requires local agencies to allow detached ADUs up to 16 feet in height, or up to 18 feet (plus 
2 feet for matching roof pitch of existing dwelling) when near qualifying transit or for multistory multifamily lots, 
and prohibits denying a compliant two-story ADU regardless of local one-story zoning limits (Gov. Code Section 
66321(b)(4)).
Proposed Updates:
a.
One-story Detached ADUs: 12 feet plate height, 18 feet roof peak (from existing grade)
b.
Two-story Detached ADUs: 18 feet plate height, 24 feet roof peak (from existing grade)
Rationale: The current standard is not inconsistent with State law. However, the HCD ADU Handbook clarifies 
based on State law that a local agency must allow for ADUs to be up to two stories, even if the primary dwelling is 
one story. Therefore, staff recommends establishment of separate height standards for one- and two-story 
detached ADUs. A lower one-story standard avoids overly tall single-story designs, while the increased two-story 
limit supports at least eight-foot ceiling heights with 12-14 inches for the floor structure. This height limit will 
accommodate a reasonably scaled two-story ADU to be approved ministerially, streamlining the process by 
removing the current requirement of discretionary review for a two-story ADU development that exceeds the 16-
foot plate height limit. 
Planning Commission Feedback Requested: Should the ordinance adopt separate height standards for one- and 
two-story detached ADUs, and should the 16-foot plate height limit be increased to 18 feet for two-story ADUs?
2)
ADU Maximum Unit Size
Current Ordinance Summary: No specified maximum ADU size limit. Any ADU floor area exceeding 800 square 
feet is regulated by the allowable floor area ratio (FAR) of the underlying zoning. Up to 800 square feet of ADU 
floor area is exempt from the total FAR calculation for a lot. ADUs cannot exceed the size of the primary residential 
unit on the property (either the single-family residence, or any individual unit within a multifamily building), with 
the exception that if the primary residence is less than 800 square feet, an 800 square foot ADU would still be 
allowed per State law. 
State Law Summary:
a.
ADUs of at least 800 square feet that maintain four-foot setbacks are allowed, regardless of whether they 
exceed FAR (Gov. Code Section 66323(a)(2)).
b.
The local agency must allow ADUs of at least 850 square feet for one bedroom or smaller, and at least 1,000 
square feet for an ADU with more than one bedroom (Gov. Code Section 66321(b)(2)).
Proposed Updates:
a.
Retain underlying zoning FAR control for ADUs over 800 square feet (with 800 square feet of ADU living area 
exempt from total FAR). 
b.
Maximum size of 1,200 square feet for new construction ADUs (additional limit to FAR standards). 
Rationale: Of all of the ADU permits that have been issued over the past three years, only four have exceeded 
1,200 square feet in size.  Thus, given that State law generally envisions a maximum size limit of 1,200 square feet 
and that the City has seen only a small number of proposed ADUs that exceed 1,200 square feet, this size limit 
would ensure that an ADU remains accessory to the primary residential unit and cap larger units to maintain 
reasonable neighborhood scale and contextual relationships.

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Feedback Requested: Should the Ordinance be amended to set a 1,200 square-foot 
maximum size limit for new ADU construction, in addition to meeting existing FAR regulations?
3)
Parking Exemptions for ADUs 
Current Ordinance Summary: A minimum of one standard-sized off-street parking space for each ADU is required. 
ADU parking can be provided either as covered or uncovered parking, and can be provided in tandem 
configuration on a driveway. Exemptions to providing off-street parking are also provided pursuant to State law 
(see below).
State Law Summary: When parking is required for an ADU, the requirement may not exceed one space per unit or 
bedroom, whichever is less (under this provision, studio units are considered to have no bedrooms, and therefore 
no parking can be required for them). No parking can be required when a garage, carport, or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU (Gov. Code Section 
66314(d)(10)). Additionally, no parking can be imposed on an ADU in the following circumstances (Gov. Code 
Section 66322(a)).:
a.
ADUs located within one-half mile walking distance of public transit. 
b.
ADUs located within an architecturally and historically significant historic district. 
c.
ADUs that are part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an accessory structure. 
d.
When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the occupant of the ADU. 
e.
When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the ADU. 
f.
When a permit application for an ADU is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family 
dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot, provided that the ADU or the parcel satisfies any 
other criteria listed above.
Attachment 4 shows parcels located within one-half mile walking distance of public transit, which are exempt from 
parking requirements for ADUs under existing State law.  As illustrated on the map, the vast majority of residential 
parcels in the City are exempt from providing an off-street parking space when developing an ADU.
Proposed Updates: Eliminate all required off-street parking for ADUs citywide, while clarifying that voluntary 
parking is allowed and encouraged, and allow existing driveways and curb cuts to remain even when a garage or 
carport is converted or demolished for an ADU.
Rationale: Nearly all parcels in the City that can develop an ADU already qualify for parking exemptions. This 
update would support equitable ADU standards for all areas of the City, simplify administration, and would not 
meaningfully change existing parking regulations for ADUs. 
Planning Commission Feedback Requested: Should the Ordinance be amended to exempt all ADUs from off-street 
parking requirements?
4)
Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
Current Ordinance Summary: The Ordinance provides two paths for ADU review. The first is a ministerial building 
permit for any ADU that meets the development standards of the Ordinance (including objective standards like 
setbacks, height, and unit size, as well as some additional standards which are more subjective related to 
architectural style of the primary residence and privacy). The second option is for an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
Discretionary Review (ADUDR), subject to a staff level Planning Application requirement prior to building permit 
application, for any ADU that is not in compliance with the development standards of the ADU Ordinance. 
State Law Summary: Ministerial approval is required when an ADU meets State law requirements (Gov. Code 
Section 66316). A local agency may impose objective standards on ADUs (Gov. Code Section 66314(b)(1)).

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ADUDR Background: Since the adoption of the ADU Ordinance in 2022, a total of 19 ADUDR applications have 
been submitted to the City for review. Of the 19 ADUDR applications submittals, 10 were approved, seven were 
withdrawn after the applicant opted to redesign and submit for ministerial review, and two are currently under 
review. The most common reasons for seeking an ADUDR were for additions to an existing accessory structure 
with a reduced setback, two-story detached ADUs exceeding the 16-foot plate height requirement, or new 
detached ADUs with a second story balcony. 
Development Standards: Development standards must be objective in order to be enforceable, and local objective 
standards can be more permissive than the minimum standards required by State law. HCD has provided feedback 
that some of the design standards in the current ADU Ordinance are not objective and therefore cannot be applied 
to ADUs. To address this HCD comment, and to provide for additional clarity in the updated ADU Ordinance, staff 
recommend updating the Ordinance to include more detailed objective standards that address many of the 
exceptions to existing standards that have been sought via the ADUDR process. Along with these added objective 
standards, staff recommend removing the ADUDR process so that all ADUs are subject to objective standards and 
a ministerial approval process.
Proposed Updates and Rationale: 
a.
Height. Suggested update to height standards to allow for an 18-foot plate height for two-story detached 
ADUs (as outlined above). 
b.
Setbacks. In addition to four-foot side and rear setback requirements, suggested update to allow ADUs 
that meet the existing requirements for an accessory structure in the rear one-third of a parcel to have a 
zero setback. 
i.
Rationale: Currently, existing zoning standards (SMMC Section 27.70.010) allow accessory structures 
in the rear one-third of a parcel to be built to a zero setback when they meet specified height and 
daylight plane requirements, do not occupy more than 50% of a required yard, and do not exceed 
more than one habitable floor at ground level. Staff recommend allowing these same standards to 
apply to ADUs. Under existing provisions, accessory structures are allowed to be converted to ADUs, 
so a homeowner could propose to build an accessory structure in the rear one-third of a parcel and 
then convert it to an ADU. Clarifying that ADUs that meet the development standards for an accessory 
structure in the rear one-third standard can have a zero setback would clarify that this could be 
proposed under one permit application, rather than requiring two steps (for an accessory structure, 
then an ADU conversion). 
c.
Second Story Decks and Balconies. Allow for second story decks and balconies on ADUs, provided that no 
portion of the deck or balcony shall be within the setbacks of the parcel’s underlying zoning and set a 
maximum size limit for ADU second-story decks/balconies.
i.
Rationale: This would ensure that a second-story deck or balcony would not be located closer to an 
adjacent property than would otherwise be allowed on the primary residence. Staff also suggest 
providing an objective standard to specify the maximum allowable size of second-story decks and 
balconies proposed with ADUs. 
b.
ADUDR: Remove the ADUDR process, so that all ADUs go through a ministerial review, subject to 
suggested new objective standards outlined above. For instances where an ADU seeks exception to any of 
the objective standards due to exceptional circumstances that preclude normal ADU development on the 
parcel, a variance could be requested subject to typical findings and discretionary review process 
(pursuant to SMMC Chapter 27.78).
i.
Rationale: The recommended updated objective standards that would establish local ADU regulations 
that are more permissive than the minimum requirements of State law and many of the exceptions 
that are currently sought through the ADUDR process would be able to be reviewed via a ministerial 
process. This suggested update would remove discretionary review from the ADU application process, 
creating more clarity for staff, property owners and ADU applicants alike to streamline ADU reviews, 
while also ensuring all ADUs are subject to the same development standards. 
Planning Commission Feedback Requested: What size limit should be set for a second-story deck/balcony on an

--- page 144 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ADU? And, should the ADUDR process be removed in favor of expanded objective standards for ministerial 
review?
NEXT STEPS:
Following this study session, staff will finalize the draft ordinance amendments and submit them to HCD for review for 
compliance with state law.  Concurrently with the HCD review, staff will hold a virtually community meeting, tentatively 
scheduled for September 25, 2025, to share the proposed ADU Ordinance amendments, receive public input and answer 
questions. Following the community meeting and receipt of HCD comments, public hearings before the Planning 
Commission and City Council to consider the proposed ordinance will be scheduled, with a target to complete adoption 
before the end of the year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Zoning Code Amendments to implement the Housing Element are funded in the Community Development Department’s 
annual operating budget, utilizing the Advanced Planning Fund (Fund 225), and does not impact the City’s General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.  In addition, this item was advertised in Citywide and Planning eNews, and 
posted on City run social media accounts prior to the meeting date.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
Att 2 - HCD Letter to San Mateo
Att 3 - San Mateo Response to HCD Letter
Att 4 - HCD ADU Handbook (January 2025)
Att 5 - ADU Parking Exemption Map
STAFF CONTACT
Elizabeth Gagliardi, Associate Planner
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7206

--- page 145 ---
City of San Mateo Law Library / City of San Mateo Municipal Code / Title 27 ZONING / Chapter 27.19
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT—RESIDENTIAL
ZONES
Chapter 27.19 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND JUNIOR
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT—RESIDENTIAL ZONES
27.19.010 Purpose.
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 3; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.020 Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 4; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental.
(a)  An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b)  If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar
days.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 5; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Approval.
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADU is required in order to demonstrate
that a unit is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. If the ADU is in full compliance with the
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
1/11

--- page 146 ---
provisions of this Article, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued. Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU permit is not appealable.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 6; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
Cross References
Section 27.19.045(c)
27.19.045 Discretionary Review as
Alternative to Ministerial Approval.
(a)  As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for discretionary
review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with the provisions of this Article.
(b)  The application for discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator finds each
of the following:
(1)  The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in the adopted
R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines;
(2)  The proposed ADU would not result in a negative privacy impact on an abutting residential
lot; and
(3)  The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or welfare.
(4)  The proposed ADU, when detached and exceeding the height limit, should provide at least
one additional off-street parking space.
(c)  The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant to receive a
ministerial permit pursuant to Section 27.19.040 for an ADU that is in full compliance with the provisions
of this Article.
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
2/11

--- page 147 ---
(d)  The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Planning Commission, and the
decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council, in accordance with SMMC
27.08.090.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 7.)
Cross References
Section 27.19.050(e)(3)
Section 27.19.050(j)(2)(D)(i)
27.19.050 Development Standards
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a)  Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on a lot zoned to allow residential
uses.
(b)  Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be constructed on
any lot.
(c)  State Exempted "By Right" ADUs. An attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in
size and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on
a lot regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot
coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude
or limit its construction. The floor area of any new ADU in excess of 800 square feet shall be applied to
the maximum floor area allowance of the subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning district.
(d)  Maximum Unit Size. Floor area size maximums for both attached and detached ADU
development in excess of 800 square feet are governed by the floor area maximum established by the
underlying zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. In instances when the
existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, only the state exempted "by right" ADU of up
to 800 square feet is permitted.
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
3/11

--- page 148 ---
(1)  Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions. An ADU conversion within the walls of an existing
primary residence or accessory structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be
expanded up to 150 square feet beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to
accommodate ingress and egress to the ADU.
(2)  Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. Subject to the floor
area requirements, one new detached ADU may be constructed on a lot with a junior accessory dwelling
unit (JADU).
(e)  Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs.
(1)  Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADU is 24 feet
to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(2)  Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 16 feet
to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade.
(3)  Alternative Discretionary Review for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. For a detached
ADU proposed to exceed the height limit, an application for discretionary review, pursuant to
Section 27.19.045, shall be submitted.
(f)  Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows:
(1)  No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure
that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as
the existing structure.
(2)  A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed
above an existing legally permitted garage.
(3)  A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot's underlying zone district,
shall be required for all new ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above,
including ADUs constructed above an existing legally permitted garage.
(g)  The ADU, whether attached or detached, shall provide a separate exterior entrance, and
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
4/11

--- page 149 ---
(h)  Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached from the
primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted in the same
locations on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning district.
(i)  Number and Type of Required Parking Spaces.
(1)  General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking
space for each ADU. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 feet wide by 18 feet long
without any obstructions. Parking associated with ADU or JADU development, whether required or
voluntary, must be located entirely on the same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport,
uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, maximum driveway width for single-car garages may
be up to 20 feet to accommodate additional off-street parking. The required parking for the primary
residential dwelling unit must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying zoning
district.
(2)  Location of Parking for Accessory Dwelling Units. Parking for the accessory dwelling unit may
be located in the required front, side, and rear yard setback areas.
(3)  Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or covered parking
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU.
(4)  Parking Exemptions. No additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU in the
following instances:
(A)  The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public transit; or
(B)  The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic district; or
(C)  The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or an
existing legally permitted accessory structure; or
(D)  In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not offered to the
occupant of the ADU; or
(E)  When the ADU is located within one block of a car share location.
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
5/11

--- page 150 ---
(5)  Voluntary Parking. If no parking space is required, a maximum of one off-street parking space
per ADU or JADU may be voluntarily provided.
(j)  Architectural Standards. New ADUs and conversions of an existing legally permitted structure
shall be designed to comply with the following standards:
(1)  Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary dwelling unit shall:
(A)  Be of the same architectural style as the primary dwelling unit;
(B)  Be constructed of similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of colors as the primary
dwelling unit;
(C)  Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy; and
(D)  Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as applied
to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines.
(i)  Application of the daylight plane requirement shall not preclude a State Exempted "By
Right" ADU as defined in this Chapter.
(2)  Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary dwelling unit
shall:
(A)  In instances when an ADU is attached to an accessory structure, provide a uniform and
integrated design with that accessory structure;
(B)  Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy;
(C)  Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five feet from the
finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with an abutting residential lot;
(D)  When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five feet from
the nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the minimum area required
to allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building Code;
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
6/11

--- page 151 ---
(i)  For an ADU that seeks to have a larger second story deck, an application for
discretionary review, pursuant to Section 27.19.045, shall be submitted.
(E)  Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as applied
to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines.
(k)  Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount
set forth by resolution of the City Council.
(l)  Utility Service. If an ADU is constructed within existing space, a separate water connection, a
sewer service connection, or power connection is not required for an ADU. If an ADU is not constructed
within existing space, the City may require new or separate utility connections.
(m)  Utility Fees. For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a connection fee or
capacity charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will
require payment of a connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU's burden.
(n)  Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for
a separate address assignment.
(o)  Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized
variance is approved.
(p)  For ADUs proposed within an existing multi-family structure or on a lot with an existing multi-
family dwelling, the provisions of Government Code Section 65852.2(e)(1) apply.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 8; Ord. No. 2018-3 §§ 3, 4; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.060 Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 9; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
7/11

--- page 152 ---
Article II Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
27.19.070 Purpose.
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 10; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.080 Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 11; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.090 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental.
(a)  A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b)  If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar
days.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 12; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.100 Ministerial Permit Required.
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the
provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, a ministerial,
non-discretionary permit shall be issued.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 13; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
8/11

--- page 153 ---
27.19.110 Development Standards.
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the following
development standards:
(a)  Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow single-family
residential use, or for which a single-family residence exists or is proposed to be built. The residential lot
shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other multi-family development.
(b)  Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. The number of JADUs is limited to one
per residential lot with a single-family residence. Lots with multi-family housing or more than one
detached single-family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs.
(c)  Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations,
the JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the
same requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(d)  Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 650 square feet, including attic
and basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district.
(e)  Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the
proposed or legally existing single-family dwelling unit, including an attached garage. Detached
accessory structures, including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into
JADUs.
(f)  Unit Access. A JADU must include:
(1)  A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the single-family dwelling, which shall be
provided to serve the JADU only; and
(2)  An interior entry access between the JADU and the single-family dwelling. This interior entry
access may be a door equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior
door for sound attenuation.
(g)  Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the
following components:
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
9/11

--- page 154 ---
(1)  Cooking facility with appliances; and
(2)  Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to
the size of the JADU.
(h)  Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may share
sanitation facilities with the primary dwelling unit.
(i)  Building and Fire Requirements.
(1)  No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated
improvements meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and
Construction, of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to
the main living area for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be
connected to the smoke alarm in the main residence.
(2)  The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector.
(j)  Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for a JADU.
(k)  Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU.
(l)  Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for
a separate address assignment.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 14; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
27.19.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction.
(a)  A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1)  The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the JADU.
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
10/11

--- page 155 ---
(2)  If the JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive
calendar days.
(3)  Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4)  The approved size and attributes of the JADU.
(b)  A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
(Ord. No. 2022-02 § 15; Ord. No. 2017-5 § 4.)
8/15/25, 12:19 PM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
11/11

--- page 156 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - BUSINESS, CONSUMER SERVICES AND HOUSING AGENCY 
GAVIN NEWSOM, Governor 
 
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
DIVISION OF HOUSING POLICY DEVELOPMENT 
651 Bannon Street, Suite 400 
Sacramento, CA  95811 
(916) 263-2911 / FAX (916) 263-7453 
www.hcd.ca.gov 
 
 
October 18, 2024 
 
 
 
Zachary Dahl, Director of Community Development 
Department of Community Development 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Zachary Dahl: 
 
RE: Review of San Mateo’s Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ordinance under State 
ADU Law (Gov. Code, §§ 66310 - 66342) 
 
Please Note: As of March 25, 2024, with the Chaptering of Senate Bill (SB) 477 
(Chapter 7, Statutes of 2024), the sections of Government Code relevant to State ADU 
and junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU) Law have been re-numbered (Enclosure 1). 
 
Thank you for submitting the City of San Mateo (City) accessory dwelling unit (ADU) 
Ordinance No. 2022-02 (Ordinance), adopted March 21, 2022, to the California 
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). HCD has reviewed the 
Ordinance and submits these written findings pursuant to Government Code section 
66326, subdivision (a). HCD finds that the Ordinance does not comply with State ADU 
and junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU) Laws in the manner noted below. Pursuant to 
Government Code section 66326, subdivision (b)(1), the City has up to 30 days to 
respond to these findings. Accordingly, the City must provide a written response to 
these findings no later than November 17, 2024. 
 
The Ordinance addresses many statutory requirements; however, HCD finds that the 
Ordinance does not comply with State ADU Law in the following respects: 
 
1. Statutory Numbering - The Ordinance contains several references to code 
sections that were deleted by SB 477, effective March 25, 2024. These include 
Government Code sections 65852.2, 65852.22 and 65852.26. The contents of 
these sections were relocated to Government Code, Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 
13 (sections 66310-66342, see Enclosure). The City must amend the Ordinance 
to refer to the correct code sections.  
 
2. Section 1(c) – Front Setbacks – The Ordinance states, “In order to allow vehicles 
exiting lots to see passing pedestrians and vehicles, ADUs are not permitted within 
a required front yard setback.” However, local agencies may not impose: “Any 
requirement for a zoning clearance… based upon …front setbacks …that does not

--- page 157 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 2 
 
 
permit at least an 800 square foot accessory dwelling unit with four-foot side and 
rear yard setbacks…”1 An ADU of 800 square feet with four-foot side and rear yard 
setbacks cannot be precluded from development for being proposed within the 
primary residence’s front setback. Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to 
remove these design restrictions.  
 
3. Section 27.04.165 (a) – ADU Definition – The Ordinance defines “Accessory 
dwelling unit” as: “an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides 
complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the 
primary single-family residential dwelling unit, and includes permanent provisions 
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same parcel as 
the primary residential dwelling unit.” However, California Government Code 
defines an ADU as: “An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit that 
provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons and is 
located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary residence. It shall include 
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the 
same parcel as the single-family or multifamily dwelling is or will be situated.” 
ADUs may exist on lots with both single- and multi-family dwellings.2 Therefore, 
the City must amend the Ordinance to define “ADU” to allow for such 
developments on lots with multi-family dwellings. 
 
4. Section 27.04.165 (d) – Multi-family Dwellings – The Ordinance defines “multiple 
family dwelling” as: “A building or portion thereof, designed or altered for 
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.” 
Additionally, the Ordinance defines “two-family dwelling” as: “A building(s) 
designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or detached dwelling units for 
occupancy by two families living independently of each other. However, for the 
purposes of State ADU Law, developments need only contain two attached 
dwelling units on the same lot to qualify as “multi-family dwellings.” Therefore, the 
City must amend its definition of “multiple family dwelling” to align with that of HCD. 
 
5. Section 27.19.030 (a) – Separate Conveyance – The Ordinance states that, “An 
ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.” However, 
Government Code section 66341 creates a narrow exception to allow separate 
conveyance of an ADU to a qualified buyer if the property was built or developed 
by a qualified nonprofit corporation, among other things. Therefore, the City must 
amend the Ordinance to note these exceptions.  
 
6. Section 27.19.050 (c) – ADUs Except from Standards – The Ordinance states, “An 
attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet 
in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on a lot 
regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing 
primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane, open space, or 
minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. However, 
 
1 Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(3). 
2 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a).

--- page 158 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 3 
 
 
only ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2), 
are subject to a size maximum of 800 square feet. Therefore, the City must amend 
the Ordinance to clarify these requirements for by-right ADUs.  
 
7. Section 27.19.050 (d); (d)(2) - Maximum Unit Size – The Ordinance states, “Floor 
area size maximums for both attached and detached ADU development in excess 
of 800 square feet are governed by the floor area maximum established by the 
underlying zoning district and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. 
In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, 
only the state exempted “by-right” ADU of up to 800 square feet is permitted.” 
While the City is within its rights to dictate ADU size based on available floor area 
allowance based on underlying zoning districts, the City must also allow, at 
minimum, a maximum size of 850 square feet for ADUs with one bedroom or 
fewer, and 1,000 square feet for ADUs with two or more bedrooms. Further, a 
square footage maximum of 800 square feet may only apply to ADUs built 
pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2). Therefore, the 
City should amend the Ordinance to clarify correct maximum unit sizes for ADUs 
per State ADU Law.  
 
8. Section 27.19.050 (e)(1); (e)(2) - Maximum ADU Height – The Ordinance allows 
maximum heights of 24 and 16 feet to the top plateline and 32 and 24 feet to roof 
peak as measured from existing grade for attached and detached ADUs, 
respectively. However, building height, as defined in Section 202 of the California 
Building Code, must be measured as the vertical distance from grade plane to the 
average height of the highest roof surface. Additionally, ADUs converted from 
accessory structures may not be subject to height requirements.3 Therefore, the 
City must amend its definition of “building height” to align with that of the CBC. 
 
9. Section 27.19.050 (f)(1); (f)(3)- Setbacks and Unpermitted Structures – The 
Ordinance states, “No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted 
garage or accessory structure that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in 
the same location and to the same dimensions as the existing structure.” However, 
jurisdictions shall also not require setbacks for accessory structures that are 
converted to a portion of an existing ADU.4 Additionally, the permit status of an 
existing structure may not be a reason to preclude the development of an ADU 
unless the unpermitted structure presents a threat to public health and safety or is 
affected by the construction of the ADU.5 Finally, ADUs of less than 800 square 
feet in size may not be subject to any front setback requirements if no other lot 
location can accommodate the ADU.6 Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to reflect these conditions of State ADU Law. 
 
 
3 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a)(1)(A). 
4 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (d)(7). 
5 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (b). 
6 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (b)(3).

--- page 159 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 4 
 
 
10. Section 27.19.050 (i) - Parking Exemptions – The Ordinance enumerates five 
conditions where no additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU. 
However, jurisdictions must also waive all parking standards, not just additional off-
street parking standards, in these instances. Additionally, jurisdictions shall not 
impose parking standards when a permit application for an accessory dwelling unit 
is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family dwelling or a 
new multifamily dwelling on the same lot.7 Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to include the sixth parking exemption.  
 
11. Section 27.19.050 (j) - Architectural Standards – The Ordinance enumerates 
several architectural and design standards for ADUs. However, these standards 
may not preclude the development of ADUs pursuant to Government Code section 
66323, subdivision (a). Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to note 
these conditions.  
 
12. Section 27.19.050 (j)(1)(A); (j)(1)(B); (j)(1)(C); (j)(2)(A); (j)(2)(B) – Design 
Standards - The Ordinance enumerates several architectural and design standards 
for ADUs. However, all standards on accessory dwelling units must be objective 
standards that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and 
are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or 
criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent 
and the public official prior to submittal.8 Standards such as requiring “similar 
exterior materials” and windows that “maximize privacy” are subjective. Therefore, 
the City must amend the Ordinance to only include objective standards for ADU 
design. 
 
13. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states, 
“Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set forth by 
resolution of the City Council.” Regardless of local decisions on fee amounts, local 
agencies, special districts, or water corporations shall not impose any impact fee 
upon the development of ADUs 750 square feet in size or less submittal.9 Any 
impact fees charged for an accessory dwelling unit of 750 square feet or more 
shall be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary 
dwelling unit.10 Additionally, ADUs shall not be considered by a local agency, 
special district, or water corporation to be a new residential use for purposes of 
calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, including water and 
sewer service, unless the accessory dwelling unit was constructed with a new 
single-family dwelling.11 Therefore, the City must update the Ordinance to provide 
greater clarity regarding impact fee application for ADUs. 
 
 
7 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a)(6). 
8 Gov. Code, §§ 66313, subd. (b); 66313 (h). 
9 Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (c). 
10 Ibid. 
11 Gov. Code, § 66324, subdivision (b).

--- page 160 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 5 
 
 
14. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states that, “All 
other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized variance is 
approved.” Despite the jurisdiction’s ability to impose standards on ADUs through 
underlying zoning districts, it should be noted that all approvals for zoning 
requirements for ADUs must be ministerial in nature.12 Therefore, the City should 
amend the Ordinance to bolster clarity regarding the ADU approval process.  
 
15. Section 27.19.110 (d) – JADU Size – The Ordinance states that, “The floor area of 
a JADU shall not exceed 650 square feet. However, by definition, JADUs may not 
exceed 500 square feet in size.13 Therefore, the City must amend its ordinance to 
allow a maximum size of 500 sq feet for JADUs.   
 
16. Section 27.19.110 (f)(2) – Unit Access – The Ordinance requires an interior entry 
access between a JADU and the single-family dwelling. While this is permissible in 
some situations, jurisdictions can only require interior entry access between a 
JADU and corresponding single-family dwelling when said JADU does not include 
a separate bathroom.14 Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to note 
these conditions. 
 
17. Section 27.19.120 (a)(1) – JADU Owner Occupancy – The Ordinance requires 
recordation of a deed restriction states, “The property owner must occupy either 
the single-family residence or the JADU.” However, JADU owner-occupancy shall 
not be required if the owner is another governmental agency, land trust, or housing 
organization.15 Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to note this owner-
occupancy exception.  
 
Please note that the City has two options in response to this letter.16 The City can either 
amend the Ordinance to comply with State ADU Law17 or adopt the Ordinance without 
changes and include findings in its resolution adopting the Ordinance that explain the 
reasons the City believes that the Ordinance complies with State ADU Law despite 
HCD’s findings.18 If the City fails to take either course of action and bring the Ordinance 
into compliance with State ADU Law, HCD must notify the City and may notify the 
California Office of the Attorney General that the City is in violation of State ADU Law.19  
 
 
 
12 Gov. Code, § 66317, subdivision (a). 
13 Gov. Code, § 66313, subdivision (d). 
14 Gov. Code, § 66333, subdivision (e)(2). 
15 Gov. Code, § 66333, subdivision (b). 
16 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (c)(1). 
17 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b)(2)(A). 
18 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b)(2)(B). 
19 Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (c)(1).

--- page 161 ---
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director of Community Development 
Page 6 
 
 
  
HCD appreciates the City’s efforts in the preparation and adoption of the Ordinance and 
welcomes the opportunity to assist the City in fully complying with State ADU Law. 
Please feel free to contact Rep Name at Nicholas.Green@hcd.ca.gov if you have any 
questions.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jamie Candelaria 
Senior Housing Accountability Manager 
Housing Policy Development Division 
 
Enclosure

--- page 162 ---
State ADU/JADU Law Statutory Conversion Table 
New Government Code Sections 
Previous Government Code Sections 
Article 1. General Provisions 
66310 
65852.150 (a) 
66311 
65852.150 (b) 
66312 
65852.150 (c) 
66313 
General Definition Section 
65852.2 (j) 
65852.22 (j) 
Article 2. Accessory Dwelling Unit Approvals 
66314 
65852.2(a)(1)(A), (D)(i)-(xii), (a)(4)-(5) 
66315 
65852.2 (a)(8) 
66316 
65852.2 (a)(6) 
66317 
65852.2 (a)(3), (a)(7) 
66318 
65852.2 (a)(9), 65852.2 (a)(2) 
66319 
65852.2 (a)(10) 
66320 
65852.2 (b) 
66321 
65852.2 (c) 
66322 
65852.2 (d) 
66323 
65852.2 (e) 
66324 
65852.2 (f) 
66325 
65852.2 (g) 
66326 
65852.2 (h) 
66327 
65852.2 (i) 
66328 
65852.2 (k) 
66329 
65852.2 (l) 
66330 
65852.2 (m) 
66331 
65852.2 (n) 
66332 
65852.23. 
Article 3. Junior Accessory Dwelling Units 
66333 
65852.22 (a) 
66334 
65852.22 (b) 
66335 
65852.22 (c) 
66336 
65852.22 (d) 
66337 
65852.22 (e) 
66338 
65852.22 (f)-(g) 
66339 
65852.22 (h) 
Article 4. Accessory Dwelling Unit Sales 
66340 
65852.26 (b) 
66341 
65852.26 (a) 
66342 
65852.2 (a)(10)

--- page 163 ---
November 15, 2024 
Jamie Candelaria, Senior Housing Accountability Manager  
Department of Housing and Community Development 
Division of Housing Policy Development  
651 Bannon St, Suite 400 
Sacramento, CA 95811 
 
RE:  
Response to HCD Review of San Mateo’s Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Ordinance 
 
Dear Jamie Candelaria, 
 
The City has received and reviewed HCD’s comments and findings in its October 18, 2024 letter on the 
City of San Mateo’s ADU Ordinance (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19) (ADU Ordinance), and a 
response to each finding is provided below.  The City is committed to full compliance with State ADU laws 
and establishing local regulations and processes that support and encourage ADU production. On 
November 7, 2024, City staff met with HCD staff to review the letter and received clarification on several 
of the comments.  The responses below have incorporated those clarifications. 
 
1. Statutory Numbering - The Ordinance contains several references to code sections that were 
deleted by SB 477, effective March 25, 2024. These include Government Code sections 65852.2, 
65852.22 and 65852.26. The contents of these sections were relocated to Government Code, Title 
7, Division 1, Chapter 13 (sections 66310-66342, see Enclosure). The City must amend the 
Ordinance to refer to the correct code sections.  
  
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
  
2. Section 1(c) – Front Setbacks – The Ordinance states, “In order to allow vehicles exiting lots to see 
passing pedestrians and vehicles, ADUs are not permitted within a required front yard setback.” 
However, local agencies may not impose: “Any requirement for a zoning clearance… based upon 
…front setbacks …that does not permit at least an 800 square foot accessory dwelling unit with 
four-foot side and rear yard setbacks…” An ADU of 800 square feet with four-foot side and rear 
yard setbacks cannot be precluded from development for being proposed within the primary 
residence’s front setback. Therefore, the City must amend its Ordinance to remove these design 
restrictions.  
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly, while 
also maintaining visibility triangles. Due to potential health and safety issues that could arise where 
driveways in front yards intersect with sidewalks and when a corner lot is adjacent to a street 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 164 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 2 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
intersection, the City is interested in establishing reasonable visibility triangles in front yard spaces 
adjacent to driveways and street intersections to maintain appropriate visibility between vehicles, 
bicycles, and pedestrians.  Requirements for visibility triangles would be objective standards, and the 
City will share the proposed amendment language with HCD prior to scheduling public hearings for 
adoption. 
 
3. Section 27.04.165 (a) – ADU Definition – The Ordinance defines “Accessory dwelling unit” as: “an 
attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides complete independent living 
facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary single-family residential dwelling 
unit, and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation 
on the same parcel as the primary residential dwelling unit.” However, California Government 
Code defines an ADU as: “An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit that provides 
complete independent living facilities for one or more persons and is located on a lot with a 
proposed or existing primary residence. It shall include permanent provisions for living, sleeping, 
eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as the single-family or multifamily dwelling is 
or will be situated.” ADUs may exist on lots with both single- and multi-family dwellings. 
Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to define “ADU” to allow for such developments on 
lots with multi-family dwellings. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
4. Section 27.04.165 (d) – Multi-family Dwellings – The Ordinance defines “multiple family dwelling” 
as: “A building or portion thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families 
living independently of each other.” Additionally, the Ordinance defines “two-family dwelling” as: 
“A building(s) designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or detached dwelling units for 
occupancy by two families living independently of each other. However, for the purposes of State 
ADU Law, developments need only contain two attached dwelling units on the same lot to qualify 
as “multi-family dwellings.” Therefore, the City must amend its definition of “multiple family 
dwelling” to align with that of HCD. 
 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
5. Section 27.19.030 (a) – Separate Conveyance – The Ordinance states that, “An ADU shall not be 
sold separately from the primary residence.” However, Government Code section 66341 creates a 
narrow exception to allow separate conveyance of an ADU to a qualified buyer if the property was 
built or developed by a qualified nonprofit corporation, among other things. Therefore, the City 
must amend the Ordinance to note these exceptions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
6. Section 27.19.050 (c) – ADUs Except from Standards – The Ordinance states, “An attached or 
detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-
foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on a lot regardless of any size limitation based on 
the size of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, daylight plane,

--- page 165 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 3 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. However, 
only ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2), are subject to a 
size maximum of 800 square feet. Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance to clarify these 
requirements for by-right ADUs. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
7. Section 27.19.050 (d); (d)(2) - Maximum Unit Size – The Ordinance states, “Floor area size 
maximums for both attached and detached ADU development in excess of 800 square feet are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining 
floor area allowance available on the lot. In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a 
lot has been fully utilized, only the state exempted “by-right” ADU of up to 800 square feet is 
permitted.” While the City is within its rights to dictate ADU size based on available floor area 
allowance based on underlying zoning districts, the City must also allow, at minimum, a maximum 
size of 850 square feet for ADUs with one bedroom or fewer, and 1,000 square feet for ADUs with 
two or more bedrooms. Further, a square footage maximum of 800 square feet may only apply to 
ADUs built pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(2). Therefore, the City 
should amend the Ordinance to clarify correct maximum unit sizes for ADUs per State ADU Law. 
 
Response: The City’s ADU Ordinance does not set a maximum size limit for ADUs, so ADUs of at least 
850 sq ft or 1,000 sq ft, depending on number of bedrooms, are allowed. State exempted ADUs 
(including conversions of existing structures, or a new construction ADU of up to 800 sq.ft. built 
pursuant to Gov. Code 66323, subdivision (a)(2)) are always allowed. For ADUs over 800 sq ft, their 
maximum size is determined based on the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of a site’s underlying zoning, with the 
first 800 sq ft of ADU floor area exempt from FAR calculations.  However, the City does acknowledge 
this request to clarify and will update the ADU Ordinance to ensure that these maximum unit sizes are 
clearly communicated. 
 
8. Section 27.19.050 (e)(1); (e)(2) - Maximum ADU Height – The Ordinance allows maximum heights 
of 24 and 16 feet to the top plateline and 32 and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing 
grade for attached and detached ADUs, respectively. However, building height, as defined in 
Section 202 of the California Building Code, must be measured as the vertical distance from grade 
plane to the average height of the highest roof surface. Additionally, ADUs converted from 
accessory structures may not be subject to height requirements. Therefore, the City must amend 
its definition of “building height” to align with that of the CBC. 
 
Response: The height limits contained in the City’s ADU Ordinance allow for a maximum height of 24 
feet for detached ADUs and 32 feet for attached ADUs, which are more permissive than the minimum 
height limits required per State Law. The associated plate height limits of 16 feet and 24 feet, 
respectively, were previously reviewed with HCD staff and determined to not conflict with State Law 
since the overall height limits were significantly more permissive than what State Law required. Staff 
has also conferred with the City’s Building Official to confirm that these limits would not conflict with 
the CBC height definition. Overall, the City’s strong preference is to continue to utilize the definition of 
height as outlined in the Zoning Ordinance, rather than the CBC definition of height. The City

--- page 166 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 4 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
acknowledges that existing structures converted to ADUs within an existing building envelope are not 
subject to height restrictions and will update the ordinance accordingly to clarify this point.  
 
Also, since the Citywide practice for setting height limits includes both plate height limits and 
maximum height limits, the City is interested in maintaining these two height limits for ADUs for 
consistency and public awareness, but with limits that are more permissive than State Law.  And, as 
part of the City’s ADU Ordinance update, staff will be evaluating an increased maximum plate height 
limit for detached ADUs to support the ability to construct a second story ADU over a garage.  
 
9. Section 27.19.050 (f)(1); (f)(3)- Setbacks and Unpermitted Structures – The Ordinance states, “No 
setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure that is 
converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as the 
existing structure.” However, jurisdictions shall also not require setbacks for accessory structures 
that are converted to a portion of an existing ADU. Additionally, the permit status of an existing 
structure may not be a reason to preclude the development of an ADU unless the unpermitted 
structure presents a threat to public health and safety or is affected by the construction of the 
ADU. Finally, ADUs of less than 800 square feet in size may not be subject to any front setback 
requirements if no other lot location can accommodate the ADU. Therefore, the City must amend 
the Ordinance to reflect these conditions of State ADU Law. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
10. Section 27.19.050 (i) - Parking Exemptions – The Ordinance enumerates five conditions where no 
additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU. However, jurisdictions must also waive 
all parking standards, not just additional off- street parking standards, in these instances. 
Additionally, jurisdictions shall not impose parking standards when a permit application for an 
accessory dwelling unit is submitted with a permit application to create a new single-family 
dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot. Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to include the sixth parking exemption. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly to add 
the parking exemption added under Gov Code Section 66323(a)(6). 
 
 
11. Section 27.19.050 (j) - Architectural Standards – The Ordinance enumerates several architectural 
and design standards for ADUs. However, these standards may not preclude the development of 
ADUs pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a). Therefore, the City must 
amend the Ordinance to note these conditions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
12. Section 27.19.050 (j)(1)(A); (j)(1)(B); (j)(1)(C); (j)(2)(A); (j)(2)(B) – Design Standards - The Ordinance 
enumerates several architectural and design standards for ADUs. However, all standards on 
accessory dwelling units must be objective standards that involve no personal or subjective 
judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform

--- page 167 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 5 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent 
and the public official prior to submittal. Standards such as requiring “similar exterior materials” 
and windows that “maximize privacy” are subjective. Therefore, the City must amend the 
Ordinance to only include objective standards for ADU design. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
13. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states, “Development impact 
fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set forth by resolution of the City Council.” 
Regardless of local decisions on fee amounts, local agencies, special districts, or water corporations 
shall not impose any impact fee upon the development of ADUs 750 square feet in size or less 
submittal. Any impact fees charged for an accessory dwelling unit of 750 square feet or more shall 
be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary dwelling unit. 
Additionally, ADUs shall not be considered by a local agency, special district, or water corporation 
to be a new residential use for purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for 
utilities, including water and sewer service, unless the accessory dwelling unit was constructed 
with a new single-family dwelling. Therefore, the City must update the Ordinance to provide 
greater clarity regarding impact fee application for ADUs. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
14. Section 27.19.050 (k) – Development Impact Fees - The Ordinance states that, “All other zoning 
requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized variance is approved.” Despite the 
jurisdiction’s ability to impose standards on ADUs through underlying zoning districts, it should be 
noted that all approvals for zoning requirements for ADUs must be ministerial in nature. 
Therefore, the City should amend the Ordinance to bolster clarity regarding the ADU approval 
process. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
15. Section 27.19.110 (d) – JADU Size – The Ordinance states that, “The floor area of a JADU shall not 
exceed 650 square feet. However, by definition, JADUs may not exceed 500 square feet in size.  
Therefore, the City must amend its ordinance to allow a maximum size of 500 sq feet for JADUs. 
 
Response: City staff consulted with HCD in 2021/2022 to seek guidance on the JADU size limit and 
received direction that a local jurisdiction could set a more permissive maximum size provided that it 
was aligned with the overall function and use intended for JADUs. Based on this guidance, the City 
established a maximum size for JADUs of 650 sq ft with the intention of encouraging more JADU 
construction and allowing for higher quality units within existing single-family dwellings.  Since the 
ADU Ordinance was adopted in 2022, the City has issued permits for 36 JADUs, including six (6) that 
are larger than 500 sq ft. Because the City has permitted JADUs that exceed 500 sq ft in size and 
because there is local support for maintaining the current size limit, the City  would like to preserve the 
JADU size limit of up to 650 sq ft in the ADU Ordinance.

--- page 168 ---
San Mateo ADU Ordinance Findings Response Letter 
Page 6 
 
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
16. Section 27.19.110 (f)(2) – Unit Access – The Ordinance requires an interior entry access between a 
JADU and the single-family dwelling. While this is permissible in some situations, jurisdictions can 
only require interior entry access between a JADU and corresponding single-family dwelling when 
said JADU does not include a separate bathroom. Therefore, the City must amend the Ordinance 
to note these conditions. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding, but has identified several circumstances beyond just a 
shared bathroom where an interior access between the JADU and main dwelling is necessary to ensure 
that substandard living conditions in a JADU are not created. Based on CBC requirements, a JADU is 
allowed to share HVAC and other utilities with the main dwelling.  Thus, an interior entry is important 
to allow for a JADU tenant to access HVAC/thermostat controls, the electrical subpanel in the event 
that a breaker is blown, and/or other shared utilities if they are located in the single-family dwelling. 
Thus, the City is interested in continuing to require an interior entry access for JADUs when such access 
is needed. The City  will update the ADU Ordinance to not require an interior entry when these 
circumstances are not present.  Also, since JADU construction does not trigger fire-rated separation 
requirements for interior access doors, including an interior entry does not result in a significant added 
cost in the same way that an interior entry for an attached ADU does. 
 
 
17. Section 27.19.120 (a)(1) – JADU Owner Occupancy – The Ordinance requires recordation of a deed 
restriction and states, “The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the 
JADU.” However, JADU owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is another 
governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. Therefore, the City must amend its 
Ordinance to note this owner- occupancy exception. 
 
Response: The City acknowledges this finding and will update the ADU Ordinance accordingly. 
 
We are happy to further discuss any of our responses to ensure mutual understanding about State Law 
requirements for the City’s ADU Ordinance, if necessary.  The City plans to complete these ADU Ordinance 
amendments, along with other Housing Element Code amendments, in 2025.  As part of the update 
process, we will share the draft ADU Ordinance amendments with HCD prior to scheduling public 
hearings. 
 
Please contact me at (650) 522-7207 or zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org if you have any questions or would like 
to further discuss. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Zachary Dahl, AICP 
Community Development Director

--- page 169 ---
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT 
HANDBOOK 
January 2025

--- page 170 ---
2 
 
Table of Contents 
ADUs in California ............................................................................................................................. 4 
The California Department of Housing and Community Development .......................................... 6 
Glossary ............................................................................................................................................. 8 
Summary of Recent Changes to ADU Law ..................................................................................... 13 
Frequently Asked Questions ........................................................................................................... 18 
66323 Units .................................................................................................................................. 18 
ADUs ........................................................................................................................................... 21 
Bedrooms ..................................................................................................................................... 21 
Building Code Violations .............................................................................................................. 21 
Coastal Commission .................................................................................................................... 21 
Deed Restrictions ......................................................................................................................... 22 
Fees ............................................................................................................................................. 22 
Fire Protection and Fire Sprinkler Requirements ............................................................................ 23 
Funding ........................................................................................................................................ 24 
Height Requirements .................................................................................................................... 25 
Homeowners Associations (HOAs) .............................................................................................. 26 
Housing Elements and Prohousing Designation ........................................................................... 27 
JADUs .......................................................................................................................................... 28 
Local ADU Ordinances and Local Agencies ................................................................................. 30 
Manufactured Homes ................................................................................................................... 31 
Mobilehome Parks ....................................................................................................................... 32 
Multifamily ADUs .......................................................................................................................... 32 
Nonconforming Zoning ................................................................................................................. 33 
Owner-Occupancy ....................................................................................................................... 34 
Parking Requirements .................................................................................................................. 34 
Permit Applications and Permitting Agencies ............................................................................... 35 
Rental Terms ............................................................................................................................... 37 
Sales and Separate Conveyance ................................................................................................. 37 
Senate Bill 9 (SB 9) (Chapter 162, Statutes of 2021).................................................................... 37 
Setbacks ...................................................................................................................................... 38 
Size Requirements and Restrictions ............................................................................................. 39 
Solar Requirements ..................................................................................................................... 40 
Tiny Homes .................................................................................................................................. 40 
Types of ADUs ............................................................................................................................. 41

--- page 171 ---
3 
 
Unpermitted Structures and ADUs ............................................................................................... 42 
Utilities ......................................................................................................................................... 43 
Zoning, Development, and Other Standards ................................................................................ 43 
Resources ........................................................................................................................................ 46 
Changes to State ADU Laws ........................................................................................................ 46 
AB 2533 ................................................................................................................................. 46 
SB 1211 ................................................................................................................................. 47 
SB 477 ................................................................................................................................... 47 
AB 976 and AB 1033 .............................................................................................................. 48 
AB 1332 ................................................................................................................................. 49 
AB 434 ................................................................................................................................... 49 
AB 345 ................................................................................................................................... 49 
AB 3182 ................................................................................................................................. 50 
AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13 ..................................................................................................... 50 
AB 587, AB 670, and AB 671 ................................................................................................. 51 
Summary Table of Statutory Changes .......................................................................................... 53

--- page 172 ---
4 
 
ADUs in California 
 
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs) are innovative 
and effective options for adding much needed housing in California. Since 2016, State ADU 
Laws have continued to evolve to further lower barriers to the development of more affordable 
housing as the Legislature works to address the housing crisis across the state. As these laws 
change, HCD’s goal is to ensure consistency and clarity in the application of these laws 
through education, technical assistance, and enforcement.1  
 
Benefits of ADUs 
ADUs provide a wide range of benefits, including: 
 
• 
ADUs are an affordable type of home to construct in California because they do not 
require paying for land, major new infrastructure, structured parking, or elevators. 
• 
ADUs can provide a source of income for homeowners. 
• 
ADUs are often built with cost-effective wood frame construction, which is 
significantly less costly than homes in new multifamily infill buildings. 
• 
ADUs allow extended families to be near one another while maintaining privacy. 
• 
ADUs can provide as much living space as many newly built apartments and 
condominiums, and they’re suited well for individuals, couples, small families, friends, 
young people, and older adults. 
• 
ADUs give homeowners the flexibility to share independent living areas with family 
members and others, allowing older adults to age in place. 
 
Indeed, Californians are increasingly recognizing the benefits of ADUs, and ADUs are making 
a difference. Between 2016-2023, the number of ADUs permitted annually in the state grew 
from 1,336 to 26,924, a 20-fold increase. In 2023, ADUs comprised more than 21 percent of all 
homes permitted statewide.  
 
ADUs as an Infill Development Strategy 
ADUs are, by definition, created in areas that are already developed but where land may be 
underutilized. Moreover, restrictions on parking requirements for ADUs that are located near 
transit create further incentives to build ADUs, particularly in places that provide easy access 
to jobs and other amenities, further reducing reliance on vehicles.  
 
As a result, ADU construction is a key infill development strategy that contributes to, among 
other things, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving air quality by reducing the 
distance people need to travel; reducing conversion of agricultural land, sensitive habitat, and 
open space for new development; reducing costs to build and maintain expensive 
infrastructure; and facilitating healthy and environmentally friendly active transportation. 
  
 
1 This updated ADU Handbook references the law as amended by recent legislation that goes 
into effect on January 1, 2025.

--- page 173 ---
5 
 
In light of changing laws around ADUs and the growing importance of this housing type, HCD 
has updated this ADU Handbook and continues to be committed to facilitating housing 
production at all income levels.

--- page 174 ---
6 
 
The California Department of Housing and 
Community Development 
 
With the vision that one day, every California resident can live, work, and play in healthy 
communities of opportunity, it is the mission of HCD to provide safe, affordable homes and 
vibrant, inclusive, sustainable communities for all Californians. HCD accomplishes this by 
increasing and preserving the supply of affordable places to live in California and by creating 
effective solutions to the housing crisis through policy and research. 
 
Housing Accountability Unit 
California’s housing crisis has reached historic proportions despite the passage of numerous 
laws intended to increase the supply of housing affordable to Californians at all income levels. 
As part of the 2021-2022 state budget, HCD received additional staff to grow its accountability 
efforts and formed the Housing Accountability Unit (HAU). While education and technical 
assistance are always the first step in HCD’s accountability efforts, the HAU holds jurisdictions 
accountable for meeting their housing element commitments and complying with state housing 
laws. Violations of state housing laws, including State ADU Law, may lead to consequences, 
including revocation of housing element certification and referral to the California Office of the 
Attorney General. 
 
Technical Assistance 
There may be uncertainty, or a need for education at the local level about how to comply 
with state law, especially as state laws evolve. HCD provides technical assistance to 
property owners and developers who are seeking to create ADUs, as well as to advocates, 
local agencies, and other interested parties. 
 
Any questions regarding the application of State ADU Law may be submitted to HCD via 
the online ADU Portal. Please provide as much detail as possible in the online form. HCD 
may request additional information, including, but not limited to denials and 
communications from the local agency. 
 
Local agencies seeking assistance or submitting an ADU ordinance to HCD, must also use 
the online portal. 
 
For those experiencing technical issues with the ADU Portal, please email: 
ADUPortal@hcd.ca.gov.  
 
Questions beyond what this Handbook provides are encouraged to contact their local 
permitting agency (e.g., city or county) or private attorney. 
 
Enforcement of State ADU Law 
Since 2016, HCD has had statutory authority to review local agencies’ ADU ordinances, 
and as of January 1, 2024, HCD also has the authority to enforce all State ADU Laws. 
HCD’s ADU team reviews local ordinances for compliance with State ADU Law and sends

--- page 175 ---
7 
 
findings letters and, when necessary, may escalate its enforcement. To ensure 
consistency, the HAU works closely with other HCD divisions. 
 
The ADU team is committed to supporting the public, local agencies, and partner agencies 
with understanding and complying with State ADU Law.

--- page 176 ---
8 
 
Glossary 
 
66323 Units 
One of the four delineated types of ADUs (and JADUs) that must be permitted pursuant to 
Government Code section 66323. Source: Government Code section 66323 
 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) 
An attached or a detached residential dwelling unit that provides complete, independent 
living facilities for one or more persons, and is located on a lot with a proposed or existing 
primary residence. It shall include permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, 
and sanitation on the same parcel as the single-family or multifamily dwelling is, or will be, 
situated.  
An ADU also includes the following: 
(A) An efficiency unit. 
(B) A manufactured home, as defined in Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code. 
Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (a) 
 
Accessory Structure 
A structure that is accessory and incidental to a dwelling located on the same lot. Source: 
Government Code section 66313, subdivision (b) 
 
Applicant 
The person or party responsible for the submittal of an application seeking a permit. 
 
Application 
A formal request to perform work, which includes all information as required. 
 
Certificate of Occupancy 
A document issued by local California Building and Safety departments which certifies that a 
commercial space or newly constructed residential building has been inspected for compliance 
with the California Building Standards Code and local ordinances which govern construction 
and occupancy. Source: 2022 California Residential Code section R110 
 
Common Interest Development 
Any of the following:  
(a) A community apartment project. 
(b) A condominium project. 
(c) A planned development. 
(d) A stock cooperative.  
Source: Civil Code section 4100 
 
Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (CC&Rs) 
A set of rules governing the use of a certain piece of real estate in each community. 
“Governing documents” includes declarations, bylaws, operating rules, articles of 
incorporation, or articles of association, which govern the operation of the common interest

--- page 177 ---
9 
 
development or association. Source: Civil Code section 4150 
 
Efficiency Dwelling Unit 
A dwelling unit which contains a minimum of 150 square feet in living space, a separate 
closet, kitchen sink, cooking appliance, refrigerator, and a separate bathroom containing a 
water closet, lavatory, bathtub, or shower. Source: Government Code section 66313, 
subdivision (a)(1); California Building Code section 1208.4 
 
Habitable Space 
A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, 
closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and similar areas are not considered habitable 
spaces. Source: 2022 California Building Code section 202 
 
High Quality Transit Corridor 
A corridor with fixed route bus service with service intervals no longer than 15 minutes 
during peak commute hours. Source: Public Resources Code section 21155, subdivision 
(b) 
 
Impact Fee 
“Impact fee” has the same meaning as the term “fee” as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 
66000, and includes the fees specified in Section 66477. “Impact fee” does not include any 
connection fee or capacity charge charged by a local agency, special district, or water 
corporation. Source: Government Code section 66324, subdivision (c)(2) 
 
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) 
A unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size and contained entirely within a single-
family residence. A JADU may include separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation 
facilities with the existing structure. Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision 
(d) 
 
Livable Space 
A space in a dwelling intended for human habitation, including living, sleeping, eating, 
cooking, or sanitation. Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (e) 
 
Living Area 
The interior habitable area of a dwelling unit, including basements and attics, but does not 
include a garage or any accessory structure. Source: Government Code section 66313, 
subdivision (f) 
 
Local Agency 
A city, county, or city and county, whether general law or chartered. Source: Government 
Code section 66313, subdivision (g) 
 
Major Transit Stop 
A site containing any of the following: 
(a) An existing rail or bus rapid transit station.

--- page 178 ---
10 
(b) A ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service.
(c) The intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service interval 
of 20 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.
Source: Public Resources Code section 21064.3 
Manufactured Home 
A structure that was constructed on or after June 15, 1976, is transportable in one or more 
sections, is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, in the 
traveling mode, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, is built on a permanent 
chassis and designed to be used as a single-family dwelling with or without a foundation 
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air 
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. Source: Health and Safety Code 
section 18007, subdivision (a) 
Ministerial Approval 
Considered and approved without discretionary review or a hearing. Source: Government 
Code section 66317, subdivision (a) 
Multifamily Dwelling 
For the purposes of State ADU Law, a structure with two or more attached dwellings on a 
single lot is considered a multifamily dwelling. Multiple detached single-family dwellings on the 
same lot are not considered multifamily dwellings for the purposes of State ADU Law. 
Nonconforming Zoning Condition 
A physical improvement on a property that does not conform with current zoning standards. 
Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (h) 
Objective Standards 
Standards that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are 
uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available 
and knowable by both the applicant or proponent and the public official prior to submittal. 
Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (i) 
Passageway 
A pathway that is unobstructed, clear to the sky, and extends from a street to one entrance 
of the ADU. Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (j) 
Permitting Agency 
Any entity that is involved in the review of a permit for an ADU or JADU, and for which there 
is no substitute, including, but not limited to, applicable planning departments, building 
departments, utilities, and special districts. Source: Government Code section 66313, 
subdivision (k) 
Planned Development 
A real property development other than a community apartment project, a condominium 
project, or a stock cooperative, having either or both of the following features:

--- page 179 ---
11 
 
(a) Common area that is owned either by an association or in common by the owners 
of the separate interests who possess appurtenant rights to the beneficial use and 
enjoyment of the common area. 
(b) Common area and an association that maintains the common area with the power 
to levy assessments that may become a lien upon the separate interests in 
accordance with Article 2 (commencing with Section 5650) of Chapter 8.  
Source: Civil Code section 4175 
 
Proposed Dwelling 
A dwelling that is the subject of a permit application and meets the requirements for 
permitting. Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (l) 
 
Public Transit 
A location, including, but not limited to, a bus stop or train station, where the public may 
access buses, trains, subways, and other forms of transportation that charge set fares, run 
on fixed routes, and are available to the public. Source: Government Code section 66313, 
subdivision (m) 
 
Qualified Buyer 
Persons and families of low or moderate income, as defined in Section 50093 of the Health 
and Safety Code. Source: Government Code section 66340, subdivision (a); Health and 
Safety Code section 50093 
 
Qualified Nonprofit Corporation 
A nonprofit corporation organized pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code that has received a welfare exemption under Section 214.15 of the Revenue and 
Taxation Code for properties intended to be sold to low-income families who participate in a 
special no-interest loan program. Source: Government Code section 66340, subdivision (b) 
 
Reasonable Restrictions 
Restrictions that do not unreasonably increase the cost to construct, effectively prohibit the 
construction of, or extinguish the ability to otherwise construct, an ADU or JADU. Source: 
Civil Code section 4751, subdivision (b), and Civil Code section 714.3, subdivision (b) 
 
Single-Family Dwelling 
For the purposes of State ADU Law, a single-family dwelling is a single unit providing 
complete, independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions for living, 
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, and existing as a separate interest of real property, 
such as a detached single-family dwelling or a townhouse. 
 
Substandard Building 
Any building or portion thereof, or premises on which the building is located, in which there 
exists any of a long list of conditions that endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety, or 
welfare of the public or occupants thereof. Source: Health and Safety Code section 
17920.3

--- page 180 ---
12 
 
Tandem Parking  
Two or more automobiles that are parked on a driveway or in any other location on a lot, 
lined up behind one another. Source: Government Code section 66313, subdivision (n)

--- page 181 ---
13 
 
Summary of Recent Changes to ADU Law 
 
In Government Code section 66310, 
subdivision (d), the California Legislature 
declared that allowing ADUs in zones 
that allow single-family and multifamily 
uses provides additional rental housing 
and is an essential component in 
addressing California’s housing needs. 
Over the years, State ADU Law has been 
revised to improve its effectiveness in 
creating more housing units. Major 
changes to State ADU Law, effective 
January 1, 2023, January 1, 2024, and 
January 1, 2025, further reduced barriers 
to the development of ADUs and JADUs. 
Within this context, HCD developed – 
and continues to update – this Handbook to assist local governments, homeowners, 
attorneys, architects, and the public in understanding and applying the requirements of 
state law. Below is a summary of recent legislation that amended State ADU Law.  
 
Please visit https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov for the complete statutory changes. 
 
All local permitting agencies and interested parties should review the amendments to 
California law, effective January 1, 2023, 2024, and 2025, regarding the creation of ADUs and 
JADUs.  
 
2022 legislation includes the following changes to State ADU Law (effective January 1, 2023): 
 
Assembly Bill (AB) 2221 (Chapter 650, Statutes of 2022, Section 1) and Senate Bill (SB) 897 
(Chapter 664, Statutes of 2022, Sections 2.5, 4, 5, and 6) built upon recent changes to State 
ADU and JADU Law and further addressed barriers to the development of ADUs and JADUs. 
Due to SB 897 being chaptered after AB 2221, section 2.5 of SB 897 incorporated 
amendments to ADU Law proposed by both SB 897 and AB 2221.  
 
• 
Objective Standards. Requires local agencies to only impose objective standards on 
ADUs, which “involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are 
uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion 
available and knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public 
official prior to submittal” of an ADU permit application. (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (i). See 
also Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (b)(1); 66323, subd. (g).) 
• 
Detached Garages. Allows ADUs detached from the proposed or existing primary 
dwelling, including in detached garages (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(3)). 
• 
Occupancy Change. Provides that the construction of an ADU does not constitute a

--- page 182 ---
14 
 
Group R occupancy change under the local building code, unless the local agency makes a 
written finding based on substantial evidence in the record that the construction of the ADU 
could have a specific, adverse impact on public health and safety (Gov. Code, § 66314, 
subd. (d)(8)).  
• 
Fire Sprinklers. Precludes ADU construction from triggering a requirement that fire 
sprinklers be installed in the existing primary dwelling (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(12)). 
• 
Permitting Process. Requires a permitting agency to either approve or deny (replacing the 
former language “act on”) an application to create or serve an ADU or JADU within 60 days 
from when a completed application is received, if there is an existing single-family or 
multifamily dwelling on the lot (Gov. Code, §§ 66317, subd. (a); 66320, subd. (a); 66335, 
subd. (a)(2)). 
• 
Concurrent Permitting. Clarifies that permitting agencies may concurrently approve or 
deny a proposed ADU and new single-family or multifamily dwelling when submitted 
simultaneously for permitting. The application for the ADU shall be considered without 
discretionary review or hearing. Clarifies that permitting agencies may concurrently approve 
or deny a proposed JADU and new single-family dwelling when submitted simultaneously 
for permitting. (Gov. Code, §§ 66317, subd. (a); 66320, subd. (a); 66335, subd. (a)(3).) 
• 
Permitting Agency Denials. Obligates a permitting agency, when it denies an ADU or 
JADU application, to “return in writing a full set of comments to the applicant with a list of 
items that are defective or deficient and a description of how the application can be 
remedied by the applicant” within 60 days from when a completed application is received. 
(Gov. Code, §§ 66317, subd. (b); 66320, subd. (b); 66335, subd. (b).) 
• 
Demolition Permits. Adds a requirement for a local agency to review and issue a 
demolition permit for “a detached garage that is to be replaced with an ADU” at the same 
time it reviews, and issues permits for, the ADU construction. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. 
(e).) Also prohibits permitting agencies requiring applicants to “provide written notice or 
post a placard for the demolition of a detached garage ... unless the property is located 
within an architecturally and historically significant district.” (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (f).) 
• 
Zoning & Setbacks. Prohibits a local agency from requiring “a zoning clearance or 
separate zoning review or any other minimum or maximum size for an accessory dwelling 
unit, size based upon a percentage of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, or limits 
on lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, front setbacks, and minimum lot size, for 
either attached or detached dwellings that does not permit at least an 800 square foot 
accessory dwelling unit with four-foot side and rear yard setbacks to be constructed in 
compliance with all other local development standards.” (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(3).) 
• 
Detached ADU Height Limitations. Establishes a base height limitation of 16 feet for 
detached ADUs (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(A)). Increases the maximum height 
limitation on a detached ADU to 18 feet if the ADU is “either within a half-mile walking 
distance of a major transit stop or a high-quality transit corridor” and provides for an

--- page 183 ---
15 
 
additional two feet for roof pitch to align with the roof pitch of the primary dwelling unit.” 
(Gov. Code, §§ 66321, subd. (b)(4)(B); 66323, subd. (a)(2)(B).) Increases the height to 18 
feet for a detached ADU that is “on a lot with an existing or proposed multifamily, multistory 
dwelling.” (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(B).)  
• 
Attached ADU Height Limitations. Establishes the maximum height limitation that may be 
imposed by a local agency on an attached ADU to 25 feet, or the existing primary dwelling 
height limit if lower than 25 feet. Does not require a local agency to allow an ADU to exceed 
two stories (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(D)). 
• 
Parking Standards. Prohibits local agencies from imposing parking in a number of specific 
circumstances (Gov. Code, § 66322, subd. (a)). 
• 
Zoning Nonconformance & Building Code Violations. Prohibits local agencies from 
denying an ADU permit due to the correction of “nonconforming zoning conditions, building 
code violations, or unpermitted structures that do not present a threat to public health and 
safety and are not affected by the construction of the accessory dwelling unit.” (Gov. Code, 
§ 66322, subd. (b).) The prohibition was also added to Government Code section 66336 to 
apply to JADUs.  
• 
Multifamily Dwellings. Prohibits a permitting agency from requiring “any modification of 
the existing multifamily dwelling as a condition of approving the application to construct an 
accessory dwelling unit” if the existing multifamily dwelling has “a rear or side setback of 
less than four feet...” (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(4)(B)). 
• 
Permitting Agency Definition. Adds definition of a permitting agency as “any entity that is 
involved in the review of a permit for an accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory 
dwelling unit and for which there is no substitute, including, but not limited to, applicable 
planning departments, building departments, utilities, and special districts.” (Gov. Code, § 
66313, subd. (k).) 
• 
Unpermitted ADUs. Precludes a local agency from denying a permit for an unpermitted 
ADU that was constructed before January 1, 2018, because the ADU violates building 
standards or because the ADU does not comply with State ADU Law or a local ordinance. 
(Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (a).) This prohibition does not apply if the local agency makes 
a finding that “correcting the violation is necessary to protect the health and safety of the 
public or occupants of the structure” (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (b)) or to a building that is 
deemed substandard pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 17920.3 (Gov. Code, § 
66332, subd. (c)). 
• 
Enclosed Uses. Considers enclosed uses within the residence, such as attached garages, 
to be “a part of the proposed or existing single-family residence” for the purposes of JADUs 
(Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (d)).

--- page 184 ---
16 
 
• 
JADU Separate Entrance. Requires a JADU without a separate bathroom to “include a 
separate entrance from the main entrance to the proposed JADU, with an interior entry to 
the main living area.” (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (e)(2).)  
2023 legislation includes the following changes to State ADU Law (effective January 1, 2024): 
 
AB 976 (Chapter 751, Statutes of 2023) and AB 1033 (Chapter 752, Statutes of 2023) made 
changes to State ADU Law. AB 1332 (Chapter 759, Statutes of 2023) added Government 
Code section 65852.27 to expedite the approval of ADUs. AB 434 (Chapter 740, Statutes of 
2023) modified Government Code section 65585 to require enforcement of State ADU Law, 
ADU amnesty laws, and lot split / duplex laws, among others. 
 
• Owner Occupancy. Removes the existing 2025 sunset of the prohibition on owner-
occupancy requirements and instead mandates no owner-occupancy requirement for ADUs 
(Gov. Code, § 66315). Authorizes a local agency to adopt a local ordinance to allow the 
separate conveyance of the primary dwelling unit and ADU(s) as condominiums (Gov. 
Code, § 66342). 
 
• Pre-Approved ADU Plans. Requires the local agency to develop a program for the 
preapproval of ADU plans by January 1, 2025. The local agency shall accept ADU plan 
submissions for preapproval from any party and shall approve or deny applications 
pursuant to standards established in Government Code sections 66314-66332. The local 
agency shall post preapproved ADU plans and the contact information of the applicant on 
the local agency’s website. The local agency may also post plans pre-approved by other 
local or state agencies. (Gov. Code, § 65852.27.)  
 
• Enforcement Authority. Amends Government Code section 65585, subdivision (j), by 
adding to the list of laws about which HCD is authorized to notify a local jurisdiction or the 
Attorney General when the local jurisdiction fails to comply with those laws, including 
Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 66310) and Government Code sections 65852.21, 
65852.24, 65852.28, 65913.4.5, and 66411.7, among others. 
 
2024 legislation includes the following changes to State ADU Law (effective March 27, 2024, 
and January 1, 2025): 
 
SB 477 (Chapter 7, Statutes of 2024) made changes to the numbering of the government code 
sections related to ADU and JADU Law. AB 2533 (Chapter 834, Statutes of 2024) and SB 
1211 (Chapter 296, Statutes of 2024) made changes to State ADU Law.  
 
• 
Updated Government Code Sections. Government Code sections related to ADU and 
JADU law were updated from 65852.2, 65852.22, 65852.23, and 65852.26 to Government 
Code sections 66310-66342. 
 
• 
Unpermitted ADUs and JADUs. Changes the date from January 1, 2018, to January 1, 
2020, such that a local agency is precluded from denying a permit for an unpermitted ADU 
that was constructed before January 1, 2020, because the ADU violates building standards

--- page 185 ---
17 
 
or because the ADU does not comply with State ADU Law or a local ordinance. (Gov. 
Code, § 66332, subd. (a).) A local agency shall inform the public about the provisions of 
this section through public information resources, including permit checklists and the local 
agency’s internet website, which shall include both of the following: (1) a checklist of the 
conditions specified in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code that would deem a 
building substandard, and (2) information that, before applying for a permit, the homeowner 
may obtain a confidential third-party code inspection from a licensed contractor to 
determine the unit’s existing condition or potential scope of building improvements before 
applying for a permit. (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (d)(1), (d)(2).) 
 
• Objective Standards. Prohibits a local agency from imposing any objective development 
standards on 66323 Units that are not authorized by the provisions of Government Code 
section 66323, subdivision (a). 
 
• Livable Space. Defines “livable space” as a space in a dwelling intended for human 
habitation, as the term appears in Government Code sections 66313, subdivision (e), and 
66323, subdivision (a)(3)(A). 
 
• Uncovered Parking. Specifies that uncovered, off-street parking spaces demolished in 
conjunction with the construction of an ADU do not need to be replaced. 
 
• Detached ADUs. Authorizes up to eight detached ADUs on a lot with an existing 
multifamily dwelling, provided that the number of ADUs does not exceed the number of 
existing units on the lot. 
 
For additional summaries of ADU legislation, please see the Resources section.

--- page 186 ---
18 
 
Frequently Asked Questions 
 
66323 Units 
 
What are “66323 Units”?  
HCD uses the term “66323 Units” to refer to ADUs and JADUs that are created pursuant to 
Government Code section 66323. They have also been referred to as “State mandated” or 
“State exempt” ADUs. Government Code section 66323 creates four categories of ADUs (and 
JADUs) that must be approved ministerially and are not subject to standards set forth in 
Government Code sections 66314-66322. For example, 66323 Units do not have to comply 
with lot coverage, front setbacks, and design standards. However, these ADUs must comply 
with building code and health and safety requirements for dwellings. The four categories are:  
 
1. Single-Family Converted ADUs and JADUs 
One ADU per lot is permitted within the converted space of a proposed or existing 
single-family dwelling or accessory structure. This type of ADU must have exterior 
access and setbacks for fire and safety but is not subject to a four-foot side and rear 
yard setback. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
ADUs converted from accessory structures are eligible for a 150 square-foot expansion 
to accommodate ingress and egress. For example, if a second story from a single-
family dwelling is converted into an ADU, a stairwell of not more than 150 square feet 
could be added, among other types of ingress and egress configurations that comply 
with the local building code. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1)(A).)  
 
In addition, one JADU per lot is permitted within the proposed or existing space of a 
single-family dwelling or accessory structure and must have exterior access, side and 
rear setbacks for fire and safety. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1).) JADUs must also 
comply with the provisions of JADU Law found in Government Code sections 66333-
66339. For the purposes of constructing a JADU, attached garages are part of a single-
family dwelling. (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (d).)  
 
For more information, please see the Handbook section on JADUs. 
 
2. Single-Family Detached ADUs 
One detached new construction ADU that does not exceed four-foot side and rear yard 
setbacks is permitted on lots with an existing or proposed single-family dwelling (Gov. 
Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(2)). The maximum unit size is 800 square feet with a height 
limitation of 16, 18, or 20 feet depending on conditions specified in Government Code 
section 66321, subdivision (b)(4). (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(2)(B).)  
 
3. Multifamily Converted ADUs 
ADUs may be created within the portions of existing multifamily structures that are not 
used as livable space (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(3)(A)). Local agencies shall allow

--- page 187 ---
19 
 
at least one ADU within an existing multifamily dwelling and up to 25 percent of the 
existing multifamily dwelling units (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(3)(B)). Examples of 
structures that are not used as livable space include, but are not limited to: storage 
rooms, boiler rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or garages (Gov. Code, § 66323, 
subd. (a)(3)(A)). 
 
4. Multifamily Detached ADUs 
Up to two detached ADUs are allowed on a lot that has a proposed multifamily dwelling, 
or up to eight detached ADUs are allowed on a lot with an existing multifamily dwelling, 
not to exceed the number of existing units on the lot. These ADUs are subject to four-
foot rear and side yard setbacks and height limits of 16, 18, or 20 feet depending on 
conditions specified in Government Code section 66321, subdivision (b)(4). (Gov. Code, 
§ 66323, subd. (a)(4)(A).) A local agency may not require that a setback be modified for 
an existing multifamily dwelling with setbacks less than four feet as a condition of ADU 
application approval (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(4)(B)).  
 
The local agency must allow the four categories of ADUs listed above to be combined as 
allowed by the site and lot conditions. For example, pursuant to Government Code 66323, 
subdivision (a), local governments must allow units created pursuant to subparagraphs (1) 
and (2) together or (3) and (4) together. This means that on single-family lots, local agencies 
must allow at least one ADU constructed from existing space, one JADU, and one newly 
constructed detached ADU. For multifamily lots, local agencies must permit at least one ADU 
constructed from existing non-livable space (or up to 25 percent of the number of multifamily 
units), and two detached ADUs. 
 
Allowable 66323 ADU Combinations 
All formats listed below may be combined as explained in the preceding section 
 
 
Single-Family  
Primary Dwelling 
Multifamily  
Primary Dwelling 
Gov. Code, § 
66323, subd. 
(a)(1) 
 ADU 
constructed 
from 
proposed or 
existing space 
• 
Sometimes referred to as 
“Conversions,” “Interior,” 
“Created within.” 
• 
May expand 150 square feet 
from the existing accessory 
structure for ingress and egress. 
• 
Must have exterior access. 
Does not apply 
Gov. Code, §§ 
66323, subd. 
(a)(1); 
 66333-66339 
JADUs 
• 
Created within existing or 
proposed dwelling. 
• 
500 square-foot maximum. 
• 
May be created from within 
attached garage. 
Does not apply

--- page 188 ---
20 
 
Gov. Code, § 
66323, subd. 
(a)(2) 
New 
construction 
detached 
• 
May be in front setback. 
• 
800 square-foot maximum. 
Does not apply 
Gov. Code, § 
66323, subd. 
(a)(3)(A) 
Constructed 
in existing 
space not 
used as 
livable 
Does not apply 
• 
Existing non-livable space (e.g., gyms, 
enclosed parking, etc.) within the 
multifamily structure. 
• 
Allows at least one ADU or up to 25% of 
existing primary units. 
Gov. Code, § 
66323, subd. 
(a)(4) 
Detached 
from primary 
dwelling 
Does not apply 
• 
Up to two units detached from proposed 
primary dwelling, or 
• 
Up to eight units detached from existing 
primary dwelling, not to exceed the number 
of existing units on the lot. 
• 
Four-foot side and rear setbacks. 
 
What design, zoning, or other local standards can be imposed on 66323 Units? 
A local agency may not impose development or design standards, including both local 
standards and standards found in State ADU Law, on 66323 Units that are not specifically 
listed in Government Code section 66323. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subds. (a), (b).) This includes, 
but is not limited to, parking, height, setbacks, or other zoning provisions (e.g., lot size, open 
space, floor area ratio, etc.).  
 
Additionally, rentals of 66323 ADUs must be for terms longer than 30 days. (Gov. Code, § 
66323, subd. (e).) Fire sprinklers are not required for the ADU if not required for the primary 
residence, and the construction of an ADU may not trigger the requirement for fire sprinklers in 
an existing multifamily dwelling. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (d).)  
 
Can a 66323 ADU created by converting an existing accessory structure be expanded? 
Yes. An ADU created within the existing space of an accessory structure can be expanded 
beyond the physical dimensions of the structure up to 150 square feet solely for the purpose of 
accommodating ingress and egress. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1)(A).) An example is the 
construction of a staircase to reach a second story ADU. The ADUs shall conform to setbacks 
sufficient for fire and safety. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1)(C).)  
 
NOTE: A JADU may be created within the walls of a single-family residence and not 
within an accessory structure. JADUs may not be expanded beyond the existing 
dimensions of the single-family dwelling.  
 
For more information regarding 66323 multifamily accessory units, please see Multifamily 
ADUs.

--- page 189 ---
21 
 
ADUs  
 
What is an ADU? 
An ADU is accessory to a primary residence and has complete independent living facilities for 
one or more persons. ADUs are either “detached from,” “attached to,” or located within the 
proposed or existing primary dwelling. This includes attached garages, storage areas or similar 
spaces, and accessory structures. The ADU can also be detached from the proposed or 
existing primary dwelling, including detached garages, provided it is located on the same lot. 
(Gov. Code. §§ 66313, subd. (a); 66314, subd. (d)(3).)2  
 
Bedrooms 
 
Can a limit on the number of bedrooms in an ADU be imposed? 
A limit on the number of bedrooms could be construed as a discriminatory practice towards 
protected classes, such as familial status, and would be considered a constraint on the 
development of ADUs (Gov. Code, § 65008). Building code standards for minimum bedroom 
size still apply.  
  
Can an ADU have no bedrooms? 
A limit on the number of bedrooms could be construed as a discriminatory practice towards 
protected classes, such as familial status, (Gov. Code, § 65008) and could also unreasonably 
restrict the ability of homeowners to create ADUs (Gov. Code, § 66311). Building code 
standards for minimum bedroom size still apply.  
 
Building Code Violations 
 
Can an ADU application be denied due to building code violations? 
An ADU application pursuant to Government Code section 66314 may be denied due to 
building code violations on the primary unit only if the violations present a threat to public 
health and safety and are affected by the construction of the ADU (Gov. Code, § 66322, subd. 
(b)). However, all ADUs must comply with building code and health and safety requirements 
for dwellings. 
 
Coastal Commission 
 
Do state ADU laws apply to jurisdictions located in the California Coastal Zone? 
Yes. ADU laws apply to jurisdictions in the California Coastal Zone, but do not alter or lessen 
the effect or application of Coastal Act resource protection policies (Gov. Code, § 66329). 
Coastal localities should seek to harmonize the goals of protecting coastal resources and 
addressing housing needs of Californians. For example, where appropriate, localities should 
amend Local Coastal Programs for California Coastal Commission review to comply with the 
California Coastal Act and new State ADU Laws. For more information, see the California 
 
2 Note that certain federal financing programs mentioned in the section on “Funding,” below, 
may have different definitions of an ADU.

--- page 190 ---
22 
 
Coastal Commission 2020 Memo and reach out to the local Coastal Commission district office.  
 
Deed Restrictions 
 
Can an affordable housing deed restriction be imposed on an ADU? 
No. A local agency cannot impose a deed restriction on an ADU. Government Code section 
66315 states, “Section 66314 establishes the maximum standards that a local agency shall 
use to evaluate a proposed accessory dwelling unit on a lot that includes a proposed or 
existing single-family dwelling. No additional standards, other than those provided in Section 
66314, shall be used or imposed, including an owner-occupant requirement, except that a local 
agency may require that the property may be used for rentals of terms 30 days or longer.” 
Section 66314, subdivision (b)(1) allows for local objective standards, but the examples 
provided all relate to design and development standards (e.g., parking, height, setback, 
landscape, maximum size of a unit). A deed restriction is not such a standard and thus cannot 
be imposed. 
 
Can a deed restriction be imposed on a JADU? 
Yes. A local agency may adopt an ordinance for the creation of JADUs (Gov. Code, § 66333). 
That ordinance must “[r]equire the recordation of a deed restriction” that includes only a 
prohibition on the sale of the JADU separate from the sale of the single-family residence and a 
restriction on the size and attributes of the JADU that conforms with state law (Gov. Code, § 
66333, subds. (c)(1), (c)(2)). 
 
Fees 
 
What types of fees are considered impact fees? 
Impact fees charged for the construction of ADUs must be determined in accordance with the 
Mitigation Fee Act and include any monetary exaction other than a tax or special assessment 
that is charged by a local agency in connection with the approval of an ADU for the purpose of 
defraying all or a portion of the cost of public facilities relating to the ADU. (Gov. Code, §§ 
66324, subd. (a); 66000.) A local agency, special district, or water corporation shall not 
consider ADUs as a new residential use for the purposes of calculating connection fees or 
capacity charges for utilities, including water and sewer services. However, these provisions 
do not apply to ADUs that are constructed concurrently with a new single-family home. (Gov. 
Code, § 66324, subds. (b), (d).) 
 
Can impact fees be charged for an ADU less than 750 square feet? 
No. An ADU is exempt from incurring impact fees from local agencies, special districts, and 
water corporations if it is less than 750 square feet. If an ADU is 750 square feet or larger, 
impact fees shall be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the ADU to the 
square footage of the primary dwelling unit. (Gov. Code, § 66324 subd. (c)(1).) In this specific 
instance, impact fees also include Quimby fees specified in Government Code section 66477 
(Gov. Code, § 66324 subd. (c)(2)). 
 
For ADUs that include a 150 square-foot exterior expansion, the 150 square feet count 
towards the 750 square-foot limit. For example, a 700 square-foot interior conversion ADU with

--- page 191 ---
23 
a 150 square-foot exterior expansion for ingress and egress would count as an 850 square-
foot ADU for the purposes of calculating fees, thus triggering the proportionate fee requirement 
of Government Code section 66324, subdivision (c). 
What is “Proportionality”? 
“Proportionality” is some amount in relation to a total amount, in this case, an impact 
fee for a single-family dwelling. For example, a 2,000 square-foot primary dwelling 
with a proposed 1,000 square-foot ADU could result in 50 percent of the impact fee 
that would be charged for a new primary dwelling on the same site. (Gov. Code, § 
66324, subd. (c)(1).) 
Can school districts charge impact fees? 
Yes. School districts are authorized to, but do not have to, levy impact fees for ADUs larger 
than 500 square feet pursuant to Section 17620 of the Education Code and the Mitigation Fee 
Act (Gov. Code, § 66000). ADUs less than 500 square feet are not subject to school impact 
fees. Local agencies are encouraged to coordinate with school districts to carefully weigh the 
importance of promoting ADUs and to ensure appropriate nexus studies are conducted on fees 
to facilitate construction or reconstruction of adequate school facilities, as required by the 
Mitigation Fee Act. Local agencies should not withhold the issuance of a permit to create an 
ADU or JADU due to the imposition of school fees. 
Can I still be charged water and sewer connection fees? 
ADUs constructed from existing space and JADUs shall not be considered by a local agency, 
special district, or water corporation to be a new residential use for purposes of calculating 
connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, unless constructed concurrently with a new 
single-family dwelling (Gov. Code, § 66324, subd. (b)). The connection fee or capacity charge 
shall be proportionate to the burden of the proposed ADU, based on its square footage or 
plumbing fixtures as compared to the primary dwelling (Gov. Code, § 66324, subd. (e)). 
Fire Protection and Fire Sprinkler Requirements 
Can fire sprinklers be required for ADUs? 
Only when sprinklers are required for the existing primary residence. Installation of fire 
sprinklers shall not be required in attached, detached, or converted ADUs if sprinklers are not 
required by building codes for the existing primary residence. For example, a detached single-
family home designed and constructed decades ago would not have been required to have fire 
sprinklers installed under the applicable building code at the time. However, if the same 
primary dwelling recently underwent significant alteration and is now required to have fire 
sprinklers, any ADU created after that alteration must be provided with fire sprinklers. 
Additionally, the construction of an ADU under this code section shall not trigger a requirement 
for fire sprinklers for the primary residence. Finally, if a primary dwelling currently does not 
have fire sprinklers, and an attached ADU is proposed which would trigger fire sprinkler 
requirements due to the increase in livable space, that requirement shall not be imposed upon 
the primary dwelling unit. (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (d)(12); 66323, subd. (d).)

--- page 192 ---
24 
 
Funding 
 
Is there financial assistance or funding available for ADUs?  
Possibly. While at the time of this writing the funds have been exhausted, the California 
Housing Finance Agency’s (CalHFA) ADU Grant Program provided up to $40,000 in 
assistance to reimburse qualifying homeowners for predevelopment costs necessary to build 
an ADU or JADU on a lot with an owner-occupied single-family dwelling unit. The ADU Grant 
Program was intended to create more housing units in California by providing a grant to 
reimburse qualifying homeowners for predevelopment costs. Predevelopment costs include, 
but are not limited to, architectural designs, permits, soil tests, impact fees, property surveys, 
and energy reports.  
 
Some local agencies are creating funding opportunities for ADU/JADU predevelopment and 
construction costs, or they are waiving fees.  
 
For local agencies wanting to apply for funding for ADUs and JADUs, some of HCD’s funding 
programs, such as the CalHome Program, the Permanent Local Housing Allocation program, 
the Prohousing Incentive Program, and the Local Housing Trust Fund Program, do include 
funding for these housing types as eligible activities.  
 
For more information on local and state funding opportunities for ADU/JADU predevelopment 
or construction, or funding options for local agencies, please see the Grants and Funding 
section of our ADU webpage: https://www.hcd.ca.gov/policy-and-research/accessory-dwelling-
units.  
 
The Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Freddie Mac, and Fannie Mae also provide loans 
to support ADUs. The links below include information on these finance programs, including 
relevant definitions and criteria. 
 
FHA 
The FHA recently expanded access to mortgage financing for homes that have or will include 
ADUs. Specifically, the updated loan policies allow for the inclusion of rental income from the 
ADU in the borrower’s qualifying income and would allow more borrowers to qualify for FHA 
financing for properties with ADUs. This includes the 203(k) Rehabilitation loan. Note that the 
203(k) Rehabilitation loan may only be used to construct an attached ADU. 
 
For more information on the updated policies, please reference the FHA Single Family 
Housing Policy Handbook at https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/OCHCO/documents/40001-hsgh-
update15-052024.pdf, or the 2023 Mortgagee Letter that includes specific ADU finance 
changes in the handbook https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/OCHCO/documents/2023-
17hsgml.pdf. Interested parties should look to HUD’s website for any updates. 
 
Freddie Mac  
Freddie Mac now offers several options for adding an ADU to an existing home and financing a 
purchase with the intention to rent or build an ADU. This includes allowing rental income from 
ADUs to be included in qualified income for a loan.

--- page 193 ---
25 
 
 
For more information, please visit https://sf.freddiemac.com/docs/pdf/fact-sheet/adu-fact-
sheet.pdf.  
 
Fannie Mae 
Fannie Mae now offers financing options for adding an ADU to an existing property, building a 
home with an ADU using Construction-to-Permanent Financing, and buying a home with an 
existing ADU. 
 
For more information, please visit https://singlefamily.fanniemae.com/originating-
underwriting/mortgage-products/accessory-dwelling-units.   
 
Height Requirements 
 
Is there a limit on the height of an ADU? 
There is no height limit contained in State ADU Law, but local agencies may impose height 
limits pursuant to Government Code section 66321, subdivision (b)(4). A local agency may 
impose a height limit by adopting a compliant ADU ordinance. 
 
A local agency may not impose a height limit that is less than the following: 
 
Detached ADUs 
 
16 feet on a lot with a proposed or existing single-family or multifamily dwelling unit (Gov. 
Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(A)). 
 
18 feet on a lot with an existing or proposed single-family or multifamily dwelling, including an 
additional 2 feet to accommodate roof pitch that aligns with the primary dwelling, when the lot 
is a half-mile from a major transit stop or high-quality transit corridor (Gov. Code, § 66321, 
subd. (b)(4)(B)). Please see the ADU Glossary for definitions of these terms. 
 
18 feet height on a lot with an existing or proposed multifamily, multistory dwelling (Gov. Code, 
§ 66321, subd. (b)(4)(C)). 
 
If a detached two-story ADU can be built according to the height allowances required under 
State ADU Law while remaining compliant with the building code, a local agency cannot deny 
an ADU application to create a two-story ADU, irrespective of the underlying zoning that might 
restrict a primary dwelling to one story. (Gov. Code, §§ 66321, subd. (b)(4)(D); 66314, subd. 
(d)(8).) 
 
Attached ADUs 
 
25 feet or the height limitation that applies to the primary dwelling in the local zoning 
ordinance, whichever is lower (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(D)).

--- page 194 ---
26 
 
Is there a limit on the number of stories of an ADU? 
There is no limit on the number of stories contained in State ADU Law. A local agency must 
allow at least two stories, and an attached ADU may be built to the height of the zoning for the 
primary dwelling or up to 25 feet, whichever is lower. (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(4)(D).) 
 
Are there tools available to determine if a project qualifies for 18 feet in height?  
The California State Geoportal features an interactive map and searchable database to assess 
whether any California address is within a High-Quality Transit Corridor (HQTC) (as described 
in Public Resources Code sections 21155, 21064.3, and 21060.2). This can assist with 
determining if your projects are eligible for an extra two feet in height. However, the State ADU 
Law does not designate a definitive resource for making HQTC proximity determinations. 
Applicants should go to their Metropolitan Planning Organizations first to find out if they are in 
a HQTC. If there is not one in their area, then they should go to their local agency.  
 
Homeowners Associations (HOAs) 
 
Can CC&Rs prohibit the construction or use of an ADU or JADU?  
No. Sections 714.3 and 4751 of the Civil Code nullify covenants, conditions, and restrictions 
(CC&Rs) that either effectively prohibit or unreasonably restrict the construction or use of an 
ADU or JADU on lots zoned to permit single-family residential uses. Such CC&Rs, including 
operating rules, are void and unenforceable. Applicants who encounter prohibitions of ADUs 
and JADUs within CC&Rs, whether implicit or explicit, are encouraged to reach out to their 
local agency. 
 
What restrictions can be placed on an ADU or JADU? 
HOAs may impose some limited objective standards on an ADU or JADU, such as requiring, 
within reason, specific materials, architectural styles, or other design and aesthetic restrictions. 
However, these standards may not be more stringent than State ADU Law and thereby 
unreasonably increase the cost to construct or effectively prohibit or extinguish the ability to 
create or serve an ADU or JADU. (Civ. Code, § 714.3, subd. (b).)  
 
Examples of effective prohibitions, unreasonable costs, and extinguishments of the ability to 
construct an ADU or JADU may include, but would not be limited to: 
• Any delay in reviewing an ADU or JADU for compliance with reasonable restrictions 
beyond the timeframes required of local agencies (60 days) or that significantly delay 
the construction or use of an ADU or JADU. 
• Requiring alteration to an ADU or JADU application that would cause the property 
owner to incur substantial costs or forgo the development. 
• Imposing a condition that would necessitate re-applying or amending a building permit 
application that substantially complies with State ADU and JADU Laws. 
• Mandating neighboring property owners’ approval or agreement for an ADU or JADU 
application or considering any disapproval or disagreement to the construction or use of 
an ADU or JADU by the neighbors as part of the local agency’s ministerial process to 
approve or deny the application. 
• Restricting the placement or location of an ADU or JADU such that it would be rendered 
infeasible or unusable by the property owner.

--- page 195 ---
27 
•
Requiring major structural elements or design changes beyond the requirements set
forth in State ADU and JADU Law that would extinguish the ability to construct or use
the ADU or JADU.
•
Imposing restrictions that are not objective or not knowable or available to the property
owners in advance of submitting the application.
•
Levying excessive application fees, conditions, or other financial requirements that
would cause the property owner to incur substantial costs or forgo the development,
such as requiring owner-occupancy of an ADU or charging excessive maintenance fees
that would be unreasonable considering the size of the ADU proportionally to the
primary dwelling.
Property owners whose construction or use of an ADU or JADU is impeded by an HOA (or 
their representatives or agents) are encouraged to reach out to their local agency and to seek 
legal counsel.  
Can an HOA review or influence a local agency’s ministerial approval to create or serve 
an ADU or JADU? 
No. An HOA may not influence a local agency’s ministerial approval of an ADU or JADU. Local 
agencies must provide an approval process that only includes ministerial provisions for the 
approval of ADU permit applications. This approval process shall not include discretionary 
processes, provisions, or requirements except as provided in Government Code section 
66315. Thus, third party reviews by an HOA or their representatives or agents would violate 
State ADU Law. (Gov. Code, § 66315.) No other local ordinances, policies, or regulations may 
be applied in the approval or denial of an ADU or JADU permit application (Gov. Code, § 
66317, subd. (c)). If a local agency allows an HOA to be involved in any part of an ADU or 
JADU application process, the local agency is in violation of State ADU Law.  
Housing Elements and Prohousing Designation 
Do ADUs and JADUs count toward a local agency’s RHNA? 
Yes. Pursuant to Government Code sections 66330, and 65583.1, ADUs and JADUs may be 
utilized towards the RHNA and the Housing Element Annual Progress Report (APR) required 
by Government Code section 65400. To credit a unit toward the RHNA, HCD and the 
Department of Finance (DOF) utilize the U.S. Census definition of a housing unit. Generally, 
an ADU, and a JADU with shared sanitation facilities, and any other unit that meets the U.S. 
Census definition and is reported to DOF as part of the DOF annual City and County Housing 
Unit Change Survey can be credited toward the RHNA based on the appropriate income level. 
The housing element or APR must include a reasonable methodology to demonstrate the level 
of affordability. Local governments can track actual or anticipated affordability to assure ADUs 
and JADUs are counted towards the appropriate income category. For example, some local 
governments request and track information such as anticipated affordability as part of the 
building permit or other local applications. 
For more information, please refer to the Housing Element Building Blocks or contact 
HousingElements@hcd.ca.gov.

--- page 196 ---
28 
 
What analysis is required to count ADUs toward the RHNA in the housing element? 
To count ADUs towards the RHNA in the housing element, local agencies must generally use a 
three-part approach: (1) development trends, (2) anticipated affordability, and (3) resources 
and incentives. Development trends must consider ADUs permitted in the prior planning period 
and may also consider more recent trends. Anticipated affordability can use a variety of 
methods to estimate the affordability by income group. Common approaches include rent 
surveys of ADUs, using rent surveys and square footage assumptions and data available 
through the APR required by Government Code section 65400. Resources and incentives 
include policies and programs to encourage ADUs, such as prototype plans, fee waivers, 
expedited procedures, and affordability monitoring programs.  
 
Are ADUs required to be addressed in the housing element? 
Yes. The housing element must include a description of zoning available to permit ADUs, 
including development standards and analysis of potential constraints on the development of 
ADUs. The element must include programs to address identified constraints. In addition, 
housing elements must include a plan that incentivizes and promotes the creation of ADUs that 
can offer affordable rents for very low-, low-, or moderate-income households and requires 
HCD to develop a list of state grants and financial incentives in connection with the planning, 
construction, and operation of affordable ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 65583; HSC, § 50504.5.)  
 
Can ADUs and JADUs impact a local agency’s Prohousing Designation status? 
Yes. To qualify for a Prohousing Designation, a local agency must be in compliance with all 
applicable state housing laws, such as those mentioned in Government Codes section 65585, 
subdivision (j), which includes State ADU Law. An approved housing element and any 
associated programs which promote ADU development will also need to be enacted and in 
compliance to meet the minimum threshold requirements for a Prohousing Designation. 
Additionally, ADUs and JADUs are specifically identified within the Prohousing Designation 
Program as designation criteria under California Code of Regulations, Title 25, section 6606, 
meaning that an ADU ordinance or program which promotes ADU development beyond the 
minimum requirements of State ADU Law may score additional points towards their 
Prohousing Designation. In other words, local agencies that are in violation of State ADU Law 
will be ineligible for a Prohousing Designation, while local agencies that promote additional 
ADU development can score additional points towards their Prohousing Designation, and all 
the benefits that designation provides. (CCR Title 25, §§ 6600-6608). 
 
JADUs 
 
What is a JADU? 
A “junior accessory dwelling unit” or JADU is a unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size 
and contained entirely within a single-family residence. A JADU may include separate sanitation 
facilities or may share sanitation facilities with the existing structure. (Gov. Code, § 66333.)  
 
Are two JADUs allowed on a lot? 
No. Only one JADU may be created per lot zoned for single-family residences with an existing 
or proposed single-family residence (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (a)). The JADU may be 
created within the walls of the proposed or existing single-family residence, including attached

--- page 197 ---
29 
 
garages (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (d)). If there are multiple detached single-family 
residential units on one lot, there can only be one JADU.  
 
Can a JADU be created within a “half-plex”?  
Yes, a JADU is permitted in a half-plex. A half-plex consists of two primary dwelling units on 
separate lots that share a dividing wall. One JADU is permitted in each half-plex in areas 
zoned for single-family use. (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (a).) If two units are attached on a 
single lot (i.e., a duplex), the primary dwelling is considered multifamily and would not qualify 
for a JADU.  
 
Are JADUs required to have an interior connection to the primary dwelling? 
JADUs are required to be within the walls of the primary dwelling but are not required to have 
an interior connection to the primary dwelling. However, if the JADU does not include a 
separate bathroom, the JADU must include an interior entrance to the main living area. (Gov. 
Code, § 66333, subd. (e)(2).)  
 
Are JADUs allowed in detached accessory structures? 
No, JADUs are not allowed in accessory structures. The creation of a JADU must be within the 
single-family residence. As noted above, “enclosed uses” within the residence, such as 
attached garages, are eligible for JADU creation. (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (d).) 
 
Are JADUs allowed to be increased by up to 150 square feet when created within an 
existing structure? 
No. Only ADUs that are created from existing accessory structures are allowed to add up to 
150 square feet “beyond the physical dimensions of the existing accessory structure” to 
provide for ingress or egress (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1)(A)). 
 
Are there any owner-occupancy requirements for JADUs? 
Yes. The owner must reside in either the remaining portion of the primary residence or in the 
newly created JADU. Owner-occupancy is not required when the owner is another 
governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization. (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (b).) 
 
What can local agencies require as part of an “efficiency kitchen”? 
An efficiency kitchen is a cooking facility with appliances, a food preparation counter, and 
storage cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to the size of the JADU (Gov. Code, § 
66333, subds. (f)(1), (f)(2)). A local agency cannot be more restrictive than this definition. Thus, 
requirements such as counter or cabinet sizes, specified electrical or gas connections, or 
appliance types are not authorized by State JADU Law.  
 
Are JADUs required to provide parking? 
No. Local agencies may not require parking as a condition to permitting a JADU, even when 
the JADU is converted from an attached garage (Gov. Code, § 66334, subd. (a)).

--- page 198 ---
30 
 
Local ADU Ordinances and Local Agencies 
 
Should a local ordinance encourage the development of ADUs? 
Yes. Pursuant to Government Code section 66310, the California Legislature found and 
declared that, among other things, California is facing a severe housing crisis and ADUs are a 
valuable form of housing that meets the needs of family members, students, the elderly, in-
home health care providers, people with disabilities, and others. Therefore, ADUs are an 
essential component of California’s housing supply. 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent changes to State ADU Law intend to address barriers, streamline approval, and expand 
potential capacity for ADUs, recognizing their unique importance in addressing California’s 
housing needs. The preparation, adoption, amendment, and implementation of local ADU 
ordinances must be carried out consistently with Government Code section 66310 and must 
not unduly restrict the creation of ADUs. Local governments adopting ADU ordinances should 
carefully weigh the adoption of zoning, development standards, and other provisions for 
impacts on the development of ADUs. 
State ADU Law provides the statutory minimum requirements for ADUs and JADUs. Local 
governments may elect to go beyond this statutory minimum to further the creation of ADUs. 
(Gov. Code, § 66325, subd. (b).) Many local governments have embraced the importance of 
ADUs as an important part of their overall housing policies and have pursued innovative 
strategies. 
Can a local agency adopt an ADU “bonus program?” 
Yes. One common strategy used by local agencies to promote ADU development is to adopt 
ADU bonus programs. HCD supports this approach to go above and beyond State ADU Law’s 
requirements to address California’s ongoing housing crisis. A successful ADU bonus program 
should meet the following criteria: 
1. The ADU bonus program is completely optional – There is no requirement, and no 
consequence for not taking part in a local bonus program. 
2. The ADU bonus program only offers benefits in addition to the provisions of State ADU 
Law, not in lieu of them – All state-mandated requirements are granted unconditionally. 
3. The ADU bonus program removes one or more physical constraints, such as a limitation 
on the number of allowable units on a lot, ADU size, height, setback requirements, or a 
waiver of design and development criteria. 
Does HCD have enforcement authority over ADU ordinances?  
Yes. Pursuant to Government Code section 66326, subdivision (a), local agencies are required 
to submit a copy of newly adopted ADU ordinances to HCD within 60 days of adoption. HCD 
may thereafter provide written findings to the local agency as to whether the ordinance 
complies with State ADU Law. If HCD finds that the ADU ordinance does not comply with State 
ADU Law, the local agency must respond to HCD’s written findings within 30 days. The local 
agency shall either amend its ordinance in accordance with HCD’s findings, or adopt the 
ordinance without changes, but include findings in its resolution explaining why the ordinance 
complies with State ADU Law despite HCD’s findings. (Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b).)

--- page 199 ---
31 
 
Although not required by State ADU Law, HCD may continue to offer further technical 
assistance to the local agency. However, if the local agency does not amend its ordinance in 
accordance with HCD’s findings or adopt a resolution explaining why the ordinance is 
compliant, HCD shall notify the local agency and may notify the Attorney General that the local 
agency is in violation of State ADU Law. (Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (c)(1).) While an 
ordinance is non-compliant, the local agency shall apply state standards for the approval of 
ADUs, until the local agency adopts a compliant ordinance. (Gov. Code, § 66316.) 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, HCD may review, adopt, amend, or repeal guidelines to implement uniform 
standards or criteria that supplement or clarify State ADU Law (Gov. Code, § 66327). 
Do local agencies have to adopt an ADU ordinance? 
No. Local agencies may choose not to adopt an ADU ordinance. Should a local government 
choose not to adopt an ADU ordinance, any proposed ADU development would be subject 
only to the standards set forth in State ADU Law. (Gov. Code, §§ 66315, 66316.) A local 
agency that adopts an ADU ordinance may impose objective development and design 
standards in compliance with Government Code section 66314. 
Is a local agency required to send an ADU ordinance to HCD? 
Yes. A local government, upon adoption of an ADU ordinance, must submit a copy of the 
adopted ordinance to HCD within 60 days after adoption. After the adoption of an ordinance, 
HCD may review and submit written findings to the local agency as to whether the ordinance 
complies with the State ADU Law. (Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (a).) 
Are charter cities and counties subject to the new ADU laws? 
Yes. State ADU Law applies to a local agency, which is defined as a city, county, or city and 
county, whether general law or chartered (Gov. Code, §§ 66312; 66313, subd. (g)).  
Do ADU laws apply to areas governed by the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency (TRPA)? 
Possibly. The TRPA was formed through a bistate compact between California and Nevada, 
which elevates its authority above state laws. Under this authority, TRPA has adopted certain 
restrictions that effectively limit lot coverage on developed land. State ADU Law may conflict to 
a degree with the TRPA standards, and to the extent that it does, the TRPA law preempts or 
overrides State ADU Law. For more information, please see: https://www.trpa.gov/adus/. 
 
 
 
Manufactured Homes 
Can a manufactured home be used as an ADU? 
Yes. By definition, an ADU includes manufactured homes (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (a)(2); 
HSC, §§ 18007, 18008).

--- page 200 ---
32 
For more information on Manufactured Homes please contact the Division of Codes and 
Standards at ContactMH-FBH@hcd.ca.gov. 
Mobilehome Parks 
Are ADUs permitted on lots within mobilehome parks or special occupancy parks? 
No. A lot, as defined in Health and Safety Code sections 18210 and 18862.23, allows for only 
one manufactured home, mobilehome, or recreational vehicle. Health and Safety Code section 
18862.23 also allows one tent, camp car, camping cabin, or camping party on a lot within a 
special occupancy park. 
For more information, please contact the Division of Codes and Standards at: 
NAOStaff@hcd.ca.gov for Northern CA or SAOStaff@hcd.ca.gov for Southern CA. 
Multifamily ADUs 
What is considered a multifamily dwelling under State ADU Law? 
For the purposes of creating an ADU, a structure with two or more attached dwellings on a 
single lot is considered a multifamily dwelling structure. Multiple detached single-unit dwellings 
on the same lot are not considered multifamily dwellings for the purposes of State ADU Law.  
Does a local agency have to permit ADUs on lots zoned for multifamily use? 
Yes. A local agency must permit an attached, detached, or converted ADU on a lot that is 
zoned to allow single-family or multifamily residential use and includes an existing or proposed 
dwelling (Gov. Code, § 66314, subds. (d)(2), (d)(3)). An applicant may build a detached or a 
converted ADU on a site in a residential or mixed-use zone with a proposed or existing 
multifamily dwelling. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subds. (a)(3), (a)(4).) (See next question for more 
information.) 
How many ADUs are allowed on a multifamily site under Government Code section 
66323? 
Under Government Code section 66323, an applicant may apply to build up to eight detached 
Health and Safety Code section 18007, subdivision (a): “Manufactured home,” for the purposes 
of this part, means a structure that was constructed on or after June 15, 1976, is transportable in 
one or more sections, is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more in length, in 
the traveling mode, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, is built on a permanent 
chassis and designed to be used as a single-family dwelling with or without a foundation when 
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and 
electrical systems contained therein. “Manufactured home” includes any structure that meets all 
the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the 
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification and complies with the standards established under 
the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C., Sec. 5401, 
and following).

--- page 201 ---
33 
 
ADUs (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(4)(A)) and at least one conversion ADU within an 
existing multifamily dwelling and up to 25 percent of the number of units in the existing 
multifamily dwelling (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(3)(B)).  
 
Can JADUs be created in multifamily dwelling structures? 
No. JADUs may only be constructed on a site with a proposed or existing single-family 
dwelling in an area zoned for single-family residences; a JADU cannot be constructed on a 
multifamily site (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (a)).  
 
Can a permitting agency impose accessibility standards on ADUs converted from 
existing space?  
Maybe. For more information on ADA standards as they apply to your specific dwelling, please 
contact the Division of Codes and Standards at HCDBuildingStandards@hcd.ca.gov. 
 
Can a leasing office be converted into an ADU? 
Yes. A leasing office within an existing multifamily dwelling structure can be converted to at 
least one ADU – and up to 25 percent of the existing multifamily dwelling units – provided the 
ADUs comply with state building standards for dwellings. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. 
(a)(3)(A).) 
  
In addition, a leasing office on a lot with an existing multifamily dwelling may be converted into 
up to eight detached ADUs, not to exceed the number of existing units on the lot and subject to 
height limitations in section 66321, subdivision (b), and to rear yard and side setbacks of no 
more than four feet. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(4)(A).) 
  
Finally, an ADU can be created from an accessory space, including a leasing office, that is 
either attached to or located within the multifamily structure or an accessory structure, or is 
detached from the primary dwelling and located on the same lot as the primary dwelling, and 
complies with other applicable standards. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(3).) 
 
Nonconforming Zoning 
 
Can a local agency refuse to permit an ADU or JADU because of nonconforming zoning 
conditions? 
No. State ADU Law limits a local agency’s ability to deny a permit application due to the 
correction of existing, nonconforming zoning conditions. Nonconforming zoning conditions are 
physical improvements on a property that do not conform to current zoning standards. (Gov. 
Code, § 66313, subd. (h)). For 66323 Units, a local agency cannot condition approval on the 
correction of nonconforming zoning conditions (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (c)). For all other 
ADUs, a local agency may only deny a permit to create an ADU due to zoning non-
conformance when the non-conformance creates a threat to public health and safety and is 
affected by the construction of the ADU (Gov. Code, §§ 66322, subd. (b)).

--- page 202 ---
34 
 
Owner-Occupancy 
 
Can local agencies require owner-occupancy for an ADU? 
No. A local agency cannot impose an owner-occupancy requirement on any ADU (Gov. Code, 
§ 66315).  
 
Parking Requirements 
 
Can ADU parking requirements exceed one space per unit or bedroom? 
No. Parking requirements for ADUs shall not exceed one parking space per unit or bedroom, 
whichever is less (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(10)(A)). These spaces may be provided as 
tandem parking on a driveway (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(10)(B)). Guest parking spaces 
shall not be required for ADUs under any circumstances. In addition, a local agency may not 
require off-street parking spaces to be replaced when a garage, carport, covered parking 
structure, or uncovered parking space is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an 
ADU or converted to an ADU (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(11)). 
 
Local agencies may choose to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for ADUs, such as 
requiring zero or a fraction of a parking space per each ADU (such as a ½ space per unit), to 
further reduce barriers to ADU construction and to facilitate more development of mixed-modal 
transportation such as walking and public transit. 
 
Are certain ADUs exempt from parking requirements? 
Yes. A local agency shall not impose parking standards on any of the following ADUs, pursuant 
to Government Code section 66322, subdivision (a): 
1) ADUs located within one-half mile walking distance of public transit. 
2) ADUs located within an architecturally and historically significant historic district. 
3) ADUs that are part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an accessory 
structure. 
4) When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the occupant of the ADU. 
5) When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the ADU. 
6) When a permit application for an ADU is submitted with a permit application to create a 
new single-family dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot, provided that 
the ADU or the parcel satisfies any other criteria listed in Government Code section 
66322, subdivision (a)(1)-(5). 
 
Parking requirements for ADUs may not exceed one parking space per ADU or per bedroom, 
whichever is less (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(10)). ADUs which have no bedrooms 
because they are an “efficiency unit” or studio do not increase the bedroom count.  
 
In addition, local agencies may not impose parking requirements on 66323 Units.  
 
Is flexibility for siting ADU parking recommended? 
Yes. Local agencies should be flexible when siting parking for ADUs. Off-street parking spaces 
for the ADU shall be permitted in setback areas in locations determined by the local agency or 
through tandem parking unless specific findings are made otherwise based on specific site or

--- page 203 ---
35 
 
regional topographical or fire and life safety conditions. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(10)(B).)  
 
When a garage, carport, or covered parking structure is demolished in conjunction with the 
construction of an ADU, or converted to an ADU, the local agency shall not require that those 
off-street parking spaces for the primary unit be replaced (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(11)). 
 
Permit Applications and Permitting Agencies 
 
What is an ADU permitting agency? 
A permitting agency is “any entity that is involved in the review of a permit for an accessory 
dwelling unit or JADU and for which there is no substitute, including, but not limited to, 
applicable planning departments, building departments, utilities, and special districts.” (Gov. 
Code, § 66313, subd. (k).) See also the Glossary section of this Handbook for this definition. 
 
Are ADUs permitted ministerially? 
Yes. ADUs subject to State ADU Law must be considered, approved or denied, and permitted 
ministerially, without discretionary review or a hearing (Gov. Code, § 66317, subd. (a)). 
Development standards must be objective to allow for ministerial review (Gov. Code, § 66314, 
subd. (b)(1)). Objective standards require a uniform benchmark or reference that is knowable 
by both the permit applicant and the permitting agency prior to the submission of an application 
to create or serve an ADU (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (i)).  
 
What are considered objective standards for ministerial approval? 
Examples include numeric and fixed standards such as heights or setbacks, or design 
standards such as specified colors or materials. See also the Glossary section of this 
Handbook for the definition of objective standards. 
 
What would be considered subjective standards? 
Subjective standards require independent judgement and are open to multiple interpretations. 
Language such as “privacy,” “compatibility with neighboring properties,” “promoting design 
harmony and balance,” “must maintain similar architecture style,” or requiring “high quality 
materials” are subjective and may not be imposed on ADU development (Gov. Code, § 66313, 
subd. (i)). 
 
What is the process and timeline for reviewing and approving ADU and JADU 
applications?  
Under the Permit Streamlining Act, and whether or not a local agency has adopted an 
ordinance, a local agency has 30 calendar days to determine whether or not an ADU 
application is complete. If an application is deemed incomplete, the local agency must provide 
an exhaustive list of items that were not complete. That list shall be limited to those items 
actually required on the lead agency’s submittal requirement checklist. (Gov. Code, § 65943, 
subd. (a).) 
 
If the application is complete, it must be approved or denied ministerially within 60 days from 
the date the permitting agency received the complete application (Gov. Code, §§ 66317, subd. 
(a); 66320, subd. (a)). Applicants are responsible for paying all applicable processing and

--- page 204 ---
36 
 
permitting fees that may be due at the time of application. 
 
What kind of environmental review is required for ADUs and JADUs? 
ADUs and JADUs approved ministerially are statutorily exempt from CEQA pursuant to 
Section 15268 (Ministerial Projects) of the CEQA guidelines and Section 21080, subdivision 
(b)(1) of the Public Resources Code. In addition, ADUs can be categorically exempt from 
CEQA pursuant to Sections 15301 and 15303 of the CEQA guidelines, authority cited under 
Public Resources Code Sections 21083 and 21084. ADU and JADU ordinances are statutorily 
exempt from CEQA pursuant to Section 21080.17. 
 
What does ministerial review of a permit application involve? 
A ministerial review ensures that the permit application meets all the applicable objective 
standards effective at the time of the review and uses no discretionary judgment, opinion, or 
subjective standards. Agency staff inspect the submitted application, site plan, and building 
plans for compliance with applicable standards. This often means that the permitting agency 
(i.e., planning, building, fire departments and utilities) reviews the application using only 
checklists. (Gov. Code, §§ 66316, 66317, 66320.)  
 
Can an applicant delay the 60-day timeline? 
Yes. If an applicant would like to request a delay on their application for any reason, they may 
do so. The 60-day period to approve or deny the permit shall be tolled for the period of the 
delay. (Gov. Code, § 66317, subd. (a).) 
 
When is an ADU permit application “deemed approved” without formal review? 
An ADU permit application is “deemed approved” when the permitting agency fails to approve 
or deny a completed application within 60 days of receiving a completed application (Gov. 
Code, §§ 66317, subd. (a); 66320, subd. (a)).  
 
Do ADUs need a Certificate of Occupancy? 
Yes, property owners must obtain a Certificate of Occupancy from the local agency prior to any 
residential occupancy of an ADU or JADU (Gov. Code, § 66328; 2022 CBC, § 111).  
 
Can the local agency deny a permit application for an unpermitted ADU that was built 
before 2020? 
A local agency shall not deny a permit for an unpermitted ADU that was constructed before 
January 1, 2020, due to the ADU being in violation of building standards, non-compliance with 
State ADU Law, or any local ordinance regulating ADUs (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (a)). 
However, the local agency may deny the permit if the local agency makes a finding that 
correcting the violation is necessary to protect the health and safety of the public or occupants 
of the structure, or if the building is deemed substandard pursuant to section 17920.3 of the 
Health and Safety Code (Gov. Code, § 66332, subds. (b), (c)). 
 
What happens when an application for an ADU is denied? 
The permitting agency denying the application must provide the applicant a full set of 
comments listing items that are defective or deficient and include a description of how the 
application may be remedied. A full set of comments includes all comments from all reviewers,

--- page 205 ---
37 
 
from every permitting agency. The 60-day countdown continues until the complete list is 
provided. (Gov. Code, §§ 66317, 66320.) A local agency which has provided a complete set of 
correction comments has fulfilled this requirement. Following a denial, a subsequent 
application resets the 60-day period.  
 
The applicant may address the proposed remedy and resubmit the application to the permitting 
agency. A local agency may charge a fee to process a resubmitted application. (Gov. Code, § 
66335 subd. (c).)  
 
How can I request technical assistance from HCD about the denial of my ADU 
application? 
Questions and requests for technical assistance should be submitted through HCD’s ADU 
Portal, which is available on HCD’s ADU webpage: https://www.hcd.ca.gov/policy-and-
research/accessory-dwelling-units. To reach the portal, navigate to “Contact the ADU Team.” 
Applicants should first work to address the denial with the permitting agency via the agency’s 
process. HCD may provide technical assistance after an application has been submitted. 
However, HCD may not respond or follow up with a permitting agency if there is no pending 
application. 
 
Rental Terms 
 
Are rental terms allowed? 
Yes. Local agencies may require that ADUs be used for rentals of terms longer than 30 days 
(Gov. Code, § 66315). ADUs created pursuant to Government Code section 66323 must be 
rented for terms longer than 30 days (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (e)). 
  
Sales and Separate Conveyance 
 
Can ADUs be sold or separately conveyed? 
A local agency may adopt a local ordinance to allow separate conveyance of the primary unit 
and the ADU as condominiums if the ordinance meets specific requirements laid out in 
Government Code section 66342. In addition, Government Code section 66341 creates a 
narrow exception to allow separate conveyance of an ADU to a qualified buyer if the property 
was built or developed by a qualified nonprofit corporation and meets other requirements 
specified in section 66341. 
 
Senate Bill 9 (SB 9) (Chapter 162, Statutes of 2021) 
 
How does SB 9 work with ADUs?  
SB 9 (Gov. Codes, §§ 65852.21, 66411.7) and State ADU Law are complementary. Both laws 
can be implemented in ways that result in developments with both “SB 9 Units” and ADUs. 
However, in no case does SB 9 require a local agency to allow more than four units on a single 
lot, in any combination of primary units and ADUs or JADUs. For example, when a lot split has 
not occurred, the lot is eligible to receive a second primary unit on the lot under SB 9 and to 
receive up to two ADUs under State ADU Law. When a lot split occurs under SB 9, each lot is

--- page 206 ---
38 
 
eligible for up to two units, including, for example, a primary unit and an ADU or JADU. In the 
case that a lot owner both splits a lot and builds two primary units on each resulting lot under 
SB 9, State ADU Law is superseded (i.e., neither lot is entitled to an ADU or JADU); in all other 
cases, State ADU Law applies, up to SB 9’s four-unit cap. (Gov. Code, § 66411.7, subd. (j).) 
  
Members of the public with SB 9 complaints are encouraged to share them to the Housing 
Accountability Unit Portal. Please also see HCD’s SB 9 Fact Sheet.  
 
Setbacks 
 
Can setbacks be required for ADUs? 
Yes. A local agency may impose objective development standards, such as setbacks, for the 
creation of ADUs. A setback of no more than four feet from the side and rear lot lines shall be 
required for an attached or detached ADU (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(7)). Additional 
setback requirements may be required in the Coastal Zone if required by a local Coastal 
Program (Gov. Code, § 66329). 
 
Are setbacks required for ADUs/JADUs created within an existing structure or replacing 
an existing structure? 
No setback shall be required for an ADU or JADU created within an existing living area or 
accessory structure or an ADU created in a new structure in the same location and to the 
same dimensions as an existing structure (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(7)). 
 
Can a local agency impose front setbacks? 
Yes. A local agency may apply front yard setbacks for ADUs, but front yard setbacks cannot 
preclude an ADU of at least 800 square feet from being built on the property, even if that ADU 
would exist partially or wholly within the front setback (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(3)).  
 
Can a local agency require an ADU be built in an alternate location to comply with front 
setback requirements? 
Maybe. Local agencies may set objective standards, including front setbacks. However, a 
permitting agency may not require that an ADU of up to 800 square feet be built in an 
alternative location based on discretionary, or non-objective, standards. Requiring an 
alternative site, using objective standards, to comply with front setback requirements must not 
be overly burdensome such that it unreasonably restricts the ability of homeowners to create 
ADUs in zones in which they are authorized by local ordinance. (Gov. Code, §§ 66321, subd. 
(b)(3); 66311.) 
 
Is there a distance requirement between an ADU and other structures on the lot?  
State ADU Law does not address the distance between an ADU and other structures on a lot. 
A local agency may impose objective development standards for the creation of some ADUs, 
and all ADUs must comply with local building codes. However, development standards should 
not unreasonably restrict the creation of ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 66311.) Minimum distance or 
other requirements may not be applied if they would unreasonably restrict the creation of 
ADUs, unless they are a requirement of a Building or Fire Code (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. 
(d)(8)).

--- page 207 ---
39 
 
Size Requirements and Restrictions 
 
How is the square footage of an ADU or JADU calculated? 
The CBC provides the minimum standards to which all buildings in California must be 
built (California Building Code, Vol. 2, 1.1.3). The CBC also allows local agencies to adopt 
amendments, additions, or deletions to the provisions of the CBC which are reasonably 
necessary and are more restrictive than the CBC’s standards (California Building Code, Vol. 2, 
1.1.8).  
 
The CBC defines “Floor Area, Gross” as “[t]he floor area within the inside perimeter of the 
exterior walls of the building under consideration, exclusive of vent shafts and courts, without 
deduction for corridors, stairways, ramps, closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or 
other features. The floor area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding 
exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above. 
The gross floor area shall not include shafts with no openings or interior courts.”  
 
Government Code section 66314, subdivision (d)(8) states that a local ADU ordinance must 
require ADUs to comply with local building codes. Thus, when a local agency has not adopted 
specific changes to the CBC in its local building standards, then the CBC standards, and in this 
case the definition of floor area, shall apply. If the local agency has made specific 
amendments, additions, or deletions relating to the definition of “Floor Area” within its local 
building standards, then those altered definitions shall apply.  
 
Can minimum lot size requirements be imposed on ADUs?  
No. Local governments may not include minimum lot size requirements for ADUs (Gov. Code, 
§ 66314, subd. (b)(1)).  
 
Can lot coverage or floor area ratio preclude an ADU? 
Limits on lot coverage or any floor area ratio requirements cannot preclude the creation of an 
ADU of at least 800 square feet that maintains four-foot rear and side setbacks. While floor 
area ratio and lot coverage requirements can be applied to other ADUs, such requirements 
must not unreasonably restrict the creation of ADUs. (Gov. Code, §§ 66321, subd. (b)(3); 
66311.) 
 
Can minimum and maximum unit sizes be established for ADUs? 
Yes. A local government may, by ordinance, establish minimum and maximum unit size 
requirements for both attached and detached ADUs; however, maximum unit size 
requirements must allow an ADU of at least 850 square feet, or 1,000 square feet for ADUs 
with more than one bedroom. (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(2).) For local agencies without a 
compliant ADU ordinance, maximum unit sizes are 1,200 square feet for a new detached ADU 
(Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(4)) and up to 50 percent of the floor area of the existing 
primary dwelling for an attached ADU (at least 800 square feet) (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. 
(d)(5); 66321, subd. (a)(3)). Finally, the local agency must not establish by ordinance a 
minimum square footage requirement that prohibits the development of an efficiency unit as 
defined in Health and Safety Code section 17958.1. An efficiency unit may be as small as 150 
square feet in floor area (HSC, § 17958.1).

--- page 208 ---
40 
 
 
The conversion of an existing accessory structure or a portion of the existing primary residence 
to an ADU is not subject to unit size requirements. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
Can open space or landscaping requirements be used to limit the size of or deny an 
ADU permit? 
No. A local agency's open space zoning requirements may not deny an ADU of at least 800 
square feet with four-foot rear and side setbacks (Gov. Code, § 66321, subd. (b)(3)). In 
addition, 66323 Units are not subject to local open space and landscaping requirements in an 
ADU ordinance (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (b)). 
 
Can a percentage of the primary dwelling be used to limit the maximum size of an 
attached ADU? 
Yes. Local agencies may utilize a percentage (e.g., not greater than 50 percent) of the existing 
primary dwelling as a maximum unit size for attached ADUs, but only if it does not restrict an 
ADU’s size to less than 850 square feet, or 1,000 square feet for ADUs with more than one 
bedroom (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (d)(4); 66321 (b)(2)). 
 
Can maximum unit sizes exceed 1,200 square feet for ADUs? 
Yes. Maximum unit sizes can exceed 1,200 square feet for ADUs through the adoption of a 
less stringent local ADU ordinance. State ADU Law does not limit the authority of local 
agencies to adopt less restrictive requirements for the creation of ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 66325, 
subd. (b).)  
 
Solar Requirements  
 
Are solar systems required for newly constructed ADUs? 
Yes, newly constructed ADUs are subject to the California Energy Code requirement 
(excluding manufactured homes) to provide solar systems if the unit(s) is a newly constructed, 
detached ADU (though some exceptions apply). Per the California Energy Commission (CEC), 
the solar systems can be installed on the ADU or on the primary dwelling unit. ADUs that are 
constructed within existing space, or as an addition to existing homes, including detached 
additions where an existing detached building is converted from non-residential to residential 
space, are not subject to the California Energy Code requirement to provide solar systems. 
 
Please refer to the CEC on this matter. For more information, see the CEC’s website at 
www.energy.ca.gov. You may email your questions to title24@energy.ca.gov, or contact the 
Energy Standards Hotline at 800-772-3300. CEC memos can also be found on HCD’s website 
at https://www.hcd.ca.gov/policy-and-research/accessory-dwelling-units. 
 
Tiny Homes 
 
Are “tiny homes” considered ADUs? 
Possibly. While State ADU Law does not specifically reference “tiny homes,” “tiny home” is an 
industry term that can mean different structures or vehicles. If the unit meets the definition of 
an ADU in Government Code section 66313, subdivision (a), it is subject to ADU Law. For

--- page 209 ---
41 
 
more information on “tiny homes,” see Information Bulletin 2016-01 at 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/policy-research/docs/hcd-bulletin-tiny-home-ib-2016-01.pdf. You may 
also contact HCD’s Division of Codes and Standards at ContactMH-FBH@hcd.ca.gov. 
 
Types of ADUs 
 
What are attached ADUs? 
An attached ADU is a newly created (constructed) dwelling structure that structurally abuts 
(and connects to) an existing or proposed primary dwelling or accessory structure (Gov. Code, 
§ 66314, subd. (d)(3)). This can be constructed on top of or below the primary dwelling. The 
attached ADU extends beyond the building plane of the existing or proposed primary dwelling 
unit. An attached ADU shall not exceed 50 percent of the existing primary dwelling’s floor area 
size. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(4).)  
 
Examples of attached ADUs include, but are not limited to: 
 
• An ADU addition to a duplex. 
• An ADU built on top of an attached garage. 
• An ADU built as a new second story of a single-family dwelling. 
• An ADU built in a newly constructed basement.  
 
What are converted ADUs? 
Converted ADUs are dwelling units that are created from existing space within proposed or 
existing primary dwelling units or existing accessory structures. For single family residences, 
the converted ADU is created from the proposed or existing space of the single-family 
residence or the existing space of an accessory structure. For multifamily dwelling structures, 
the converted ADUs are created from portions of the multifamily dwelling structures that are 
not used as livable space (i.e., storage rooms, passageways, etc.). (Gov. Code, § 66323, 
subds. (a)(1), (a)(3)(A).)  
 
What standards apply to ADU conversions? 
Objective standards related to height, lot coverage, landscape, design, development, and 
architectural standards in the local ADU ordinance do not apply to ADU conversions. However, 
since ADU conversions are created within an existing structure, the height of ADU conversions 
are limited to the dimension of the original structure. ADU conversions are not subject to 
setback requirements because they are created within an existing living area or are 
constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as an existing structure. (Gov. 
Code, § 66323, subds. (a)(1), (a)(3)(A).) ADU conversions are subject to all applicable 
building, health and safety, and fire standards for dwellings.  
 
Can accessory structures be converted into an ADU? 
Yes. The conversion of detached garages, sheds, and other existing detached accessory 
structures into ADUs is permitted by State ADU Law (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (d)(3); 
66323, subds. (a)(1), (a)(3)(A)).

--- page 210 ---
42 
 
What are Detached ADUs?  
Detached ADUs are newly constructed dwelling units that are created on a lot with an existing 
or proposed single-family or multifamily dwelling structure but are detached from the primary 
dwelling (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (d)(3); 66323, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4)(A)).  
 
Can detached ADUs on multifamily lots be attached to each other? 
Yes. Multifamily lots qualify for two detached, new construction ADUs on lots with a proposed 
multifamily dwelling, or up to eight detached ADUs on a lot with an existing multifamily 
dwelling, not to exceed the total number of existing units on the lot. These ADUs are detached 
from the primary multifamily structure but do not have to be detached from each other or other 
accessory structures on the lot. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(4)(A).) 
 
For more information on 66323 Units, please see the “66323 Units” section above. 
 
Unpermitted Structures and ADUs  
 
Can a local agency deny a permit for an unpermitted ADU or JADU built prior to January 
1, 2020? 
Local agencies may not deny a permit for an unpermitted ADU or JADU created prior to 
January 1, 2020. An inspector from the local agency may inspect the unit for compliance with 
health and safety standards and provide recommendations to comply with health and safety 
standards necessary to obtain a permit. If the inspector finds noncompliance with health and 
safety standards, the local agency shall not penalize an applicant for having the unpermitted 
ADU or JADU and shall approve necessary permits to correct noncompliance with health and 
safety standards (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (f)). However, the local agency may deny a 
permit if it finds that the building is substandard. This does not preclude the local agency from 
pursuing enforcement action on these violations, and an applicant may be required to make 
alterations or repairs accordingly. (Gov. Code, § 66332.)  
 
How does an applicant know what items are related to health and safety and may lead to 
needing corrections for an unpermitted ADU or JADU? 
A local agency shall inform the public about the provisions of this section through public 
information resources, including permit checklists and the local agency’s internet website, 
which shall include both of the following: (1) a checklist of the conditions specified in Section 
17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code that would deem a building substandard, and 
(2) information that, before applying for a permit, the homeowner may obtain a confidential 
third-party code inspection from a licensed contractor to determine the unit’s existing condition 
or potential scope of building improvements (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (d)(1), (d)(2)).3 
 
Can a local agency charge impact, connection, or capacity fees for an unpermitted ADU 
or JADU built prior to January 1, 2020? 
No. A homeowner applying for a permit for a previously unpermitted ADU or JADU constructed 
 
3 See the Department of Consumer Affairs’ Contractors State License Board’s contractor 
license check resource, available at 
https://www2.cslb.ca.gov/onlineservices/checklicenseII/checklicense.aspx.

--- page 211 ---
43 
 
before January 1, 2020, shall not be required to pay impact fees or connection or capacity 
charges to obtain a permit if they provide written evidence that their household income does 
not exceed the definition of a low- or moderate-income household, as defined in Section 50093 
of the Health and Safety Code (Gov. Code, § 66332, subd. (e)). 
 
Utilities 
 
Can a local agency, special district, or water corporation require a new or separate 
connection for an ADU? 
ADUs and JADUs created from the existing space of a primary dwelling or accessory structure 
pursuant to Government Code section 66323, subdivision (a)(1), cannot be required to install a 
new or separate connection unless the ADU is constructed concurrently with a new single-
family dwelling. For all other ADUs not created pursuant to Government Code section 66323, 
subdivision (a)(1), a new or separate connection directly from the utility to the ADU may be 
required (Gov. Code, § 66324, subds. (d), (e)).  
 
What if I have questions about electrical or gas utilities in connection with an ADU? 
HCD does not have authority over issues related to gas and electrical services. If an applicant 
believes that a local utility provider is not complying with connection requirements, fee 
schedules, or other issues that impact the creation of or service of an ADU, the applicant can 
file a complaint with the appropriate agency.  
 
For privately owned public utilities such as PG&E, contact the California Public Utilities 
Commission (CPUC) by using CPUC’s online complaint form, by calling 1-800-649-7570, or by 
sending a letter to: 
 
California Public Utilities Commission 
505 Van Ness Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94102–3298 
 
For publicly owned utilities such as SMUD, the applicant will need to contact the utility directly 
and follow their complaint process. 
 
Zoning, Development, and Other Standards 
 
Are ADUs allowed jurisdiction-wide? 
No. Local agencies may, by ordinance, designate where ADUs are permitted within zones that 
allow residential use. However, any limits on where ADUs are allowed may only be based on 
the adequacy of water and sewer service and on the impacts on traffic flow and public safety. 
(Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (a).)  
 
Local governments may not preclude the creation of ADUs altogether, and any limitation 
should be accompanied by detailed findings of fact explaining why ADU limitations are 
required and consistent with these factors. If a lot with a residence has been rezoned to a use 
that does not allow for residential uses, that lot is no longer eligible for an ADU. (Gov. Code, §§

--- page 212 ---
44 
 
66314; 66323, subd. (a).) Impacts on traffic flow should consider factors like lower car 
ownership rates for ADUs. Finally, local governments may develop alternative procedures, 
standards, or special conditions with mitigations for allowing ADUs in areas with potential 
health and safety concerns.  
 
Can local agencies restrict ADUs based on Fire Hazard Severity Zones or other 
environmental hazards? 
HCD understands that extreme weather conditions occur, and the threat of destructive wildfires 
cannot be ignored. Some agencies have used the High (HFHSZ) and Very High Fire Hazard 
Severity Zone (VHFHSZ) maps provided by CAL FIRE to mark areas where ADUs may be 
restricted or prohibited altogether. However, according to CAL FIRE, the HFHSZ and VHFHSZ 
maps are intended to govern building materials used in construction and defining zones of 
defensibility around structures. These are not intended to restrict housing development. The 
presence of a High Fire Hazard Severity Zone is not a conclusive rationale to warrant 
restricting ADUs. A restriction based on the threat to public safety should be supported with 
findings detailing the impact of ADUs on public safety. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (a).)  
 
Can an ADU application be denied due to lot density? 
No. An ADU ordinance shall provide that ADUs do not exceed the allowable density on the lot 
(Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (c)). Additionally, ADUs which conform to Government Code 
section 66314 shall not be considered to exceed the allowable density for the lot (Gov. Code, 
§§ 66314, subd. (c); 66319). 
 
Can ADUs serve to qualify a project for a density bonus pursuant to State Density 
Bonus Law (SDBL), even though the general plan designation on the site allows less 
than five primary units? 
Yes. A project initially qualifies under the SDBL when the project’s “total units,” as defined in 
the SDBL (i.e., the number of units in the project before a density bonus is received) meet or 
exceed five units (Gov. Code, § 65915, subd. (o)(8)). Although the SDBL makes no mention of 
ADUs in its text, it likewise does not expressly narrow the definition of unit to exclude ADUs. 
Provided they are counted within the total units of the project, ADUs are a type of housing unit 
that may be counted for the purposes of achieving the five total unit minimum. 
 
If ADUs can be used to qualify a project under the SDBL’s minimum total unit 
requirement, can they likewise be used to calculate a density bonus? 
No. The calculation of a density bonus is based solely on a site’s maximum allowable 
residential density, which does not include ADUs. A density bonus is defined as “a density 
increases over the otherwise maximum allowable gross residential density…” (Gov. Code, § 
65915, subd. (f)). Maximum allowable residential density is defined as “the greatest number of 
units allowed under the zoning ordinance, specific plan, or land use element of the general 
plan.” (Gov. Code, § 65915, subd. (o)(6).) As an example, if the zoning ordinance allows up to 
two units and the general plan allows up to three, the applicable maximum allowable 
residential density (i.e., base density) on the site is three units, even though the addition of two 
ADUs brings the total units to five (see question above). The density bonus would then be 
calculated on top of a base density of three units, not five.

--- page 213 ---
45 
 
Can a local government apply design and development standards? 
Yes. With an adopted ADU ordinance in compliance with State ADU Law, a local government 
may apply objective development and design standards that include, but are not limited to, 
parking, height, setback, landscape, architectural review, maximum size of a unit, and 
standards that prevent adverse impacts on any real property that is listed in the California 
Register of Historical Resources. These standards must be objective to allow ministerial review 
of an ADU. (Gov. Code, §§ 66314, subd. (b)(1); 66316.) ADUs created under Government 
Code section 66323 shall not be subject to design and development standards except for those 
that are specified in section 66323. (Gov. Code, § 66323, subds. (a), (b)). 
 
Can an ADU be built in a historic district or if the primary residence is subject to historic 
preservation? 
Yes. ADUs are allowed within a historic district and on lots where the primary residence is 
subject to historic preservation. State ADU Law allows for a local agency to impose standards 
that prevent adverse impacts on any real property that is listed in the California Register of 
Historical Resources. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
As with non-historic resources, an agency may impose objective standards that do not 
unreasonably restrict the creation of ADUs (Gov. Code, § 66311). Local agencies are 
encouraged to incorporate these standards into their ordinances and to submit these 
standards along with their ordinances to HCD. 
 
How should demolition of garages in conjunction with the permitting of an ADU be 
handled by a local or permitting agency? 
The local or permitting agency must review and issue the demolition permit and ADU 
application at the same time. The applicant shall not be required to provide written notice or 
post a placard for the demolition of the garage unless the property is located in an 
architecturally and historically significant historic district. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subds. (e), (f).)

--- page 214 ---
46 
 
Resources 
 
Changes to State ADU Laws  
 
AB 2533 
 
AB 2533 (Chapter 834, Statutes of 2024) made various changes to State ADU Law (Gov. 
Code, § 66332) regarding unpermitted ADUs and goes into effect on January 1, 2025. This bill: 
• Prohibits a local agency from denying a permit for an unpermitted ADU or JADU that 
was constructed before January 1, 2020, for those violations, unless the local agency 
makes a finding that correcting the violation is necessary to comply with conditions that 
would otherwise deem a building substandard.  
• Requires a local agency to inform the public about the provisions prohibiting denial of a 
permit for an unpermitted ADU or JADU.  
• Requires this information to include a checklist of the conditions that deem a building 
substandard and to inform homeowners that, before submitting a permit application, the 
homeowner may obtain a confidential third-party code inspection from a licensed 
contractor.  
• Prohibits a local agency from requiring a homeowner to pay impact fees or connection 
or capacity charges except under specified circumstances. 
• Authorizes an inspector from a local agency, upon receiving an application for a permit 
for a previously unpermitted ADU or JADU constructed before January 1, 2020, to 
inspect the unit for compliance with health and safety standards and provide 
recommendations to comply with health and safety standards.

--- page 215 ---
47 
 
• Prohibits the local agency from penalizing an applicant for having the unpermitted ADU 
and would require the local agency to approve necessary permits to correct 
noncompliance with health and safety standards. 
 
SB 1211 
 
SB 1211 (Chapter 296, Statutes of 2024) made various changes to State ADU Law (Gov. 
Code, §§ 66313, 66314, 66323) with regard to replacement parking and 66323 Units on lots 
with existing or proposed multifamily dwellings and goes into effect on January 1, 2025. This 
bill: 
• Defines “livable space” as a space in a dwelling intended for human habitation, as the 
term appears in Government Code sections 66313, subdivision (e), and 66323, 
subdivision (a)(3)(A). 
• Specifies that uncovered, off-street parking spaces demolished in conjunction with the 
construction of an ADU do not need to be replaced. 
• Authorizes up to eight detached ADUs on a lot with an existing multifamily dwelling, 
provided that the number of ADUs does not exceed the number of existing units on the 
lot. 
• Prohibits a local agency from imposing any objective development standards on 66323 
Units that are not authorized by the provisions of Government Code section 66323, 
subdivision (a).  
 
SB 477 
 
SB 477 (Chapter 7, Statutes of 2024) made changes to the numbering of the sections of 
Government Code for State ADU and JADU Laws. The bill went into effect on March 25, 2024. 
 
New Government Code Sections 
Previous Government Code Sections 
Article 1. General Provisions 
66310 
65852.150 (a) 
66311 
65852.150 (b) 
66312 
65852.150 (c) 
66313 
General Definition Section 
65852.2 (j) 
65852.22 (j) 
Article 2. Accessory Dwelling Unit Approvals 
66314 
65852.2 (a)(1)(A), 
(D)(i)-(xii), 
(a)(4)-(5) 
66315 
65852.2 (a)(8) 
66316 
65852.2 (a)(6) 
66317 
65852.2 (a)(3), 
(a)(7) 
66318 
 
65852.2 (a)(9) 
65852.2 (a)(2)

--- page 216 ---
48 
 
New Government Code Sections 
Previous Government Code Sections 
66319 
65852.2 (a)(10) 
66320 
65852.2 (b) 
66321 
65852.2 (c) 
66322 
65852.2 (d) 
66323 
65852.2 (e) 
66324 
65852.2 (f) 
66325 
65852.2 (g) 
66326 
65852.2 (h) 
66327 
65852.2 (i) 
66328 
65852.2 (k) 
66329 
65852.2 (l) 
66330 
65852.2 (m) 
66331 
65852.2 (n) 
66332 
65852.23. 
Article 3. Junior Accessory Dwelling Units 
66333 
65852.22 (a) 
66334 
65852.22 (b) 
66335 
65852.22 (c) 
66336 
65852.22 (d) 
66337 
65852.22 (e) 
66338 
65852.22 (f)-(g) 
66339 
65852.22 (h) 
Article 4. Accessory Dwelling Unit Sales 
66340 
65852.26 (b) 
66341 
65852.26 (a) 
66342 
65852.2 (a)(10) 
 
Note: The statutory references below have been adjusted to the new numbering described 
above. 
 
AB 976 and AB 1033  
 
AB 976 (Chapter 751, Statutes of 2023) and AB 1033 (Chapter 1033, Statutes of 2023) made 
changes to State ADU Law (Gov. Code, §§ 66310-66342) regarding the occupancy, sale, and 
separate conveyance of ADUs and went into effect on January 1, 2024. These bills: 
• Removed the existing 2025 sunset prohibition on a local agency imposing an owner-
occupancy requirement on any ADU and would instead prohibit a local agency from 
requiring owner-occupancy for an ADU (Gov. Code, § 66315).  
• Authorized a local agency to adopt a local ordinance to allow the separate conveyance 
of the primary dwelling unit and ADU(s) as condominiums, subject to certain conditions 
(Gov. Code, §§ 66340-66342). Specifically: 
o Condominiums shall be created pursuant to the Davis-Stirling Common Interest 
Development Act. 
o Condominiums shall be created in conformance with the Subdivision Map Act.

--- page 217 ---
49 
 
o Requires a safety inspection of the ADU prior to recordation of the condominium 
plan. 
o Requires lienholders’ consent prior to recordation of the subdivision map or 
condominium plan. 
o The local agency shall provide notice to consumers regarding requirements, 
establishment of condominium, and lienholder consent. 
o Requires homeowner notice to utilities. 
o The owner of a separate interest in an existing planned development must obtain 
express written authorization from the association. 
 
AB 1332  
 
AB 1332 (Chapter 759, Statutes of 2023) added section 65852.27 to the Government Code 
to expedite the approval of ADUs and went into effect on January 1, 2024. This bill: 
• Requires the local agency to develop a program for the preapproval of ADU plans by 
January 1, 2025. 
• 
Requires the local agency to accept ADU plan submissions for preapproval from any 
party and approve or deny applications pursuant to standards established in 
Government Code sections 66314-66342. 
• Requires the local agency to post preapproved ADU plans and the contact information 
of the applicant on the local agency’s internet website. 
• Allows the local agency to also post plans pre-approved by other local or state 
agencies. 
• Authorizes a local agency to charge a fee to an applicant for the preapproval of an ADU 
plan.  
• Requires a local agency to approve or deny within 30 days an application for a 
detached ADU that utilizes either a plan preapproved by the local agency or another 
agency within the state, or a plan that is identical to a plan in a previously approved 
application for a detached ADU. The plans must be valid within the current triennial 
California Building Standards Code rulemaking cycle. 
 
AB 434  
AB 434 (Chapter 740, Statutes of 2023) modified amended Government Code section 65585, 
subdivision (j), by adding State ADU Law (Gov. Code, §§ 66310-66342) and SB 9 (Gov. Code, 
§§ 65852.21, 66411.7), among others, to the list of laws that HCD is authorized to enforce, 
including HCD’s authority to notify a city, county, city and county, or the Attorney General when 
the planning agency of a city, county, or city and county fails to comply with those laws. The 
bill went into effect on January 1, 2024. 
 
AB 345  
 
AB 345 (Chapter 343, Statutes of 2021) built upon recent changes to State ADU Law, to 
require cities to allow the separate conveyance of ADUs from the primary dwelling in certain

--- page 218 ---
50 
 
circumstances, provided they meet certain conditions, including those listed below, found in 
Government Code section 66341: 
 
• The ADU or primary dwelling was built or developed by a qualified nonprofit (Gov. 
Code, § 66341, subd. (a)). 
• There is an enforceable restriction on the use of the property between the low-income 
buyer and nonprofit that satisfies the requirements of Section 402.1 of the Revenue and 
Taxation Code (Gov. Code, § 66341, subd. (b)).  
• The entire property is subject to the affordability restrictions to assure that the ADU and 
primary dwelling are preserved for owner-occupied, low-income housing for 45 years 
and are sold or resold only to a qualified buyer (Gov. Code, § 66341, subd. (c)).  
• The property is held in a recorded tenancy in common agreement that meets certain 
requirements (Gov. Code, § 66341, subd. (c)).  
 
AB 345 does not apply to JADUs, and local ordinances must continue to prohibit JADUs 
from being sold separately from the primary residence. 
 
AB 3182 
 
AB 3182 (Chapter 198, Statutes of 2020) built upon recent changes to ADU Law, specifically 
Government Code sections 66310-66342 and Civil Code Sections 4740 and 4741, to further 
address barriers to the development and use of ADUs and JADUs. 
 
This legislation, among other changes, addressed the following: 
 
• States that an application for the creation of an ADU or JADU shall be deemed 
approved (not just subject to ministerial approval) if the local agency has not approved 
or denied the completed application within 60 days (Gov. Code, § 66317, subd. (a)).  
• Requires ministerial approval of an application for a building permit within a residential 
or mixed-use zone to create one ADU and one JADU per lot (not one or the other), 
within the proposed or existing single-family dwelling, if certain conditions are met (Gov. 
Code, § 66323, subd. (a)(1)(A)).  
• Provides for the rental or leasing of a separate interest ADU or JADU in a common 
interest development, notwithstanding governing documents that otherwise appear to 
prohibit renting or leasing of a unit, and without regard to the date of the governing 
documents (Civ. Code, §§ 4740, subd. (a); 4741, subd. (a)). 
• Provides that not less than 25 percent of the separate interest units within a common 
interest development be allowed as rental or leasable units (Civ. Code, § 4741, subd. 
(b)).  
 
AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13 
 
AB 68 (Chapter 655, Statutes of 2019), AB 881 (Chapter 659, Statutes of 2019), and SB 13 
(Chapter 653, Statutes of 2019) built upon recent changes to State ADU and JADU Law 
and further address barriers to the development of ADUs and JADUs.

--- page 219 ---
51 
 
This legislation, among other changes, addresses the following: 
 
• Prohibits local agencies from including in development standards for ADUs 
requirements on minimum lot size. (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (b)(1)).  
• Clarifies that areas designated by local agencies for ADUs may be based on the 
adequacy of water and sewer services, as well as on impacts on traffic flow and public 
safety (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (a)).  
• Eliminates all owner-occupancy requirements by local agencies for ADUs approved 
between January 1, 2020, and January 1, 2025 (Gov. Code, § 66315).  
• Prohibits a local agency from establishing a maximum size of an ADU of less than 850 
square feet, or 1,000 square feet if the ADU contains more than one bedroom and 
requires approval of a permit to build an ADU of up to 800 square feet (Gov. Code, § 
66321, subds. (b)(2), (b)(3)).  
• Clarifies that when ADUs are created through the conversion of a garage, carport or 
covered parking structure, replacement of off-street parking spaces cannot be required 
by the local agency (Gov. Code, § 66314, subd. (d)(11)). 
• Reduces the maximum ADU and JADU application review time from 120 days to 60 
days (Gov. Code, §§ 66317, subd. (a); 66335, subd. (2)).  
• Clarifies that “public transit” includes various means of transportation that charge set 
fees, run on fixed routes, and are available to the public (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. 
(m)).  
• Establishes impact fee exemptions and limitations based on the size of the ADU. ADUs 
up to 750 square feet are exempt from impact fees, and ADUs that are 750 square feet 
or larger may be charged impact fees but only such fees that are proportional in size (by 
square foot) to those for the primary dwelling unit (Gov. Code, § 66324, subd. (c)(1)).  
• Defines an “accessory structure” to mean a structure that is accessory and incidental to 
a dwelling on the same lot (Gov. Code, § 66313, subd. (b)).  
• Authorizes HCD to notify the local agency if HCD finds that the local ADU ordinance is 
not in compliance with state law (Gov. Code, § 66326, subd. (b)(1)).  
• Clarifies that a local agency may identify an ADU or JADU as an adequate site to satisfy 
its Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) (Gov. Code, § 65583.1, subd. (a)).  
• Permits JADUs even where a local agency has not adopted an ordinance expressly 
authorizing them (Gov. Code, § 66320).  
• Allows a permitted JADU to be constructed within the walls of the proposed or existing 
single-family residence and eliminates the required inclusion of an existing bedroom 
and an interior entry into the single-family residence (Gov. Code, § 66333, subd. (d)).  
• Requires, upon application and approval, a local agency to delay enforcement against a 
qualifying substandard ADU for five years to allow the owner to correct the violation, so 
long as the violation is not a health and safety issue, as determined by the enforcement 
agency (Gov. Code, § 66331; HSC, § 17980.12).  
 
AB 587, AB 670, and AB 671 
 
In addition to the legislation listed above, AB 587 (Chapter 657, Statutes of 2019), AB 670 
(Chapter 178, Statutes of 2019), and AB 671 (Chapter 658, Statutes of 2019) also have an

--- page 220 ---
52 
 
impact on State ADU Law, particularly through Health and Safety Code section 17980.12.  
 
These pieces of legislation, among other changes, address the following: 
 
• AB 587 creates a narrow exemption to the prohibition for ADUs to be sold or otherwise 
conveyed separately from the primary dwelling by allowing deed-restricted sales to 
occur if the local agency adopts an ordinance. To qualify, the primary dwelling and the 
ADU are to be built by a qualified nonprofit corporation whose mission is to provide units 
to low-income households. (Gov. Code, § 66340, 66341.)  
• AB 670 provides that covenants, conditions, and restrictions that either effectively 
prohibit or unreasonably restrict the construction or use of an ADU or JADU on a lot 
zoned for single-family residential use are void and unenforceable (Civ. Code, § 4751)). 
• 
AB 671 requires local agencies’ housing elements to include a plan that incentivizes 
and promotes the creation of ADUs that can offer affordable rents for very low-, low-, or 
moderate-income households and requires HCD to develop a list of state grants and 
financial incentives in connection with the planning, construction, and operation of 
affordable ADUs (Gov. Code, § 65583; HSC, § 50504.5)).

--- page 221 ---
53 
 
Summary Table of Statutory Changes  
 
Bill 
Statute Amended 
Section 
Year Effective 
AB 670 (2019) 
Civil Code 
4751 
2020 
AB 671 (2019) 
Government Code 
65583 (c)(7) 
2020 
AB 671 (2019) 
Health and Safety Code 
50504.5 
2020 
AB 3182 (2020) 
Civil Code 
4740 
4741 
2021 
AB 345 (2021) 
Government Code 
65852.26 
2022 
SB 9 (2021) 
Government Code  
65852.21 
66411.7 
2022 
AB 1584 (2022) 
California Civil Code 
714.3 
2022 
SB1069 (2016) 
AB 2299 (2016) 
SB 229 (2017) 
AB 494 (2017) 
AB 881 (2019) 
AB 68 (2019) 
SB 13 (2019) 
AB 3182 (2020) 
AB 345 (2021) 
AB 2221 (2022) 
SB 897 (2022) 
AB 976 (2023) 
AB 1033 (2023) 
Government Code 
65852.2 
2023 
AB 2406 (2016) 
AB 881 (2019) 
SB 897 (2022) 
Government Code 
65852.22 
2023 
SB 897 (2022) 
Health and Safety Code 
17980.12 
2023 
AB 1332 (2023)  
Government Code 
65852.27 
2024  
AB 434 (2023)  
Government Code 
65585 (j) 
2024  
SB 477 (2024) 
Government Code 
65852.150 
65852.2 
65852.22 
65852.23 
65852.26 
2024 
AB 2533 (2024) 
Government Code 
66322 
2025

--- page 222 ---
54 
 
SB 1211 (2024) 
Government Code 
66313 
66314 
66323 
2025 
AB 3057 (2024) 
Public Resources Code 
21080.17 
2025 
SB 1077 (2024) 
Public Resources Code 
30500.5 
2026

--- page 223 ---
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
CITY OF BURLINGAME
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
CITY OF
FOSTER CITY
%
&
'
(
280
PENINSULA GOLF &
COUNTRY CLUB
(COUNTY OF SAN MATEO)
|ÿ
92
S
(/
101
(/
101
|ÿ
92
|ÿ
82
|ÿ
82
CITY OF BELMONT
(/
101
See Inset 3
See Inset 5
See Inset 4
|ÿ
92
See Inset 1
See
Inset 6
See Inset 2
See Inset 7
W
SA
NTA INE
Z AVE
NORTH RD
E
3RD AVE
KEHO
E AVE
SUNNYBRAE BLVD
2ND AVE
DE
AN
ZA
BLVD
BARNESON AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
MONTE DIABLO AVE
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
VAN BUREN ST
41ST AVE
HACIENDA ST
BRO
M
FI
E
L
D
R
D
2ND AVE
CSM DR
W 3RD AVE
28TH AVE
E POPLAR AVE
COLEGROVE ST
9TH AVE
CYPRESS AVE
EATON RD
BAHIA
C
R
E
S
CE
N
T A
V
E
N AMPHLETT BLVD
GREENFI
ELD AV
E
E 4TH AVE
E 3RD AVE
S NORFOLK ST
N KINGSTO
N
ST
W 39TH AVE
BOREL AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
TILTON AVE
12TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
F
A
T
H
O
M
DR
US HWY 101 SB
US HWY 101 NB
PENIN
SULA AVE
LANDING AV
E
W HILLSD
ALE BLVD
E
28TH
AVE
KING LN
EISENHOWER ST
BORDEN ST
LA S
E
LVA
CIR
EDINBURGH ST
B
AY
RID
GE
W
AY
PARRO
T
T DR
BERESFORD ST
W P
O
PL
A
R
A
VE
F
A
THO
M
DR
YALE DR
ORINDA DR
M
URPHY DR
42ND
AVE
LA SELVA ST
16TH AVE
N HUMBOLDT ST
DE
NALI
D
R
43RD AVE
HACIENDA S
T
REEF DR
TROLLMAN AVE
CSM DR
N NORFOLK ST
PORTOLA DR
HAR
V
ARD
R
D
CUESTA AVE
TRINITY ST
BERMUD
A
DR
DOLORES ST
CLI
P
PE
R
ST
LAUREL AVE
S
E
AGATE
DR
BARROILHET AVE
W
O
O
DBRI
D
G
E
C
I
R
S DELAWARE ST
REGAN DR
GILLIS DR
W 2
0TH AVE
JUNIPER ST
EDISON ST
DORE AVE
NO
RTON
ST
22ND AVE
N
EL CAMINO REAL
E 25TH AVE
24TH AVE
GINNEVER ST
16TH AVE
DALE AVE
FLORES ST
OREGON AVE
SARATOGA DR
7TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
BUCKNELL DR
CARY AVE
BE
A
C
ON AVE
MAPLE ST
SAN
MIGUEL WAY
NEV
E
S
R
D
CL
E
A
R
VI
EW
W
A
Y
S B ST
PALM PL
E 39TH AVE
PALM AVE
COLLEGE AVE
VI
R
GI
N
IA AVE
E 40TH AVE
IR
V
ING
S
T
MONTE DIABLO AVE
CASANOVA DR
CURTISS ST
LIV
E
O
AK DR
E
DGE
W
OOD
RD
PARROTT DR
P
A
R
KWOOD DR
NEWBRIDGE AVE
PACIFIC
BLVD
CLAR
K
D
R
C
SM D
R
10TH AVE
LESLIE ST
S SAN MATEO DR
SKY CT
37TH AVE
30TH AVE
CA
M
DE
N AVE
24TH AVE
23RD AVE
10TH AVE
DAKOTA AVE
31ST AVE
YORK AVE
CLEARVIEW W
AY
BALDW
IN AVE
N BAYSHORE BLVD
S FREMONT ST
W 5TH AVE
I
S
ABELLE AVE
COTTAGE GROVE
AVE
FE
RN
W
OOD ST
MID
VALE AVE
N IDAHO ST
MONTEREY ST
W
OODSIDE
WAY
EASTWOOD DR
PROSPEC
T ROW
C
E
DAR
W
OOD D
R
STATE HWY 92
WB
W BE
LLEVUE
A
VE
27TH AVE
W 38TH AVE
DARCY AVE
DONNER ST
EDISON ST
HOLLAND ST
TI
M
B
ERLAN
E
W
AY
WILSHIRE
AVE
PARK LN
S GRANT ST
AS
H
W
O
OD DR
ELEANOR DR
PORT
DR
S
TAT
E H
WY 92 EB
E HILLSDALE BLVD
E SANTA INEZ AVE
P
ARROTT
DR
PACIFIC BLVD
W
INW
A
Y
CIR
H
E
RSCH
E
L ST
P
ALO
S
V
E
R
D
ES DR
KI
M
BERLY
W
AY
GUM ST
36TH AVE
FOLKSTONE AVE
26TH AVE
PENINSULA AVE
MISSION DR
W
OLF
E
DR
W KYNE ST
SOUTH BLV
D
6TH AVE
7TH AVE
8TH AVE
R
O
BERTA
DR
S QUEBEC ST
INDIAN AVE
LOS PRADOS
BIRCH ST
HARRO
W
DR
ANNAPOLIS DR
N ELLSWORTH AVE
1ST AVE
KENT ST
C
ON
NIE AV
E
CO
STA R
ICA A
V
E
FIESTA DR
HIGH VIE
W DR
OTTAWA ST
A
DAMS ST
ENSENADA AVE
ANTIOCH DR
PASADENA DR
FILLMORE AVE
DAISY ST
HAMLET ST
WASHINGTON ST
LAFA
Y
ETTE ST
S
A
NTI
AGO ST
S
A
NTA CLARA WAY
SHOREVIEW AVE
N KINGSTON ST
YE
W
ST
VAILW
O
OD W
A
Y
L
A
K
E
W
O
OD CIR
17TH AVE
LODI AVE
VANN
ESSA DR
FO
O
T
HILL DR
SULLIVAN ST
E POPLAR AVE
MASON LN
ROSILIE
ST
HOBART AVE
RO
YA
L AVE
S
HASTA
D
R
BARNESON AVE
GR
AM
E
RC
Y
D
R
HOBART AVE
PECK AVE
ECHO AVE
PLA
YA ST
DOLAN AVE
W
AR
R
EN R
D
B
E
TTINA A
V
E
OCEAN VIEW AVE
N RAILROAD AVE
WOODLAND
D
R
LAURIE M
E
A
D
O
W
S DR
N CLAREMONT ST
TAYLOR ST
RY
DE
R ST
SP
A
R DR
S IDAHO ST
D
E
T
R
OIT DR
BRANSON DR
CAX
T
ON CT
NOTRE DAME AVE
2ND AVE
FERNWOOD ST
A
R
M
ADA WAY
KINGRIDGE
DR
E BELLEVUE AVE
PARKSIDE
W
AY
ALTA AVE
HILLSBOROUG
H
BLVD
F
R
A
NK
LIN ST
S RAILROAD AVE
GREEN WY
NEVADA AVE
CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
TUL
A
N
E RD
RAND ST
LOS AL
T
OS PL
E HILLSDAL
E
C
T
S HUMBOLDT ST
S ELDORADO ST
TIC
O
N
D
E
ROG
A
D
R
CYPRESS AVE
S ELLSWORTH AVE
TIMBE
R
LANE
R
D
MULBE
RRY D
R
PATRICIA AVE
CASA
D
E C
A
M
PO
E HILLSDALE BLVD
DE
SA
B
L
A
RD
GRAN
D B
L
VD
GLEN
D
OR
A
D
R
E 38TH AVE
FAIRFAX A
VE
HAYWARD AVE
OV
E
R
LAN
D
D
R
29TH AVE
OVE
R
LOOK CT
N DELAWARE ST
D
EL
M
ONTE ST
EDN
A
WA
Y
ROLLING HILLS AVE
N SAN MATEO DR
31ST AVE
N RAILROAD AVE
EL
C
ERRITO A
V
E
TIDAL WAY
PIKE LN
STATE ST
OTAY AVE
OCCIDENTAL AVE
MTN
VI
E
W PL
WO
ODBE
R
RY A
VE
N B ST
VISTA AVE
PALM PL
STATE ST
N CLAREMONT ST
LESLIE ST
RA
NE
L
AGH
R
D
29TH AVE
H
IGHLAND AVE
S AMPHLETT BLVD
ARBOR LN
43RD AVE
MAIN ST
CO
NCA
R DR
SHOA
L DR
DERBY AVE
BRIAR LN
SEXTANT CT
N ELDORADO ST
A
R
K ST
POLHEMUS RD
A
L
AN
H
ILL LN
DAVID CT
FASHION ISLAND
BL
V
D
W 40TH AVE
29TH AVE
26TH PL
SUZI
E
ST
TR
E
ETOP LN
CATALPA AVE
MC AKER CT
PICO AVE
E KYNE ST
W 25TH AVE
31S
T
AVE
SUNSET TER
HU
RLI
N
G
HAM A
V
E
MAR
INA
C
T
CR
EST
WO
O
D DR
BAZE RD
LA CASA AVE
GREE
N
O
A
K
C
T
B
R
ID
GE
P
OI
NT
E
CI
R
M
A
RINE
RS I
S
LAN
D
BLV
D
CARLISLE DR
L
I
NDA CT
F
R
ANKLIN PKWY
CON
DON CT
A
R
R
O
Y
O
C
T
CSM DR
D
OR
CHE
S
T
E
R RD
CROWN
C
T
FRA
N
K
L
IN
PKWY
BAHIA
R
A
NDA
L
L R
D
MADERA DR
EL PARQUE CT
QUEENS LN
YATES WAY
HEATHER LN
ALDER LN
F
UL
T
O
N
RD
NASH DR
S IDAHO ST
N RAILROAD A
V
E
AVILA RD
OFA
RRELL ST
C
O
L
UM
B
IA D
R
PARK PL
21ST AVE
PIONEER CT
VILLA
TER
N GRANT ST
N FREMONT ST
ASHWO
O
D C
T
IVY ST
SYLVAN AVE
T
OYON CT
SONORA DR
HEMLOCK AVE
LOUISE
LN
E 41ST PL
BEVERLY ST
DEL RAY ST
LODATO
AVE
27TH AVE
W
OOSTER AVE
13TH AVE
15TH AVE
14TH AVE
11TH AVE
SEVILLE WAY
MARTIN DR
S BAY
SHORE BLVD
IVY ST
S RAILROAD AVE
SHARON PL
POLK AVE
RA
MONA ST
ELM ST
N FREMONT ST
N GRANT ST
SUN
S
E
T
T
E
R
COBB ST
N IDAHO ST
DIX ST
PRAGUE ST
N QUEBEC ST
OS
O
ST
G
A
RFIELD CT
LAURELWOOD DR
VOELKER DR
STATION PARK CIR
LA JOLLA AVE
W 38TH AVE
RHUS ST
TILIA ST
QUINCE ST
SHAFTER ST
W 4TH AVE
CASTILIAN WAY
MARIS
M
A
ST
TURN
E
R T
E
R
RE
X
ST
ELLIOTT CT
HADD
ON DR
VENTURA AVE
L
L
A
NO ST
FOSTER
S
T
ANNA ST
CHES
S
D
R
ALMADEN WAY
TEXAS WAY
ARAGON BLVD
POTOMAC WAY
DUBLIN WAY
STEPHE
N
R
D
MC KINLEY ST
MEA
D
O
W
VIEW PL
PIERCE ST
MCCOWN
AVE
MARY LU LN
L
ULA BELLE LN
WISNOM AVE
S KINGSTON ST
LINDBERGH ST
S GRANT ST
B
AY
VIE
W
AVE
BURBANK AVE
NADINA ST
OAK ST
19TH AVE
R
O
SS
I W
A
Y
HOBART AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
FLEETWOOD DR
B
A
KE
R
W
AY
COLGATE WAY
LAKE ST
PRINCETON DR
OAK
V
A
L
L
E
Y RD
CUPERTINO WAY
GARV
E
Y WAY
BAY LANDING
FRAN
K
LIN PKWY
DURAND DR
JEFFE
RSON CT
SEQUOIA AVE
ADA ST
NOE
AVE
HOWE ST
HILL
CR
EST AVE
DELMAR WAY
DAY A
V
E
IOWA DR
DEWEY ST
MONROE AVE
KALMIA ST
JASMINE ST
LOCUST ST
S
Y
C
A
MORE
D
R
DEL ROSA WAY
CORNELL AVE
R
O
S
EWOO
D
D
R
PARK LN
PARK LN
V
E
R
N
O
N T
ER
STRATF
O
RD WAY
K
A
T
H
RYNE AVE
W 25TH AVE
MC LELLAN AVE
MID
W
AY
AVE
KENW
OOD
AVE
ISABELLE AVE
BROOKS ST
ESTRELLA WAY
CE
LES
T
E D
R
KELLY ST
GEORGETOWN AVE
JOA
NNE DR
SOU
THW
OOD
AVE
WOODLAND DR
POINSETTIA AVE
DAVID ST
MADISON AVE
Y
OUNG S
T
MAGNOL
IA
D
R
N ROCHESTER ST
VERDUN AV
E
FORDHAM RD
W
G
R
A
NT PL
H
O
S
M
E
R ST
CAVANAUGH ST
B
A
Y
W
O
O
D
AVE
ST
U
DIO C
I
R
ONEILL DR
E GRANT
P
L
YATES
WAY
C
HURCH AVE
ALHAMBRA RD
GUILDFORD AVE
D
ETROIT DR
SPUR
A
WAY DR
FALLON AVE
E
3RD AVE
LAGO ST
M
AXINE AVE
BR
IDG
EPOINTE PKWY
BOVET RD
FAIRMONT DR
VIE
W
R
I
D
G
E
D
R
COUNTR
Y
SIDE DR
S AMPHLETT BLVD
GE
O
R
G
E
A
VE
CSM DR
WA
YNE WAY
J HART CLINTON DR
CHE
R
R
YW
OOD DR
CAMPUS DR
Poplar Creek
Golf Course
Sugarloaf
Mountain
Laurelwood
Park
Bay Marshes
Coyote Point
County Park
Dated Sept 2021, created by DoIT/GIS
Half Mile Radius of
Public Transit Stops
City of San Mateo
²
San Francisco Bay & Lagoon
Assessor Parcels
San Mateo City Limits
LEGEND
0
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
Miles
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Half mile radius from public transit stops
(includes stops for SamTrans, AC Transit, Caltrain)
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
(/
101
BRANSON DR
SEAGA
T
E D
R
MARTI
N
D
R
VAIL
W
O
O
D WAY
P
EBBL
E
W
O
OD
W
AY
RA
M
B
LEWOO
D
W
A
Y
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
}ÿ
92
24TH AVE
31S
T
AVE
28TH AVE
MADERA DR
26TH AVE
MAD
R
O
NE CT
DEL RAY ST
MASON LN
MONTEREY ST
28TH AV
E
27TH AVE
GLEN
D
ORA DR
SUNS
E
T
TER
28TH AVE
27TH AVE
26TH AVE
CUESTA AVE
PICO AVE
26TH
A
VE
29TH AVE
P
ICO AVE
SEQU
O
IA AVE
L
I
V
E
O
A
K DR
22ND AVE
SEQ
U
OIA AVE
ENSE
N
A
D
A
A
VE
M
UR
P
HY DR
SUNSET TER
VERDUN
A
V
E
C
OU
N
T
RY
S
IDE DR
C
SM D
R
CA
M
PUS
D
R
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
CITY OF
BELMONT
31ST AVE
SHASTA DR
31
S
T AVE
C
A
XTON CT
DEL MONTE ST
SUNS
E
T
TER
S
H
A
S
T
A DR
M
O
NTE
R
EY ST
W HILL
S
D
A
LE BLVD
VERDUN
A
V
E
KIN
G
RID
G
E
D
R
C
H
ERRYW
O
OD
D
R
L
A
U
R
ELWOOD DR
V
I
EWR
ID
G
E DR
C
OU
N
TRYS
IDE DR
Sugarloaf
Mountain
Laurelwood Park
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
WARR
E
N RD
WARR
EN RD
CL
A
RK DR
FULTO
N
RD
CL
A
RK DR
CLARK
DR
W POP
L
AR AVE
CHESTER WAY
E
D
G
E
W
O
O
D RD
MID
W
AY A
V
E
HILLSBO
ROU
G
H
BLVD
B
R
OMFI
E
LD
R
D
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
TOWN OF
HILLSBOROUGH
PARRO
T
T DR
M
E
LRO
S
E CT
PARRO
T
T
DR
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
PORT
DR
DETROI
T
DR
ANCHOR RD
LAKE
S
T
E 3RD
AVE
D
E
TROIT
DR
J HART CLINTON DR
Transit Stops
Inset 1
Inset 2
Inset 3
Inset 4
Inset 5
Inset 6
TROLLMA
N AVE
N QUEBEC ST
Inset 7

--- page 224 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
Planning Commission 
Study Session
August 26, 2025
Liz Gagliardi
Associate Planner, Community Development

--- page 225 ---
Background
• 2016 – California legislature passed initial state-wide ADU laws to streamline 
and promote ADU development
• 2022 – City of San Mateo adopted a local ADU Ordinance (SMMC Ch. 27.19)
• 2024 – HCD provided formal review of the City’s ADU Ordinance
• 2025 – HCD published updated ADU Handbook

--- page 226 ---
Background
Housing Element Policy H1.4 – Support Increased ADU Development.
Implementation Action H1.4 (a) - Amend the City’s ADU Ordinance to align 
with current State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by HCD

--- page 227 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
• Changes to address HCD Comments for State law compliance
• Staff-Initiated changes to address local needs

--- page 228 ---
ADU Ordinance Updates
Proposed Timeline for Adoption
-
August 26, 2025
Planning Commission Study Session
-
September 25, 2025
Community Informational Workshop (Virtual)
-
October 2025
Return to Planning Commission with draft 
ordinance
-
November 2025
City Council hearings for draft ordinance first 
read, return for approval

--- page 229 ---
Policy Guidance & Discussion
1) Height Limit for Detached ADUs
2) ADU Maximum Unit Size
3) Parking Exemptions for ADUs
4) Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
•
ADUDR Process
•
Height
•
Setbacks
•
Second Story Decks and Balconies
Purpose of Study Session:
Planning Commission to provide 
guidance on staff suggestions for 
proposed updates

--- page 230 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
State Law Context 
• Must allow detached ADUs up to 16 feet, or up to 18 feet (plus two feet to 
allow for matching roof pitch to existing dwelling) for detached ADUs near 
transit or on multistory multifamily lots
• Must allow two-story detached ADUs
• State law only regulates total height (not plate vs. roof peak)

--- page 231 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
Local Context
• Current Standard – 16 feet to top plate and 24 feet to roof peak
• Proposed Updates – Separate standards for one- and two-story:
• One-story: 12 feet to top plate, 18 feet to roof peak
• Two-story: 18 feet to top plate, 24 feet to roof peak
All measured from existing grade

--- page 232 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs

BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance, measured
from existing grade to the highest plate line of the
structure directly above that point.

17’ roof peak

WALL ASSEMBLY =

PLATE LINE: The point where the top of the wall
assembly meets the roof structure.

10’ building
height

CITY OF



--- page 233 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs

we Ne ee ge eee
Sa ae

a OM eee eee ees

0 ____.------

oo BTL wee

CITY OF



--- page 234 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs

THE DAYLIGHT PLANE 45° Daylight

Plane

4’ setback

Side/Rear
Property Line

CITY OF



--- page 235 ---
Height Limit for Detached ADUs
Discussion Question
Should the Ordinance adopt separate height standards for one- and 
two-story detached ADUs, and should the 16-foot plate height be 
increased to 18 feet for two-story ADUs?

--- page 236 ---
ADU Maximum Unit Size
State Law Context 
• ADUs of at least 800 square feet with 4-foot setbacks are allowed by-right
• Must allow ADUs of at least:
• 850 square feet for studio and one-bedroom ADUs
• 1,000 square feet for ADU with more than one bedroom

--- page 237 ---
ADU Maximum Unit Size
Local Context
• Current Standard – No specific maximum size. 
• ADU size is regulated by Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Up to 800 square feet of ADU 
area is exempt from total FAR. 
• ADU cannot be larger than primary unit. 
• Proposed Updates – Keep FAR standards in place, and introduce 
additional maximum unit size standard of 1,200 square feet for new 
construction ADUs.

--- page 238 ---
ADU Maximum Unit Size
Discussion Question
Should the Ordinance be amended to set at 1,200 square-foot 
maximum size limit for new ADU construction, in addition to meeting 
existing FAR regulations?

--- page 239 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
State Law Context 
• When parking is required for an ADU, may not exceed one space per unit or per 
bedroom, whichever is less.
• No parking required when parking is demolished or converted to an ADU
• No parking required for ADUs:
• Within 1/2 mile walking distance of public transit
• Within an architecturally and historically significant historic district
• That are part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an accessory structure
• When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the occupant of the ADU
• When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the ADU
• When a permit application for an ADU is submitted with a permit application to create a new 
single-family dwelling or a new multifamily dwelling on the same lot, provided that the ADU or 
the parcel satisfies any other criteria listed above.

--- page 240 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
Local Context
• Current Standard – Minimum of one standard-sized off-street parking 
space for each ADU is required. 
• ADU parking can be covered or uncovered, may be in tandem configuration. 
• Exemptions to providing off-street parking are also provided pursuant to State 
law
• Proposed Updates – Eliminate all required off-street parking for ADUs 
citywide.
• Clarify that voluntary parking is allowed and encouraged
• Allow existing driveways and curb cuts to remain even when a garage or 
carport is converted or demolished for an ADU

--- page 241 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
Map shows areas within ½ mile 
of transit stops. Areas shaded in 
tan are currently exempt from 
ADU parking standards

--- page 242 ---
Parking Exemptions for ADUs
Discussion Question
Should the ordinance be amended to exempt all ADUs from off-street 
parking requirements?

--- page 243 ---
Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
State Law Context 
• Ministerial approval is required when an ADU meets State law requirements.
• A local agency may apply objective standards on ADUs.

--- page 244 ---
Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
Local Context
• Current Standard – Two paths for ADU review:
1) Ministerial Review – for ADUs that meet development standards of the Ordinance
2) Accessory Dwelling Unit Discretionary Review (ADUDR) – alternative option for 
any ADU that does not meet the development standards of the ADU Ordinance
• Proposed Updates – Update development standards to all be objective, and 
remove ADUDR process so that all ADUs go through a ministerial review. 
• For exceptional circumstances, ADU projects could still request discretionary review 
through a Variance if they are unable to meet objective standards.

--- page 245 ---
Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
Objective Standard Updates Proposed
• Height (per first discussion item)
• Setbacks
• Current Standard – 4-foot side and rear setbacks required for ADUs. 
• Proposed Update – Allow ADUs in the rear one-third of a parcel to be built within side and rear 
setbacks if they meet existing requirements for Accessory Structures in the rear one-third of a 
parcel. 
• Second Story Decks and Balconies
• Current Standard – All second-story decks & balconies require ADUDR.
• Proposed Update – Allow second-story decks & balconies. No portion of the deck or balcony 
shall be within setbacks of the underlying zoning district. Set a maximum size limit for second 
story decks and balconies.

--- page 246 ---
ADUDR Summary
ADUDR Applications 2022-Present
Total Submittals
19
ADUDR Approved
10
ADUDR Withdrawn
7
Under Review
2
Reasons for seeking ADUDR
• Addition to existing accessory 
structure within 4-foot setbacks
• Two-story ADU exceeding 16-foot 
plate height
• New detached ADU with a second 
story balcony

--- page 247 ---
Ministerial Approval and Objective Standards
Discussion Questions
1)
What size limit should be set for a second-story deck/balcony on an 
ADU?
2)
Should the ADUDR process be removed in favor of expanded 
objective standards for ministerial approval?

--- page 248 ---
Discussion Questions Summary
1)
Should the Ordinance adopt separate height standards for one- and two-
story detached ADUs, and should the 16-foot plate height be increased to 
18 feet for two-story ADUs?
2)
Should the Ordinance be amended to set at 1,200 square-foot maximum 
size limit for new ADU construction, in addition to meeting existing FAR 
regulations?
3)
Should the ordinance be amended to exempt all ADUs from off-street 
parking requirements?
4)
What size limit should be set for a second-story deck/balcony on an ADU?
5)
Should the ADUDR process be removed in favor of expanded objective 
standards for ministerial approval?

--- page 249 ---
Thank You
Liz Gagliardi
Associate Planner, Community Development
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206

--- page 250 ---
PROPOSED MAXIMUM DETACHED ADU HEIGHTS

46° minimum: l att 5 lio a) = = aL ae aa | = 7 ia} —_—
ADU height |
per state lew

a. 16° Plate Height / 24° Roof Peak b. 20° Plate Height / 28’ Roof Peak c. 24 Plate Height / 32° Roof Peak

——— CITY OF ———_



--- page 251 ---


--- page 252 ---
“HDF

Aug 25, 2025

City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

By Email: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org

CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org; clerk@cityofsanmateo.org;
citymanager@cityofsanmateo.org; communi velopmen ityofsanm

Re: Proposed Amendments to the City’s ADU Regulations
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,

The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF’”) submits this letter as a public comment
concerning Item 2 on the agenda for the August 26, 2025 Planning Commission meeting, a
study session for an update to the City’s regulations for the development of accessory
dwelling units (“ADUs’) and junior accessory dwelling units (“JADUs’).

CalHDF applauds the City for updating its ADU regulations to keep pace with changes in
state law. CalHDF writes to flag specific legal issues with the existing ordinance as well as
with some of the proposed changes, which the city should address when it is preparing an
update to its ADU regulations.

Background

The law gives local governments authority to enact zoning ordinances that implement a
variety of development standards on ADUs. (Gov. Code, § 66314.) The standards in these local
ordinances are limited by state law so as not to overly restrict ADU development. (See id.)
Separately from local ADU ordinances, Government Code section 66323 establishes a
narrower set of ADU types that local governments have a ministerial duty to approve.
“Notwithstanding Sections 66314 to 66322 ...a local agency shall ministerially approve” these
types of ADUs. (Id. at subd. (a).) This means that ADUs that satisfy the minimal requirements
of section 66323 must be approved regardless of any contrary provisions of the local ADU
ordinance. (Ibid.) Local governments may not impose their own standards on such ADUs.
(Gov. Code, § 66323, subd. (b) [“A local agency shall not impose any objective development or
design standard that is not authorized by this section upon any accessory dwelling unit that

”

meets the requirements of any of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (a).’].)


--- page 253 ---


--- page 254 ---


--- page 255 ---


--- page 256 ---


--- page 257 ---


--- page 258 ---
<>

CalHDF applauds the City for amending its code to keep pace with changes to state law.
However, the City should make sure that its ADU regulations comply with state law.

CalHDF is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for
increased access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income

households. You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdforg.

Sincerely,

Dylan 4 5S

CalHDF Executive Director

prs. 49

James M. Lloyd
CalHDF Director of Planning and Investigations

7 of 7


--- page 259 ---
From: Amourence Lee 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 26, 2025 12:05 PM 
To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl 
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: ADU Ordinance Updates 
 
Dear City Manager Khojikian and Community Development Director Dahl, 
I am writing regarding Agenda Item 2: “Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Updates”—
scheduled for discussion to update our ADU regulations. 
I urge the City to treat oƯ-street parking provided voluntarily with ADU projects as part of 
the ADU project (including both ADU conversions and new construction) and to allow ADUs 
that are larger than the primary dwelling unit, up to the FAR of the property. 
This parking reform is one of the most impactful streamlining changes that ensures housing 
growth while preserving and providing oƯ-street parking and yard space. Allowing enclosed 
oƯ-street parking to be located under the footprint of an ADU means: 
 
OƯ-street parking is maintained, reducing neighborhood parking burdens where 
street parking is already scarce. 
 
Private yards and open space are preserved, supporting family needs, greenery, 
and climate resilience. 
 
Equity for older, denser neighborhoods—such as North Central and Central—that 
beneﬁt most, since they already face high parking pressures and limited yard space. 
When ADUs are built above garages, the City not only meets its housing goals but does so 
in a way that strengthens livability, equity, and climate adaptation. 
Council’s Original Intent 
While serving on the San Mateo City Council, this issue was articulated in detail with city 
staƯ who presented mock-ups of ADUs above garages. At that time, the will of the Council 
was explicitly aimed at incentivizing projects that preserved or provided oƯ-street parking 
by allowing greater concessions for 2-story garage-based ADUs through the discretionary 
process. 
Unfortunately, the implementation and interpretation of this policy have run afoul of the 
Council’s explicit direction. Instead of streamlining approvals, homeowners face costly and

--- page 260 ---
time-consuming bureaucracy, while staƯ are forced into review processes that waste 
valuable City resources. 
Parking Treated as a Separate Project: State law prohibits requiring parking for ADUs 
within ½ mile of public transit, a rule that covers most residential parcels within the City. 
However, when an applicant voluntarily includes oƯ-street parking with an ADU project—
which the Council explicitly wanted to incentivize—staƯ are instead treating the parking as 
a separate “parking project” subject to a diƯerent set of zoning rules. This can make it 
nearly impossible to design functional ADUs above garages and directly contradicts 
Council’s intent. 
Deﬁnition of “Primary Residential Dwelling Unit”: The municipal code deﬁnes a “primary 
residential dwelling unit” as the largest dwelling on a lot, which eƯectively requires that all 
ADUs be smaller than the existing home. This conﬂicts with the Council’s prior decision to 
remove size caps on ADUs and instead regulate them by FAR. In practice, this has blocked 
projects that Council intended to support. For example, a North Central proposed duplex 
ADU project was denied because staƯ required the ADU to be smaller than the smaller of 
the two duplex units, even though the duplex was a similar size as the ADU. This is 
particularly inequitable in older neighborhoods where many homes are under 1,200 sq. ft. 
Residents in Baywood or San Mateo Park with 3,000+ sq. ft. homes can easily build large 
ADUs, while families in North Central and Central are eƯectively capped at much smaller 
sizes. This undermines AƯirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Law by blocking working 
families from opportunities to create family-sized ADUs. 
These ﬁxes will rectify the policy to align implementation with the Council’s original vision, 
allowing homeowners to reinvest in their properties without unnecessary expense or delay 
and create space for more aƯordable and “missing middle” homes, while advancing San 
Mateo’s climate resilience and equity goals. 
As you deliberate on the ADU Ordinance Updates, the inclusion reforms that reduce 
bureaucracy, save money for homeowners, preserve neighborhood livability, and align City 
policy with State law and the Council’s original intent should be a top priority.  
In service, 
Amourence Lee 
Former Mayor 
City of San Mateo

--- page 261 ---
1
From:
Laurie Hietter 
Sent:
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 4:00 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
ADU Standards
Dear Planning Commission Members: 
 
Please accept these comments on the proposed changes to ADU standards: 
 
1. Do not increase height limits. 
2. Retain underlying zoning FAR control for ADUs over 800 square feet (with 800 square feet of ADU 
living area exempt from total FAR). 
3. Specify the maximum size of 1,200 square feet for new construction ADUs (additional limit to FAR 
standards). 
4. Do not exempt all ADUs from a parking requirement. 
5. The ADUDR should not be removed.  
6. Objective standards should be specified, such as windows should not be directly across from a 
neighbor's window, no horizontally-oriented windows, no horizontal wood fences, and be 
consistent with multi-family Objective Design Standards. 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Laurie Hietter 
 
--  
Laurie

--- page 262 ---
From:
 
Sent: Tuesday, August 26, 2025 4:34 PM 
To: Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Seema Patel 
<spatel@cityofsanmateo.org>; Caiti Busch <cbusch@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Klafter 
<aklafter@cityofsanmateo.org>; Maxwell Schaumkel <mschaumkel@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Margaret Williams <mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org>; Elizabeth "Liz" Gagliardi 
<egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PC Meeting 0n 8/26/25  
  
Dear Commissioners - please ﬁnd attached my notes on item number two for tonight's 
meeting. I hope this input can help you make educated decisions on how to address an 
important housing element component.  
 
thanks  
 
John Ebneter

--- page 263 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Commission  
 
 
 
8/26/25 
 
Ref: PC meeting on 8/26/24 
Item number two 
 
 
 
The height limit recommendation in the staff report aligns with what the planning commission 
recommended three years ago. What should now be addressed is that in certain areas of 
the city first floor heights are raised above existing grade by three feet to alleviate sea level 
rise and high ground water incursion. This increased ground floor height needs to be 
adjusted to the allowable heights of ADU's in the parts of the city afflicted by these hazards.  
 
The proposed maximum size of 1,200 square feet for an ADU conflicts with guidance by 
planning commission and council during the last ordinance update which set the size 
limitations by the Floor Area Ratio, FAR. The staff report alludes to a city guideline that an 
ADU cannot be larger than the primary residence, that is totally contrary to prior staff 
directions. The size of an ADU should be predicated by FAR and not an arbitrary preference 
of neighborhood balance and any existing codes should be abandoned.  
 
The staff report states that over the last three years an average of 77 ADU’s have been built 
yet per the city’s Annual Progress Reports for those years a total of 181 ADU’s have been 
completed, which is an average of 60 per year. The cities RHNA cycle 6 has a goal of 
building 7,015 housing units between 2023 – 2031. Unfortunately, only 291 units have been 
built and of those 44% are ADU’s.  
 
Another issue of note is per state law ADU permits need to be approved in two months. In 
San Mateo County ten of the cities average between 0 and 2 months to issue permits. The 
city of San Mateo averages between four and eight months to issue a permit. This is two to 
four times the state mandated timeline to just get a permit and by far the worst performing 
city in the county on this critical aspect.  
 
The percentage of new housing built in California represented by ADU’s is 22%, yet in San 
Mateo that percentage is 44%. With our ongoing struggles to build housing it has become 
more important to make the process of building ADU’s as streamlined and efficient as 
possible. You as a commission can implement guidelines that will help the public in its 
desires to build housing in their own backyards that are used for a wide variety of housing 
needs.  
 
 
Thank you 
John Ebneter

--- page 264 ---
1
From:
Sent:
Tuesday, August 26, 2025 5:47 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
Subject:
Item #2 - Accessory Dwelling Unit Update
Dear Chair Patel and Members of the Planning Commission, 
 
1. 
Retain the current height limits, and do not increase the heights.  Maximum height for detached ADUs is 16 Ō to 
plate and 24 Ō to roof plate from exisƟng grade.  
 
2. 
Retain underlying zoning FAR control for ADUs over 800 square feet (with 800 square feet of ADU living area 
exempt from total FAR). 
 
3. 
Stay with the current ordinance - 1 oﬀ-street parking space per unit.  Do not exempt all ADUs from the parking 
requirement.  
 
4. 
The ADU Design Review should not be removed.  
 
5. 
Create objecƟve design standards for the detached ADU’s.  Especially when the home is on a corner lot and both 
the  primary home and ADU are visible from the street.  This includes similar architectural style, color, and materials, no 
horizontal sliding windows, and no horizontal fences.  
 
Thank you. 
 
Laurie Watanuki

--- page 265 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10270
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 26, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Election of Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Elect Chair and Vice Chair of the Planning Commission
BACKGROUND:
Pursuant to the City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Attachment 1) the Planning 
Commission election of the Chair and Vice Chair should occur annually at the first available meet after June 10st. Chapter 4 
of the Rules and Procedures describes the duties of the Chair and Vice Chair, and Chapter 5 outlines the typical selection 
process for these two positions. The Rules and Procedures were most recently updated in April 2024. The elected Chair 
and Vice Chair would preside over the next Planning Commission meeting, which is tentatively scheduled for September 9, 
2025. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, Director of Community Development
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207

--- page 266 ---
Boards and Commissions  
Rules and Procedures 
 
 
Adopted on August 17, 2015 
by Resolution No. 82 (2015) 
Amended by Council Action on:  
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021,  
September 6, 2022 and April 1, 2024

--- page 267 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
2 
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview ............................................................................................. 3 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority .............................................................................................. 4 
Chapter 3. 
Governance Principles .............................................................................................. 7 
Chapter 4. 
Duties ........................................................................................................................ 8 
Chapter 5. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ........................................................................... 12 
Chapter 6. 
Commissioner Conduct .......................................................................................... 13 
Chapter 7. 
Meetings ................................................................................................................. 15 
Chapter 8. 
Meeting Agendas .................................................................................................... 20 
Chapter 9. 
Financial Matters .................................................................................................... 23 
Chapter 10. Communication ...................................................................................................... 27 
Chapter 11. Boards and Commissions Selection Process .......................................................... 31 
Chapter 12. References .............................................................................................................. 33

--- page 268 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
3 
Chapter 1. 
Purpose and Overview  
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws.  
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed. 
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position. 
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed.

--- page 269 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
4 
Chapter 2. 
Commission Authority 
1. 
Commission Authority, Generally 
A. 
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs.  
B. 
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas. 
C. 
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff.  
D. 
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council. 
E. 
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City. 
F. 
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest. 
G. 
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups. 
H. 
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department. 
I. 
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.   
2. 
Applicability 
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council.

--- page 270 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
5 
3. 
Authority of Each Board / Commission 
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57. 
A. 
Library Board: 
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes. 
B. 
Personnel Board: 
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules. 
C. 
Community Relations Commission (CRC):  
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases. 
D. 
Park & Recreation Commission: 
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities. 
E. 
Planning Commission: 
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council. 
F. 
Senior Citizens Commission: 
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population.

--- page 271 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
6 
G. 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure. 
H. 
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC): 
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices.  
I. 
Youth Activity Council (YAC): 
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers. 
4. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order 
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.

--- page 272 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
7 
Chapter 3. 
Governance Principles 
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources.

--- page 273 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
8 
Chapter 4. 
Duties 
1. 
Duties of the Chair 
A. 
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period. 
B. 
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting. 
C. 
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently: 
1. 
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay. 
2. 
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting.  
3. 
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting. 
4. 
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should: 
a. 
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public.  
b. 
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response.  
c. 
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members. 
d. 
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements.  
e. 
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted.  
f. 
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk. 
5. 
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should:

--- page 274 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
9 
a. 
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais. 
b. 
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement. 
c. 
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views. 
D. 
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission.  
E. 
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public. 
2. 
Duties of Vice Chair 
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position. 
3. 
Duties of Commissioners 
A. 
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings. 
B. 
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed.  
C. 
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Council consideration. 
D. 
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Council members are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community. 
E. 
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries.

--- page 275 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
10 
F. 
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting. 
G. 
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter. 
H. 
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook.  
4. 
Duties of Staff Liaison 
A. 
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities: 
1. 
Create meeting schedules. 
2. 
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports. 
3. 
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information. 
4. 
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission. 
5. 
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management. 
6. 
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration. 
7. 
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council. 
B. 
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body. 
C. 
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body.

--- page 276 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
11 
5. 
Duties of Administrative Staff 
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to: 
A. 
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public. 
B. 
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting. 
C. 
Produce the action minutes for each meeting. 
D. 
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk. 
6. 
Duties of Council Liaison 
A. 
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions. 
B. 
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.

--- page 277 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
12 
Chapter 5. 
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair 
1. 
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes. 
2. 
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance. 
3. 
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire. 
4. 
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention. 
5. 
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission.

--- page 278 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
13 
Chapter 6. 
Commissioner Conduct  
1. 
Members shall: THIS SECTION WILL BE CONSIDERED AT THE UPCOMING WORKSHOP ON 
NORMS 
A. 
Put the community’s interests first at all times by making decisions with the 
interest of the community at-large in mind and avoid representing personal 
interests 
B. 
Treat each other, council members, staff, and members of the public with dignity, 
courtesy, and respect 
C. 
Not interrupt speakers, allow them to finish their presentation before asking 
questions 
D. 
Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting 
E. 
Maintain confidentiality of all closed session materials and discussion 
F. 
Be attentive to others, limiting interruptions and distractions 
G. 
Encourage diverse viewpoints in debate while being mindful not to prolong 
discourse or block consensus 
H. 
Agree to respectfully disagree with colleagues 
I. 
Keep comments clear, concise, and on-topic 
J. 
Start and end meetings on time and work from the agenda 
K. 
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting  
L. 
Present problems in a way that promotes discussion and resolution 
M. 
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested. 
N. 
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters 
2. 
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City

--- page 279 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
14 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees. 
3. 
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).

--- page 280 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
15 
Chapter 7. 
Meetings 
1. 
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action. 
2. 
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed). 
3. 
Commission Meeting Dates 
A. 
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time. 
B. 
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates. 
C. 
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission. 
4. 
Types of Meetings 
A. 
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting.  
B. 
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings. 
C. 
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given. 
D. 
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded. 
E. 
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being.

--- page 281 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
16 
F. 
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages 
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda 
items the Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda. 
5. 
Voting 
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote. 
6. 
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues. 
7. 
Public Participation 
A. 
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting. 
B. 
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone. 
C. 
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended. 
D. 
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.

--- page 282 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
17 
E. 
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers: 
1. 
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes  
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes 
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes 
c. over 21 speakers: 1 minute 
2. 
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance. 
3. 
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another. 
4. 
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time.  
F. 
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured. 
G. 
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
H. 
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period. 
8. 
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business) 
A. 
Staff / applicant presentation 
B. 
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony 
C. 
Close public hearing (or public comment section)

--- page 283 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
18 
D. 
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted 
E. 
Council questions to applicant and/or staff. 
F. 
Commission discussion and deliberation. 
G. 
Commission votes. 
9. 
Appeals 
A. 
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations: 
1. 
Appellant – 15 minutes 
2. 
Applicant – 15 minutes 
3. 
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above. 
4. 
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each. 
5. 
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony)  
6. 
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed.  
B. 
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal.  
10. Items Considered after 11:00 p.m. 
11. At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items. 
12. Action Minutes 
A. 
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body. 
B. 
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request

--- page 284 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
19 
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No 
supplemental materials may be appended to minutes.  
C. 
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable. 
D. 
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule. 
13. Conflict of Interest 
A. 
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest.  
B. 
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest. 
C. 
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists.  
D. 
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison. 
E. 
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest. 
F. 
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest. 
G. 
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest. 
H. 
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar

--- page 285 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
20 
Chapter 8. 
Meeting Agendas 
1. 
Agenda Order 
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below. 
A. 
Opening 
1. 
Pledge of Allegiance 
2. 
Roll Call 
B. 
Consent Calendar 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.  
C. 
Public Comment 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules. 
D. 
Public Hearing 
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission. 
E. 
Old Business 
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken. 
F. 
New Business 
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.

--- page 286 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
21 
G. 
Reports and Announcements 
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda.   
H. 
Additional Public Comment (if needed) 
I. 
Adjourn 
2. 
Agenda Item Submission 
A. 
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.   
1. 
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure: 
a. 
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and  
b. 
Any action is fully transparent to the public.  
2. 
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting. 
B. 
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report. 
C. 
Members of the Public  
1. 
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways: 
a. 
Write a letter or email to the Commission.  
b. 
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting.

--- page 287 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
22 
2. 
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue.  
3. 
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.

--- page 288 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
23 
Chapter 9. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend. 
2. 
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy 
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply: 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business.  
2. 
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head. 
3. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
4. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1. 
Airfare 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State

--- page 289 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
24 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This

--- page 290 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
25 
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member. 
8. 
Meals 
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.

--- page 291 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
26 
C. 
Expense Reports 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.

--- page 292 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
27 
Chapter 10. 
Communication 
1. 
All communications are public records.  
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records.  
2. 
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act.  
3. 
Ralph M. Brown Act 
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other. 
4. 
Correspondence 
A. 
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized. 
B. 
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes. 
C. 
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, 
will also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence. 
5. 
Electronic Communication Record Retention 
A. 
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email.  
B. 
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.

--- page 293 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
28 
C. 
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years. 
D. 
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years. 
6. 
Social Media Use as a Commission Member 
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc. 
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies. 
A. 
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public. 
1. 
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post. 
2. 
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols. 
B. 
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff. 
C. 
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.

--- page 294 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
29 
D. 
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. 
Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or 
Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, 
not by any individual commissioner. 
7. 
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items 
A. 
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics. 
B. 
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting.  
C. 
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person. 
D. 
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible. 
8. 
Commission - Staff Relations 
A. 
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison. 
B. 
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting.  
C. 
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.

--- page 295 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
30 
D. 
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners. 
9. 
Speaking for “the City” 
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.   
10. Speaking as an Individual 
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.

--- page 296 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
31 
Chapter 11. 
Boards and Commissions Selection 
Process 
1. 
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions. 
2. 
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments 
A. 
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.   
B. 
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur. 
C. 
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration. 
D. 
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process. 
E. 
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation. 
F. 
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms. 
G. 
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening.

--- page 297 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
32 
H. 
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees. 
I. 
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period. 
J. 
Unscheduled Vacancies 
1. 
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed. 
2. 
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions. 
3. 
All appointments occur in an open public meeting. 
K. 
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process 
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year.

--- page 298 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures 
 
33 
Chapter 12. 
References 
1. 
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI 
2. 
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.) 
3. 
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq. 
4. 
San Mateo Municipal Code 
5. 
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
6. 
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3 
7. 
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order