--- page 1 ---
ALPR cameras track Iowa drivers with few
regulations, ACLU report finds
New study reveals 48 agencies use automated license plate recognition
technology across Iowa
Automated license plate recognition cameras are tracking thousands of vehicles daily across Iowa with little
state regulation.
By Andrew Pfeifer
Published: Dec. 10, 2025 at 11:27 PM UTC

LIVE
LIVE
News
News
Streaming
Streaming
First Alert 6 Weather
First Alert 6 Weather
24/7 Weather
24/7 Weather
We the People
We the People

ADVERTISEMENT
Share


--- page 2 ---
Add Us
On Google
COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa. (WOWT)- Automated license plate recognition cameras are tracking
thousands of vehicles daily across Iowa with little state regulation, according to a new report from
the University of Iowa and the ACLU.
The technology has expanded rapidly across the state, with 48 agencies now using ALPR
cameras, the ACLU of Iowa study shows. Council Bluffs has 37 cameras scattered throughout the
city.
“Over the last couple of years they have just exploded in our state and nationally,” said Rita Bettis
Austen, legal director for the ACLU of Iowa.
Privacy concerns grow as cameras multiply
The cameras are small enough that drivers likely don’t know they’re passing one, Bettis Austen
said. They continuously record license plates of every passing vehicle, helping law enforcement
build a database of vehicle information.
Some cities have up to 50 cameras each, the report found.
“This has all taken our already significant privacy civil right liberty concerns from the days back in
2014 and put them on steroids,” Bettis Austen said.
Council Bluffs resident Tonnya Fargnola said she finds the surveillance concerning.
“I think it’s kind of creepy… and I think the point of it was so they can stop and give red light
tickets,” Fargnola said.
However, these are not red light cameras. They record continuously regardless of traffic
violations.
Error rates raise safety concerns
The ACLU report highlights accuracy issues with the technology. About 1 in 10 license plates
recorded contain an error, Bettis Austen said.


--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2025 WOWT. All rights reserved.
“That does mean that you can be targeted by police as being on a hotlist, an error for example,
and that has happened in the past,” she said.
Bettis Austen recalled incidents where cars were held at gunpoint due to ALPR errors.
“Unfortunately, we do know that ALPR’s have been abused by police,” she said.
Under Iowa law, no warrant is required for law enforcement to use the ALPR database.
Costly investment with limited oversight
Some cities have made significant financial investments in the technology. According to the
report, Cedar Rapids has spent as much as $240,000 per year in taxpayer money on the
cameras.
“I don’t see the point of all the money and all the cameras spent on them if they aren’t getting the
right information,” Fargnola said.
The growing use of ALPR cameras has caught the attention of Iowa legislators.
“This has gotten legislators attention on the right side of the issue. What we recommend right
now is to press pause on these,” said Pete McRoberts, policy director for the ACLU of Iowa.
The ACLU’s primary recommendation to cities is to pause adding more cameras and explore
alternatives that protect individual privacy.
“So our recommendation to cities is number one just don’t do this and look at all your options to
return to protecting individual privacy,” McRoberts said.
Until regulations are in place, the ACLU hopes to inform the public about the technology and
advocate for a pause on additional camera installations.
ADVERTISEMENT


--- page 4 ---
Most Read
 Man arrested after abduction report, traffic stop in
Omaha
 Oklahoma youth baseball coach banned for life after
son throws into dugout against Nebraska team
 Nebraska sues Justice Department over marijuana
reclassification
 Nebraska baseball defeats South Dakota State in NCAA
regional opener
 Hotel employee sentenced for sex trafficking of minors in Omaha


--- page 5 ---
Latest News
 One hurt in crash on Interstate 80 in Omaha
 Kwik Trip planning to expand into Nebraska
 Police arrest father suspected in son’s stabbing in North
Omaha
SCENE VIDEO: Authorities investigating Papillion chase at
intersection

FULL VIDEO: Papillion Police Chief's update on pursuit,
officer-involved shooting



--- page 6 ---
Witnesses describe lockdown at Papillion Target after
police pursuit ends

NReport: Huskers react to Kuszak walk-off homerun

Large police presence seen in Papillion

Lincoln man gets probation for body slamming man
outside Das Haus

Nebraska baseball fans celebrate following regional win
over South Dakota State

 Papillion Police chase, shoot suspect after shots fired at
shopping center


--- page 7 ---

News
First Alert 6
Investigations
WOWT 6 News
Crime Stoppers
First Alert 6
Weather
Simply Omaha
Contact Us
Election Results
Get the First Alert
6 Weather app
WOWT
3555 Farnam St.
Omaha, NE 68131
402-346-6666
Public Inspection File
sixonline@wowt.com - 402-346-6666
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
FCC Applications
EEO Statement
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026