Officers accused of misusing Flock cameras Skip to content We are Local Simply Omaha Advertise With Us Sketch the Sky Memorials LIVE News Streaming First Alert 6 Weather 24/7 Weather We the People Sports on 6 Contact Us News Tips Home News Get the First Alert News App Crime & Public Safety Domestic Violence Education Forecast Health International National Regional Sports State We the People 24/7 Weather First Alert 6 Traffic Live traffic updates First Alert 6 Investigations First Alert 6 Weather Get The First Alert Weather App Interactive Radar Severe Weather Dashboard Weather Maps Union Bank & Trust CityCam Network First Alert 6 Traffic Tornado Closings Closings FAQs Sketch the Sky Sports on 6 High School Scoreboard Nebraska Huskers UNO Mavericks Creighton Bluejays Iowa Sports Simply Omaha Community Community Calendar We Are Local Memorials Partnerships Contact Us News Tips NextGen TV Meet the Team Meet the Sales Team Cozi TV Heroes & Icons ION Television Start TV Circle TV Contests Employment Opportunities Politics Election Results Interactive Results Nebraska Interactive Results Iowa Interactive Results Newsletter TV Listings Submit Photos and Videos NextGen TV Take Our Poll Circle Country Local News Live InvestigateTV Aging Untold Watching Your Wallet PowerNation Digital Marketing Sketch the Sky Gray AI Policy 2 weather alerts in effect Officers accused of misusing Flock cameras A DeKalb County deputy and three Fayetteville police officers were fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera systems in separate incidents. (Source: ANF) By Atlanta News First staff and Gray News staff Published: Jul. 18, 2026 at 6:35 PM UTC | Updated: 17 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google ATLANTA ( ANF /Gray News) — The Fayetteville Police Department fired three of its officers after they allegedly misused the Flock camera system, the department announced on July 17. According to police, testing of a new auditing feature revealed that the officers had conducted searches outside their scope of work — including looking for their own plates or those of friends and family. The three, who have not been identified, were put on administrative leave before being terminated. ANF INVESTIGATES: Flock says its cameras don’t track people. Its own training videos say otherwise “The department will not speculate regarding the intent behind those searches,” the police department said in a statement. “However, searches of this nature are subject to strict scrutiny and were determined to have been conducted without a legitimate law-enforcement purpose, thereby constituting a violation of department policy.” The police department asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to conduct a criminal investigation. No charges have been announced yet. Several law enforcement officers in north Georgia have recently been accused of searching through the system for reasons unrelated to their jobs. In June, a Greene County deputy was arrested and fired — and later that month, three Cherokee County deputies were as well . An Atlanta News First Investigation previously found that Flock cameras were being used for more than just investigating crimes. Information about when a car was seen at a specific location remains in the database for 30 days and is shared with hundreds of external agencies. Some cameras are also designed to follow people as they walk. The system has prompted nationwide protests, with activists concerned about the possible invasion of privacy. Earlier this month in Barrow County, the sheriff’s office said it was looking for vandals who damaged several Flock cameras , cutting down camera poles and severing solar power equipment. Copyright 2026 ANF via Gray Local Media, Inc. All rights reserved. Most Read Man’s body found hidden in hotel room had been there for months, police say Omaha man arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot up Catholic school, kill Gov. Pillen’s family, nuns Omaha-based company to pay $10M to resolve bribery scheme at U.S.-Mexico border Crews battle flames at StorageMart in Omaha Nebraska City man dies after escaping custody, barricading in residence Three men sentenced to federal prison for meth bust at South Omaha short-term rental Omaha Bike Week co-founder killed in drunk driving crash; community mourns during his own event Man arrested in Council Bluffs on multiple charges in connection to exploitation operation Latest News US strikes Iran’s Revolutionary Guard over attack that killed American troops in Jordan Nurse adopts 2-year-old girl she treated as a baby in the NICU NICU nurse adopts toddler she treated as a baby One hospitalized after crash in Omaha One hospitalized, another in custody after Omaha shooting One hospitalized after crash in Omaha One hospitalized, another in custody after Omaha shooting Bison charges grandfather at Yellowstone, sending him flying into the air News First Alert 6 Investigations WOWT 6 News Crime Stoppers First Alert 6 Weather Simply Omaha Contact Us Election Results Get the First Alert 6 Weather app WOWT 3555 Farnam St. Omaha, NE 68131 402-346-6666 Public Inspection File sixonline@wowt.com - 402-346-6666 Terms of Service Privacy Policy FCC Applications EEO Statement Advertising Digital Marketing Closed Captioning/Audio Description Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search