--- page 1 ---
2 Weather Alerts In Effect
2 Weather Alerts In Effect

Officers accused of misusing Flock
cameras
A DeKalb County deputy and three Fayetteville police officers were fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera
systems in separate incidents. (Source: ANF)
By Atlanta News First staff and Gray News staff
Published: Jul. 18, 2026 at 6:35 PM UTC | Updated: 17 hours ago

LIVE
LIVE
News
News
Streaming
Streaming
First Alert 6 Weather
First Alert 6 Weather
24/7 Weather
24/7 Weather
We the People
We the People

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google


--- page 2 ---
Copyright 2026 ANF via Gray Local Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
ATLANTA (ANF/Gray News) — The Fayetteville Police Department fired three of its officers after
they allegedly misused the Flock camera system, the department announced on July 17.
According to police, testing of a new auditing feature revealed that the officers had conducted
searches outside their scope of work — including looking for their own plates or those of friends
and family. The three, who have not been identified, were put on administrative leave before
being terminated.
ANF INVESTIGATES: Flock says its cameras don’t track people. Its own training videos
say otherwise
“The department will not speculate regarding the intent behind those searches,” the police
department said in a statement. “However, searches of this nature are subject to strict scrutiny
and were determined to have been conducted without a legitimate law-enforcement purpose,
thereby constituting a violation of department policy.”
The police department asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to conduct a criminal
investigation. No charges have been announced yet.
Several law enforcement officers in north Georgia have recently been accused of searching
through the system for reasons unrelated to their jobs. In June, a Greene County deputy was
arrested and fired — and later that month, three Cherokee County deputies were as well.
An Atlanta News First Investigation previously found that Flock cameras were being used for
more than just investigating crimes. Information about when a car was seen at a specific location
remains in the database for 30 days and is shared with hundreds of external agencies. Some
cameras are also designed to follow people as they walk.
The system has prompted nationwide protests, with activists concerned about the possible
invasion of privacy. Earlier this month in Barrow County, the sheriff’s office said it was looking for
vandals who damaged several Flock cameras, cutting down camera poles and severing solar
power equipment.
ADVERTISEMENT


--- page 3 ---
Most Read
 Man’s body found hidden in hotel room had been there
for months, police say
 Omaha man arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot
up Catholic school, kill Gov. Pillen’s family, nuns
 Omaha-based company to pay $10M to resolve bribery
scheme at U.S.-Mexico border
 Crews battle flames at StorageMart in Omaha
 Nebraska City man dies after escaping custody, barricading in residence


--- page 4 ---
Latest News
 Three men sentenced to federal prison for meth bust at
South Omaha short-term rental
 Omaha Bike Week co-founder killed in drunk driving
crash; community mourns during his own event
 Man arrested in Council Bluffs on multiple charges in
connection to exploitation operation
 US strikes Iran’s Revolutionary Guard over attack that
killed American troops in Jordan
 Nurse adopts 2-year-old girl she treated as a baby in the
NICU


--- page 5 ---
NICU nurse adopts toddler she treated as a baby

One hospitalized after crash in Omaha

One hospitalized, another in custody after Omaha shooting

 One hospitalized after crash in Omaha
 One hospitalized, another in custody after Omaha
shooting
 Bison charges grandfather at Yellowstone, sending him
flying into the air


--- page 6 ---

News
First Alert 6
Investigations
WOWT 6 News
Crime Stoppers
First Alert 6
Weather
Simply Omaha
Contact Us
Election Results
Get the First Alert
6 Weather app
WOWT
3555 Farnam St.
Omaha, NE 68131
402-346-6666
Public Inspection File
sixonline@wowt.com - 402-346-6666
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
FCC Applications
EEO Statement
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026