source: packet.pdf
sha256: d24dd8edee70d43aa5f16487dab6664f19ce82030ef81005e0c6c3e327ca9d48
pages: 4
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Legislative Committee
May 24, 2021
5:30 PM
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Mayor Eric Rodriguez
Deputy Mayor Rick Bonilla
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 24, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 833 4166 2994
Passcode: 242121
CALL TO ORDER
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Committee’s consideration of these items.
1.
Legislative Exploration
The City Council Legislative Committee comprised of Mayor Eric Rodriguez and Deputy Mayor Rick Bonilla will
meet to discuss and provide direction to staff on if there is any proposed legislation that the City should further
analyze, in order to bring the item back to the Committee to determine if the City should take a position in the
future. Public Comment will be taken. No decisions on positions will be made at this meeting.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the oﬃcial record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: polds@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. To
speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate me.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk Patrice Olds at polds@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7042.
Notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 4

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4700
TO:
City Council Legislative Committee
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 24, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Legislative Exploration
RECOMMENDATION:
The City Council Legislative Committee comprised of Mayor Eric Rodriguez and Deputy Mayor Rick Bonilla will meet to 
discuss and provide direction to staff on if there is any proposed legislation that the City should further analyze, in order to 
bring the item back to the Committee to determine if the City should take a position in the future. Public Comment will be 
taken. No decisions on positions will be made at this meeting. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
2 of 4

--- page 3 ---
From: Mark Eliot 
Date: Wednesday, May 5, 2021 at 3:55 PM
To: Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>, Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: State legislation endorsement (AB 43 and AB 1238)
Hello Eric and Rick,
I am writing to ask that the City Council write letters of support for State Assembly Bills 43 and 1238. 
Both of these bills will greatly benefit San Mateans who walk and bicycle in the City. Since you are on the 
City Council’s legislative committee, I thought it would be appropriate to write to you directly.
AB 43 (Friedman) would allow San Mateo to lower speed limits to make our streets safer for pedestrians 
and cyclists. Current law is very restrictive in how speed limits can be changed. In fact, current law 
actually make it easier to increase speed limits due to the “85th percentile” requirement. From the 
author as quoted in the Legislative Analysts report:
Speed limit reform is far overdue in California. Speed limits are based on the speed driver’s feel 
comfortable driving at, not safety. The 85th percentile is outdated, and has led locals to increase 
speed limits at the same time traffic fatalities continue to increase. Implementation of AB 43 at 
the local level has the potential to save hundreds of lives. This bill is the culmination of the Zero 
Traffic Fatalities Task Force recommendations on speed setting, verified and contributed to by 
experts across the state. 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billAnalysisClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB43#
As a practical example, residents of Bay Meadows have engaged with Public Works regarding speeds on 
Franklin Parkway. We were told that they would have to conduct a speed measurement survey and that 
the results would likely show speeds above the current limit (35mph). Because of the 85th percentile 
rule, this might result increased limits, which is of course exactly the opposite of what we want! AB 43 
could potentially solve this problem.
AB 1238 (Ting) would provide greater freedom for pedestrians in San Mateo by repealing antiquated 
jaywalking rules. From the Legislative Analysts report:
Safe Routes Partnership California, writing in support of this bill, argues “As an organization 
committed to making walking and biking easier for children of all ethnic and socioeconomic 
backgrounds, the Safe Routes Partnership understands that jaywalking laws, though enacted in 
the name of protecting the safety of pedestrians, actually discourage walking as a mode of 
transportation and do not lead to any safer conditions or fewer collisions for people walking or 
using mobility devices. Jaywalking laws do more than turn an ordinary and logical behavior into 
a crime; they also create opportunities for police to racially profile. Our state has a long history 
of over-policing, criminalization, and incarceration that imposes disparate impacts on Black 
Californians. 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billAnalysisClient.xhtml?bill_id=202120220AB1238
3 of 4

--- page 4 ---
San Mateo has many streets for which mid-block, out-of-crosswalk crossing is common and quite safe. 
Technically this is illegal, but for most pedestrians it’s just common sense to cross in the most direct and 
obvious way. San Mateo has committed to encouraging more people to walk in our City. It has 
committed to Vision Zero guidelines and has approved a Pedestrian Master Plan. The SMPD is currently 
engaged in a pedestrian safety campaign that appears to target jaywalking. A jaywalking crackdown is 
just backward thinking. Supporting this bill would send a strong message that the City is serious about its 
commitments.
Please write letters of support for AB 43 and AB 1238.
Best Regards,
-M
4 of 4