source: packet.pdf
sha256: b5f546135af08bb58163a0e8d8ab2d4e448d5e500de01046de457ef696bf8499
pages: 19
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
February 22, 2022
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Tuesday, February 22, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 847 2375 1709
Passcode: 232678
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
New State Housing Law Senate Bill (SB) 9
Receive an update on State Senate Bill (SB) 9 and provide direction to staff on what development standards to
include in the City’s anticipated SB 9 ordinance.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
1 of 19

--- page 2 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 19

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-5691
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 22, 2022 
SUBJECT:
New State Housing Law Senate Bill (SB) 9
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on State Senate Bill (SB) 9 and provide direction to staff on what development standards to include in 
the City’s anticipated SB 9 ordinance.
BACKGROUND:
On September 16, 2021, Governor Newsom signed Senate Bill 9 (SB 9) into law to help address the housing crisis.  Effective 
January 1, 2022, SB 9 requires local agencies to ministerially1 approve certain residential subdivisions and housing 
development projects that allow for the development of additional units within single-family residential zones.    
This report provides an overview of SB 9 and the new development standards that are now applicable to properties within 
the City.  Staff is seeking direction from the City Council on key areas of the new development standards where local 
agencies can exercise discretion within the confines of State law.
SENATE BILL 9 (SB 9):
SB 9 requires local agencies to ministerially approve up to two residential dwelling units, such as duplexes, in single-family 
zoned areas.  The legislation also amends Government Code Section 66411.7 to require the ministerial approval of certain 
two-lot residential subdivisions (i.e. lot splits).  Projects that meet SB 9 qualifying criteria and requirements (as outlined 
below) must be approved ministerially and are not subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) nor local 
General Plan or Municipal Code density limits.  The City may not deny eligible SB 9 projects unless certain findings 
pertaining to adverse impacts to codified objective, public health or safety standards are made and where there is no 
feasible method for mitigation.
For the creation of a duplex or additional dwelling unit on a single-family zoned property, the project property must meet 
the following qualifying criteria:
1.
Zoned single-family residential (i.e. R1-A, R1-B or R1-C);
2.
Not located in a historic district or included on the State Historic Resources Inventory;
3.
Not located in specified resource lands or hazard areas per Government Code Sections 65913.4(a)(6)(B-K);
4.
Has not been occupied by a tenant within the last three (3) years; 
5.
Does not involve the demolition of any affordable or rent controlled housing; and 
6.
Does not involve the demolition of more than 25 percent of any existing exterior walls for any market rate or other 
housing unit. 
1 A ministerial permit is a permit granted at staff level with no environmental review, public hearing, or discretion, provided the project 
complies with established objective zoning and building code standards. 
3 of 19

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
State law dictates the following standards for the addition of a second residential unit (standalone or as part of a duplex) 
and for lot splits. 
Residential Unit (or Duplex) Requirements
1.
Setbacks:

Maximum four-foot side and rear yard setback.  

No setbacks are required for units constructed in the same location and dimensions of an existing legal 
structure or within an existing living area.
2.
Parking:

Up to one off-street parking space per unit can be required.  

No parking is required for sites located within a half-mile distance of a high-quality transit corridor (e.g. El 
Camino Real), major transit stop2, or within one block of a carshare vehicle.
3.
Short-Term Rentals:

Short Term Rentals, which are rentals of less than 30 consecutive calendar days, are prohibited for units 
created under SB 9.
4.
Objective Standards Limitations:

Application of objective zoning and design standards are permitted only if they do not preclude a floor area of 
at least 800 square-feet for either of the two units.
Subdivision (Lot Split)
1.
Parcel Size: 

Creation of two parcels that are each at least 1,200 square-feet in size (i.e. original parcel must be at least 
2,400 square-feet in size). 

Each resulting new parcel may not be smaller than 40 percent of the original parcel size.
2.
Parcel Width and Depth:  

Existing standards under San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.18.040 and Section 26.20.050 still apply so 
long as they do not preclude the proposed lot split subdivision.
3.
Parcel Access:

Newly created parcels shall have access to, provide access to, or adjoin the public right-of-way.
4.
Easements:  

Easements necessary for the provision of public services and facilities may be required by local agencies.
5.
Right-of-Way Dedications:  

Local agencies may not require right-of-way dedications or construction of offsite improvements.
6.
Correction of Nonconformities:

The correction of existing nonconforming zoning conditions may not be required by local agencies nor 
imposed as a condition of project approval.
7.
Sequential Lot Splitting Prohibited:  

Parcels may not be created from a prior lot split under SB 9.
DISCUSSION ITEMS FOR CITY COUNCIL INPUT
Staff will be preparing amendments to the Zoning Code to establish updated development standards for SB 9 projects and 
to ensure consistency with the mandatory requirements of this new State law.  Staff is seeking direction from the Council 
on areas of the State law outlined below where local jurisdictions have discretion to establish their own development 
standards.
Demolition
Under the provisions of SB 9, no more than 25 percent of existing exterior walls may be demolished for the creation of a 
2 A major transit stop either an existing rail or bus rapid transit station or a bus stop that has an intersections of two or more bus routes 
with a 15-minute or less service interval during the morning and afternoon peak commute hours (PRC 21064.3)
4 of 19

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
new duplex or dwelling unless otherwise permitted by local ordinance.  The 25% demolition limit does not apply to SB 9 
projects that propose a lot split.  
Currently, the substantial demolition or removal of a residence (defined as the removal of 50% or more of a structure’s 
exterior walls and/or roof) requires the issuance of a discretionary Special Use Permit (SUP) per Municipal Code Section 
27.18.035.  Demolition projects not considered to contain substantial removal or demolition are approved ministerially 
through a building permit.   
Discussion Item: Should the 25 percent demolition limit established by SB 9 remain, or should it be increased?  If 
increased, to what extent/percentage should the demolition limit be increased? 
ADUs/JADUs
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs) are currently permitted by right in single-
family residential zoned areas.  However, SB 9 provides that cities are not required to permit an ADU or a JADU when 
property owners are utilizing both Government Code Section 66452.21 to build a duplex and Government Code Section 
66411.7 to create two parcels with an urban lot split.  
Absent an ADU or JADU, each parcel resulting from an SB 9 lot split and duplex would be permitted to have up to two 
units.  With an ADU and JADU, each parcel resulting from an SB 9 lot split and duplex would be permitted to have up to 
four units (two main units plus one ADU and one JADU).
Discussion Item: Should ADUs and/or JADUs should be permitted on lots created by an SB 9 lot split with an SB 9 duplex? 
Floor Area Limits
Municipal Code Section 27.18.060 (Floor Area Ratio) sets different floor area ratio (FAR) limitations for single-family zoned 
parcels as outlined below:

R1-A Zoning District
o
0.4 FAR for parcels less than or equal to 10,000 square feet plus 0.2 for additional parcel area over 10,000 
square feet up to a maximum of 6,000 square-feet.

R1-B and R1-C Zoning Districts 
o
0.5 FAR for parcels of less than or equal to 6,000 square feet plus 0.2 for additional parcel area over 6,000 
square feet up to a maximum of 6,000 square-feet.
The City has the ability to set additional or different floor area limitations for new units created as part of an SB 9 project 
so long as the limits allow for at least 800 square feet of floor area per unit.  Different floor area limitations could 
potentially be used to incentivize certain SB 9 development (i.e. duplexes vs. lot splits). 
Discussion Item: Should the floor area limit for duplex units or lots created by SB 9 be increased or decreased, or 
maintained as is currently allowed by the Zoning Code?
Map Extensions
SB 9 also authorizes cities to provide for a longer initial term for tentative maps approved pursuant to its provisions. The 
City’s Subdivision Ordinance currently provides two years after tentative map approval to record the final map (Municipal 
Code Section 26.48.135).  In addition, Section 26.48.135 allows applicants to apply for up to three (3) two-year extensions, 
which allows for a tentative map to have up to eight years before expiring.  
SB 9 has amended Government Code Section 66452.6(a) to allow cities to adopt ordinances extending the initial expiration 
date of a tentative map up to four years.  If the City were to extend the initial expiration date to four years, that would 
allow tentative maps to have up to ten years before expiring.  If a project contains a vesting tentative map, the project 
would not be subject to current local standards and regulations but the standards in effect when the map was initially 
deemed complete. 
Discussion Question: Should the initial term for an approved tentative map for an SB 9 lot split remain at two years, or be 
increased to three or four years? 
5 of 19

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Public Noticing
SB 9 requires ministerial approval of certain lot splits and/or up to two dwelling units (i.e. duplexes) on single-family zoned 
parcels.  SB 9 does not require that public notice be provided for these ministerial decisions.  For discretionary land use 
decisions, the City provides mailed notice to nearby properties, as outlined in Municipal Code Section 27.08.050.  The City 
also has a current practice for noticing ministerial building permits of small second-story additions to existing two-story 
single-family residences pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.08.032(b).
Discussion Item: Should notification be provided to nearby properties of a ministerial SB 9 decision prior to the project’s 
decision date?  Any potential notification provided for an SB 9 project would be informational in nature only as ministerial 
permits are not subject to discretionary review.  If notification is provided, should it be similar to the existing ministerial 
noticing practice for small second story additions currently in effect?
NEXT STEPS:
Based on the input by the general public and the City Council, staff will begin preparing amendments to the Zoning Code to 
establish development standards for SB 9 projects.  Staff will continue to maintain the existing resource page on the City’s 
website to provide information on SB 9 and the development standards established by State law and engage in community 
outreach.  Staff anticipates bringing the Zoning Code amendments to the Planning Commission in the spring of 2022 and 
City Council by summer of 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Depending on the nature of the Council’s direction, the costs associated with the research and development of the 
necessary code amendments and/or policies would be covered under the Community Development Department’s existing 
operating budget.  However, if the direction results in the need to retain outside consultants to complete the work, the 
associated costs will require further evaluation to determine the appropriate funding source. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this item is not subject to CEQA, because it is an informational 
study session item that the City Council is not taking action on at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Zoning Map (R1 Districts, One Family Dwellings)
Att 2 – Senate Bill 9
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205
6 of 19

--- page 7 ---
Zoning Map - R1 Districts
Prepared by Planning Division
Date: 1/28/2022
Disclaimer: 
These maps are provided for planning and reference purposes 
only. Accuracy of boundary information contained is not 
guaranteed. The official records should be consulted for exact 
information.
San Mateo City Limits
Zoning Districts
R1A - One Family Dwelling "A" 
R1B - One Family Dwelling "B" 
R1C -  One Family Dwelling "C"
LEGEND
0
0.8
1.6
0.4
mi
0
1
2
0.5
km
1:36,000
R1A
CITY OF BELMONT
R1C
R1B
R1A
R1B
R1A
R1B
R1B
R1C
R1B
R1B
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1A
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1A
R1A
R1B
R1B
R1B
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1C
R1B
R1B
R1B
CITY OF FOSTER CITY
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
(UNINCORPORATED)
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
CITY OF BURLINGAME
R1C
7 of 19

--- page 8 ---
Senate Bill No. 9 
CHAPTER 162 
An act to amend Section 66452.6 of, and to add Sections 65852.21 and 
66411.7 to, the Government Code, relating to land use. 
[Approved by Governor September 16, 2021. Filed with 
Secretary of State September 16, 2021.] 
legislative counsel’s digest 
SB 9, Atkins. Housing development: approvals. 
The Planning and Zoning Law provides for the creation of accessory 
dwelling units by local ordinance, or, if a local agency has not adopted an 
ordinance, by ministerial approval, in accordance with specified standards 
and conditions. 
This bill, among other things, would require a proposed housing 
development containing no more than 2 residential units within a 
single-family residential zone to be considered ministerially, without 
discretionary review or hearing, if the proposed housing development meets 
certain requirements, including, but not limited to, that the proposed housing 
development would not require demolition or alteration of housing that is 
subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that restricts rents to levels 
affordable to persons and families of moderate, low, or very low income, 
that the proposed housing development does not allow for the demolition 
of more than 25% of the existing exterior structural walls, except as provided, 
and that the development is not located within a historic district, is not 
included on the State Historic Resources Inventory, or is not within a site 
that is legally designated or listed as a city or county landmark or historic 
property or district. 
The bill would set forth what a local agency can and cannot require in 
approving the construction of 2 residential units, including, but not limited 
to, authorizing a local agency to impose objective zoning standards, objective 
subdivision standards, and objective design standards, as defined, unless 
those standards would have the effect of physically precluding the 
construction of up to 2 units or physically precluding either of the 2 units 
from being at least 800 square feet in floor area, prohibiting the imposition 
of setback requirements under certain circumstances, and setting maximum 
setback requirements under all other circumstances. 
The Subdivision Map Act vests the authority to regulate and control the 
design and improvement of subdivisions in the legislative body of a local 
agency and sets forth procedures governing the local agency’s processing, 
approval, conditional approval or disapproval, and filing of tentative, final, 
and parcel maps, and the modification of those maps. Under the Subdivision 
Map Act, an approved or conditionally approved tentative map expires 24 
  
 
94 
  
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AUTHENTICATED 
ELECTRONIC LEGAL MATERIAL
8 of 19

--- page 9 ---
months after its approval or conditional approval or after any additional 
period of time as prescribed by local ordinance, not to exceed an additional 
12 months, except as provided. 
This bill, among other things, would require a local agency to ministerially 
approve a parcel map for an urban lot split that meets certain requirements, 
including, but not limited to, that the urban lot split would not require the 
demolition or alteration of housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, 
ordinance, or law that restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and 
families of moderate, low, or very low income, that the parcel is located 
within a single-family residential zone, and that the parcel is not located 
within a historic district, is not included on the State Historic Resources 
Inventory, or is not within a site that is legally designated or listed as a city 
or county landmark or historic property or district. 
The bill would set forth what a local agency can and cannot require in 
approving an urban lot split, including, but not limited to, authorizing a 
local agency to impose objective zoning standards, objective subdivision 
standards, and objective design standards, as defined, unless those standards 
would have the effect of physically precluding the construction of 2 units, 
as defined, on either of the resulting parcels or physically precluding either 
of the 2 units from being at least 800 square feet in floor area, prohibiting 
the imposition of setback requirements under certain circumstances, and 
setting maximum setback requirements under all other circumstances. The 
bill would require an applicant to sign an affidavit stating that they intend 
to occupy one of the housing units as their principal residence for a minimum 
of 3 years from the date of the approval of the urban lot split, unless the 
applicant is a community land trust or a qualified nonprofit corporation, as 
specified. The bill would prohibit a local agency from imposing any 
additional owner occupancy standards on applicants. By requiring applicants 
to sign affidavits, thereby expanding the crime of perjury, the bill would 
impose a state-mandated local program. 
The bill would also extend the limit on the additional period that may be 
provided by ordinance, as described above, from 12 months to 24 months 
and would make other conforming or nonsubstantive changes. 
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a lead agency, 
as defined, to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and certify the completion 
of, an environmental impact report on a project that it proposes to carry out 
or approve that may have a significant effect on the environment. CEQA 
does not apply to the approval of ministerial projects. 
This bill, by establishing the ministerial review processes described above, 
would thereby exempt the approval of projects subject to those processes 
from CEQA. 
The California Coastal Act of 1976 provides for the planning and 
regulation of development, under a coastal development permit process, 
within the coastal zone, as defined, that shall be based on various coastal 
resources planning and management policies set forth in the act. 
94 
— 2 — 
Ch. 162 
  
9 of 19

--- page 10 ---
This bill would exempt a local agency from being required to hold public 
hearings for coastal development permit applications for housing 
developments and urban lot splits pursuant to the above provisions. 
By increasing the duties of local agencies with respect to land use 
regulations, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program. 
The bill would include findings that changes proposed by this bill address 
a matter of statewide concern rather than a municipal affair and, therefore, 
apply to all cities, including charter cities. 
The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies 
and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory 
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. 
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for 
specified reasons. 
The people of the State of California do enact as follows: 
SECTION 1. Section 65852.21 is added to the Government Code, to 
read: 
65852.21. (a)  A proposed housing development containing no more 
than two residential units within a single-family residential zone shall be 
considered ministerially, without discretionary review or a hearing, if the 
proposed housing development meets all of the following requirements: 
(1)  The parcel subject to the proposed housing development is located 
within a city, the boundaries of which include some portion of either an 
urbanized area or urban cluster, as designated by the United States Census 
Bureau, or, for unincorporated areas, a legal parcel wholly within the 
boundaries of an urbanized area or urban cluster, as designated by the United 
States Census Bureau. 
(2)  The parcel satisfies the requirements specified in subparagraphs (B) 
to (K), inclusive, of paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4. 
(3)  Notwithstanding any provision of this section or any local law, the 
proposed housing development would not require demolition or alteration 
of any of the following types of housing: 
(A)  Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law 
that restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of moderate, 
low, or very low income. 
(B)  Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control through 
a public entity’s valid exercise of its police power. 
(C)  Housing that has been occupied by a tenant in the last three years. 
(4)  The parcel subject to the proposed housing development is not a 
parcel on which an owner of residential real property has exercised the 
owner’s rights under Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of 
Division 7 of Title 1 to withdraw accommodations from rent or lease within 
15 years before the date that the development proponent submits an 
application. 
94 
Ch. 162 
— 3 — 
  
10 of 19

--- page 11 ---
(5)  The proposed housing development does not allow the demolition 
of more than 25 percent of the existing exterior structural walls, unless the 
housing development meets at least one of the following conditions: 
(A)  If a local ordinance so allows. 
(B)  The site has not been occupied by a tenant in the last three years. 
(6)  The development is not located within a historic district or property 
included on the State Historic Resources Inventory, as defined in Section 
5020.1 of the Public Resources Code, or within a site that is designated or 
listed as a city or county landmark or historic property or district pursuant 
to a city or county ordinance. 
(b)  (1)  Notwithstanding any local law and except as provided in 
paragraph (2), a local agency may impose objective zoning standards, 
objective subdivision standards, and objective design review standards that 
do not conflict with this section. 
(2)  (A)  The local agency shall not impose objective zoning standards, 
objective subdivision standards, and objective design standards that would 
have the effect of physically precluding the construction of up to two units 
or that would physically preclude either of the two units from being at least 
800 square feet in floor area. 
(B)  (i)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), no setback shall be required 
for an existing structure or a structure constructed in the same location and 
to the same dimensions as an existing structure. 
(ii)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), in all other circumstances not 
described in clause (i), a local agency may require a setback of up to four 
feet from the side and rear lot lines. 
(c)  In addition to any conditions established in accordance with 
subdivision (b), a local agency may require any of the following conditions 
when considering an application for two residential units as provided for in 
this section: 
(1)  Off-street parking of up to one space per unit, except that a local 
agency shall not impose parking requirements in either of the following 
instances: 
(A)  The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of either 
a high-quality transit corridor, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 21155 
of the Public Resources Code, or a major transit stop, as defined in Section 
21064.3 of the Public Resources Code. 
(B)  There is a car share vehicle located within one block of the parcel. 
(2)  For residential units connected to an onsite wastewater treatment 
system, a percolation test completed within the last 5 years, or, if the 
percolation test has been recertified, within the last 10 years. 
(d)  Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a local agency may deny a proposed 
housing development project if the building official makes a written finding, 
based upon a preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed housing 
development project would have a specific, adverse impact, as defined and 
determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, upon 
public health and safety or the physical environment and for which there is 
94 
— 4 — 
Ch. 162 
  
11 of 19

--- page 12 ---
no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse 
impact. 
(e)  A local agency shall require that a rental of any unit created pursuant 
to this section be for a term longer than 30 days. 
(f)  Notwithstanding Section 65852.2 or 65852.22, a local agency shall 
not be required to permit an accessory dwelling unit or a junior accessory 
dwelling unit on parcels that use both the authority contained within this 
section and the authority contained in Section 66411.7. 
(g)  Notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision 
(b), an application shall not be rejected solely because it proposes adjacent 
or connected structures provided that the structures meet building code 
safety standards and are sufficient to allow separate conveyance. 
(h)  Local agencies shall include units constructed pursuant to this section 
in the annual housing element report as required by subparagraph (I) of 
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 65400. 
(i)  For purposes of this section, all of the following apply: 
(1)  A housing development contains two residential units if the 
development proposes no more than two new units or if it proposes to add 
one new unit to one existing unit. 
(2)  The terms “objective zoning standards,” “objective subdivision 
standards,” and “objective design review standards” mean standards that 
involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public official and are 
uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or 
criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or 
proponent and the public official prior to submittal. These standards may 
be embodied in alternative objective land use specifications adopted by a 
local agency, and may include, but are not limited to, housing overlay zones, 
specific plans, inclusionary zoning ordinances, and density bonus ordinances. 
(3)  “Local agency” means a city, county, or city and county, whether 
general law or chartered. 
(j)  A local agency may adopt an ordinance to implement the provisions 
of this section. An ordinance adopted to implement this section shall not be 
considered a project under Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) 
of the Public Resources Code. 
(k)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede or in any way 
alter or lessen the effect or application of the California Coastal Act of 1976 
(Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources 
Code), except that the local agency shall not be required to hold public 
hearings for coastal development permit applications for a housing 
development pursuant to this section. 
SEC. 2. Section 66411.7 is added to the Government Code, to read: 
66411.7. (a)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division and 
any local law, a local agency shall ministerially approve, as set forth in this 
section, a parcel map for an urban lot split only if the local agency determines 
that the parcel map for the urban lot split meets all the following 
requirements: 
94 
Ch. 162 
— 5 — 
  
12 of 19

--- page 13 ---
(1)  The parcel map subdivides an existing parcel to create no more than 
two new parcels of approximately equal lot area provided that one parcel 
shall not be smaller than 40 percent of the lot area of the original parcel 
proposed for subdivision. 
(2)  (A)  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), both newly created 
parcels are no smaller than 1,200 square feet. 
(B)  A local agency may by ordinance adopt a smaller minimum lot size 
subject to ministerial approval under this subdivision. 
(3)  The parcel being subdivided meets all the following requirements: 
(A)  The parcel is located within a single-family residential zone. 
(B)  The parcel subject to the proposed urban lot split is located within a 
city, the boundaries of which include some portion of either an urbanized 
area or urban cluster, as designated by the United States Census Bureau, or, 
for unincorporated areas, a legal parcel wholly within the boundaries of an 
urbanized area or urban cluster, as designated by the United States Census 
Bureau. 
(C)  The parcel satisfies the requirements specified in subparagraphs (B) 
to (K), inclusive, of paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4. 
(D)  The proposed urban lot split would not require demolition or 
alteration of any of the following types of housing: 
(i)  Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that 
restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of moderate, low, 
or very low income. 
(ii)  Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control through 
a public entity’s valid exercise of its police power. 
(iii)  A parcel or parcels on which an owner of residential real property 
has exercised the owner’s rights under Chapter 12.75 (commencing with 
Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 to withdraw accommodations from 
rent or lease within 15 years before the date that the development proponent 
submits an application. 
(iv)  Housing that has been occupied by a tenant in the last three years. 
(E)  The parcel is not located within a historic district or property included 
on the State Historic Resources Inventory, as defined in Section 5020.1 of 
the Public Resources Code, or within a site that is designated or listed as a 
city or county landmark or historic property or district pursuant to a city or 
county ordinance. 
(F)  The parcel has not been established through prior exercise of an urban 
lot split as provided for in this section. 
(G)  Neither the owner of the parcel being subdivided nor any person 
acting in concert with the owner has previously subdivided an adjacent 
parcel using an urban lot split as provided for in this section. 
(b)  An application for a parcel map for an urban lot split shall be approved 
in accordance with the following requirements: 
(1)  A local agency shall approve or deny an application for a parcel map 
for an urban lot split ministerially without discretionary review. 
(2)  A local agency shall approve an urban lot split only if it conforms to 
all applicable objective requirements of the Subdivision Map Act (Division 
94 
— 6 — 
Ch. 162 
  
13 of 19

--- page 14 ---
2 (commencing with Section 66410)), except as otherwise expressly provided 
in this section. 
(3)  Notwithstanding Section 66411.1, a local agency shall not impose 
regulations that require dedications of rights-of-way or the construction of 
offsite improvements for the parcels being created as a condition of issuing 
a parcel map for an urban lot split pursuant to this section. 
(c)  (1)  Except as provided in paragraph (2), notwithstanding any local 
law, a local agency may impose objective zoning standards, objective 
subdivision standards, and objective design review standards applicable to 
a parcel created by an urban lot split that do not conflict with this section. 
(2)  A local agency shall not impose objective zoning standards, objective 
subdivision standards, and objective design review standards that would 
have the effect of physically precluding the construction of two units on 
either of the resulting parcels or that would result in a unit size of less than 
800 square feet. 
(3)  (A)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), no setback shall be required for 
an existing structure or a structure constructed in the same location and to 
the same dimensions as an existing structure. 
(B)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), in all other circumstances not 
described in subparagraph (A), a local agency may require a setback of up 
to four feet from the side and rear lot lines. 
(d)  Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a local agency may deny an urban 
lot split if the building official makes a written finding, based upon a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed housing development 
project would have a specific, adverse impact, as defined and determined 
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, upon public health 
and safety or the physical environment and for which there is no feasible 
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact. 
(e)  In addition to any conditions established in accordance with this 
section, a local agency may require any of the following conditions when 
considering an application for a parcel map for an urban lot split: 
(1)  Easements required for the provision of public services and facilities. 
(2)  A requirement that the parcels have access to, provide access to, or 
adjoin the public right-of-way. 
(3)  Off-street parking of up to one space per unit, except that a local 
agency shall not impose parking requirements in either of the following 
instances: 
(A)  The parcel is located within one-half mile walking distance of either 
a high-quality transit corridor as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 21155 
of the Public Resources Code, or a major transit stop as defined in Section 
21064.3 of the Public Resources Code. 
(B)  There is a car share vehicle located within one block of the parcel. 
(f)  A local agency shall require that the uses allowed on a lot created by 
this section be limited to residential uses. 
(g)  (1)  A local agency shall require an applicant for an urban lot split to 
sign an affidavit stating that the applicant intends to occupy one of the 
94 
Ch. 162 
— 7 — 
  
14 of 19

--- page 15 ---
housing units as their principal residence for a minimum of three years from 
the date of the approval of the urban lot split. 
(2)  This subdivision shall not apply to an applicant that is a “community 
land trust,” as defined in clause (ii) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) 
of subdivision (a) of Section 402.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or 
is a “qualified nonprofit corporation” as described in Section 214.15 of the 
Revenue and Taxation Code. 
(3)  A local agency shall not impose additional owner occupancy 
standards, other than provided for in this subdivision, on an urban lot split 
pursuant to this section. 
(h)  A local agency shall require that a rental of any unit created pursuant 
to this section be for a term longer than 30 days. 
(i)  A local agency shall not require, as a condition for ministerial approval 
of a parcel map application for the creation of an urban lot split, the 
correction of nonconforming zoning conditions. 
(j)  (1)  Notwithstanding any provision of Section 65852.2, 65852.21, 
65852.22, 65915, or this section, a local agency shall not be required to 
permit more than two units on a parcel created through the exercise of the 
authority contained within this section. 
(2)  For the purposes of this section, “unit” means any dwelling unit, 
including, but not limited to, a unit or units created pursuant to Section 
65852.21, a primary dwelling, an accessory dwelling unit as defined in 
Section 65852.2, or a junior accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 
65852.22. 
(k)  Notwithstanding paragraph (3) of subdivision (c), an application shall 
not be rejected solely because it proposes adjacent or connected structures 
provided that the structures meet building code safety standards and are 
sufficient to allow separate conveyance. 
(l)  Local agencies shall include the number of applications for parcel 
maps for urban lot splits pursuant to this section in the annual housing 
element report as required by subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of 
subdivision (a) of Section 65400. 
(m)  For purposes of this section, both of the following shall apply: 
(1)  “Objective zoning standards,” “objective subdivision standards,” and 
“objective design review standards” mean standards that involve no personal 
or subjective judgment by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by 
reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and 
knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public 
official prior to submittal. These standards may be embodied in alternative 
objective land use specifications adopted by a local agency, and may include, 
but are not limited to, housing overlay zones, specific plans, inclusionary 
zoning ordinances, and density bonus ordinances. 
(2)  “Local agency” means a city, county, or city and county, whether 
general law or chartered. 
(n)  A local agency may adopt an ordinance to implement the provisions 
of this section. An ordinance adopted to implement this section shall not be 
94 
— 8 — 
Ch. 162 
  
15 of 19

--- page 16 ---
considered a project under Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) 
of the Public Resources Code. 
(o)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede or in any way 
alter or lessen the effect or application of the California Coastal Act of 1976 
(Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources 
Code), except that the local agency shall not be required to hold public 
hearings for coastal development permit applications for urban lot splits 
pursuant to this section. 
SEC. 3. Section 66452.6 of the Government Code is amended to read: 
66452.6. (a)  (1)  An approved or conditionally approved tentative map 
shall expire 24 months after its approval or conditional approval, or after 
any additional period of time as may be prescribed by local ordinance, not 
to exceed an additional 24 months. However, if the subdivider is required 
to expend two hundred thirty-six thousand seven hundred ninety dollars 
($236,790) or more to construct, improve, or finance the construction or 
improvement of public improvements outside the property boundaries of 
the tentative map, excluding improvements of public rights-of-way that abut 
the boundary of the property to be subdivided and that are reasonably related 
to the development of that property, each filing of a final map authorized 
by Section 66456.1 shall extend the expiration of the approved or 
conditionally approved tentative map by 48 months from the date of its 
expiration, as provided in this section, or the date of the previously filed 
final map, whichever is later. The extensions shall not extend the tentative 
map more than 10 years from its approval or conditional approval. However, 
a tentative map on property subject to a development agreement authorized 
by Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 65864) of Chapter 4 of Division 
1 may be extended for the period of time provided for in the agreement, but 
not beyond the duration of the agreement. The number of phased final maps 
that may be filed shall be determined by the advisory agency at the time of 
the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map. 
(2)  Commencing January 1, 2012, and each calendar year thereafter, the 
amount of two hundred thirty-six thousand seven hundred ninety dollars 
($236,790) shall be annually increased by operation of law according to the 
adjustment for inflation set forth in the statewide cost index for class B 
construction, as determined by the State Allocation Board at its January 
meeting. The effective date of each annual adjustment shall be March 1. 
The adjusted amount shall apply to tentative and vesting tentative maps 
whose applications were received after the effective date of the adjustment. 
(3)  “Public improvements,” as used in this subdivision, include traffic 
controls, streets, roads, highways, freeways, bridges, overcrossings, street 
interchanges, flood control or storm drain facilities, sewer facilities, water 
facilities, and lighting facilities. 
(b)  (1)  The period of time specified in subdivision (a), including any 
extension thereof granted pursuant to subdivision (e), shall not include any 
period of time during which a development moratorium, imposed after 
approval of the tentative map, is in existence. However, the length of the 
moratorium shall not exceed five years. 
94 
Ch. 162 
— 9 — 
  
16 of 19

--- page 17 ---
(2)  The length of time specified in paragraph (1) shall be extended for 
up to three years, but in no event beyond January 1, 1992, during the 
pendency of any lawsuit in which the subdivider asserts, and the local agency 
that approved or conditionally approved the tentative map denies, the 
existence or application of a development moratorium to the tentative map. 
(3)  Once a development moratorium is terminated, the map shall be valid 
for the same period of time as was left to run on the map at the time that 
the moratorium was imposed. However, if the remaining time is less than 
120 days, the map shall be valid for 120 days following the termination of 
the moratorium. 
(c)  The period of time specified in subdivision (a), including any 
extension thereof granted pursuant to subdivision (e), shall not include the 
period of time during which a lawsuit involving the approval or conditional 
approval of the tentative map is or was pending in a court of competent 
jurisdiction, if the stay of the time period is approved by the local agency 
pursuant to this section. After service of the initial petition or complaint in 
the lawsuit upon the local agency, the subdivider may apply to the local 
agency for a stay pursuant to the local agency’s adopted procedures. Within 
40 days after receiving the application, the local agency shall either stay the 
time period for up to five years or deny the requested stay. The local agency 
may, by ordinance, establish procedures for reviewing the requests, 
including, but not limited to, notice and hearing requirements, appeal 
procedures, and other administrative requirements. 
(d)  The expiration of the approved or conditionally approved tentative 
map shall terminate all proceedings and no final map or parcel map of all 
or any portion of the real property included within the tentative map shall 
be filed with the legislative body without first processing a new tentative 
map. Once a timely filing is made, subsequent actions of the local agency, 
including, but not limited to, processing, approving, and recording, may 
lawfully occur after the date of expiration of the tentative map. Delivery to 
the county surveyor or city engineer shall be deemed a timely filing for 
purposes of this section. 
(e)  Upon application of the subdivider filed before the expiration of the 
approved or conditionally approved tentative map, the time at which the 
map expires pursuant to subdivision (a) may be extended by the legislative 
body or by an advisory agency authorized to approve or conditionally 
approve tentative maps for a period or periods not exceeding a total of six 
years. The period of extension specified in this subdivision shall be in 
addition to the period of time provided by subdivision (a). Before the 
expiration of an approved or conditionally approved tentative map, upon 
an application by the subdivider to extend that map, the map shall 
automatically be extended for 60 days or until the application for the 
extension is approved, conditionally approved, or denied, whichever occurs 
first. If the advisory agency denies a subdivider’s application for an 
extension, the subdivider may appeal to the legislative body within 15 days 
after the advisory agency has denied the extension. 
94 
— 10 — 
Ch. 162 
  
17 of 19

--- page 18 ---
(f)  For purposes of this section, a development moratorium includes a 
water or sewer moratorium, or a water and sewer moratorium, as well as 
other actions of public agencies that regulate land use, development, or the 
provision of services to the land, including the public agency with the 
authority to approve or conditionally approve the tentative map, which 
thereafter prevents, prohibits, or delays the approval of a final or parcel 
map. A development moratorium shall also be deemed to exist for purposes 
of this section for any period of time during which a condition imposed by 
the city or county could not be satisfied because of either of the following: 
(1)  The condition was one that, by its nature, necessitated action by the 
city or county, and the city or county either did not take the necessary action 
or by its own action or inaction was prevented or delayed in taking the 
necessary action before expiration of the tentative map. 
(2)  The condition necessitates acquisition of real property or any interest 
in real property from a public agency, other than the city or county that 
approved or conditionally approved the tentative map, and that other public 
agency fails or refuses to convey the property interest necessary to satisfy 
the condition. However, nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to 
require any public agency to convey any interest in real property owned by 
it. A development moratorium specified in this paragraph shall be deemed 
to have been imposed either on the date of approval or conditional approval 
of the tentative map, if evidence was included in the public record that the 
public agency that owns or controls the real property or any interest therein 
may refuse to convey that property or interest, or on the date that the public 
agency that owns or controls the real property or any interest therein receives 
an offer by the subdivider to purchase that property or interest for fair market 
value, whichever is later. A development moratorium specified in this 
paragraph shall extend the tentative map up to the maximum period as set 
forth in subdivision (b), but not later than January 1, 1992, so long as the 
public agency that owns or controls the real property or any interest therein 
fails or refuses to convey the necessary property interest, regardless of the 
reason for the failure or refusal, except that the development moratorium 
shall be deemed to terminate 60 days after the public agency has officially 
made, and communicated to the subdivider, a written offer or commitment 
binding on the agency to convey the necessary property interest for a fair 
market value, paid in a reasonable time and manner. 
SEC. 4. The Legislature finds and declares that ensuring access to 
affordable housing is a matter of statewide concern and not a municipal 
affair as that term is used in Section 5 of Article XI of the California 
Constitution. Therefore, Sections 1 and 2 of this act adding Sections 
65852.21 and 66411.7 to the Government Code and Section 3 of this act 
amending Section 66452.6 of the Government Code apply to all cities, 
including charter cities. 
SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 
of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local agency or 
school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or assessments 
sufficient to pay for the program or level of service mandated by this act or 
94 
Ch. 162 
— 11 — 
  
18 of 19

--- page 19 ---
because costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will 
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a 
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within 
the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the 
definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of 
the California Constitution. 
O 
94 
— 12 — 
Ch. 162 
  
19 of 19