Wright Twp. receives donation for two Flock Safety cameras – Hazleton Standard Speaker Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 72°F Saturday, July 4th 2026 e-Edition Home Page World Cup 2026 Submission Forms News News Crime and Public Safety Pennsylvania News National News Carbon County Luzerne County Schuylkill County Education Health Scholastic Superstars Election Photos and Videos Valley Santa Business Sports Sports Athlete of the Week High School Sports High School Sports blog Little League Penn State Penn State Blog Penn Stated Podcast Sideline Scenes Wildlife Good Sports with Dave & Ken Opinion Opinion Editorials Columns Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter John Cole Cartoons Obituaries Things To Do Things To Do Contests Entertainment Comics Events Puzzles Arts Calendar Health and Fitness Forum Empty Bottles Liquid Pet Wise Hazleton Hoy Blogs and Podcasts In Focus In Motion Insites Quills Sounds Trail Mix Take 2 Movie Blog Classifieds Real Estate Classifieds Cars and Vehicles Jobs Customer Service Become a Carrier Place an Ad Submission Forms Digital Archives Public Notices Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Special Sections e-Edition Contests Public Notices Subscribe Log in Logout Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up to submit an obituary Please email obits@standardspeaker.com or call 570-230-4917. Please include your name, mailing address, and phone number along with the copy and photo. Local News | Wright Twp. receives donation for two Flock… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 72°F Saturday, July 4th 2026 e-Edition Local News News Sports Opinion Obituaries Newsletters Hazleton Hoy Submission Forms Events Newsletters Public Notices TRENDING: World Cup 2026 Local News Wright Twp. receives donation for two Flock Safety cameras Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Flock camera system at the intersection of CANDO Expressway Broad Street on Wednesday, Oct. 15, 2025. (John Haeger / Staff Photographer) By Pat Rushton | prushton132@gmail.com PUBLISHED: December 22, 2025 at 9:00 AM EST Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Thanks to a donation by a township business, the Wright Twp. police department will soon become part of a network of law enforcement agencies using state-of-the art technology to fight crime. Township supervisors at their December meeting voted to accept the donation of two Flock Safety cameras. Police chief Royce Engler said the cameras were donated by a township business that wanted to remain anonymous. The cameras cost $6,300 and will be placed at two undisclosed locations in the township. While there is no initial cost to the township, Engler said there will be an annual fee of $6,000 starting in 2027. Engler told supervisors that neighboring Butler Twp. as well as Hazleton City are already using the Flock camera system and that both municipalities have successfully used the camera system to solve crimes. Engler noted that the system has been used to track vehicles from community to community. Using solar power, the cameras provide law enforcement grade license plate recognition along with the company’s “Vehicle Fingerprint” system. The “Vehicle Fingerprint” feature allows police access to vehicle type, make, color, license plate state and other unique features like bumper stickers, decals and roof racks. As part of Flock Safety’s system, police can request direct access to feeds from other law enforcement agencies as well as from privately owned Flock System license plate reader cameras in neighborhoods, schools and businesses. The system also provides participating departments with automated alerts when vehicles entered into established databases for missing and/or wanted persons are detected, including the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Other news Rice Twp. supervisors are looking for state help to replace the Henry Drive bridge. Supervisors voted this month to apply for a $1 million grant from the PennDOT multimodal grant program for the replacement of the bridge which spans Little Wapwallopen Cree. Wright Twp. is looking for help. The township is seeking applicants for a full-time laborer and equipment operator for its public works department. Applications are available at the township office, 321 S. Mountain Blvd. and are due b y noon on Dec. 29 Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel More From Our Newsroom Most Popular More in Local News The NEPA 30, No. 1: From fireplace to factory COMMUNITY DIGEST: July 4, 2026 Carbon County 4-H day camps scheduled Butler Township Senior Citizens installs officers 2025 December 22 Site Links Subscribe Newsletters and Alerts Archives Submission Forms Our Companies The Times-Tribune The Citizens’ Voice Republican Herald Access NEPA.com Greater Pittston Progress Wyoming County Examiner standardspeaker.com 21 North Wyoming Street Hazleton, PA 18201 Phone: 570-455-3636 Contact us Privacy Policy Accessibility Questions or Comments Digital Subscription FAQ iPhone App FAQ Android App FAQ Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection CA Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Copyright 2026 Hazleton Standard Speaker. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close