source: packet.pdf
sha256: b17ee717b57671c0c946f1ad9d8050648a057e7d91abfa5f34b852801ade06d8
pages: 224
ocr_pages: 23
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
September 2, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: September 2, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 824 9147 7304      Passcode: 383955
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Agenda Amended on August 29, 2025 
Item 9: Attachment 1
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Toyonaka – San Mateo Youth Baseball and International Exchange Program – Presentation
2.
Emergency Preparedness Month – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular City Council meetings held on August 18, 2025.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
4.
League of California Cities Annual Conference — Voting Delegate Designation
1 of 224

--- page 2 ---
Designate Mayor Rob Newsom as the City's Voting Delegate and Council Member Nicole Fernandez as an
alternate for the 2025 League of California Cities Annual Conference.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
5.
San Mateo Management Employees' Association Side Letter of Agreement — Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees'
Association (”SMMEA”) to implement additional salary equity adjustments for the following classifications:
Assistant City Attorney, Parks and Landscape Manager, Parks and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor, Managing
Arborist and the Wastewater Treatment Plant Lab Supervisor.
CEQA: This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
6.
San Mateo Safety Management Association Memorandum of Understanding — Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the San Mateo Safety Management Association (SMSMA) Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) to delete floating holidays from Section 12.0 - Holidays and provide clarification to ensure
compliance with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS).
CEQA: This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
7.
Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team Mental Health Partnership — Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for reimbursement of costs related to the Community
Wellness and Crisis Response Team mental health services program in an estimated amount of $55,000 and
authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
8.
Basins 2 and 3, Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) Construction — Contract Contingency Increase
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve to the construction contract with Anderson Pacific Engineering
Construction, Inc. for the Underground Flow Equalization System project in the amount of $600,000, for a new
total revised contingency amount of $6,271,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute contract
change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council
on June 6, 2016.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
2 of 224

--- page 3 ---
OLD BUSINESS
9.
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Improvements — Update
Receive an update and provide direction to staff on the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane
Improvements project.
CEQA: This Council action in receiving an informational update and providing direction for the Project is not a
project subject to CEQA review, in that it consists of the planning for possible future actions which the City has not
approved, adopted, or funded. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15262.)
NEW BUSINESS
10.
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce: 2025-26 Work Plan — Presentation
Receive a presentation from the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce on the 2025-26 Work Plan.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form.
Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation, with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that
time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in
attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 224

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10323
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular City Council meetings held on August 18, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2025-08-18 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2025-08-18 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 224

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
August 18, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m.
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Diaz Nash and Cwirko-Godycki
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session at 
5:32 p.m. to consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel — Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: (one case)
Existing facts and circumstances: discuss IRS compliance statement for plan corrections
Council reconvened at 5:45 p.m.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Revenue Enhancement Options — Informational
Abby Vesser, Deputy Finance Director, gave a presentation on the General Fund revenue enhancement options, 
many of which will require a ballot measure, and requested Council’s direction on which option(s) to move 
forward for additional review.
Public Comment: no speakers
Council agreed to proceed with further study of a sales tax increase to address the structural deficit and a general 
obligation (GO) bond for infrastructure needs. Staff will conduct community polling on both measures and return 
with results in early November, alongside public outreach and engagement efforts.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Robert Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
5 of 224

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
August 18, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Diaz Nash and Cwirko-Godycki
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CEREMONIAL
1.
College of San Mateo Softball Championship – Recognition
Nicole Quigley-Borg, Head Coach, gave opening remarks, recognized players and assistant coaches.
2.
101st Airborne Bastogne Ball Presentation and Linda Patterson – Proclamation
City Clerk, Martin McTaggart, made introductory remarks and gave the presentation. Linda Patterson made 
remarks and received the proclamation.
Public Comment: Joe Goethals expressed appreciation for Linda and Steve, highlighting their ongoing support for 
soldiers and the positive impact they've had on the community.
3.
Sue Lempert – Mayor’s Quarterly Hero Award
Public Comment: Emily Beach, Kevin Mullin, Charles Stone, Joe Goethals, Diane Papan, Hector Camacho, Rich 
Hedges, and John Mayes all took the opportunity to recognize and honor Sue Lumpert for her decades of service 
as an educator, councilmember, mayor, columnist, and mentor, highlighting her substantial contributions to 
civic life, journalism, education, local governance, and community cohesion.
  Council recessed from 8:15 p.m. to 8:20 p.m.
4.
Karen Huang, Finance Director – Recognition
Karen Huang, Finance Director, received the Resolution.
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 5 through 18, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the 
items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:      Cwirko-Godycki, Seconded: Fernandez
Ayes:          Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes:      None
5.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular City Council meetings held on July 28, 2025.
6 of 224

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 2
6.
Amendment to Contribution Limits for City Candidate Campaigns — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80: "Contributions and Loans to City 
Candidate Campaigns” to adjust contribution limits for individuals to $1,000, thereby aligning with 
organizational contribution limits, link future contribution limits adjustments to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) 
and enhance incentives for participation in the voluntary expenditure limits program, all in accordance with 
Council direction.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2025-06
7.
City Council and Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures — Updates
Approve the proposed amendments to the Rules and Procedures for both the City Council and Boards and 
Commissions to reflect the direction provided by City Council.
8.
Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project — Bid Rejection
Adopt a Resolution to reject the sole bid received for the Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging Project and authorize 
the Public Works Director to negotiate a contract directly with Power Engineering Construction Company.
Enactment: Resolution No. 86 (2025)
9.
Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement Project — Agreement
Approve an agreement with E.E. Gilbert Construction, Inc. for the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Replacement 
Project in the amount of $478,112.67; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders 
as allowed by the contract documents and within the contingency amount.
10.
On-Call Public Works Plan Review Services — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the professional consultant services agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for 
private development and right-of-way support services to increase the agreement amount by $200,000 for a 
revised total, not-to-exceed amount of $600,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented.
11.
Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Stations Rehabilitation Project — Agreement
Award an agreement to JMB Construction, Inc. for the Los Prados, Kehoe Kelly & Arroyo Lift Station 
Rehabilitation Project in an amount not to exceed $14,658,091.00; establish a contingency in the amount of 
$2,750,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
12.
Central Recreation Center Roof Improvements Project — Contract Award
Award a construction contract to I & A Contractor, Inc. for improvements to the roof at the Central Recreation 
Center in the amount of $196,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $39,200; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders 
within the contingency amount.
13.
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with Smith Emery San Francisco to provide 
as-needed construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects; increase the 
compensation for the agreement by $150,000, for a revised total agreement amount of $3,500,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue 
project-specific task orders under the agreement.
7 of 224

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 3
14.
Contracts with Contingency Component — Update
Receive the report on Citywide contracts contingency fund expenditures for the period from August 1, 2017, 
through June 30, 2025.
15.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Annual Major Components – Contingency Reserve Increase 
Approve an increase to the project contingency of the Digester 2 Coatings Project being performed by Brand 
Energy Services of California, Inc. by $160,000, for a total contingency reserve in the amount of $242,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to approve any necessary change orders within the approved contingency 
amount.
16.
Recreation Services Agreement — Contingency Reserve Increase
Approve a contingency reserve increase in the amount of $30,000 for the Recreation Service Agreement with 
Bay Area Educational Theater Company, 501(c)(3) for youth summer camps, revising the original contingency 
reserve from $25,000 to $55,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to issue change orders 
within the contingency amount. 
17.
Customer Relationship Management Software and Services — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award a three-year agreement to Catalis 
Public Works & Citizen Engagement, LLC for a Customer Relationship Management software system in the 
amount $140,500; approve $38,500 supplemental appropriation for the IT Department’s operating budget from 
the General Fund unassigned fund balance; and authorize the Director of IT to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the Agreement amount.
Enactment: Resolution No. 87 (2025)
18.
Housing Set Aside Fund — Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution approving a supplemental budget appropriation of $250,000 of unassigned fund balance 
from the General Fund to increase transfers out from the General Fund to the Housing Set Aside Fund (Fund 
130) to increase the budget for affordable housing developments.
Enactment: Resolution No. 88 (2025)
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
PUBLIC COMMENT
James Minto, expressed concerns about a safety issue related to the deepening of a creek behind his property 
and requested guidance from the city on possible solutions. Scott Beiel, representing the plumbers union, spoke 
in support of project labor agreements to ensure job opportunities, workforce development, and quality 
standards in public infrastructure projects. Rich Hedges requested the council to consider adding a project labor 
agreement to a future agenda, highlighting its benefits for safety, cost control, labor stability, and local 
workforce support. Ernestine Jackson requested the reinstatement of 100 parking spaces on Humboldt Street. 
Trina Pierce expressed support for restoring parking spaces on Humboldt Street, emphasizing the importance for 
local seniors who rely on them. Richard Holober shared the college district’s positive experience with project 
labor agreements, noting their benefits for smooth projects and skilled workers. Julie Lind shared how 
community workforce agreements support safe, efficient projects with fair wages and local hiring, without 
increasing costs.
OLD BUSINESS
Councilmember Fernandez recused herself from Item 19 because she has a real property interest that is close to both 
railroad crossings.
19.
Train Quiet Zone Project Status — Update
8 of 224

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 4
Jimmy Vo, Engineering Manager, gave a presentation on the status of the Train Quiet Zone implementation 
efforts.
Public Comment: 
Chris Minerva expressed strong opposition to quad gates, citing concerns about neighborhood 
isolation, aesthetics, parking, and home values. Sharon Windust emphasized safety issues on local 
roads and opposed permanent closure or extended medians at railroad crossings, advocating for 
quad gates instead. Binglie Luo supported closing the Villa Terrace and East Belleview crossings due 
to unique safety risks and potential positive traffic impacts. Kevin Jow opposed installing medians on 
Belleview Avenue, highlighting concerns about parking, access, and safety, and favored quad gates as 
a better solution. Sharon Sanchez supported closing the Villa Terrace crossing, citing past suicides on 
the tracks and the emotional impact on the neighborhood. Peter Morgan advocated for closing the 
Villa Terrace crossing to improve safety for children and families in the area. Angus Chandler urged 
closing the Belleview crossing, focusing on safety for children and ensuring the effectiveness of the 
quiet zone project. Lily Jow opposes medians on Belleview Avenue and supports full street closures 
for safety and quiet zone benefits. Kathy Weingand opposes closing the streets, expressing the 
closures would worsen traffic congestion and parking issues. Philix expressed Option B as a balanced 
solution, highlighting concerns about parking and safety near a daycare on the street. Mary Claire 
supports closing Villa Terrace and Belleview for safety reasons and suggests addressing parking 
separately. Ms. Ann supports closing Villa Terrace crossing to reduce speeding and safety risks for 
children and drivers in the neighborhood.
The Council supported the closure of both Villa Terrace and East Bellevue Avenue railroad crossings 
to establish a Train Horn Quiet Zone and enhance safety. They also approved securing Section 130 
funding for the Villa Terrace closure from CPUC and Caltrans, while pursuing additional Section 130 
funding for the East Bellevue Avenue closure. Furthermore, the Council agreed to utilize local 
funding, such as the General Fund or other appropriate sources, to support these improvements if 
external funding opportunities are not available.
Council recessed from 10:08 p.m. to 10:18 p.m.
NEW BUSINESS
20.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles — Amendment
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk, gave the presentation.
Public Comment: no speakers
The Council reviewed and provided direction to amend the Council Appointments list for 2025 to add a liaison to 
the San Mateo Police Activities League. Council Member Cwirko-Godycki was assigned as the liaison role, with 
Council Member Fernandez as the alternate. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Fernandez, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council 
requests for scheduling future items.
Council received a positive update on the RV engagement and HOT team efforts, which have gone smoothly due to prior 
outreach. Council discussed construction delays and noise concerns at Parkside Elementary, requesting further 
9 of 224

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/18/2025
Page 5
coordination with the school district. Updates on daylighting improvements around schools showed progress, though 
some work remains. Council acknowledged the anniversary of the 19th Amendment. Staff provided an update 
confirming preliminary compliance at two Mills Act contract properties and highlighted a successful weekend of 
community events downtown. Council agreed to agendize a study session on a Community Workforce Agreement (CWA) 
for November, with staff to provide a memo outlining any project delays that may result.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 10:50 p.m.
The Council adjourned in memory of Jill Wakeman Goodman and Dennis Soon.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Robert Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
10 of 224

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10306
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
League of California Cities Annual Conference — Voting Delegate Designation
RECOMMENDATION:
Designate Mayor Rob Newsom as the City's Voting Delegate and Council Member Nicole Fernandez as an alternate for the 
2025 League of California Cities Annual Conference.
BACKGROUND:
The City is a member of the League of California Cities (League) and as part of its annual conference, a business meeting 
will be conducted on October 10, 2025, for the League membership to consider and act on resolutions that establish 
League policy. The City has one vote in the proceedings, and the City Council must designate a voting delegate to 
represent the City and may also appoint up to two alternate voting delegates, one of whom may vote in the event that the 
designated voting delegate is unable to serve in that capacity. The form designating the City's voting delegate is due to the 
League no later than September 24, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City Council budget has sufficient funds to cover the costs associated with Mayor Rob Newsom's participation as a 
voting delegate at the League of California Annual Conference.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
11 of 224

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 25-10268
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Management Employees' Association Side Letter of Agreement — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees' 
Association (”SMMEA”) to implement additional salary equity adjustments for the following classifications: Assistant City 
Attorney, Parks and Landscape Manager, Parks and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor, Managing Arborist and the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant Lab Supervisor.
BACKGROUND:
During the last contract negotiations, the City and SMMEA agreed to survey the following classifications per the MOU 
Section 7.2 Market Placement and Compensation Survey Data. A third-party consultant conducted the surveys, and the 
findings revealed that the City of San Mateo was below the median as follows:
•
Assistant City Attorney- 6.72 percent,
•
Parks and Landscape Manager- 7.86 percent,
•
Parks and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor- 7.86 percent,
•
Managing Arborist-7.86 percent, and 
•
Wastewater Treatment Plant Lab Supervisor -1.52 percent
The intent of the Side Letter of Agreement is to bring the classifications listed above to the median salary rate effective the 
first full pay period following Council adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The additional equity adjustments to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the San Mateo Management 
Employees’ Association will result in an annual increase or approximately $84,400, with $51,200 in the General Fund, 
$25,200 in the Construction Services Fund, and $8,000 in the Sewer Fund, all which can be absorbed within the 
departments’ budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
12 of 224

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 –  Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Side Letter of Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
13 of 224

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE  
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIATION  
  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (SMMEA or Unit) and the City have 
negotiated changes to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Association; and 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary equity adjustments; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have signed a Side Letter of Agreement to amend the 
Unit’s MOU. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a 
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the SMMEA, set forth in the Side Letter 
of Agreement attached as Exhibit A, are approved and summarized as follows: 
 
Salary: The Side Letter of Understanding was created to provide a salary equity adjustment to the 
Assistant City Attorney of 6.72%, Parks and Landscape Manager of 7.86%, Parks and Landscape 
Maintenance Supervisor of 7.86%, Managing Arborist of 7.86% and the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Lab Supervisor of 1.52% compensation effective the first full pay period following Council adoption. 
 
3.  The additional equity adjustments will result in an annual increase or approximately $84,400, 
with $51,200 in the General Fund, $25,200 in the Construction Services Fund, and $8,000 in the 
Sewer Fund, all which can be absorbed within each departments’ budget. 
14 of 224

--- page 15 ---
Exhibit A

Side Letter of Agreement
Between
City of San Mateo
And
San Mateo Management Employees’ Association (“SMMEA”)

Intent: The intent is to implement equity salary adjustments.

During contract negotiations, the parties agreed to have a third-party consultant conduct a
total compensation salary survey for certain classifications. The SMMEA and the City met
and conferred to review the completed surveys, and it is agreed that the salary increases
for the following classifications will be effective in the first pay-period following Council
adoption:

Managing Arborist 7.86%
Wastewater Treatment Plant Lab Supervisor | 1.52%

fy

ent Employees’ Association City of San Mateo

By: one oe al

By: :
Kevin Kopayashi, SMMEA President Stacey Cue

ele (25 E/é (2s

Date Date


--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 25-10248
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
September 2, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Safety Management Association Memorandum of Understanding — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the San Mateo Safety Management Association (SMSMA) Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) to delete floating holidays from Section 12.0 - Holidays and provide clarification to ensure compliance with the 
California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS).
BACKGROUND:
The City was recently notified by the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) that the holiday-in-lieu 
compensation for floating holidays is not pensionable. As a result, the City and SMSMA met and conferred and reached 
agreement to: 1) Clarify the language in the MOU, and 2) delete the floating holidays from “Holidays Observed” to ensure 
compliance with CalPERS. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommended amendments for the San Mateo Safety Management Association (SMSMA) Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) have no fiscal impact. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Side Letter of Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
16 of 224

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PROPOSED RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
ADOPTING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO SAFETY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Safety Management Association (SMSMA or Unit) and the City have negotiated 
changes to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Unit; and
WHEREAS, the amendments are to ensure the language in the SMSMA MOU Section 12.0 Holidays is in 
compliance with California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS); and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached an understanding to amend the Unit’s 
MOU.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Side Letter of Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a 
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
There is no fiscal impact to the recommended changes to the San Mateo Safety Management 
Association.
3.
The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the SMSMA, set forth in the Side Letter 
of Agreement attached as Exhibit A are approved and summarized as follows:
•
Delete floating holidays from Section 12.1-Holiday Observed to ensure compliance with 
CalPERS.
•
Revise the language in Section 12.0- Holidays to provide clarification.
17 of 224

--- page 18 ---
Exhibit A
Side Letter of Agreement 
Between
the City of San Mateo 
and
the San Mateo Safety Management Association
Re: Holidays 
August 8, 2025
Purpose: The purpose of this Side Letter of Agreement is to ensure the language in the San Mateo Safety 
Management Association (SMSMA) Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), Section 12.2- Holiday 
Factor and Differential is in compliance with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System 
(CalPERS). Therefore, the parties agree to the following changes to the SMSMA MOU:
12.0 HOLIDAYS
12.1 Holidays Observed
The holidays to be observed are as follows:
A. New Year's Day, January 1st
B. Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
C. President's Day, 3rd Monday in February
D. Memorial Day, last Monday in May
E. Juneteenth, June 19th
F. Independence Day, July 4th
G. Labor Day, 1st Monday in September
H. Veteran's Day, November 11
I. Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November
J. The day after Thanksgiving
K. Christmas Day, December 25th
K. Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day of mourning
L. Three (3) floating holidays
12.2 Federal or State Holidays
All other days appointed by the President of the United States or Governor of the State of 
California as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of fast, or day of 
mourning, provided that observance of the day as a paid holiday is approved by the City Council.
12.3 Holiday Factor and Differential
Police Command Staff cannot always take holidays when they fall. work in positions that require 
scheduled staffing without regard to holidays, so they shall receive additional compensation,
18 of 224

--- page 19 ---
19 of 224

--- page 20 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: C34BFB37-A9CC-4A59-BE65-09CBA01AC4BA
over and above their base rate. Police Command Staff shall be compensated for thirteen (13) 
holidays a year by being placed on a bi-weekly holiday factor, pro-rated for partial pay periods. 
Effective March 22, 2020, Police Captains and Police Lieutenants shall receive holiday-in-lieu 
pay at the rate of 5.4% of base pay each pay period and pro-rated for partial pay periods.
Aracelia Esparza
Matt Earnshaw
Human Resources Director
President, SMSMA
Date: 8/11/2025
20 of 224

--- page 21 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: C34BFB37-A9CC-4A59-BE65-09CBA01AC4BA
2
21 of 224

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 25-10285
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team Mental Health Partnership — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for reimbursement of costs related to the Community Wellness and 
Crisis Response Team mental health services program in an estimated amount of $55,000 and authorize the Chief of Police 
to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo has partnered with San Mateo County Behavioral Health and Recovery Services on the Community 
Wellness and Crisis Response Team (CWCRT) Mental Health Clinician Cost-Sharing Program since 2021. The program 
embedded clinicians, employed by local non-profit Star Vista, with participating police departments to optimally respond 
to individuals experiencing a mental health crisis. Since implementation, the clinicians and overall program have been a 
resounding success and a valuable addition to public safety in the City of San Mateo.  
Under the current agreement, the County has contracted with Star Vista for provision of a clinician who is shared between 
the Cities of San Mateo and Foster City. The County pays for 50 percent of the cost of the clinician, and San Mateo and 
Foster City each pay 25 percent. Unfortunately, Star Vista ceased operations on August 1, 2025, due to ongoing financial 
challenges. As a result, the clinician’s employment through Star Vista ended. To ensure continuity of services, the Police 
Department hired the clinician as a per-diem (part time) City employee.  
The County is committed to continuing to support the program and has identified available grant funds for this purpose.  
The City of Foster City has indicated they do not wish to continue participating. To this end, the County has proposed a 
new agreement to directly reimburse the City of San Mateo for all costs associated with the per diem clinician position.  
The cost of providing services for the remainder of the fiscal year is estimated at $55,000. The scope of services under the 
new agreement will remain consistent with the prior agreement, with the clinician continuing to provide various services 
for at risk residents. The County plans to reimburse the City using Justice Assistance Grant funding which must be 
expended by the end of the current fiscal year. Therefore, the term of the new agreement will conclude June 30, 2026. It is 
City policy that intergovernmental agreements be approved by the City Council.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no net cost to the City for this agreement. The County will reimburse the City for costs incurred through June 30, 
2026.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
22 of 224

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
23 of 224

--- page 24 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN  
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO FOR THE PROVISION OF 
COMMUNITY WELLNESS CRISIS RESPONSE TEAM (CWCRT) 
UNDER JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT (JAG) 
This Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the County of San Mateo 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement”) is made and entered into on this ______ 
day of ________, 2025 (the “Effective Date”) by and between the County of San Mateo 
(“County”) and the City of San Mateo (“City”). City and County are collectively 
referred to herein as the “Parties”. 
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the terms between the County of San 
Mateo, acting through the Behavioral Health and Recovery Services (BHRS), and the 
City, to expand the pilot program of Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team 
(CWCRT) Program under the Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) to improve City and 
County response to community members experiencing mental health crisis. 
The Parties agree to the following: 
1. Attachments  
Attachment I - HIPAA Requirements 
Attachment II – County Driving Policy & Safe Driver Program 
Attachment III – County’s JAG Contract Agreement with BSCC (all terms and 
expectations of the State’s Agreement apply to this Agreement as a ‘sub-contract’ to 
JAG Agreement) 
2. Background Information 
On January 12, 2020, the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors adopted Resolution 
No. R077937 which approved the CWCRT Pilot Program, a partnership among four 
City Police Departments (Daly City, South San Francisco, San Mateo, and Redwood 
City) and the County, to embed in each of those cities' police departments one mental 
health clinician to provide a crisis co-response to crisis calls involving mental health 
issues. The County provided the mental health clinicians for the CWCRTs via a 
contract provider agency, StarVista, for the pilot period, December 2021 through 
June 2024. 
The CWCRT enhances City and County responses to incidents involving individuals 
experiencing mental health crises, by supplementing that response with the 
engagement of a mental health clinician assigned to work with each partner police 
department. The CWCRT clinician assists in the first response by providing early 
intervention, crisis de-escalation, 5150 evaluation, involuntary hold and referrals to 
therapeutic hospitalizations, and follow-up case management linkages to support 
services for individuals in mental health crises. BHRS provides ongoing clinical 
training opportunities, consultation, oversight on the crisis response work, technical 
and infrastructure support, and contract monitoring responsibilities.  
24 of 224

--- page 25 ---
This Agreement will cover FY25/26 of the CWCRT Program at San Mateo Police 
Department with the City directly employing one unlicensed under clinical 
supervision, or licensed mental health clinician to provide the first response mental 
health crisis services as described above. This Agreement will address the roles and 
responsibilities between the City and the County. 
3. Purpose or Scope of Work 
The City enters into this Agreement with the County to enhance its response to 
community members in mental health crises. In the event of a suspected mental health 
crisis within the San Mateo community, once informed, the City mental health 
clinician will respond to the scene together with the city law enforcement officer(s), 
exercising their independent judgment and expertise while in collaboration with the 
officer.  The goal of the immediate co-response will be to de-escalate the crisis and to 
support the safety of the individual in crisis, those around the individual, and all 
responding to the incident. The mental health clinician will then assess the person 
suspected to be in mental health crisis ("the client"), determine the best course of action 
(e.g., temporary mandatory placement in a medical facility for psychiatric evaluation 
and treatment under Section 5150 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, referral for 
treatment, etc.) and provide needed follow-up support and linkages to further 
stabilize the crisis and prevent future similar crises from happening. 
Another goal of the CWCRT program is that clients in mental health crisis 
contacting and interacting with law enforcement receive early intervention and 
guidance toward appropriate behavioral health services, i.e., mental health and 
substance use supports. The mental health clinician who has been trained in the 
range of available behavioral health resources both within BHRS and in the 
community, in collaboration with the law enforcement/mental health clinician 
response teams will decide on the best course of action and/or resources or 
program for the client.   
The County derives direct benefit from the implementation of this Agreement, by way 
of, for example, increasing its ability to directly respond to community members in 
mental health crisis; providing Medi-Cal reimbursable services; enhancing response 
time for those in need of behavioral health services and resources; and creating a 
broader and more effective continuum of care that results in a decrease in justice 
system contacts. 
 
To achieve a healthy and integrated community, this Agreement represents a 
partnership between the City and the County to jointly exercise their common powers 
to enhance community linkages and help stabilize and improve the health and well-
being of persons experiencing mental health crises. Important outcomes include, but 
are not limited to, residential stability, improved mental health and connection to 
needed services and treatment, reduced use of acute and emergency services, and 
reduced contact with the criminal justice system. 
4. Relationship of the Parties 
The Parties acknowledge and agree that the services performed under this Agreement 
25 of 224

--- page 26 ---
by the mental health clinician shall be conducted by a license eligible  professional 
registered in California  who is employed by the City. The California license-eligible 
clinician will be a qualified  behavioral health professional under regular weekly 
clinical supervision of another California-licensed clinical professional (e.g. licensed 
social worker, licensed marriage and family therapist, licensed psychologist), 
competent of appropriate and sound clinical judgment and decision-making in 
interacting with behavioral health clients, their family members, and community.  
The City shall provide the administrative oversight of the mental health clinician and their 
employment with the City.  The scope of work for the City mental health clinician 
will reflect the required scope of work stated in the JAG Agreement that the County 
has with the State (see below Section 5 and Attachment III, incorporated by reference 
herein).  The mental health clinician is part of the City's workforce providing services 
under the specific terms of this Agreement with the County, and at no time shall be 
deemed an employee of the County. 
5. Mutual Responsibilities of the Parties 
5.1 The Parties agree to adopt and modify, as needed, policies and procedures that 
have been developed during the Pilot phase of the CWCRT Program regarding, 
but not limited to, scope of work, necessary training, client grievance process, 
documentation requirement, and handling and disposition of data generated 
by the mental health clinician. The policies and procedures will reflect the 
Parties' mutual understanding that the City mental health professional who 
exercises independent clinical judgment and expertise in the performance of 
their scope of work, complying with all of the County's requirements related to 
crisis mental health services, applicable laws and ethics, follow-up clinical 
support to stabilize CWCRT clients, required documentation and reporting 
procedures, record storage and releases, ethics and professional conduct 
expected of a mental health clinician as governed by their License Board, 
applicable Welfare & Institution Codes including but not limited to HIPAA 
policies, State Medi-Cal requirements related to mental health and crisis 
response service delivery, and BHRS Documentation Guidelines. 
 
5.2  The Parties will participate, as needed, in efforts to obtain and analyze data to 
document the effectiveness of the Program in reaching the anticipated goals 
and objectives listed under Section 7 of this Agreement and as required by 
the JAG Grant, while protecting and respecting individuals' confidentiality 
and privacy rights per HIPAA requirements. 
5.3 The Parties will participate in all the collaborative trainings when appropriate 
and follow the developed program strategies and protocol of the response 
team, in a manner that respects the dignity and diversity of community 
members. 
6. Responsibilities of the City 
6.1 The City shall be responsible for the following: 
• Hire anappropriate clinician for the Program and hold all applicable 
26 of 224

--- page 27 ---
administrative oversight of the work of the San Mateo CWCRT clinician. 
• Ensure the mental health clinician receives weekly clinical supervision 
from a California licensed professional. 
• Ensure the mental health clinician documents, maintains, and reports 
client level data as requested by BHRS. 
• Ensure the Associate license of the mental health clinician possesses and 
maintains a valid associated license to engage in the practice of crisis and 
therapeutic services in the State of California (ASW, or AMFT). 
• Ensure the mental health clinician adheres to and delivers all tasks and 
responsibilities listed in Section 6.2 of this Agreement. 
• Ensure the mental health clinician passes the required BHRS certification 
test to become 5150-certified and takes all required training to keep up with 
laws and ethics related to provision of crisis services whenever requested of 
them. 
• Participate in meetings with BHRS for progress status, data collection, 
outcomes evaluation, coordination, and program development. 
• Timely bring to the attention of the County if/when issues or concerns 
related to the legal, ethical, and clinical practices of the clinician emerge. 
6.2  The City shall ensure that their mental health clinician complies with all of 
the County's requirements related to crisis mental health services, applicable 
laws and ethics, and the required documentation and reporting procedures 
under the BHRS Documentation Guidelines. The clinician's duties include, 
but are not limited to the following: 
A. 
Perform initial diagnostic evaluation during a crisis, noting behavioral 
symptoms which may indicate organic and/or mental disorders in 
children, youth, or adults. 
B. 
Determine whether individuals meet criteria for placement on a W&I 5150 
or W&I 5585 hold and follow appropriate procedures. 
C.   Perform suicidal/homicidal/Grave Disability risk assessments. 
D. 
Provide Crisis Intervention and Crisis De-escalation. 
E. 
Determine other resources appropriate to connect individuals to 
needed services or treatment. 
F. 
Provide follow-up counseling, engagement support and case 
management linkage to refer clients to appropriate resources within 
BHRS or in the community. 
G. 
Work closely with different communities including, but not limited to, 
law enforcement, behavioral health providers, outpatient clinics, and 
BHRS-contracted agencies to provide quality crisis care. 
H. 
Conduct home visits and/or field-based services, for crisis response and 
follow-up stabilization support. 
I. 
Participate in monthly San Mateo County Field Crisis Consultation 
Committee (FCCC) meetings. 
J. 
Collect and evaluate medical or psychosocial data such as case 
histories, behavior patterns and family relationships of patients/clients 
as requested. 
K. 
Work as a psychiatric team member with other treatment disciplines or 
27 of 224

--- page 28 ---
treatment providers of BHRS or BHRS-contracted agencies, for purpose 
of crisis safety planning and/or prevention of recidivism. 
L. 
Utilize Trauma Informed Care and other Evidence-based practices. 
M. 
Provide consultation and education services to law enforcement 
colleagues, family members, and the community, as indicated. 
N. 
Document all crisis response, crisis-related engagement, follow-up 
services, and related administrative tasks in Avatar which is the 
electronic health record system (EHR) of BHRS, and the Crisis Log 
spreadsheet. 
O.  
Obtain insurance information from their crisis clients and enter/upload 
such information into Avatar for care coordination and billing purposes. 
P. 
As a HIPAA protected record, 5150 applications completed by the 
clinician shall be uploaded onto Avatar timely and be incorporated as a 
part of the client's clinical record. 
Q. 
Adhere to HIPAA Requirements (Attachment I) and the County Driving 
Policy and the Safe Driver Program (Attachment II), as well as 
coordinate with BHRS and/or Department of Public Works regularly for 
maintenance needs of the provided county vehicle. 
7. Responsibilities of the County 
7.1 BHRS shall be responsible for the following: 
• Ensure needed 5150 certification training; BHRS and community mental 
health/substance use services and resources training; clinical and technical 
consult; periodic training related to crisis response, crisis de-escalation, 
crisis assessment, 5150 involuntary hold, and laws and ethics, arranged for 
or provided to the City mental health clinician. 
• Provide the City mental health clinician with County laptop and needed 
applications and technical support to address related technical issues as 
they may arise in the use and maintenance of this equipment. 
• Provide Avatar electronic health record log-in for the purpose of client look- 
up and documentation of billable and nonbillable mental health services. 
• Provide County car and coordinate regular maintenance needs with 
Department of Public Works and the City. 
• Hold meetings with the City mental health clinician and/or the City 
for purposes of contract monitoring, quality assurance, clinical 
consult, and clinical adherence. 
 
8. Goals of the CWCRT Program 
8.1 Goals of the CWCRT Program are: 
Goal 1: Law enforcement staff and the mental health clinician will respond 
together to active crisis situations in San Mateo where mental health 
crisis is a factor. 
Goal 2: Improve outcomes for individuals experiencing a crisis due to mental 
illness or suspected mental illness. 
28 of 224

--- page 29 ---
Goal 3: Increase access to appropriate behavioral health resources, services, 
and treatment within the County behavioral health system of care. 
Goal 4: Increase knowledge of mental health conditions and effective 
intervention strategies among law enforcement personnel. 
Goal 5: Law enforcement will strengthen relationships with service providers 
and community. 
9. Special Terms and Conditions 
9.1 Coordination and Oversight 
 
The assigned BHRS Clinical Services Manager will be responsible for the 
oversight of this Agreement, the implementation and accomplishment of the JAG 
Grant deliverables, and will communicate with the City regularly on an ongoing 
basis for coordination of the JAG activities and enlisting of needed data for 
Grant’s reporting purpose. 
 
 
The Chief of the San Mateo Police Department, or their designee, will participate in 
the bi-annual meeting of the County’s JAG Steering Committee to monitor the 
progress of the JAG implementation and review any operational issues that have 
arisen. 
 
The Chief of the San Mateo City Police Department, or their designee, will be 
responsible for the smooth operations of the CWCRT Program at San Mateo, 
oversight of the clinician employed by the City, monitoring the progress towards 
the CWCRT Program’s objectives, reviewing any operational issues that have 
arisen, and identifying items for JAG-required activities as needed. 
9.2 Conflict Resolution 
In the event of disagreements or conflicts between the Parties to this Agreement, 
the disagreement or conflict will be addressed and resolved during the regular 
contract monitoring meeting between BHRS and the City. In the event that 
consultation at that level does not resolve the disagreement or conflict, then the 
Chief of Police or their designee, BHRS Clinical Services Manager, and BHRS' 
Deputy Director of Adult and Older Adult Services shall meet and confer and 
attempt to resolve the matter. Finally, in the event the disagreement or conflict 
remains, the BHRS Director (or designee) and the Chief of Police shall meet and 
confer. 
9.3 Records and Confidentiality 
 
Records created by the City mental health clinician under the CWCRT program 
and maintained in the County system (including the Avatar) shall be considered 
the County's records, free from the control and direction of the City. Such 
records will be subject to all federal, state, and local laws and regulations 
regarding the protection of client/patient privacy and confidentiality. 
Records created by the City mental health clinician under the direction of the City 
and maintained by the City in a City-owned database shall be considered the 
29 of 224

--- page 30 ---
City's records, free from the control and direction of the County. 
The Parties agree that the City mental health clinician must adhere to the 
privacy requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
of 1996 (HIPAA). BHRS will train the clinician on federal, state, and local policies 
and procedures with respect to the confidentiality and use or disclosure of 
protected health information of clients as necessary and appropriate for the 
clinician to carry out their functions. BHRS will provide the clinician with the 
appropriate Health System policies and procedures, which are subject to change 
from time to time. 
The County reserves the right to take appropriate action for violation of its 
policies, and such action may include the immediate termination of this 
Agreement with the City or strong recommendation of the immediate 
termination of the contract with the specific clinician who violates Federal, State, or 
local law and policy. 
BHRS shall maintain beneficiary medical and/or clinical records for a period of ten 
(10) years, except that the records of the persons under age eighteen (18) at the 
time of treatment shall be maintained: a) until one (1) year beyond the person's 
eighteenth (18th) birthday; or b) for a period of ten (10) years beyond the date 
of discharge, whichever is later. This rule does not supersede professional 
standards (BHRS is allowed to maintain records for a longer period if required by 
other regulations or licenses). 
10. Hold Harmless and Indemnification 
10.1  The County shall defend, hold harmless, and indemnify the City from and 
against any and all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description 
which result from the acts or omissions of the County's representatives for 
services provided under this Agreement. 
10.2  The City shall defend, save harmless, and indemnify the County and its 
employees, agents, and servants from any and all claims, suits, or actions of 
every name, kind, and description which result from the acts or omissions of 
the City and/or its respective mental health clinicians, officers, employees, 
agents, contractors, subcontractors, and servants. 
10.3  The duty of each party to defend, hold harmless, and indemnify the other as set 
forth herein shall include the duty to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the 
California Civil Code. 
  
  In the event of concurrent negligence (or intentional/reckless acts) of the City 
and/or its respective officers and employees, on the one hand, and the County 
and/or its officers, employees, agents, and servants, on the other hand, then the 
liability for any and all claims for injuries or damage to persons and/or property 
which arise out of terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be apportioned 
according to the California theory of comparative fault. 
30 of 224

--- page 31 ---
11. Term and Termination 
 
11.1 Term 
This Agreement shall be effective immediately upon signature by each of the 
Parties (or, on August 22, 2025, if City mental health clinician starts working 
sooner). The term of the Agreement shall end on June 30, 2026. 
 
11.2 Amendment/Modification Process 
All subsequent modifications or amendments to this Agreement shall be in 
writing and signed by each of the Parties hereto before they will be effective. 
11.3 Termination 
Subject to the Parties’ understanding as to the term of the Agreement, detailed in 
Section 11.1, each Party agrees to remain a party to this Agreement for the entire 
duration of the Agreement term, subject only to termination for cause. 
 
Early termination of this Agreement will require the pre-approval of the State and 
the BSCC. Request for early termination shall be only due to a material breach of 
this Agreement by another Party or impossibility of performance. Should a party 
wish to terminate early due to material breach, it is required to give the other Party 
30 days written notice of the alleged material breach and notice of an opportunity 
to cure such breach during the notice period. If the party is unable to cure within 30 
days, the Agreement may be terminated pending the approval of the State and 
BSCC. 
12. Funding/Financial Responsibilities 
12.1  Personnel Costs 
100% of the personnel cost for the City mental health clinician will be covered by 
the 2022 awarded JAG Grant for the entire Term of this Agreement listed in 
Section 11.1.  
The total budget for this Agreement is estimated at $55,000 which includes the 
hourly rate of pay for the Agreement duration, the clinician’s malpractice 
insurance, and needed equipment for the clinician to provide CWCRT services 
purchased by the San Mateo PD.   
 
Category 
Rate 
Duration (Hrs. 
Months) 
Total Cost 
Clinician Hourly 
Rate 
$53.39 per hour 
960 hrs 
(approx. 21 
hrs/week x 46 
weeks) 
$51,255 
*Supervised 
experience required 
for therapist licensure  
$100 per 
session 
(1 session/week, 
apprx. 12 weeks) 
$1,200 
31 of 224

--- page 32 ---
Insurance/Business 
License 
$275 
One time cost 
$275 
Equipment 
(Cell Phone) 
$42 per month 
10 months 
$420 
Other 
Miscellaneous 
Actual Costs 
8/18/2025 – 
6/30/2026 
$1,850 
TOTAL 
 
$55,000 
*Unlicensed clinician will require supervision until successfully completing licensing exam, which is 
anticipated in the Fall of 2025.   
 
 12.2 Auto, Equipment, and Maintenance Costs 
The costs for the County car and county laptop with all required applications 
and software licenses needed for the clinical documentation by the City 
mental health clinician are 100% covered by BHRS. 
 
 12.3Exhaustion of 2022 Awarded Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) 
Upon exhaustion of the 2022 Awarded JAG funding for services under this 
Agreement, or for the term of the County’s JAG Agreement ending on June 30, 
2026, the County shall bear no financial responsibility for the CWCRT Program at 
the City. Should the City wish to continue the CWCRT Program beyond the JAG 
Funding availability, it will be at no cost to the County. 
 
The Parties agree to meet in the projected last quarter of the JAG funding 
availability, April ~ June 2026, with all JAG Cities (San Bruno, East Palo Alto, 
Menlo Park, Belmont, San Mateo) to address the handling of termination of the 
CWCRT Program, and/or the continuance of the Program beyond the Agreement 
term. 
13. Contact Information 
The following is contact information of the persons responsible from each party 
for the completion and maintenance of this Agreement: 
13.1 Party A (BHRS) Information 
  Name: Jei Africa 
Address: 2000 Alameda de las Pulgas, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Contact number: 650-573-2748 
Email: jafrica@smcgov.org 
 
13.2 City of San Mateo 
 
Name:  Ed Barberini, Chief of Police  
Address: 200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Contact number:  650-522-7600 
Email:  ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org  
32 of 224

--- page 33 ---
This Agreement shall be effective upon the signature of all parties’ authorized 
officials. All Parties indicate agreement with this Agreement by their signatures. 
 
 
 
 
Signatures and dates: 
 
_________________________________________________________ 
Jei Africa 
Director, Behavioral Health & Recovery Services (BHRS) 
 
Date 
 
 
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police 
City of San Mateo  
 
 
  Date 
 
 
 
33 of 224

--- page 34 ---
Attachment 1 
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
Business Associate Requirements 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
Terms used, but not otherwise defined, in this Schedule shall have the same meaning as those 
terms are defined in 45 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) sections 160.103, 164.304, and 
164.501. All regulatory references in this Schedule are to Title 45 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations unless otherwise specified. 
 
a. Business Associate. "Business Associate" shall generally have the same meaning as the 
term "business associate" at 45 CFR 160.103, and in reference to the parties to this 
agreement shall mean Contractor. 
b. Covered Entity. "Covered entity" shall generally have the same meaning as the term 
"covered entity" at 45 CFR 160.103, and in reference to the party to this agreement 
shall mean County. 
c. HIPAA Rules. "HIPAA rules" shall mean the Privacy, Security, Breach Notification and 
Enforcement Rules at 45 CFR part 160 and part 164, as amended and supplemented by 
Subtitle D of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act 
provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. 
d. Designated Record Set. "Designated Record Set" shall have the same meaning as the 
term "designated record set" in Section 164.501. 
e. Electronic Protected Health Information. "Electronic Protected Health Information" 
(EPHI) means individually identifiable health information that is transmitted or 
maintained in electronic media; it is limited to the information created, received, 
maintained or transmitted by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity. 
f. 
Individual. "Individual" shall have the same meaning as the term "individual" in Section 
164.501 and shall include a person who qualifies as a personal representative in 
accordance with Section 164.502(g). 
g. Privacy Rule. "Privacy Rule" shall mean the Standards for Privacy of Individually 
Identifiable Health Information at 45 CFR Part 160 and Part 164, Subparts A and E. 
h. Protected Health Information. "Protected Health Information" (PHI) shall have the 
same meaning as the term "protected health information" in Section 160.103 and is 
limited to the information created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf 
of County. 
i. 
Required By Law. "Required by law" shall have the same meaning as the term "required 
by law" in Section 164.103. 
j. 
Secretary. "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the United States Department of 
Health and Human Services or his or her designee. 
k. Breach. The acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of PHI in violation of the Privacy Rule 
that compromises the security or privacy of the PHI and subject to the exclusions set 
forth in Section 164.402. Unless an exception applies, an impermissible use or disclosure 
of PHI is presumed to be a breach, unless it can be demonstrated there is a low 
 
 
34 of 224

--- page 35 ---
probability that the PHI has been compromised based upon, at minimum, a four-part risk 
assessment: 
1. Nature and extent of PHI included, identifiers and likelihood of re-identification; 
2. Identity of the unauthorized person or to whom impermissible disclosure was made; 
3. Whether PHI was actually viewed or only the opportunity to do so existed; 
4. The extent to which the risk has been mitigated. 
I. 
Security Rule. "Security Rule" shall mean the Security Standards for the Protection of 
Electronic Protected Health Information at 45 CFR Part 160 and Part 164, Subparts A and 
C. 
m. Unsecured PHI. "Unsecured PHI" is protected health information that is not rendered 
unusable, unreadable, or indecipherable to unauthorized individuals through the use of 
a technology or methodology specified by the Secretary in relevant HHS guidance. 
n. Security Incident. "Security Incident" shall mean the attempted or successful 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction of information or 
interference with systems operations in an information system. "Security Incident" 
includes all incidents that constitute breaches of unsecured protected health 
information. 
 
OBLIGATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF CONTRACTOR AS BUSINESS ASSOCIATE 
 
a. Business Associate agrees to not use or further disclose Protected Health Information 
other than as permitted or required by the Agreement or as required by law. 
b. Business Associate agrees to use appropriate safeguards to comply with Subpart C of 
45 CFR part 164 with respect to EPHI and PHI, and to prevent the use or disclosure of 
the Protected Health Information other than as provided for by this Agreement. 
c. Business Associate agrees to make uses and disclosures requests for Protected Health 
Information consistent with minimum necessary policy and procedures. 
d. Business Associate may not use or disclose protected health information in a manner 
that would violate subpart E of 45 CFR part 164.504 if used or disclosed by Covered 
Entity. 
e. Business Associate agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect 
that is known to Business Associate of a use or disclosure of Protected Health 
Information by Business Associate in violation of the requirements of this Agreement. 
f. 
Business Associate agrees to report to County any use or disclosure of Protected 
Health Information not authorized by this Agreement. 
g. Business Associate agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to 
whom it provides Protected Health Information received from, or created or received 
by Business Associate on behalf of County, agrees to adhere to the same restrictions 
and conditions that apply through this Agreement to Business Associate with respect 
to such information. 
h. If Business Associate has Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, 
Business Associate agrees to provide access, at the request of County, and in the time 
and manner designated by County, to Protected Health Information in a Designated 
Record Set, to County or, as directed by County, to an Individual in order to meet the 
requirements under Section 164.524. 
 
 
Issued by County of San Mateo Contract Compliance Committee~ December 9, 2015 
Page 2 
35 of 224

--- page 36 ---
i. 
If Business Associate has Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, 
Business Associate agrees to make any amendment(s) to Protected Health 
Information in a Designated Record Set that the County directs or agrees to make 
pursuant to Section 164.526 at the request of County or an Individual, and in the time 
and manner designed by County. 
j. 
Business Associate agrees to make internal practices, books, and records relating to 
the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information received from, or created or 
received by Business Associate on behalf of County, available to the County at the 
request of County or the Secretary, in a time and manner designated by the County 
or the Secretary, for purposes of the Secretary determining County's compliance with 
the Privacy Rule. 
k. Business Associate agrees to document such disclosures of Protected Health 
Information and information related to such disclosures as would be required for 
County to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of 
Protected Health Information in accordance with Section 164.528. 
I. 
Business Associate agrees to provide to County or an Individual in the time and 
manner designated by County, information collected in accordance with Section (k) 
of this Schedule, in order to permit County to respond to a request by an Individual 
for an accounting of disclosures of Protected Health Information in accordance with 
Section 164.528. 
m. Business Associate shall implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards 
that reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of EPHI that Business Associate creates, receives, maintains, or transmits 
on behalf of County. 
n. Business Associate shall conform to generally accepted system security principles and 
the requirements of the final HIPAA rule pertaining to the security of health 
information. 
o. Business Associate shall ensure that any agent to whom it provides EPHI, including a 
subcontractor, agrees to implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards to 
protect such EPHI. 
p. Business Associate shall report to County any Security Incident within three (3) 
business days of becoming aware of such incident. Business Associate shall also 
facilitate breach notification(s) to the appropriate governing body (i.e. HHS, OCR, 
etc.) as required by law. As appropriate and after consulting with County, Business 
Associate shall also notify affected individuals and the media of a qualifying breach. 
q. Business Associate understands that it is directly liable under the HIPAA rules and 
subject to civil and, in some cases, criminal penalties for making uses and disclosures 
of Protected Health Information that are not authorized by this Attachment, the 
underlying contract as or required by law. 
 
PERMITTED USES AND DISCLOSURES BY CONTRACTOR AS BUSINESS ASSOCIATE 
 
Except as otherwise limited in this Schedule, Business Associate may use or disclose Protected 
Health Information to perform functions, activities, or services for, or on behalf of, County as 
specified in the Agreement; provided that such use or disclosure would not violate the Privacy 
Rule if done by County. 
 
Issued by County of San Mateo Contract Compliance Committee~ December 9, 2015 
Page 3 
36 of 224

--- page 37 ---
OBLIGATIONS OF COUNTY 
 
a. County shall provide Business Associate with the notice of privacy practices that County 
produces in accordance with Section 164.520, as well as any changes to such notice. 
b. County shall provide Business Associate with any changes in, or revocation of, 
permission by Individual to use or disclose Protected Health Information, if such 
changes affect Business Associate's permitted or required uses and disclosures. 
c. County shall notify Business Associate of any restriction to the use or disclosure of 
Protected Health Information that County has agreed to in accordance with Section 
164.522. 
 
PERMISSIBLE REQUESTS BY COUNTY 
 
County shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose Protected Health Information in 
any manner that would not be permissible under the Privacy Rule if so requested by County, 
unless the Business Associate will use or disclose Protected Health Information for, and if the 
Agreement provides for, data aggregation or management and administrative activities of 
Business Associate. 
 
DUTIES UPON TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT 
 
a. Upon termination of the Agreement, for any reason, Business Associate shall return or 
destroy all Protected Health Information received from County, or created, maintained, 
or received by Business Associate on behalf of County, that Business Associate still 
maintains in any form. This provision shall apply to Protected Health Information that is 
in the possession of subcontractors or agents of Business Associate. Business Associate 
shall retain no copies of the Protected Health Information. 
b. In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying Protected 
Health Information is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to County notification 
of the conditions that make return or destruction infeasible. Upon mutual agreement of 
the Parties that return or destruction of Protected Health Information is infeasible, 
Business Associate shall extend the protections of the Agreement to such Protected 
Health Information and limit further uses and disclosures of such Protected Health 
Information to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so 
long as Business Associate maintains such Protection Health Information. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
a. Regulatory References. A reference in this Schedule to a section in the HIPAA Privacy 
Rule means the section as in effect or as amended, and for which compliance is 
required. 
b. Amendment. The Parties agree to take such action as is necessary to amend this 
Schedule from time to time as is necessary for County to comply with the requirements 
of the Privacy Rule and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Public 
Law 104-191. 
 
 
Issued by County of San Mateo Contract Compliance Committee~ December 9, 2015 
Page4 
37 of 224

--- page 38 ---
c. Survival. The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under this 
Schedule shall survive the termination of the Agreement. 
d. Interpretation. Any ambiguity in this Schedule shall be resolved in favor of a meaning 
that permits County to comply with the Privacy Rule. 
e. Reservation of Right to Monitor Activities. County reserves the right to monitor the 
security policies and procedures of Business Associate. 
38 of 224

--- page 39 ---
ATTACHMENT II

San Mateo County

Driving Policy
&
Safe Driver Program

39 of 224


--- page 40 ---
40 of 224

--- page 41 ---
41 of 224

--- page 42 ---
42 of 224

--- page 43 ---
43 of 224

--- page 44 ---
44 of 224

--- page 45 ---
45 of 224

--- page 46 ---
46 of 224

--- page 47 ---
47 of 224

--- page 48 ---
48 of 224

--- page 49 ---
49 of 224

--- page 50 ---
50 of 224

--- page 51 ---
51 of 224

--- page 52 ---
52 of 224

--- page 53 ---
53 of 224

--- page 54 ---
54 of 224

--- page 55 ---
55 of 224

--- page 56 ---
56 of 224

--- page 57 ---
57 of 224

--- page 58 ---
58 of 224

--- page 59 ---
59 of 224

--- page 60 ---
60 of 224

--- page 61 ---
61 of 224

--- page 62 ---
62 of 224

--- page 63 ---
63 of 224

--- page 64 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 1 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
2020 JAG Federal Award Conditions 
The Grantee hereby assures and certifies compliance with all federal statutes, regulations, policies, 
guidelines and requirements, including the following: 
1.
Requirements of the award; remedies for non-compliance or for materially false statements
The conditions of this award are material requirements of the award. Compliance with any
assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the recipient that relate to conduct during
the period of performance also is a material requirement of this award.
Limited Exceptions. In certain special circumstances, the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") may
determine that it will not enforce, or enforce only in part, one or more requirements otherwise
applicable to the award. Any such exceptions regarding enforcement, including any such
exceptions made during the period of performance, are (or will be during the period of performance)
set out through the Office of Justice Programs ("OJP") webpage entitled "Legal Notices: Special
circumstances as to particular award conditions" (ojp.gov/funding/Explore/LegalNotices-
AwardReqts.htm), and incorporated by reference into the award.
By signing and accepting this award on behalf of the recipient, the authorized recipient official
accepts all material requirements of the award, and specifically adopts, as if personally executed
by the authorized recipient official, all assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the
recipient that relate to conduct during the period of performance.
Failure to comply with one or more award requirements -- whether a condition set out in full below,
a condition incorporated by reference below, or an assurance or certification related to conduct
during the award period – may result in OJP taking appropriate action with respect to the recipient
and the award. Among other things, the OJP may withhold award funds, disallow costs, or suspend
or terminate the award. DOJ, including OJP, also may take other legal action as appropriate.
Any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement to the federal government related to this
award (or concealment or omission of a material fact) may be the subject of criminal prosecution
(including under 18 U.S.C. 1001 and/or 1621, and/or 34 U.S.C. 10271-10273), and also may lead
to imposition of civil penalties and administrative remedies for false claims or otherwise (including
under 31 U.S.C. 3729-3730 and 3801-3812).
Should any provision of a requirement of this award be held to be invalid or unenforceable by its
terms, that provision shall first be applied with a limited construction so as to give it the maximum
effect permitted by law. Should it be held, instead, that the provision is utterly invalid or
unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed severable from this award.
2.
Applicability of Part 200 Uniform Requirements
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements in 2 C.F.R.
Part 200, as adopted and supplemented by DOJ in 2 C.F.R. Part 2800 (together, the "Part 200
Uniform Requirements") apply to this FY 2020 award from OJP.
Attachment III
64 of 224

--- page 65 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 2 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The Part 200 Uniform Requirements were first adopted by DOJ on December 26, 2014. If this FY 
2020 award supplements funds previously awarded by OJP under the same award number (e.g., 
funds awarded during or before December 2014), the Part 200 Uniform Requirements apply with 
respect to all funds under that award number (regardless of the award date, and regardless of 
whether derived from the initial award or a supplemental award) that are obligated on or after the 
acceptance date of this FY 2020 award. 
 
For more information and resources on the Part 200 Uniform Requirements as they relate to OJP 
awards 
and 
subawards 
("subgrants"), 
see 
the 
OJP 
website 
at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Part200UniformRequirements.htm. Record retention and access: Records 
pertinent to the award that the recipient (and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier) must retain 
-- typically for a period of 3 years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report (SF 
425), unless a different retention period applies -- and to which the recipient (and any subrecipient 
("subgrantee") at any tier) must provide access, include performance measurement information, in 
addition to the financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other pertinent 
records indicated at 2 C.F.R. 200.333. 
 
In the event that an award-related question arises from documents or other materials prepared or 
distributed by OJP that may appear to conflict with, or differ in some way from, the provisions of 
the Part 200 Uniform Requirements, the recipient is to contact OJP promptly for clarification. 
 
3. Compliance with DOJ Grants Financial Guide 
 
References to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide are to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide as posted 
on 
the 
OJP 
website 
(currently, 
the 
"DOJ 
Grants 
Financial 
Guide" 
available 
at 
https://ojp.gov/financialguide/DOJ/index.htm), including any updated version that may be posted 
during the period of performance. The recipient agrees to comply with the DOJGrants Financial 
Guide. 
 
4. Reclassification of various statutory provisions to a new Title 34 of the United States Code 
 
On September 1, 2017, various statutory provisions previously codified elsewhere in the U.S. Code 
were editorially reclassified (that is, moved and renumbered) to a new Title 34, entitled "Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement." The reclassification encompassed a number of statutory provisions 
pertinent to OJP awards (that is, OJP grants and cooperative agreements), including many 
provisions previously codified in Title 42 of the U.S. Code. 
 
Effective as of September 1, 2017, any reference in this award document to a statutory provision 
that has been reclassified to the new Title 34 of the U.S. Code is to be read as a reference to that 
statutory provision as reclassified to Title 34. This rule of construction specifically includes 
references set out in award conditions, references set out in material incorporated by reference 
through award conditions, and references set out in other award requirements. 
 
5. Required training for Point of Contact and all Financial Points of Contact 
 
Both the Point of Contact (POC) and all Financial Points of Contact (FPOCs) for this award must 
have successfully completed an "OJP financial management and grant administration training" by 
65 of 224

--- page 66 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 3 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
120 days after the date of the recipient's acceptance of the award. Successful completion of such 
a training on or after January 1, 2018, will satisfy this condition. 
 
In the event that either the POC or an FPOC for this award changes during the period of 
performance, the new POC or FPOC must have successfully completed an "OJP financial 
management and grant administration training" by 120 calendar days after -- (1) the date of OJP's 
approval of the "Change Grantee Contact" GAN (in the case of a new POC), or (2) the date the 
POC enters information on the new FPOC in GMS (in the case of a new FPOC). Successful 
completion of such a training on or after January 1, 2018, will satisfy this condition. 
 
A list of OJP trainings that OJP will consider "OJP financial management and grant administration 
training" for purposes of this condition is available at https://www.ojp.gov/training/fmts.htm. All 
trainings that satisfy this condition include a session on grant fraud prevention and detection. 
 
The recipient should anticipate that OJP will immediately withhold ("freeze") award funds if the 
recipient fails to comply with this condition. The recipient's failure to comply also may lead OJP to 
impose additional appropriate conditions on this award. 
 
6. Requirements related to "de minimis" indirect cost rate 
 
A recipient that is eligible under the Part 200 Uniform Requirements and other applicable law to 
use the "de minimis" indirect cost rate described in 2 C.F.R. 200.414(f), and that elects to use the 
"de minimis" indirect cost rate, must advise OJP in writing of both its eligibility and its election, and 
must comply with all associated requirements in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. The "de 
minimis" rate may be applied only to modified total direct costs (MTDC) as defined by the Part 200 
Uniform Requirements. 
 
7. Requirement to report potentially duplicative funding 
 
If the recipient currently has other active awards of federal funds, or if the recipient receives any 
other award of federal funds during the period of performance for this award, the recipient promptly 
must determine whether funds from any of those other federal awards have been, are being, or are 
to be used (in whole or in part) for one or more of the identical cost items for which funds are 
provided under this award. If so, the recipient must promptly notify the DOJ awarding agency (OJP 
or OVW, as appropriate) in writing of the potential duplication, and, if so requested by the DOJ 
awarding agency, must seek a budget-modification or change-of-project-scope grant adjustment 
notice (GAN) to eliminate any inappropriate duplication of funding. 
 
8. Requirements related to System for Award Management and Universal Identifier Requirements 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements regarding the System for Award 
Management (SAM), currently accessible at https://www.sam.gov/. This includes applicable 
requirements regarding registration with SAM, as well as maintaining the currency of information 
in SAM. 
The recipient also must comply with applicable restrictions on subawards ("subgrants") to first-tier 
subrecipients (first-tier "subgrantees"), including restrictions on subawards to entities that do not 
acquire and provide (to the recipient) the unique entity identifier required for SAM registration. 
66 of 224

--- page 67 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 4 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to SAM and to unique entity identifiers are posted 
on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SAM.htm (Award condition: System for 
Award Management (SAM) and Universal Identifier Requirements), and are incorporated by 
reference here. 
 
This condition does not apply to an award to an individual who received the award as a natural 
person (i.e., unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate 
in his or her name). 
 
9. Employment eligibility verification for hiring under the award1 
 
1. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must— 
 
A. Ensure that, as part of the hiring process for any position within the United States that is or will 
be funded (in whole or in part) with award funds, the recipient (or any subrecipient) properly verifies 
the employment eligibility of the individual who is being hired, consistent with the provisions of 8 
U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) and (2). 
 
B. Notify all persons associated with the recipient (or any subrecipient) who are or will be involved 
in activities under this award of both— 
 
(1) this award requirement for verification of employment eligibility, and 
 
(2) the associated provisions in 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) and (2) that, generally speaking, make it 
unlawful, in the United States, to hire (or recruit for employment) certain aliens. 
 
C. Provide training (to the extent necessary) to those persons required by this condition to be 
notified of the award requirement for employment eligibility verification and of the associated 
provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) and (2). 
 
D. As part of the recordkeeping for the award (including pursuant to the Part 200 Uniform 
Requirements), maintain records of all employment eligibility verifications pertinent to compliance 
with this award condition in accordance with Form I-9 record retention requirements, as well as 
records of all pertinent notifications and trainings. 
 
2. Monitoring 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this 
condition. 
 
3. Allowable costs 
 
To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds 
may be obligated for the reasonable, necessary, and allocable costs (if any) of actions designed to 
ensure compliance with this condition. 
 
1 Please note: this award condition is subject to a stipulated agreement between the State of California and DOJ in 
California v. Barr, No. 3:19-cv-6189-WHO, ECF No. 41 (N.D. Cal. June 3, 2020) 
67 of 224

--- page 68 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 5 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
4. Rules of construction 
 
A. Staff involved in the hiring process 
 
For purposes of this condition, persons "who are or will be involved in activities under this award" 
specifically includes (without limitation) any and all recipient (or any subrecipient) officials or other staff 
who are or will be involved in the hiring process with respect to a position that is or will be funded (in 
whole or in part) with award funds. 
 
B. Employment eligibility confirmation with E-Verify 
 
For purposes of satisfying the requirement of this condition regarding verification of employment 
eligibility, the recipient (or any subrecipient) may choose to participate in, and use, E-Verify (www.e- 
verify.gov), provided an appropriate person authorized to act on behalf of the recipient (or subrecipient) 
uses E-Verify (and follows the proper E-Verify procedures, including in the event of a "Tentative 
Nonconfirmation" or a "Final Nonconfirmation") to confirm employment eligibility for each hiring for a 
position in the United States that is or will be funded (in whole or in part) with award funds. 
 
C. "United States" specifically includes the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands 
of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
 
D. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient, any subrecipient 
at any tier, or any person or other entity, to violate any federal law, including any applicable civil rights 
or nondiscrimination law. 
 
E. Nothing in this condition, including in paragraph 4.B., shall be understood to relieve any recipient, 
any subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, of any obligation otherwise imposed by law, 
including 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) and (2). 
 
Questions about E-Verify should be directed to DHS. For more information about E-Verify visit the E- 
Verify website (https://www.e-verify.gov/) or email E-Verify at E-Verify@dhs.gov. E-Verify employer 
agents can email EVerify at E-VerifyEmployerAgent@dhs.gov. 
 
Questions about the meaning or scope of this condition should be directed to OJP, before award 
acceptance. 
 
10. Requirement to report actual or imminent breach of personally identifiable information (PII) 
 
The recipient (and any "subrecipient" at any tier) must have written procedures in place to respond 
in the event of an actual or imminent "breach" (OMB M-17-12) if it (or a subrecipient) -- (1) creates, 
collects, uses, processes, stores, maintains, disseminates, discloses, or disposes of "personally 
identifiable information (PII)" (2 CFR 200.79) within the scope of an OJP grant-funded program or 
activity, or (2) uses or operates a "Federal information system" (OMB Circular A-130). The 
recipient's breach procedures must include a requirement to report actual or imminent breach of 
PII to an OJP Program Manager no later than 24 hours after an occurrence of an actual breach, or 
the detection of an imminent breach. 
 
11. All subawards ("subgrants") must have specific federal authorization 
68 of 224

--- page 69 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 6 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements for authorization of any subaward. This condition applies to agreements that -- for 
purposes of federal grants administrative requirements -- OJP considers a "subaward" (and 
therefore does not consider a procurement "contract"). 
 
The details of the requirement for authorization of any subaward are posted on the OJP web site 
at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SubawardAuthorization.htm (Award condition: All subawards 
("subgrants") must have specific federal authorization), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
12. Specific post-award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in any procurement 
contract that would exceed $250,000 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements to obtain specific advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in any 
procurement contract that would exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (currently, $250,000). 
This condition applies to agreements that -- for purposes of federal grants administrative 
requirements -- OJP considers a procurement "contract" (and therefore does not consider a 
subaward). 
 
The details of the requirement for advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in a 
procurement contract under an OJP award are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/NoncompetitiveProcurement.htm (Award condition: Specific post- 
award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in a procurement contract (if contract 
would exceed $250,000)), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
13. Unreasonable restrictions on competition under the award; association with federal government 
 
SCOPE. This condition applies with respect to any procurement of property or services that is 
funded (in whole or in part) by this award, whether by the recipient or by any subrecipient at any 
tier, and regardless of the dollar amount of the purchase or acquisition, the method of procurement, 
or the nature of any legal instrument used. The provisions of this condition must be among those 
included in any subaward (at any tier). 
 
1. No discrimination, in procurement transactions, against associates of the federal government 
 
Consistent with the (DOJ) Part 200 Uniform Requirements -- including as set out at 2 C.F.R. 
200.300 (requiring awards to be "manage[d] and administer[ed] in a manner so as to ensure that 
Federal funding is expended and associated programs are implemented in full accordance with 
U.S. statutory and public policy requirements") and 200.319(a) (generally requiring "[a]ll 
procurement transactions [to] be conducted in a manner providing full and open competition" and 
forbidding practices "restrictive of competition," such as "[p]lacing unreasonable requirements on 
firms in order for them to qualify to do business" and taking "[a]ny arbitrary action in the procurement 
process") – no recipient (or subrecipient, at any tier) may (in any procurement transaction) 
discriminate against any person or entity on the basis of such person or entity's status as an 
"associate of the federal government" (or on the basis of such person or entity's status as a parent, 
affiliate, or subsidiary of such an associate), except as expressly set out in 2 C.F.R. 200.319(a) or 
as specifically authorized by USDOJ. 
69 of 224

--- page 70 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 7 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
2. Monitoring 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this 
condition. 
 
3. Allowable costs 
 
To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds 
may be obligated for the reasonable, necessary, and allocable costs (if any) of actions designed to 
ensure compliance with this condition. 
 
4. Rules of construction 
 
A. The term "associate of the federal government" means any person or entity engaged or 
employed (in the past or at present) by or on behalf of the federal government -- as an employee, 
contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), grant recipient or -subrecipient (at any tier), agent, or 
otherwise -- in undertaking any work, project, or activity for or on behalf of (or in providing goods or 
services to or on behalf of) the federal government, and includes any applicant for such 
employment or engagement, and any person or entity committed by legal instrument to undertake 
any such work, project, or activity (or to provide such goods or services) in future. 
 
B. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient, any 
subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, to violate any federal law, including any 
applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law. 
 
14. Requirements pertaining to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in persons (including reporting 
requirements and OJP authority to terminate award) 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements (including requirements to report allegations) pertaining to prohibited conduct related 
to the trafficking of persons, whether on the part of recipients, subrecipients ("subgrantees"), or 
individuals defined (for purposes of this condition) as "employees" of the recipient or of any 
subrecipient. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in 
persons are posted on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/ProhibitedConduct- 
Trafficking.htm (Award condition: Prohibited conduct by recipients and subrecipients related to 
trafficking in persons (including reporting requirements and OJP authority to terminate award)), and 
are incorporated by reference here. 
 
15. Determination of suitability to interact with participating minors 
 
SCOPE. This condition applies to this award if it is indicated -- in the application for the award (as 
approved by DOJ)(or in the application for any subaward, at any tier), the DOJ funding 
announcement (solicitation), or an associated federal statute -- that a purpose of some or all of the 
activities to be carried out under the award (whether by the recipient, or a subrecipient at any tier) 
is to benefit a set of individuals under 18 years of age. 
70 of 224

--- page 71 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 8 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient at any tier, must make determinations of suitability before 
certain individuals may interact with participating minors. This requirement applies regardless of an 
individual's employment status. 
 
The 
details 
of 
this 
requirement 
are 
posted 
on 
the 
OJP 
web 
site 
at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/Interact-Minors.htm (Award condition: Determination of suitability 
required, in advance, for certain individuals who may interact with participating minors), and are 
incorporated by reference here. 
 
16. Compliance with applicable rules regarding approval, planning, and reporting of conferences, 
meetings, trainings, and other events 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable laws, 
regulations, policies, and official DOJ guidance (including specific cost limits, prior approval and 
reporting requirements, where applicable) governing the use of federal funds for expenses related 
to conferences (as that term is defined by DOJ), including the provision of food and/or beverages 
at such conferences, and costs of attendance at such conferences. 
 
Information on the pertinent DOJ definition of conferences and the rules applicable to this award 
appears in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide (currently, as section 3.10 of "Postaward 
Requirements" in the "DOJ Grants Financial Guide"). 
 
17. Requirement for data on performance and effectiveness under the award 
 
The recipient must collect and maintain data that measure the performance and effectiveness of 
work under this award. The data must be provided to OJP in the manner (including within the 
timeframes) specified by OJP in the program solicitation or other applicable written guidance. Data 
collection supports compliance with the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and 
the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, and other applicable laws. 
 
18. OJP Training Guiding Principles 
 
Any training or training materials that the recipient -- or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier 
-- develops or delivers with OJP award funds must adhere to the OJP Training Guiding Principles 
for 
Grantees 
and 
Subgrantees, 
available 
at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Implement/TrainingPrinciplesForGrantees-Subgrantees.htm. 
 
19. Effect of failure to address audit issues 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as 
appropriate) may withhold award funds, or may impose other related requirements, if (as 
determined by the DOJ awarding agency) the recipient does not satisfactorily and promptly address 
outstanding issues from audits required by the Part 200 Uniform Requirements (or by the terms of 
this award), or other outstanding issues that arise in connection with audits, investigations, or 
reviews of DOJ awards. 
 
20. Potential imposition of additional requirements 
71 of 224

--- page 72 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 9 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The recipient agrees to comply with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DOJ 
awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) during the period of performance for this award, if 
the recipient is designated as "highrisk" for purposes of the DOJ high-risk grantee list. 
 
21. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
42 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 42, specifically including any applicable requirements in Subpart E 
of 28 C.F.R. Part 42 that relate to an equal employment opportunity program. 
 
22. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
54 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 54, which relates to nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in certain 
"education programs." 
 
23. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
38 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 (as may be applicable from time to time), specifically including 
any applicable requirements regarding written notice to program beneficiaries and prospective 
program beneficiaries. 
 
Currently, among other things, 28 C.F.R. Part 38 includes rules that prohibit specific forms of 
discrimination on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or refusal 
to attend or participate in a religious practice. Part 38, currently, also sets out rules and 
requirements that pertain to recipient and subrecipient ("subgrantee") organizations that engage in 
or conduct explicitly religious activities, as well as rules and requirements that pertain to recipients 
and subrecipients that are faith-based or religious organizations. 
 
The text of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 is available via the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (currently 
accessible at https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/ECFR?page=browse), by browsing to Title 28-Judicial 
Administration, Chapter 1, Part 38, under e-CFR "current" data. 
 
24. Restrictions on "lobbying" 
 
In general, as a matter of federal law, federal funds awarded by OJP may not be used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, either directly or indirectly, to support or 
oppose the enactment, repeal, modification, or adoption of any law, regulation, or policy, at any 
level of government. See 18 U.S.C. 1913. (There may be exceptions if an applicable federal statute 
specifically authorizes certain activities that otherwise would be barred by law.) 
 
Another federal law generally prohibits federal funds awarded by OJP from being used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient at any tier, to pay any person to influence (or attempt to influence) a 
federal agency, a Member of Congress, or Congress (or an official or employee of any of them) 
72 of 224

--- page 73 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 10 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
with respect to the awarding of a federal grant or cooperative agreement, subgrant, contract, 
subcontract, or loan, or with respect to actions such as renewing, extending, or modifying any such 
award. See 31 U.S.C. 1352. Certain exceptions to this law apply, including an exception that 
applies to Indian tribes and tribal organizations. 
 
Should any question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient (or 
subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of these prohibitions, the recipient is to contact 
OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written approval of OJP. 
 
25. Compliance with general appropriations-law restrictions on the use of federal funds (FY 2020) The 
recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
restrictions on the use of federal funds set out in federal appropriations statutes. Pertinent 
restrictions that may be set out in applicable appropriations acts are indicated at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FY20AppropriationsRestrictions.htm, and are incorporated by 
reference here. Should a question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient 
(or a subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of an appropriations-law restriction, the 
recipient is to contact OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written 
approval of OJP. 
 
26. Reporting potential fraud, waste, and abuse, and similar misconduct 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipients ("subgrantees") at any tier, must promptly refer to the DOJ 
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) any credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, 
subrecipient, contractor, subcontractor, or other person has, in connection with funds under this 
award-- (1) submitted a claim that violates the False Claims Act; or (2) committed a criminal or civil 
violation of laws pertaining to fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, gratuity, or similar misconduct. 
 
Potential fraud, waste, abuse, or misconduct involving or relating to funds under this award should 
be reported to the OIG by--(1) online submission accessible via the OIG webpage at 
https://oig.justice.gov/hotline/contact-grants.htm (select "Submit Report Online"); (2) mail directed 
to: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General, Investigations Division, ATTN: 
Grantee Reporting, 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20530; and/or (3) by facsimile 
directed to the DOJ OIG Investigations Division (Attn: Grantee Reporting) at (202) 616-9881 (fax). 
 
Additional information is available from the DOJ OIG website at https://oig.justice.gov/hotline. 
 
27. Restrictions and certifications regarding non-disclosure agreements and related matters 
 
No recipient or subrecipient ("subgrantee") under this award, or entity that receives a procurement 
contract or subcontract with any funds under this award, may require any employee or contractor 
to sign an internal confidentiality agreement or statement that prohibits or otherwise restricts, or 
purports to prohibit or restrict, the reporting (in accordance with law) of waste, fraud, or abuse to 
an investigative or law enforcement representative of a federal department or agency authorized 
to receive such information. 
 
The foregoing is not intended, and shall not be understood by the agency making this award, to 
contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312 (which relates to classified information), 
73 of 224

--- page 74 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 11 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Form 4414 (which relates to sensitive compartmented information), or any other form issued by a 
federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified information. 
 
1. In accepting this award, the recipient— 
 
a. represents that it neither requires nor has required internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict (or 
purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, fraud, or abuse as 
described above; and 
 
b. certifies that, if it learns or is notified that it is or has been requiring its employees or contractors 
to execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or 
restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately stop any further 
obligations of award funds, will provide prompt written notification to the federal agency making this 
award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only if expressly authorized to 
do so by that agency. 
 
2. If the recipient does or is authorized under this award to make subawards ("subgrants"), 
procurement contracts, or both— 
 
a. it represents that— 
 
(1) it has determined that no other entity that the recipient's application proposes may or will receive 
award funds (whether through a subaward ("subgrant"), procurement contract, or subcontract 
under a procurement contract) either requires or has required internal confidentiality agreements 
or statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict 
(or purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, fraud, or abuse as 
described above; and 
 
(2) it has made appropriate inquiry, or otherwise has an adequate factual basis, to support this 
representation; and 
 
b. it certifies that, if it learns or is notified that any subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor entity 
that receives funds under this award is or has been requiring its employees or contractors to 
execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or 
restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately stop any further 
obligations of award funds to or by that entity, will provide prompt written notification to the federal 
agency making this award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only if 
expressly authorized to do so by that agency. 
 
28. Compliance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 (including prohibitions on reprisal; notice to employees) 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with, and is subject to, all applicable 
provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712, including all applicable provisions that prohibit, under specified 
circumstances, discrimination against an employee as reprisal for the employee's disclosure of 
information related to gross mismanagement of a federal grant, a gross waste of federal funds, an 
abuse of authority relating to a federal grant, a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a federal grant. 
74 of 224

--- page 75 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 12 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The recipient also must inform its employees, in writing (and in the predominant native language of 
the workforce), of employee rights and remedies under 41 U.S.C. 4712. 
 
Should a question arise as to the applicability of the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712 to this award, the 
recipient is to contact the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) for guidance. 
 
29. Encouragement of policies to ban text messaging while driving 
 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13513, "Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While 
Driving," 74 Fed. Reg. 51225 (October 1, 2009), DOJ encourages recipients and subrecipients 
("subgrantees") to adopt and enforce policies banning employees from text messaging while driving 
any vehicle during the course of performing work funded by this award, and to establish workplace 
safety policies and conduct education, awareness, and other outreach to decrease crashes caused 
by distracted drivers. 
 
30. Requirement to disclose whether recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making 
agency outside of DOJ 
 
If the recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making agency outside of DOJ, currently 
or at any time during the course of the period of performance under this award, the recipient must 
disclose 
that 
fact 
and 
certain 
related 
information 
to 
OJP 
by 
email 
at 
OJP.ComplianceReporting@ojp.usdoj.gov. For purposes of this disclosure, high risk includes any 
status under which a federal awarding agency provides additional oversight due to the recipient's 
past performance, or other programmatic or financial concerns with the recipient. The recipient's 
disclosure must include the following: 1. The federal awarding agency that currently designates the 
recipient high risk, 2. The date the recipient was designated high risk, 3. The high-risk point of 
contact at that federal awarding agency (name, phone number, and email address), and 4. The 
reasons for the high-risk status, as set out by the federal awarding agency. 
 
[Intentionally Omitted: award conditions 31 through 41, as originally set out in the award 
document, per OJP Notices No. 41, No. 42, No. 43, and No. 47.] 
 
 
42. Cooperating with OJP Monitoring 
 
The recipient agrees to cooperate with OJP monitoring of this award pursuant to OJP's guidelines, 
protocols, and procedures, and to cooperate with OJP (including the grant manager for this award 
and the Office of Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)) requests related to such monitoring, including 
requests related to desk reviews and/or site visits. The recipient agrees to provide to OJP all 
documentation necessary for OJP to complete its monitoring tasks, including documentation 
related to any subawards made under this award. Further, the recipient agrees to abide by 
reasonable deadlines set by OJP for providing the requested documents. Failure to cooperate with 
OJP's monitoring activities may result in actions that affect the recipient's DOJ awards, including, 
but not limited to: withholdings and/or other restrictions on the recipient's access to award funds; 
referral to the DOJ OIG for audit review; designation of the recipient as a DOJ High Risk grantee; 
or termination of an award(s). 
 
43. FFATA reporting: Subawards and executive compensation 
75 of 224

--- page 76 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 13 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements to report first-tier subawards ("subgrants") 
of $25,000 or more and, in certain circumstances, to report the names and total compensation of 
the five most highly compensated executives of the recipient and first-tier subrecipients (first-tier 
"subgrantees") of award funds. The details of recipient obligations, which derive from the Federal 
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA), are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FFATA.htm (Award condition: Reporting Subawards and Executive 
Compensation), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
This condition, including its reporting requirement, does not apply to-- (1) an award of less than 
$25,000, or (2) an award made to an individual who received the award as a natural person (i.e., 
unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate in his or 
her name). 
 
44. Required monitoring of subawards 
 
The recipient must monitor subawards under this award in accordance with all applicable statutes, 
regulations, award conditions, and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, and must include the 
applicable conditions of this award in any subaward. Among other things, the recipient is 
responsible for oversight of subrecipient spending and monitoring of specific outcomes and benefits 
attributable to use of award funds by subrecipients. The recipient agrees to submit, upon request, 
documentation of its policies and procedures for monitoring of subawards under this award. 
 
45. Use of program income 
 
Program income (as defined in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements) must be used in accordance 
with the provisions of the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Program income earnings and 
expenditures both must be reported on the quarterly Federal Financial Report, SF 425. 
 
46. Justice Information Sharing 
 
Information sharing projects funded under this award must comply with DOJ's Global Justice 
Information Sharing Initiative (Global) guidelines. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) 
must conform to the Global Standards Package (GSP) and all constituent elements, where 
applicable, as described at: https:/ / it.ojp.gov/ gsp_grantcondition. The recipient (and any 
subrecipient at any tier) must document planned approaches to information sharing and describe 
compliance with the GSP and appropriate privacy policy that protects shared information, or provide 
detailed justification for why an alternative approach is recommended. 
 
47. Avoidance of duplication of networks 
 
To avoid duplicating existing networks or IT systems in any initiatives funded by BJA for law 
enforcement information sharing systems which involve interstate connectivity between 
jurisdictions, such systems shall employ, to the extent possible, existing networks as the 
communication backbone to achieve interstate connectivity, unless the recipient can demonstrate 
to the satisfaction of BJA that this requirement would not be cost effective or would impair the 
functionality of an existing or proposed IT system. 
76 of 224

--- page 77 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 14 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
48. Compliance with 28 C.F.R. Part 23 
 
With respect to any information technology system funded or supported by funds under this award, 
the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with 28 C.F.R. Part 23, Criminal 
Intelligence Systems Operating Policies, if OJP determines this regulation to be applicable. Should 
OJP determine 28 C.F.R. Part 23 to be applicable, OJP may, at its discretion, perform audits of the 
system, as per the regulation. Should any violation of 28 C.F.R. Part 23 occur, the recipient may 
be fined as per 34 U.S.C. 10231(c)-(d). The recipient may not satisfy such a fine with federal funds. 
 
49. Protection of human research subjects 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with the requirements of 28 C.F.R. 
Part 46 and all OJP policies and procedures regarding the protection of human research subjects, 
including obtainment of Institutional Review Board approval, if appropriate, and subject informed 
consent. 
 
50. Confidentiality of data 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with all confidentiality requirements of 
34 U.S.C. 10231 and 28 C.F.R. Part 22 that are applicable to collection, use, and revelation of data 
or information. The recipient further agrees, as a condition of award approval, to submit a Privacy 
Certificate that is in accord with requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 22 and, in particular, 28 C.F.R. 
22.23. 
 
51. Verification and updating of recipient contact information 
 
The recipient must verify its Point of Contact(POC), Financial Point of Contact (FPOC), and 
Authorized Representative contact information in GMS, including telephone number and e-mail 
address. If any information is incorrect or has changed, a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) must be 
submitted via the Grants Management System (GMS) to document changes. 
 
52. Law enforcement task forces - required training 
 
Within 120 days of award acceptance, each current member of a law enforcement task force funded 
with award funds who is a task force commander, agency executive, task force officer, or other task 
force member of equivalent rank, must complete required online (internet-based) task force 
training. Additionally, all future task force members must complete this training once during the 
period of performance for this award, or once every four years if multiple OJP awards include this 
requirement. 
 
The required training is available free of charge online through the BJA-funded Center for Task 
Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). The training addresses task force effectiveness, as 
well as other key issues including privacy and civil liberties/rights, task force performance 
measurement, personnel selection, and task force oversight and accountability. If award funds are 
used to support a task force, the recipient must compile and maintain a task force personnel roster, 
along with course completion certificates. 
77 of 224

--- page 78 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 15 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding the training is available through BJA's web site and the Center for 
Task Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). 
 
53. Justification of consultant rate 
 
Approval of this award does not indicate approval of any consultant rate in excess of $650 per day. 
A detailed justification must be submitted to and approved by the OJP program office prior to 
obligation or expenditure of such funds. 
 
54. Submission of eligible records relevant to the National Instant Background Check System 
 
Consonant with federal statutes that pertain to firearms and background checks -- including 18 
U.S.C. 922 and 34 U.S.C. ch. 409 -- if the recipient (or any subrecipient at any tier) uses this award 
to fund (in whole or in part) a specific project or program (such as a law enforcement, prosecution, 
or court program) that results in any court dispositions, information, or other records that are 
"eligible records" (under federal or State law) relevant to the National Instant Background Check 
System (NICS), or that has as one of its purposes the establishment or improvement of records 
systems that contain any court dispositions, information, or other records that are "eligible records" 
(under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS, the recipient (or subrecipient, if applicable) must 
ensure that all such court dispositions, information, or other records that are "eligible records" 
(under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS are promptly made available to the NICS or to the 
"State" repository/database that is electronically available to (and accessed by) the NICS, and -- 
when appropriate -- promptly must update, correct, modify, or remove such NICSrelevant "eligible 
records". 
 
In the event of minor and transitory non-compliance, the recipient may submit evidence to 
demonstrate diligent monitoring of compliance with this condition (including subrecipient 
compliance). DOJ will give great weight to any such evidence in any express written determination 
regarding this condition. 
 
55. "Methods of Administration" - monitoring compliance with civil rights laws and nondiscrimination 
provisions 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with 
applicable federal civil rights laws and nondiscrimination provisions. Within 90 days of the date of 
award acceptance, the recipient must submit to OJP's Office for Civil Rights (at 
CivilRightsMOA@usdoj.gov) written Methods of Administration ("MOA") for subrecipient monitoring 
with respect to civil rights requirements. In addition, upon request by OJP (or by another authorized 
federal agency), the recipient must make associated documentation available for review. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to Methods of Administration are posted on the 
OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/StateMethodsAdmin-FY2017update.htm (Award 
condition: "Methods of Administration" - Requirements applicable to States (FY 2017 Update)) and 
are incorporated by reference here. 
 
56. Required attendance at BJA-sponsored events 
78 of 224

--- page 79 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 16 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
The recipient (and its subrecipients at any tier) must participate in BJA-sponsored training events, 
technical assistance events, or conferences held by BJA or its designees, upon BJA's request. 
 
57. Compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and related statutes 
 
Upon request, the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must assist BJA in complying with 
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the National Historic Preservation Act, and other 
related federal environmental impact analyses requirements in the use of these award funds, either 
directly by the recipient or by a subrecipient. Accordingly, the recipient agrees to first determine if 
any of the following activities will be funded by the grant, prior to obligating funds for any of these 
purposes. If it is determined that any of the following activities will be funded by the award, the 
recipient agrees to contact BJA. 
 
The recipient understands that this condition applies to new activities as set out below, whether or 
not they are being specifically funded with these award funds. That is, as long as the activity is 
being conducted by the recipient, a subrecipient, or any third party, and the activity needs to be 
undertaken in order to use these award funds, this condition must first be met. The activities 
covered by this condition are: 
 
a. New construction; 
 
b. Minor renovation or remodeling of a property located in an environmentally or historically 
sensitive area, including properties located within a 100-year flood plain, a wetland, or habitat for 
endangered species, or a property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic 
Places; 
 
c. A renovation, lease, or any proposed use of a building or facility that will either (a) result in a 
change in its basic prior use or (b) significantly change its size; 
 
d. Implementation of a new program involving the use of chemicals other than chemicals that are 
(a) purchased as an incidental component of a funded activity and (b) traditionally used, for 
example, in office, household, recreational, or education environments; and 
 
e. Implementation of a program relating to clandestine methamphetamine laboratory operations, 
including the identification, seizure, or closure of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories. 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that complying with NEPA may require the preparation of 
an Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement, as directed by BJA. 
The recipient further understands and agrees to the requirements for implementation of a Mitigation 
Plan, as detailed at https://bja.gov/Funding/nepa.html, for programs relating to methamphetamine 
laboratory operations. 
 
Application of This Condition to Recipient's Existing Programs or Activities: For any of the 
recipient's or its subrecipients' existing programs or activities that will be funded by these award 
funds, the recipient, upon specific request from BJA, agrees to cooperate with BJA in any 
preparation by BJA of a national or program environmental assessment of that funded program or 
activity. 
79 of 224

--- page 80 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 17 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
58. Establishment of trust fund 
 
If award funds are being drawn down in advance, the recipient (or a subrecipient, with respect to a 
subaward) is required to establish a trust fund account. Recipients (and subrecipients) must 
maintain advance payments of federal awards in interest-bearing accounts, unless regulatory 
exclusions apply (2 C.F.R. 200.305(b)(8)). The trust fund,\ including any interest, may not be used 
to pay debts or expenses incurred by other activities beyond the scope of the Edward Byrne 
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). The recipient also agrees to obligate the award 
funds in the trust fund (including any interest earned) during the period of performance for the 
award and expend within 90 days thereafter. Any unobligated or unexpended funds, including 
interest earned, must be returned to OJP at the time of closeout. 
 
59. Prohibition on use of award funds for match under BVP program 
 
JAG funds may not be used as the 50% match for purposes of the DOJ Bulletproof Vest Partnership 
(BVP) program. 
 
60. Certification of body armor "mandatory wear" policies 
 
If recipient uses funds under this award to purchase body armor, the recipient must submit a signed 
certification that law enforcement agencies receiving body armor purchased with funds from this 
award have a written "mandatory wear" policy in effect. The recipient must keep signed 
certifications on file for any subrecipients planning to utilize funds from this award for ballistic- 
resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchases. This policy must be in place for at least all 
uniformed officers before any funds from this award may be used by an agency for body armor. 
There are no requirements regarding the nature of the policy other than it be a mandatory wear 
policy for all uniformed officers while on duty. 
 
 
61. Body armor - compliance with NIJ standards and other requirements 
 
Ballistic-resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased with JAG award funds may be 
purchased at any threat level, make or model, from any distributor or manufacturer, as long as the 
body armor has been tested and found to comply with applicable National Institute of Justice 
ballistic or stab standards and is listed on the NIJ Compliant Body Armor Model List 
(https://nij.gov/topics/technology/body-armor/Pages/compliant-ballistic-armor.aspx). In addition, 
ballistic-resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased must be made in the United States and 
must be uniquely fitted, as set forth in 34 U.S.C. 10202(c)(1)(A). The latest NIJ standard information 
can be found here: https:/ / nij.gov/ topics/ technology/ body-armor/ pages/ safety-initiative.aspx. 
 
62. Reporting requirements 
 
The recipient must submit quarterly Federal Financial Reports (SF-425) and semi-annual 
performance reports through OJP's GMS (https://grants.ojp.usdoj.gov). Consistent with the 
Department's responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and the 
GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, the recipient must provide data that measure the results of its 
work. The recipient must submit quarterly performance metrics reports through BJA's Performance 
80 of 224

--- page 81 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 18 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Measurement Tool (PMT) website (www.bjaperformancetools.org). For more detailed information 
on reporting and other JAG requirements, refer to the JAG reporting requirements webpage. Failure 
to submit required JAG reports by established deadlines may result in the freezing of grant funds 
and future High Risk designation. 
 
63. Required data on law enforcement agency training 
 
Any law enforcement agency receiving direct or sub-awarded funding from this JAG award must 
submit quarterly accountability metrics data related to training that officers have received on the 
use of force, racial and ethnic bias, de-escalation of conflict, and constructive engagement with the 
public. 
 
64. Expenditures prohibited without waiver 
 
No funds under this award may be expended on the purchase of items prohibited by the JAG 
program statute, unless, as set forth at 34 U.S.C. 10152, the BJA Director certifies that 
extraordinary and exigent circumstances exist, making such expenditures essential to the 
maintenance of public safety and good order. 
 
65. JAG FY 2020 - Authorization to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse certain project costs 
incurred on or after October 1, 2019 [BJA] 
 
Authorization to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse certain project costs incurred on or 
after October 1, 2019 
 
The recipient may obligate (federal) award funds only after the recipient makes a valid acceptance 
of the award. As of the first day of the period of performance for the award (October 1, 2019), 
however, the recipient may choose to incur project costs using non-federal funds, but any such 
project costs are incurred at the recipient's risk until, at a minimum-- (1) the recipient makes a valid 
acceptance of the award, and (2) all applicable withholding conditions are removed by OJP (via a 
Grant Adjustment Notice). (A withholding condition is a condition in the award document that 
precludes the recipient from obligating, expending, or drawing down all or a portion of the award 
funds until the condition is removed.) 
 
Except to the extent (if any) that an award condition expressly precludes reimbursement of project 
costs incurred "at risk," if and when the recipient makes a valid acceptance of this award and OJP 
removes each applicable withholding condition through a Grant Adjustment Notice, the recipient is 
authorized to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse itself for project costs incurred "at-risk" 
earlier during the period of performance (such as project costs incurred prior to award acceptance 
or prior to removal of an applicable withholding condition), provided that those project costs 
otherwise are allowable costs under the award. 
 
66. Use of funds for DNA testing; upload of DNA profiles 
 
If award funds are used for DNA testing of evidentiary materials, any resulting eligible DNA profiles 
must be uploaded to the Combined DNA Index System ("CODIS," the DNA database operated by 
the FBI) by a government DNA laboratory with access to CODIS. No profiles generated under this 
award may be entered or uploaded into any non-governmental DNA database without prior express 
81 of 224

--- page 82 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 19 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
written approval from BJA. Award funds may not be used for the purchase of DNA equipment and 
supplies unless the resulting DNA profiles may be accepted for entry into CODIS. 
 
67. Encouragement of submission of "success stories" 
 
BJA strongly encourages the recipient to submit annual (or more frequent) JAG success stories. 
To submit a success story, sign in to a My BJA account at https:/ / www.bja.gov/ Login.aspx to 
access the Success Story Submission form. If the recipient does not yet have a My BJA account, 
please register at https:/ / www.bja.gov/ profile.aspx. Once registered, one of the available areas 
on the My BJA page will be "My Success Stories." Within this box, there is an option to add a 
Success Story. Once reviewed and approved by BJA, all success stories will appear on the BJA 
Success Story web page at https:/ / www.bja.gov/ SuccessStoryList.aspx. 
 
68. Recipient integrity and performance matters: Requirement to report information on certain civil, 
criminal, and administrative proceedings to SAM and FAPIIS 
 
The recipient must comply with any and all applicable requirements regarding reporting of 
information on civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings connected with (or connected to the 
performance of) either this OJP award or any other grant, cooperative agreement, or procurement 
contract from the federal government. Under certain circumstances, recipients of OJP awards are 
required to report information about such proceedings, through the federal System for Award 
Management (known as "SAM"), to the designated federal integrity and performance system 
(currently, "FAPIIS"). 
 
The details of recipient obligations regarding the required reporting (and updating) of information 
on certain civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings to the federal designated integrity and 
performance system (currently, "FAPIIS") within SAM are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/FAPIIS.htm (Award condition: Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters, 
including Recipient Reporting to FAPIIS), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
69. Withholding of funds: Required State Strategic Plan submission 
 
The recipient may not obligate, expend, or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits 
a sufficient Statewide Strategic Plan (to include an Annual Report in each year in which the 
Statewide Strategic Plan is not fully updated), and a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) has been 
issued to remove this condition. 
 
70. Withholding of funds: Required certification from the chief executive of the applicant government 
 
The recipient may not obligate, expend, or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits 
the required "Certifications and Assurances by the Chief Executive of the Applicant Government," 
properly-executed (as determined by OJP), and a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) has been issued 
to remove this condition. 
 
71. SORNA final agency decision – Appeals 
 
The recipient acknowledges the final agency decision made by DOJ that recipient's jurisdiction did 
not substantially implement the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (Public Law 109- 
82 of 224

--- page 83 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 20 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
248, "SORNA") before the deadline, and understands that, as a result of that final agency decision, 
the amount of this JAG award was reduced, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20927. By accepting this specific 
award, the recipient voluntarily agrees that if it elects to file a judicial appeal of that final agency 
decision, which was integral in determining this particular funding amount, no such appeal may 
commence more than 6 months after the date of acceptance of this award. 
83 of 224

--- page 84 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 21 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
2021 JAG Award Federal Conditions 
 
The Grantee hereby assures and certifies compliance with all federal statutes, regulations, policies, 
guidelines and requirements, including the following: 
 
1. Applicability of Part 200 Uniform Requirements 
 
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements in 2 C.F.R. 
Part 200, as adopted and supplemented by DOJ in 2 C.F.R. Part 2800 (together, the "Part 200 
Uniform Requirements") apply to this FY 2021 award from OJP. 
 
The Part 200 Uniform Requirements were first adopted by DOJ on December 26, 2014. If this FY 
2021 award supplements funds previously awarded by OJP under the same award number (e.g., 
funds awarded during or before December 2014), the Part 200 Uniform Requirements apply with 
respect to all funds under that award number (regardless of the award date, and regardless of 
whether derived from the initial award or a supplemental award) that are obligated on or after the 
acceptance date of this FY 2021 award. 
 
For more information and resources on the Part 200 Uniform Requirements as they relate to OJP 
awards and subawards ("subgrants"), see the OJP website at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Part200UniformRequirements.htm. 
 
Record retention and access: Records pertinent to the award that the recipient (and any 
subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier) must retain -- typically for a period of 3 years from the date 
of submission of the final expenditure report (SF 425), unless a different retention period applies - 
- and to which the recipient (and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier) must provide access, 
include performance measurement information, in addition to the financial records, supporting 
documents, statistical records, and other pertinent records indicated at 2 C.F.R. 200.333. 
 
In the event that an award-related question arises from documents or other materials prepared or 
distributed by OJP that may appear to conflict with, or differ in some way from, the provisions of 
the Part 200 Uniform Requirements, the recipient is to contact OJP promptly for clarification. 
 
2. Requirement to report actual or imminent breach of personally identifiable information (PII) 
 
The recipient (and any "subrecipient" at any tier) must have written procedures in place to respond 
in the event of an actual or imminent "breach" (OMB M-17-12) if it (or a subrecipient) -- (1) creates, 
collects, uses, processes, stores, maintains, disseminates, discloses, or disposes of "Personally 
Identifiable Information (PII)" (2 CFR 200.1) within the scope of an OJP grant-funded program or 
activity, or (2) uses or operates a "Federal information system" (OMB Circular A-130). The 
recipient's breach procedures must include a requirement to report actual or imminent breach of 
84 of 224

--- page 85 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 22 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
PII to an OJP Program Manager no later than 24 hours after an occurrence of an actual breach, or 
the detection of an imminent breach 
 
3. Required training for Grant Award Administrator and Financial Manager 
 
The Grant Award Administrator and all Financial Managers for this award must have successfully 
completed an "OJP financial management and grant administration training" by 120 days after the 
date of the recipient's acceptance of the award. Successful completion of such a training on or after 
January 1, 2019, will satisfy this condition. 
 
In the event that either the Grant Award Administrator or a Financial Manager for this award 
changes during the period of performance, the new Grant Award Administrator or Financial 
Manager must have successfully completed an "OJP financial management and grant 
administration training" by 120 calendar days after the date the Entity Administrator enters updated 
Grant Award Administrator or Financial Manager information in JustGrants. Successful completion 
of such a training on or after January 1, 2019, will satisfy this condition. 
 
A list of OJP trainings that OJP will consider "OJP financial management and grant administration 
training" for purposes of this condition is available at https://www.ojp.gov/training/fmts.htm. All 
trainings that satisfy this condition include a session on grant fraud prevention and detection. 
 
The recipient should anticipate that OJP will immediately withhold ("freeze") award funds if the 
recipient fails to comply with this condition. The recipient's failure to comply also may lead OJP to 
impose additional appropriate conditions on this award. 
 
4. Safe policing and law enforcement subrecipients 
 
If this award is a discretionary award, the recipient agrees that it will not make any subawards to 
State, local, college, or university law enforcement agencies unless such agencies have been 
certified by an approved independent credentialing body or have started the certification process. 
To become certified, law enforcement agencies must meet two mandatory conditions: (1) the 
agency’s use of force policies adhere to all applicable federal, state, and local laws; and (2) the 
agency’s use of force policies prohibit chokeholds except in situations where use of deadly force is 
allowed 
by 
law. 
For 
detailed 
information 
on 
this 
certification 
requirement, 
see 
https://cops.usdoj.gov/SafePolicingEO. 
 
5. Effect of failure to address audit issues 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as 
appropriate) may withhold award funds, or may impose other related requirements, if (as 
determined by the DOJ awarding agency) the recipient does not satisfactorily and promptly address 
outstanding issues from audits required by the Part 200 Uniform Requirements (or by the terms of 
this award), or other outstanding issues that arise in connection with audits, investigations, or 
reviews of DOJ awards. 
85 of 224

--- page 86 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 23 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Requirements of the award; remedies for non-compliance or for materially false statements 
 
The conditions of this award are material requirements of the award. Compliance with any 
assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the recipient that relate to conduct during 
the period of performance also is a material requirement of this award. 
 
Limited Exceptions. In certain special circumstances, the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") may 
determine that it will not enforce, or enforce only in part, one or more requirements otherwise 
applicable to the award. Any such exceptions regarding enforcement, including any such 
exceptions made during the period of performance, are (or will be during the period of performance) 
set out through the Office of Justice Programs ("OJP") webpage entitled "Legal Notices: Special 
circumstances as to particular award conditions" (ojp.gov/funding/Explore/LegalNotices- 
AwardReqts.htm), and incorporated by reference into the award. 
 
By signing and accepting this award on behalf of the recipient, the authorized recipient official 
accepts all material requirements of the award, and specifically adopts, as if personally executed 
by the authorized recipient official, all assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the 
recipient that relate to conduct during the period of performance. 
 
Failure to comply with one or more award requirements -- whether a condition set out in full below, 
a condition incorporated by reference below, or an assurance or certification related to conduct 
during the award period -- may result in OJP taking appropriate action with respect to the recipient 
and the award. Among other things, the OJP may withhold award funds, disallow costs, or suspend 
or terminate the award. DOJ, including OJP, also may take other legal action as appropriate. 
 
Any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement to the federal government related to this 
award (or concealment or omission of a material fact) may be the subject of criminal prosecution 
(including under 18 U.S.C. 1001 and/or 1621, and/or 34 U.S.C. 10271-10273), and also may lead 
to imposition of civil penalties and administrative remedies for false claims or otherwise (including 
under 31 U.S.C. 3729-3730 and 3801-3812). 
 
Should any provision of a requirement of this award be held to be invalid or unenforceable by its 
terms, that provision shall first be applied with a limited construction so as to give it the maximum 
effect permitted by law. Should it be held, instead, that the provision is utterly invalid or - 
unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed severable from this award. 
 
7. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
38 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 (as may be applicable from time to time), specifically including 
any applicable requirements regarding written notice to program beneficiaries and prospective 
program beneficiaries 
 
Currently, among other things, 28 C.F.R. Part 38 includes rules that prohibit specific forms of 
discrimination on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or refusal 
to attend or participate in a religious practice. Part 38, currently, also sets out rules and 
86 of 224

--- page 87 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 24 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
requirements that pertain to recipient and subrecipient ("subgrantee") organizations that engage in 
or conduct explicitly religious activities, as well as rules and requirements that pertain to recipients 
and subrecipients that are faith-based or religious organizations. 
 
The text of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 is available via the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (currently 
accessible at https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/ECFR?page=browse), by browsing to Title 28-Judicial 
Administration, Chapter 1, Part 38, under e-CFR "current" data. 
 
8. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
42 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 42, specifically including any applicable requirements in Subpart E 
of 28 C.F.R. Part 42 that relate to an equal employment opportunity program. 
 
9. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
54 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 54, which relates to nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in certain 
"education programs." 
 
10. Compliance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 (including prohibitions on reprisal; notice to employees) 
Compliance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 (including prohibitions on reprisal; notice to employees) 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with, and is subject to, all applicable 
provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712, including all applicable provisions that prohibit, under specified 
circumstances, discrimination against an employee as reprisal for the employee's disclosure of 
information related to gross mismanagement of a federal grant, a gross waste of federal funds, an 
abuse of authority relating to a federal grant, a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a federal grant 
 
The recipient also must inform its employees, in writing (and in the predominant native language of 
the workforce), of employee rights and remedies under 41 U.S.C. 4712. 
 
Should a question arise as to the applicability of the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712 to this award, the 
recipient is to contact the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) for guidance. 
 
11. Compliance with applicable rules regarding approval, planning, and reporting of conferences, 
meetings, trainings, and other events 
 
approval and reporting requirements, where applicable) governing the use of federal funds for 
expenses related to conferences (as that term is defined by DOJ), including the provision of food 
and/or beverages at such conferences, and costs of attendance at such conferences. 
87 of 224

--- page 88 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 25 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Information on the pertinent DOJ definition of conferences and the rules applicable to this award 
appears in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide (currently, as section 3.10 of "Post award 
Requirements" in the "DOJ Grants Financial Guide"). 
 
12. Requirement for data on performance and effectiveness under the award 
 
The recipient must collect and maintain data that measure the performance and effectiveness of 
work under this award. The data must be provided to OJP in the manner (including within the 
timeframes) specified by OJP in the program solicitation or other applicable written guidance. Data 
collection supports compliance with the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and 
the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, and other applicable laws. 
 
13. Requirements related to "de minimis" indirect cost rate 
 
A recipient that is eligible under the Part 200 Uniform Requirements and other applicable law to 
use the "de minimis" indirect cost rate described in 2 C.F.R. 200.414(f), and that elects to use the 
"de minimis" indirect cost rate, must advise OJP in writing of both its eligibility and its election, and 
must comply with all associated requirements in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. The "de 
minimis" rate may be applied only to modified total direct costs (MTDC) as defined by the Part 200 
Uniform Requirements. 
 
14. Determination of suitability to interact with participating minors 
 
SCOPE. This condition applies to this award if it is indicated -- in the application for the award (as 
approved by DOJ)(or in the application for any subaward, at any tier), the DOJ funding 
announcement (solicitation), or an associated federal statute -- that a purpose of some or all of the 
activities to be carried out under the award (whether by the recipient, or a subrecipient at any tier) 
is to benefit a set of individuals under 18 years of age. 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient at any tier, must make determinations of suitability before 
certain individuals may interact with participating minors. This requirement applies regardless of an 
individual's employment status. 
 
The 
details 
of 
this 
requirement 
are 
posted 
on 
the 
OJP 
web 
site 
at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/Interact-Minors.htm (Award condition: Determination of suitability 
required, in advance, for certain individuals who may interact with participating minors), and are 
incorporated by reference here. 
 
15. Requirement to disclose whether recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making 
agency outside of DOJ 
 
If the recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making agency outside of DOJ, currently 
or at any time during the course of the period of performance under this award, the recipient must 
disclose 
that 
fact 
and 
certain 
related 
information 
to 
OJP 
by 
email 
at 
OJP.ComplianceReporting@ojp.usdoj.gov. For purposes of this disclosure, high risk includes any 
status under which a federal awarding agency provides additional oversight due to the recipient's 
past performance, or other programmatic or financial concerns with the recipient. The recipient's 
disclosure must include the following: 1. The federal awarding agency that currently designates the 
88 of 224

--- page 89 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 26 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
recipient high risk, 2. The date the recipient was designated high risk, 3. The high-risk point of 
contact at that federal awarding agency (name, phone number, and email address), and 4. The 
reasons for the high-risk status, as set out by the federal awarding agency. 
 
16. Compliance with DOJ Grants Financial Guide 
 
References to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide are to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide as posted 
on 
the 
OJP 
website 
(currently, 
the 
"DOJ 
Grants 
Financial 
Guide" 
available 
at 
https://ojp.gov/financialguide/DOJ/index.htm), including any updated version that may be posted 
during the period of performance. The recipient agrees to comply with the DOJ Grants Financial 
Guide. 
 
17. Encouragement of policies to ban text messaging while driving 
 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13513, "Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While 
Driving," 74 Fed. Reg. 51225 (October 1, 2009), DOJ encourages recipients and subrecipients 
("subgrantees") to adopt and enforce policies banning employees from text messaging while driving 
any vehicle during the course of performing work funded by this award, and to establish workplace 
safety policies and conduct education, awareness, and other outreach to decrease crashes caused 
by distracted drivers. 
 
18. Compliance with general appropriations-law restrictions on the use of federal funds (FY 2021) 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
restrictions on the use of federal funds set out in federal appropriations statutes. Pertinent 
restrictions, including from various "general provisions" in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2021, are set out at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FY21AppropriationsRestrictions.htm, and are 
incorporated by reference here. 
 
Should a question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient (or a 
subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of an appropriations-law restriction, the recipient 
is to contact OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written approval of 
OJP. 
 
19. Potential imposition of additional requirements 
 
The recipient agrees to comply with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DOJ 
awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) during the period of performance for this award, if 
the recipient is designated as "high-risk" for purposes of the DOJ high-risk grantee list. 
 
20. Employment eligibility verification for hiring under the award 
 
1. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must-- 
 
A. Ensure that, as part of the hiring process for any position within the United States that is or will 
be funded (in whole or in part) with award funds, the recipient (or any subrecipient) properly verifies 
the employment eligibility of the individual who is being hired, consistent with the provisions of 8 
U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
89 of 224

--- page 90 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 27 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Notify all persons associated with the recipient (or any subrecipient) who are or will be involved 
in activities under this award of both-- 
 
(1) this award requirement for verification of employment eligibility, and 
 
(2) the associated provisions in 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) that, generally speaking, make it unlawful, in 
the United States, to hire (or recruit for employment) certain aliens. 
 
C. Provide training (to the extent necessary) to those persons required by this condition to be 
notified of the award requirement for employment eligibility verification and of the associated 
provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
 
D. As part of the recordkeeping for the award (including pursuant to the Part 200 Uniform 
Requirements), maintain records of all employment eligibility verifications pertinent to compliance 
with this award condition in accordance with Form I-9 record retention requirements, as well as 
records of all pertinent notifications and trainings. 
 
2. Monitoring 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this 
condition. 
 
3. Allowable costs 
 
To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds 
may be obligated for the reasonable, necessary, and allocable costs (if any) of actions designed to 
ensure compliance with this condition. 
 
4. Rules of construction 
 
A. Staff involved in the hiring process 
 
For purposes of this condition, persons "who are or will be involved in activities under this award" 
specifically includes (without limitation) any and all recipient (or any subrecipient) officials or other 
staff who are or will be involved in the hiring process with respect to a position that is or will be 
funded (in whole or in part) with award funds. 
 
B. Employment eligibility confirmation with E-Verify 
 
For purposes of satisfying the requirement of this condition regarding verification of employment 
eligibility, the recipient (or any subrecipient) may choose to participate in, and use, E-Verify (www.e- 
verify.gov), provided an appropriate person authorized to act on behalf of the recipient (or 
subrecipient) uses E-Verify (and follows the proper E-Verify procedures, including in the event of a 
"Tentative Nonconfirmation" or a "Final Nonconfirmation") to confirm employment eligibility for each 
hiring for a position in the United States that is or will be funded (in whole or in part) with award 
funds. 
90 of 224

--- page 91 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 28 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
C. "United States" specifically includes the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin 
Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
 
D. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient, any 
subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, to violate any federal law, including any 
applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law. 
 
E. Nothing in this condition, including in paragraph 4.B., shall be understood to relieve any recipient, 
any subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, of any obligation otherwise imposed by 
law, including 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
 
Questions about E-Verify should be directed to DHS. For more information about E-Verify visit the 
E-Verify website (https://www.e-verify.gov/) or email E-Verify at E-Verify@dhs.gov. E-Verify 
employer agents can email E-Verify at E-VerifyEmployerAgent@dhs.gov. 
 
Questions about the meaning or scope of this condition should be directed to OJP, before award 
acceptance. 
 
21. Restrictions and certifications regarding non-disclosure agreements and related matters 
 
No recipient or subrecipient ("subgrantee") under this award, or entity that receives a procurement 
contract or subcontract with any funds under this award, may require any employee or contractor 
to sign an internal confidentiality agreement or statement that prohibits or otherwise restricts, or 
purports to prohibit or restrict, the reporting (in accordance with law) of waste, fraud, or abuse to 
an investigative or law enforcement representative of a federal department or agency authorized 
to receive such information. 
 
The foregoing is not intended, and shall not be understood by the agency making this award, to 
contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312 (which relates to classified information), 
Form 4414 (which relates to sensitive compartmented information), or any other form issued by a 
federal  department  or  agency  governing  the  nondisclosure  of  classified  information. 
 
1. In accepting this award, the recipient-- 
 
a. represents that it neither requires nor has required internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict (or 
purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, fraud, or abuse as 
described above; and 
 
b. certifies that, if it learns or is notified that it is or has been requiring its employees or contractors 
to execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or 
restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately stop any further 
obligations of award funds, will provide prompt written notification to the federal agency making this 
award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only if expressly authorized to 
do so by that agency. 
 
2. If the recipient does or is authorized under this award to make subawards ("subgrants"), 
procurement contracts, or both-- 
91 of 224

--- page 92 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 29 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
a. it represents that-- 
 
(1) it has determined that no other entity that the recipient's application proposes may or will receive 
award funds (whether through a subaward ("subgrant"), procurement contract, or subcontract 
under a procurement contract) either requires or has required internal confidentiality agreements 
or statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict 
(or purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, fraud, or abuse as 
described above; and 
 
(2) it has made appropriate inquiry, or otherwise has an adequate factual basis, to support this 
representation; and 
 
b. it certifies that, if it learns or is notified that any subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor entity 
that receives funds under this award is or has been requiring its employees or contractors to 
execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or 
restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately stop any further 
obligations of award funds to or by that entity, will provide prompt written notification to the federal 
agency making this award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only if 
expressly authorized to do so by that agency. 
 
22. Reclassification of various statutory provisions to a new Title 34 of the United States Code 
 
On September 1, 2017, various statutory provisions previously codified elsewhere in the U.S. Code 
were editorially reclassified (that is, moved and renumbered) to a new Title 34, entitled "Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement." The reclassification encompassed a number of statutory provisions 
pertinent to OJP awards (that is, OJP grants and cooperative agreements), including many 
provisions previously codified in Title 42 of the U.S. Code. 
 
Effective as of September 1, 2017, any reference in this award document to a statutory provision 
that has been reclassified to the new Title 34 of the U.S. Code is to be read as a reference to that 
statutory provision as reclassified to Title 34. This rule of construction specifically includes 
references set out in award conditions, references set out in material incorporated by reference 
through award conditions, and references set out in other award requirements. 
 
23. OJP Training Guiding Principles 
 
Any training or training materials that the recipient -- or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier 
-- develops or delivers with OJP award funds must adhere to the OJP Training Guiding Principles 
for Grantees and Subgrantees, available at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Implement/TrainingPrinciplesForGrantees-Subgrantees.htm. 
 
24. Requirements related to System for Award Management and Universal Identifier Requirements 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements regarding the System for Award 
Management (SAM), currently accessible at https://www.sam.gov/. This includes applicable 
requirements regarding registration with SAM, as well as maintaining the currency of information 
in SAM. 
92 of 224

--- page 93 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 30 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
The recipient also must comply with applicable restrictions on subawards ("subgrants") to first-tier 
subrecipients (first-tier "subgrantees"), including restrictions on subawards to entities that do not 
acquire and provide (to the recipient) the unique entity identifier required for SAM registration. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to SAM and to unique entity identifiers are posted 
on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SAM.htm (Award condition: System for 
Award Management (SAM) and Universal Identifier Requirements), and are incorporated by 
reference here. 
 
This condition does not apply to an award to an individual who received the award as a natural 
person (i.e., unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate 
in his or her name). 
 
25. Restrictions on "lobbying" 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements regarding the System for Award 
Management (SAM), currently accessible at https://www.sam.gov/. This includes applicable 
requirements regarding registration with SAM, as well as maintaining the currency of information 
in SAM. 
 
The recipient also must comply with applicable restrictions on subawards ("subgrants") to first-tier 
subrecipients (first-tier "subgrantees"), including restrictions on subawards to entities that do not 
acquire and provide (to the recipient) the unique entity identifier required for SAM registration. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to SAM and to unique entity identifiers are posted 
on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SAM.htm (Award condition: System for 
Award Management (SAM) and Universal Identifier Requirements), and are incorporated by 
reference here. 
 
This condition does not apply to an award to an individual who received the award as a natural 
person (i.e., unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate 
in his or her name). 
 
26. Restrictions on "lobbying" 
 
In general, as a matter of federal law, federal funds awarded by OJP may not be used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, either directly or indirectly, to support or 
oppose the enactment, repeal, modification, or adoption of any law, regulation, or policy, at any 
level of government. See 18 U.S.C. 1913. (There may be exceptions if an applicable federal statute 
specifically  authorizes  certain  activities  that  otherwise  would  be  barred  by  law.) 
 
Another federal law generally prohibits federal funds awarded by OJP from being used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient at any tier, to pay any person to influence (or attempt to influence) a 
federal agency, a Member of Congress, or Congress (or an official or employee of any of them) 
with respect to the awarding of a federal grant or cooperative agreement, subgrant, contract, 
subcontract, or loan, or with respect to actions such as renewing, extending, or modifying any such 
award. See 31 U.S.C. 1352. Certain exceptions to this law apply, including an exception that 
93 of 224

--- page 94 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 31 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
applies to Indian tribes and tribal organizations. 
 
Should any question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient (or 
subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of these prohibitions, the recipient is to contact 
OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written approval of OJP. 
 
 
27. Specific post-award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in any procurement 
contract that would exceed $250,000 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements to obtain specific advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in any 
procurement contract that would exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (currently, $250,000). 
This condition applies to agreements that -- for purposes of federal grants administrative 
requirements -- OJP considers a procurement "contract" (and therefore does not consider a 
subaward). 
 
The details of the requirement for advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in a 
procurement contract under an OJP award are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/NoncompetitiveProcurement.htm (Award condition: Specific post- 
award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in a procurement contract (if contract 
would exceed $250,000)), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
28. Requirements pertaining to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in persons (including reporting 
requirements and OJP authority to terminate award) 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements (including requirements to report allegations) pertaining to prohibited conduct related 
to the trafficking of persons, whether on the part of recipients, subrecipients ("subgrantees"), or 
individuals defined (for purposes of this condition) as "employees" of the recipient or of any 
subrecipient. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in 
persons are posted on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/ProhibitedConduct- 
Trafficking.htm (Award condition: Prohibited conduct by recipients and subrecipients related to 
trafficking in persons (including reporting requirements and OJP authority to terminate award)), and 
are incorporated by reference here. 
 
29. Requirement to report potentially duplicative funding 
 
If the recipient currently has other active awards of federal funds, or if the recipient receives any 
other award of federal funds during the period of performance for this award, the recipient promptly 
must determine whether funds from any of those other federal awards have been, are being, or are 
to be used (in whole or in part) for one or more of the identical cost items for which funds are 
provided under this award. If so, the recipient must promptly notify the DOJ awarding agency (OJP 
or OVW, as appropriate) in writing of the potential duplication, and, if so requested by the DOJ 
awarding agency, must seek a budget-modification or change-of-project-scope Grant Award 
Modification (GAM) to eliminate any inappropriate duplication of funding. 
94 of 224

--- page 95 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 32 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
30. Reporting potential fraud, waste, and abuse, and similar misconduct 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipients ("subgrantees") at any tier, must promptly refer to the DOJ 
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) any credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, 
subrecipient, contractor, subcontractor, or other person has, in connection with funds under this 
award-- (1) submitted a claim that violates the False Claims Act; or (2) committed a criminal or civil 
violation of laws pertaining to fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, gratuity, or similar misconduct. 
 
Potential fraud, waste, abuse, or misconduct involving or relating to funds under this award should 
be reported to the OIG by--(1) online submission accessible via the OIG webpage at 
https://oig.justice.gov/hotline/contact-grants.htm (select "Submit Report Online"); (2) mail directed 
to: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General, Investigations Division, ATTN: 
Grantee Reporting, 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20530; and/or (3) by facsimile 
directed to the DOJ OIG Investigations Division (Attn: Grantee Reporting) at (202) 616-9881 (fax). 
 
Additional information is available from the DOJ OIG website at https://oig.justice.gov/hotline. 
 
31. FFATA reporting: Subawards and executive compensation 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements to report first-tier subawards ("subgrants") 
of $30,000 or more and, in certain circumstances, to report the names and total compensation of 
the five most highly compensated executives of the recipient and first-tier subrecipients (first-tier 
"subgrantees") of award funds. The details of recipient obligations, which derive from the Federal 
Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA), are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FFATA.htm (Award condition: Reporting Subawards and Executive 
Compensation), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
This condition, including its reporting requirement, does not apply to-- (1) an award of less than 
$30,000, or (2) an award made to an individual who received the award as a natural person (i.e., 
unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate in his or 
her name). 
 
32. Cooperating with OJP Monitoring 
 
The recipient agrees to cooperate with OJP monitoring of this award pursuant to OJP's guidelines, 
protocols, and procedures, and to cooperate with OJP (including the grant manager for this award 
and the Office of Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)) requests related to such monitoring, including 
requests related to desk reviews and/or site visits. The recipient agrees to provide to OJP all 
documentation necessary for OJP to complete its monitoring tasks, including documentation 
related to any subawards made under this award. Further, the recipient agrees to abide by 
reasonable deadlines set by OJP for providing the requested documents. Failure to cooperate with 
OJP's monitoring activities may result in actions that affect the recipient's DOJ awards, including, 
but not limited to: withholdings and/or other restrictions on the recipient's access to award funds; 
referral to the DOJ OIG for audit review; designation of the recipient as a DOJ High Risk grantee; 
or termination of an award(s). 
95 of 224

--- page 96 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 33 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
33. Required monitoring of subawards 
 
The recipient must monitor subawards under this award in accordance with all applicable statutes, 
regulations, award conditions, and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, and must include the 
applicable conditions of this award in any subaward. Among other things, the recipient is 
responsible for oversight of subrecipient spending and monitoring of specific outcomes and benefits 
attributable to use of award funds by subrecipients. The recipient agrees to submit, upon request, 
documentation of its policies and procedures for monitoring of subawards under this award. 
34. Use 
of 
program 
income 
 
Program income (as defined in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements) must be used in accordance 
with the provisions of the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Program income earnings and 
expenditures both must be reported on the quarterly Federal Financial Report, SF 425. 
 
35. Justice Information Sharing 
 
Information sharing projects funded under this award must comply with DOJ's Global Justice 
Information Sharing Initiative (Global) guidelines. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) 
must conform to the Global Standards Package (GSP) and all constituent elements, where 
applicable, as described at: https:/ / it.ojp.gov/ gsp_grantcondition. The recipient (and any 
subrecipient at any tier) must document planned approaches to information sharing and describe 
compliance with the GSP and appropriate privacy policy that protects shared information, or provide 
detailed justification for why an alternative approach is recommended. 
 
36. Avoidance of duplication of networks 
 
To avoid duplicating existing networks or IT systems in any initiatives funded by BJA for law 
enforcement information sharing systems which involve interstate connectivity between 
jurisdictions, such systems shall employ, to the extent possible, existing networks as the 
communication backbone to achieve interstate connectivity, unless the recipient can demonstrate 
to the satisfaction of BJA that this requirement would not be cost effective or would impair the 
functionality of an existing or proposed IT system. 
 
37. Compliance with 28 C.F.R. Part 23 
 
With respect to any information technology system funded or supported by funds under this award, 
the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with 28 C.F.R. Part 23, Criminal 
Intelligence Systems Operating Policies, if OJP determines this regulation to be applicable. Should 
OJP determine 28 C.F.R. Part 23 to be applicable, OJP may, at its discretion, perform audits of the 
system, as per the regulation. Should any violation of 28 C.F.R. Part 23 occur, the recipient may 
be fined as per 34 U.S.C. 10231(c)-(d). The recipient may not satisfy such a fine with federal funds. 
 
38. Protection of human research subjects 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with the requirements of 28 C.F.R. 
Part 46 and all OJP policies and procedures regarding the protection of human research subjects, 
including obtainment of Institutional Review Board approval, if appropriate, and subject informed 
consent. 
96 of 224

--- page 97 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 34 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39. Confidentiality of data 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with all confidentiality requirements of 
34 U.S.C. 10231 and 28 C.F.R. Part 22 that are applicable to collection, use, and revelation of data 
or information. The recipient further agrees, as a condition of award approval, to submit a Privacy 
Certificate that is in accord with requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 22 and, in particular, 28 C.F.R. 
22.23. 
 
40. Law enforcement task forces - required training 
 
Within 120 days of award acceptance, each current member of a law enforcement task force funded 
with award funds who is a task force commander, agency executive, task force officer, or other task 
force member of equivalent rank, must complete required online (internet-based) task force 
training. Additionally, all future task force members must complete this training once during the 
period of performance for this award, or once every four years if multiple OJP awards include this 
requirement. 
 
The required training is available free of charge online through the BJA-funded Center for Task 
Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). The training addresses task force effectiveness, as 
well as other key issues including privacy and civil liberties/rights, task force performance 
measurement, personnel selection, and task force oversight and accountability. If award funds are 
used to support a task force, the recipient must compile and maintain a task force personnel roster, 
along with course completion certificates. 
 
Additional information regarding the training is available through BJA's web site and the Center for 
Task Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). 
 
41. Justification of consultant rate 
 
Approval of this award does not indicate approval of any consultant rate in excess of $650 per day. 
A detailed justification must be submitted to and approved by the OJP program office prior to 
obligation or expenditure of such funds. 
 
42. "Methods of Administration" - monitoring compliance with civil rights laws and nondiscrimination 
provisions 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with 
applicable federal civil rights laws and nondiscrimination provisions. Within 90 days of the date of 
award acceptance, the recipient must submit to OJP's Office for Civil Rights (at 
CivilRightsMOA@usdoj.gov written Methods of Administration ("MOA") for subrecipient monitoring 
with respect to civil rights requirements. In addition, upon request by OJP (or by another authorized 
federal agency), the recipient must make associated documentation available for review. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to Methods of Administration are posted on the 
OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/StateMethodsAdmin-FY2017update.htm (Award 
condition: "Methods of Administration" - Requirements applicable to States (FY 2017 Update)), and 
are incorporated by reference here. 
97 of 224

--- page 98 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 35 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43. The recipient understands that, in accepting this award, the Authorized Representative declares 
and certifies, among other things, that he or she possesses the requisite legal authority to accept 
the award on behalf of the recipient entity and, in so doing, accepts (or adopts) all material 
requirements that relate to conduct throughout the period of performance under this award. The 
recipient further understands, and agrees, that it will not assign anyone to the role of Authorized 
Representative during the period of performance under the award without first ensuring that the 
individual has the requisite legal authority. 
 
44. Compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and related statutes 
 
Upon request, the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must assist BJA in complying with 
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the National Historic Preservation Act, and other 
related federal environmental impact analyses requirements in the use of these award funds, either 
directly by the recipient or by a subrecipient. Accordingly, the recipient agrees to first determine if 
any of the following activities will be funded by the grant, prior to obligating funds for any of these 
purposes. If it is determined that any of the following activities will be funded by the award, the 
recipient agrees to contact BJA. 
 
The recipient understands that this condition applies to new activities as set out below, whether or 
not they are being specifically funded with these award funds. That is, as long as the activity is 
being conducted by the recipient, a subrecipient, or any third party, and the activity needs to be 
undertaken in order to use these award funds, this condition must first be met. The activities 
covered by this condition are: 
 
a. New construction; 
 
b. Minor renovation or remodeling of a property located in an environmentally or historically 
sensitive area, including properties located within a 100-year flood plain, a wetland, or habitat for 
endangered species, or a property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic 
Places; 
 
c. A renovation, lease, or any proposed use of a building or facility that will either (a) result in a 
change in its basic prior use or (b) significantly change its size; 
 
d. Implementation of a new program involving the use of chemicals other than chemicals that are 
(a) purchased as an incidental component of a funded activity and (b) traditionally used, for 
example,  in  office,  household,  recreational,  or  education  environments;  and 
 
e. Implementation of a program relating to clandestine methamphetamine laboratory operations, 
including the identification, seizure, or closure of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories. 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that complying with NEPA may require the preparation of 
an Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement, as directed by BJA. 
The recipient further understands and agrees to the requirements for implementation of a Mitigation 
Plan, as detailed at https://bja.gov/Funding/nepa.html, for programs relating to methamphetamine 
laboratory operations. 
98 of 224

--- page 99 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 36 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Application of This Condition to Recipient's Existing Programs or Activities: For any of the 
recipient's or its subrecipients' existing programs or activities that will be funded by these award 
funds, the recipient, upon specific request from BJA, agrees to cooperate with BJA in any 
preparation by BJA of a national or program environmental assessment of that funded program or 
activity. 
 
45. Establishment of trust fund 
 
If award funds are being drawn down in advance, the recipient (or a subrecipient, with respect to a 
subaward) is required to establish a trust fund account. Recipients (and subrecipients) must 
maintain advance payments of federal awards in interest-bearing accounts, unless regulatory 
exclusions apply (2 C.F.R. 200.305(b)(8)). The trust fund, including any interest, may not be used 
to pay debts or expenses incurred by other activities beyond the scope of the Edward Byrne 
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). The recipient also agrees to obligate the award 
funds in the trust fund (including any interest earned) during the period of performance for the 
award and expend within 90 days thereafter. Any unobligated or unexpended funds, including 
interest earned, must be returned to OJP at the time of closeout. 
 
46. Required data on law enforcement agency training 
 
Any law enforcement agency receiving direct or sub-awarded funding from this JAG award must 
submit quarterly accountability metrics data related to training that officers have received on the 
use of force, racial and ethnic bias, de-escalation of conflict, and constructive engagement with the 
public. 
 
47. All State and Local JAG recipients must submit quarterly Federal Financial Reports (SF-425). 
Additionally, State JAG and Local JAG Category Two ($25K or more) must submit semi-annual 
performance reports through JustGrants and Local JAG Category One (Less than $25K) must 
submit annual performance reports through JustGrants. Consistent with the Department's 
responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and the GPRA 
Modernization Act of 2010, the recipient must provide data that measure the results of its work. 
The recipient must submit quarterly performance metrics reports through BJA's Performance 
Measurement Tool (PMT) website (www.bjaperformancetools.org). For more detailed information 
on reporting and other JAG requirements, refer to the JAG reporting requirements webpage. Failure 
to submit required JAG reports by established deadlines may result in the freezing of grant funds 
and future High Risk designation 
 
48. Expenditures prohibited without waiver 
 
No funds under this award may be expended on the purchase of items prohibited by the JAG 
program statute, unless, as set forth at 34 U.S.C. 10152, the BJA Director certifies that 
extraordinary and exigent circumstances exist, making such expenditures essential to the 
maintenance of public safety and good order. 
 
49. Authorization to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse certain project costs incurred on or 
after October 1, 2020 
 
The recipient may obligate (federal) award funds only after the recipient makes a valid acceptance 
99 of 224

--- page 100 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 37 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
of the award. As of the first day of the period of performance for the award (October 1, 2020), 
however, the recipient may choose to incur project costs using non-federal funds, but any such 
project costs are incurred at the recipient's risk until, at a minimum-- (1) the recipient makes a valid 
acceptance of the award, and (2) all applicable withholding conditions are removed by OJP (via an 
Award Condition Modification (ACM)). (A withholding condition is a condition in the award document 
that precludes the recipient from obligating, expending, or drawing down all or a portion of the 
award funds until the condition is removed.) 
 
Except to the extent (if any) that an award condition expressly precludes reimbursement of project 
costs incurred "at-risk," if and when the recipient makes a valid acceptance of this award and OJP 
removes each applicable withholding condition through an Award Condition Modification (ACM), 
the recipient is authorized to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse itself for project costs 
incurred "at-risk" earlier during the period of performance (such as project costs incurred prior to 
award acceptance or prior to removal of an applicable withholding condition), provided that those 
project costs otherwise are allowable costs under the award. 
 
50. If award funds are used for DNA testing of evidentiary materials, any resulting eligible DNA profiles 
must be uploaded to the Combined DNA Index System ("CODIS," the DNA database operated by 
the FBI) by a government DNA laboratory with access to CODIS. No profiles generated under this 
award may be entered or uploaded into any non-governmental DNA database without prior express 
written approval from BJA. Award funds may not be used for the purchase of DNA equipment and 
supplies unless the resulting DNA profiles may be accepted for entry into CODIS. Booking agencies 
should work with their state CODIS agency to ensure all requirements are met for participation in 
Rapid DNA (see National Rapid DNA Booking Operational Procedures Manual). 
 
51. Submission of eligible records relevant to the National Instant Background Check System 
 
Consonant with federal statutes that pertain to firearms and background checks -- including 18 
U.S.C. 922 and 34 U.S.C. ch. 409 -- if the recipient (or any subrecipient at any tier) uses this award 
to fund (in whole or in part) a specific project or program (such as a law enforcement, prosecution, 
or court program) that results in any court dispositions, information, or other records that are 
"eligible records" (under federal or State law) relevant to the National Instant Background Check 
System (NICS), or that has as one of its purposes the establishment or improvement of records 
systems that contain any court dispositions, information, or other records that are "eligible records" 
(under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS, the recipient (or subrecipient, if applicable) must 
ensure that all such court dispositions, information, or other records that are "eligible records" 
(under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS are promptly made available to the NICS or to the 
"State" repository/database that is electronically available to (and accessed by) the NICS, and -- 
when appropriate -- promptly must update, correct, modify, or remove such NICS-relevant "eligible 
records". 
 
In the event of minor and transitory non-compliance, the recipient may submit evidence to 
demonstrate diligent monitoring of compliance with this condition (including subrecipient 
compliance). DOJ will give great weight to any such evidence in any express written determination 
regarding this condition. 
 
52. Prohibition on use of award funds for match under BVP program 
100 of 224

--- page 101 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 38 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
JAG funds may not be used as the 50% match for purposes of the DOJ Bulletproof Vest Partnership 
(BVP) program. 
 
53. Certification of body armor "mandatory wear" policies 
 
If recipient uses funds under this award to purchase body armor, the recipient must submit a signed 
certification that law enforcement agencies receiving body armor purchased with funds from this 
award have a written "mandatory wear" policy in effect. The recipient must keep signed 
certifications on file for any subrecipients planning to utilize funds from this award for ballistic- 
resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchases. This policy must be in place for at least all 
uniformed officers before any funds from this award may be used by an agency for body armor. 
There are no requirements regarding the nature of the policy other than it be a mandatory wear 
policy for all uniformed officers while on duty. 
 
54. Body armor - compliance with NIJ standards and other requirements 
 
Ballistic-resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased with JAG award funds may be 
purchased at any threat level, make or model, from any distributor or manufacturer, as long as the 
body armor has been tested and found to comply with applicable National Institute of Justice 
ballistic or stab standards and is listed on the NIJ Compliant Body Armor Model List 
(https://nij.gov/topics/technology/body-armor/Pages/compliant-ballistic-armor.aspx). In addition, 
ballistic-resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased must be made in the United States and 
must be uniquely fitted, as set forth in 34 U.S.C. 10202(c)(1)(A). The latest NIJ standard information 
can be found here: https:/ / nij.gov/ topics/ technology/ body-armor/ pages/ safety-initiative.aspx. 
 
55. Recipient integrity and performance matters: Requirement to report information on certain civil, 
criminal, and administrative proceedings to SAM and FAPIIS 
 
The recipient must comply with any and all applicable requirements regarding reporting of 
information on civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings connected with (or connected to the 
performance of) either this OJP award or any other grant, cooperative agreement, or procurement 
contract from the federal government. Under certain circumstances, recipients of OJP awards are 
required to report information about such proceedings, through the federal System for Award 
Management (known as "SAM"), to the designated federal integrity and performance system 
(currently, "FAPIIS"). 
 
The details of recipient obligations regarding the required reporting (and updating) of information 
on certain civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings to the federal designated integrity and 
performance system (currently, "FAPIIS") within SAM are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/FAPIIS.htm (Award condition: Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters, 
including Recipient Reporting to FAPIIS), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
56. Withholding - Certification with respect to Federal taxes - award exceeding $5 million (updated Aug. 
2017) 
 
The recipient may not obligate, expend, or draw down any funds under this award until it has 
submitted to the program manager, in a format acceptable to OJP, a formal written certification 
directed to OJP and executed by an official with authority to sign on behalf of the recipient, that the 
101 of 224

--- page 102 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 39 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
recipient (unless an exemption applies by operation of law, as described below)-- (1) has filed all 
Federal tax returns required for the three tax years immediately preceding the tax year in which the 
certification is made; (2) has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986; and (3) has not, more than 90 days prior to this certification, been notified of any 
unpaid federal tax assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is 
the subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been approved by the 
Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous 
administrative or judicial proceeding; and until an Award Condition Modification (ACM) has been 
issued to remove this condition. 
 
57. BJA- JAG - SORNA Appeal Limits 
 
The recipient acknowledges the final agency decision made by DOJ that recipient's jurisdiction did 
not substantially implement the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (Public Law 109- 
248, "SORNA") before the deadline, and understands that, as a result of that final agency decision, 
the amount of this JAG award was reduced, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20927. By accepting this specific 
award, the recipient voluntarily agrees that if it elects to file a judicial appeal of that final agency 
decision, which was integral in determining this particular funding amount, no such appeal may 
commence more than 6 months after the date of acceptance of this award. 
 
58. BJA- JAG - Withholding of Funds for Chief Executive Certification 
 
Withholding of funds: Required certification from the chief executive of the applicant government 
 
The recipient may not expend or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits the required 
"Certifications and Assurances by the Chief Executive of the Applicant Government," properly- 
executed (as determined by OJP), and an Award Condition Modification has been issued to remove 
this condition. 
102 of 224

--- page 103 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 40 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
2022 JAG Award Federal Conditions. 
 
This award is offered subject to the conditions or limitations set forth in the Award Information, 
Project Information, Financial Information, and Award Conditions. 
 
1. Compliance with general appropriations-law restrictions on the use of federal funds (FY 2022) 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
restrictions on the use of federal funds set out in federal appropriations statutes. Pertinent 
restrictions, including from various "general provisions" in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2022, are set out at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FY22AppropriationsRestrictions.htm, and are 
incorporated by reference here. 
 
Should a question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient (or a 
subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of an appropriations-law restriction, the recipient 
is to contact OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written approval of 
OJP. 
 
2. Applicability of Part 200 Uniform Requirements 
 
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements in 2 C.F.R. 
Part 200, as adopted and supplemented by DOJ in 2 C.F.R. Part 2800 (together, the "Part 200 
Uniform Requirements") apply to this FY 2022 award from OJP. 
 
The Part 200 Uniform Requirements were first adopted by DOJ on December 26, 2014. If this FY 
2022 award supplements funds previously awarded by OJP under the same award number (e.g., 
funds awarded during or before December 2014), the Part 200 Uniform Requirements apply with 
respect to all funds under that award number (regardless of the award date, and regardless of 
whether derived from the initial award or a supplemental award) that are obligated on or after the 
acceptance date of this FY 2022 award. 
 
For more information and resources on the Part 200 Uniform Requirements as they relate to OJP 
awards and subawards ("subgrants"), see the OJP website at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Part200UniformRequirements.htm. 
 
Record retention and access: Records pertinent to the award that the recipient (and any 
subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier) must retain -- typically for a period of 3 years from the 
date of submission of the final expenditure report (SF 425), unless a different retention period 
applies -- and to which the recipient (and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier) must 
provide access, include performance measurement information, in addition to the financial 
records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other pertinent records indicated at 2 
C.F.R. 200.334. 
 
In the event that an award-related question arises from documents or other materials prepared or 
distributed by OJP that may appear to conflict with, or differ in some way from, the provisions of 
the Part 200 Uniform Requirements, the recipient is to contact OJP promptly for clarification. 
103 of 224

--- page 104 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 41 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
3. Requirement to report actual or imminent breach of personally identifiable information (PII) 
 
The recipient (and any "subrecipient" at any tier) must have written procedures in place to 
respond in the event of an actual or imminent "breach" (OMB M-17-12) if it (or a subrecipient) -- 
(1) creates, collects, uses, processes, stores, maintains, disseminates, discloses, or disposes of 
"Personally Identifiable Information (PII)" (2 CFR 200.1) within the scope of an OJP grant-funded 
program or activity, or (2) uses or operates a "Federal information system" (OMB Circular A-130). 
The recipient's breach procedures must include a requirement to report actual or imminent 
breach of PII to an OJP Program Manager no later than 24 hours after an occurrence of an actual 
breach, or the detection of an imminent breach. 
 
4. OJP Training Guiding Principles 
 
Any training or training materials that the recipient -- or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier 
-- develops or delivers with OJP award funds must adhere to the OJP Training Guiding Principles 
for Grantees and Subgrantees, available at https://www.ojp.gov/funding/implement/training- 
guiding-principles-grantees-and-subgrantees. 
 
5. Required training for Grant Award Administrator and Financial Manager 
 
The Grant Award Administrator and all Financial Managers for this award must have successfully 
completed an "OJP financial management and grant administration training" by 120 days after the 
date of the recipient's acceptance of the award. Successful completion of such a training on or 
after October 15, 2020, will satisfy this condition. 
 
In the event that either the Grant Award Administrator or a Financial Manager for this award 
changes during the period of performance, the new Grant Award Administrator or Financial 
Manager must have successfully completed an "OJP financial management and grant 
administration training" by 120 calendar days after the date the Entity Administrator enters 
updated Grant Award Administrator or Financial Manager information in JustGrants. Successful 
completion of such a training on or after January 1, 2020, will satisfy this condition. 
 
A list of OJP trainings that OJP will consider "OJP financial management and grant administration 
training" for purposes of this condition is available at https://www.ojp.gov/training/fmts.htm. All 
trainings that satisfy this condition include a session on grant fraud prevention and detection. 
 
The recipient should anticipate that OJP will immediately withhold ("freeze") award funds if the 
recipient fails to comply with this condition. The recipient's failure to comply also may lead OJP to 
impose additional appropriate conditions on this award. 
 
6. Effect of failure to address audit issues 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as 
appropriate) may withhold award funds, or may impose other related requirements, if (as 
determined by the DOJ awarding agency) the recipient does not satisfactorily and promptly 
address outstanding issues from audits required by the Part 200 Uniform Requirements (or by the 
terms of this award), or other outstanding issues that arise in connection with audits, 
investigations, or reviews of DOJ awards. 
104 of 224

--- page 105 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 42 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Requirements of the award; remedies for non-compliance or for materially false statements 
 
The conditions of this award are material requirements of the award. Compliance with any 
assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the recipient that relate to conduct during 
the period of performance also is a material requirement of this award. 
 
Limited Exceptions. In certain special circumstances, the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") may 
determine that it will not enforce, or enforce only in part, one or more requirements otherwise 
applicable to the award. Any such exceptions regarding enforcement, including any such 
exceptions made during the period of performance, are (or will be during the period of 
performance) set out through the Office of Justice Programs ("OJP") webpage entitled "Legal 
Notices: Special circumstances as to particular award conditions" 
(ojp.gov/funding/Explore/LegalNotices-AwardReqts.htm), and incorporated by reference into the 
award. 
 
By signing and accepting this award on behalf of the recipient, the authorized recipient official 
accepts all material requirements of the award, and specifically adopts, as if personally executed 
by the authorized recipient official, all assurances or certifications submitted by or on behalf of the 
recipient that relate to conduct during the period of performance. 
 
Failure to comply with one or more award requirements -- whether a condition set out in full 
below, a condition incorporated by reference below, or an assurance or certification related to 
conduct during the award period -- may result in OJP taking appropriate action with respect to the 
recipient and the award. Among other things, the OJP may withhold award funds, disallow costs, 
or suspend or terminate the award. DOJ, including OJP, also may take other legal action as 
appropriate. 
 
Any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement to the federal government related to this 
award (or concealment or omission of a material fact) may be the subject of criminal prosecution 
(including under 18 U.S.C. 1001 and/or 1621, and/or 34 U.S.C. 10271-10273), and also may lead 
to imposition of civil penalties and administrative remedies for false claims or otherwise (including 
under 31 U.S.C. 3729-3730 and 3801-3812). 
 
Should any provision of a requirement of this award be held to be invalid or unenforceable by its 
terms, that provision shall first be applied with a limited construction so as to give it the maximum 
effect permitted by law. Should it be held, instead, that the provision is utterly invalid or - 
unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed severable from this award. 
 
8. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
38 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 (as may be applicable from time to time), specifically including 
any applicable requirements regarding written notice to program beneficiaries and prospective 
program beneficiaries. 
 
Currently, among other things, 28 C.F.R. Part 38 includes rules that prohibit specific forms of 
105 of 224

--- page 106 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 43 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
discrimination on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or 
refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice. Part 38, currently, also sets out rules and 
requirements that pertain to recipient and subrecipient ("subgrantee") organizations that engage 
in or conduct explicitly religious activities, as well as rules and requirements that pertain to 
recipients and subrecipients that are faith-based or religious organizations. 
 
The text of 28 C.F.R. Part 38 is available via the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations 
(currently accessible at https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/ECFR?page=browse), by browsing to Title 
28-Judicial Administration, Chapter 1, Part 38, under e-CFR "current" data. 
 
9. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
42 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 42, specifically including any applicable requirements in Subpart E 
of 28 C.F.R. Part 42 that relate to an equal employment opportunity program. 
 
10. Compliance with DOJ regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 C.F.R. Part 
54 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 54, which relates to nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in 
certain "education programs." 
 
11. Compliance with 41 U.S.C. 4712 (including prohibitions on reprisal; notice to employees) 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with, and is subject to, all applicable 
provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712, including all applicable provisions that prohibit, under specified 
circumstances, discrimination against an employee as reprisal for the employee's disclosure of 
information related to gross mismanagement of a federal grant, a gross waste of federal funds, an 
abuse of authority relating to a federal grant, a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a federal grant. 
 
The recipient also must inform its employees, in writing (and in the predominant native language 
of the workforce), of employee rights and remedies under 41 U.S.C. 4712. 
 
Should a question arise as to the applicability of the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 4712 to this award, 
the recipient is to contact the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) for guidance. 
 
12. Compliance with applicable rules regarding approval, planning, and reporting of conferences, 
meetings, trainings, and other events 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
laws, regulations, policies, and official DOJ guidance (including specific cost limits, prior approval 
and reporting requirements, where applicable) governing the use of federal funds for expenses 
related to conferences (as that term is defined by DOJ), including the provision of food and/or 
beverages at such conferences, and costs of attendance at such conferences. 
106 of 224

--- page 107 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 44 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
Information on the pertinent DOJ definition of conferences and the rules applicable to this award 
appears in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide (currently, as section 3.10 of "Postaward 
Requirements" in the "DOJ Grants Financial Guide"). 
 
13. Requirement for data on performance and effectiveness under the award 
 
The recipient must collect and maintain data that measure the performance and effectiveness of 
work under this award. The data must be provided to OJP in the manner (including within the 
timeframes) specified by OJP in the program solicitation or other applicable written guidance. 
Data collection supports compliance with the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) 
and the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, and other applicable laws. 
 
14. Requirements related to "de minimis" indirect cost rate 
 
A recipient that is eligible under the Part 200 Uniform Requirements and other applicable law to 
use the "de minimis" indirect cost rate described in 2 C.F.R. 200.414(f), and that elects to use the 
"de minimis" indirect cost rate, must advise OJP in writing of both its eligibility and its election, 
and must comply with all associated requirements in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. The "de 
minimis" rate may be applied only to modified total direct costs (MTDC) as defined by the Part 
200 Uniform Requirements. 
 
15. Determination of suitability to interact with participating minors 
 
SCOPE. This condition applies to this award if it is indicated -- in the application for the award (as 
approved by DOJ)(or in the application for any subaward, at any tier), the DOJ funding 
announcement (solicitation), or an associated federal statute -- that a purpose of some or all of 
the activities to be carried out under the award (whether by the recipient, or a subrecipient at any 
tier) is to benefit a set of individuals under 18 years of age. 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient at any tier, must make determinations of suitability before 
certain individuals may interact with participating minors. This requirement applies regardless of 
an individual's employment status. 
 
The details of this requirement are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/Interact-Minors.htm (Award condition: Determination of suitability 
required, in advance, for certain individuals who may interact with participating minors), and are 
incorporated by reference here. 
 
16. Requirement to disclose whether recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making 
agency outside of DOJ 
 
If the recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grant-making agency outside of DOJ, 
currently or at any time during the course of the period of performance under this award, the 
recipient must disclose that fact and certain related information to OJP by email at 
OJP.ComplianceReporting@ojp.usdol.gov. For purposes of this disclosure, high risk includes any 
status under which a federal awarding agency provides additional oversight due to the recipient's 
past performance, or other programmatic or financial concerns with the recipient. The recipient's 
disclosure must include the following: 1. The federal awarding agency that currently designates 
107 of 224

--- page 108 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 45 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
the recipient high risk, 2. The date the recipient was designated high risk, 3. The high-risk point of 
contact at that federal awarding agency (name, phone number, and email address), and 4. The 
reasons for the high-risk status, as set out by the federal awarding agency. 
 
17. Compliance with DOJ Grants Financial Guide 
 
References to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide are to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide as posted 
on the OJP website (currently, the "DOJ Grants Financial Guide" available at 
https://ojp.gov/financialguide/DOJ/index.htm), including any updated version that may be posted 
during the period of performance. The recipient agrees to comply with the DOJ Grants Financial 
Guide. 
 
18. Encouragement of policies to ban text messaging while driving 
 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13513, "Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging While 
Driving," 74 Fed. Reg. 51225 (October 1, 2009), DOJ encourages recipients and subrecipients 
("subgrantees") to adopt and enforce policies banning employees from text messaging while 
driving any vehicle during the course of performing work funded by this award, and to establish 
workplace safety policies and conduct education, awareness, and other outreach to decrease 
crashes caused by distracted drivers. 
 
19. Potential imposition of additional requirements 
 
The recipient agrees to comply with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DOJ 
awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) during the period of performance for this award, 
if the recipient is designated as "high-risk" for purposes of the DOJ high-risk grantee list. 
 
20. Employment eligibility verification for hiring under the award 
 
1. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must-- 
 
A. Ensure that, as part of the hiring process for any position within the United States that is or will 
be funded (in whole or in part) with award funds, the recipient (or any subrecipient) properly 
verifies the employment eligibility of the individual who is being hired, consistent with the 
provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
 
B. Notify all persons associated with the recipient (or any subrecipient) who are or will be involved 
in activities under this award of both-- 
 
(1) this award requirement for verification of employment eligibility, and 
 
(2) the associated provisions in 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1) that, generally speaking, make it unlawful, 
in the United States, to hire (or recruit for employment) certain aliens. 
 
C. Provide training (to the extent necessary) to those persons required by this condition to be 
notified of the award requirement for employment eligibility verification and of the associated 
provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
108 of 224

--- page 109 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 46 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
D. As part of the recordkeeping for the award (including pursuant to the Part 200 Uniform 
Requirements), maintain records of all employment eligibility verifications pertinent to compliance 
with this award condition in accordance with Form I-9 record retention requirements, as well as 
records of all pertinent notifications and trainings. 
 
2. Monitoring 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this 
condition. 
 
3. Allowable costs 
 
To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds 
may be obligated for the reasonable, necessary, and allocable costs (if any) of actions designed 
to ensure compliance with this condition. 
 
4. Rules of construction 
 
A. Staff involved in the hiring process 
 
For purposes of this condition, persons "who are or will be involved in activities under this award" 
specifically includes (without limitation) any and all recipient (or any subrecipient) officials or other 
staff who are or will be involved in the hiring process with respect to a position that is or will be 
funded (in whole or in part) with award funds. 
 
B. Employment eligibility confirmation with E-Verify 
 
For purposes of satisfying the requirement of this condition regarding verification of employment 
eligibility, the recipient (or any subrecipient) may choose to participate in, and use, E-Verify 
(www.e-verify.gov), provided an appropriate person authorized to act on behalf of the recipient (or 
subrecipient) uses E-Verify (and follows the proper E-Verify procedures, including in the event of 
a "Tentative Nonconfirmation" or a "Final Nonconfirmation") to confirm employment eligibility for 
each hiring for a position in the United States that is or will be funded (in whole or in part) with 
award funds. 
 
C. "United States" specifically includes the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin 
Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
 
D. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient, any 
subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, to violate any federal law, including any 
applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law. 
 
E. Nothing in this condition, including in paragraph 4.B., shall be understood to relieve any 
recipient, any subrecipient at any tier, or any person or other entity, of any obligation otherwise 
imposed by law, including 8 U.S.C. 1324a(a)(1). 
 
Questions about E-Verify should be directed to DHS. For more information about E-Verify visit the 
E-Verify website (https://www.e-verify.gov/) or email E-Verify at E-Verify@dhs.gov. E-Verify 
109 of 224

--- page 110 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 47 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
employer agents can email E-Verify at E-VerifyEmployerAgent@dhs.gov. 
Questions about the meaning or scope of this condition should be directed to OJP, before award 
acceptance. 
21. Restrictions and certifications regarding non-disclosure agreements and related matters 
No recipient or subrecipient ("subgrantee") under this award, or entity that receives a 
procurement contract or subcontract with any funds under this award, may require any employee 
or contractor to sign an internal confidentiality agreement or statement that prohibits or otherwise 
restricts, or purports to prohibit or restrict, the reporting (in accordance with law) of waste, fraud, 
or abuse to an investigative or law enforcement representative of a federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information. 
 
The foregoing is not intended, and shall not be understood by the agency making this award, to 
contravene requirements applicable to Standard Form 312 (which relates to classified 
information), Form 4414 (which relates to sensitive compartmented information), or any other 
form issued by a federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified 
information. 
 
1. In accepting this award, the recipient-- 
 
a. represents that it neither requires nor has required internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict (or 
purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, fraud, or abuse as 
described above; and 
 
b. certifies that, if it learns or is notified that it is or has been requiring its employees or 
contractors to execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to 
prohibit or restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately 
stop any further obligations of award funds, will provide prompt written notification to the federal 
agency making this award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only if 
expressly authorized to do so by that agency. 
 
2. If the recipient does or is authorized under this award to make subawards ("subgrants"), 
procurement contracts, or both-- 
 
a. it represents that-- 
 
(1) it has determined that no other entity that the recipient's application proposes may or will 
receive award funds (whether through a subaward ("subgrant"), procurement contract, or 
subcontract under a procurement contract) either requires or has required internal confidentiality 
agreements or statements from employees or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise 
currently restrict (or purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste, 
fraud, or abuse as described above; and 
 
(2) it has made appropriate inquiry, or otherwise has an adequate factual basis, to support this 
representation; and 
110 of 224

--- page 111 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 48 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
b. it certifies that, if it learns or is notified that any subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor entity 
that receives funds under this award is or has been requiring its employees or contractors to 
execute agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or 
restrict), reporting of waste, fraud, or abuse as described above, it will immediately stop any 
further obligations of award funds to or by that entity, will provide prompt written notification to the 
federal agency making this award, and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obligations only 
if expressly authorized to do so by that agency. 
 
22. Reclassification of various statutory provisions to a new Title 34 of the United States Code 
 
On September 1, 2017, various statutory provisions previously codified elsewhere in the U.S. 
Code were editorially reclassified (that is, moved and renumbered) to a new Title 34, entitled 
"Crime Control and Law Enforcement." The reclassification encompassed a number of statutory 
provisions pertinent to OJP awards (that is, OJP grants and cooperative agreements), including 
many provisions previously codified in Title 42 of the U.S. Code. 
 
Effective as of September 1, 2017, any reference in this award document to a statutory provision 
that has been reclassified to the new Title 34 of the U.S. Code is to be read as a reference to that 
statutory provision as reclassified to Title 34. This rule of construction specifically includes 
references set out in award conditions, references set out in material incorporated by reference 
through award conditions, and references set out in other award requirements. 
 
23. All subawards ("subgrants") must have specific federal authorization 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements for authorization of any subaward. This condition applies to agreements that -- for 
purposes of federal grants administrative requirements -- OJP considers a "subaward" (and 
therefore does not consider a procurement "contract"). 
 
The details of the requirement for authorization of any subaward are posted on the OJP web site 
at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SubawardAuthorization.htm (Award condition: All subawards 
("subgrants") must have specific federal authorization), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
24. Requirements related to System for Award Management and Universal Identifier Requirements 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements regarding the System for Award 
Management (SAM), currently accessible at https://www.sam.gov/. This includes applicable 
requirements regarding registration with SAM, as well as maintaining the currency of information 
in SAM. 
 
The recipient also must comply with applicable restrictions on subawards ("subgrants") to first-tier 
subrecipients (first-tier "subgrantees"), including restrictions on subawards to entities that do not 
acquire and provide (to the recipient) the unique entity identifier required for SAM registration. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to SAM and to unique entity identifiers are posted 
on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/SAM.htm (Award condition: System for 
Award Management (SAM) and Universal Identifier Requirements), and are incorporated by 
reference here. 
111 of 224

--- page 112 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 49 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
This condition does not apply to an award to an individual who received the award as a natural 
person (i.e., unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or 
operate in his or her name). 
 
25. Restrictions on "lobbying" 
 
In general, as a matter of federal law, federal funds awarded by OJP may not be used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, either directly or indirectly, to support or 
oppose the enactment, repeal, modification, or adoption of any law, regulation, or policy, at any 
level of government. See 18 U.S.C. 1913. (There may be exceptions if an applicable federal 
statute specifically authorizes certain activities that otherwise would be barred by law.) 
 
Another federal law generally prohibits federal funds awarded by OJP from being used by the 
recipient, or any subrecipient at any tier, to pay any person to influence (or attempt to influence) a 
federal agency, a Member of Congress, or Congress (or an official or employee of any of them) 
with respect to the awarding of a federal grant or cooperative agreement, subgrant, contract, 
subcontract, or loan, or with respect to actions such as renewing, extending, or modifying any 
such award. See 31 U.S.C. 1352. Certain exceptions to this law apply, including an exception that 
applies to Indian tribes and tribal organizations. 
 
Should any question arise as to whether a particular use of federal funds by a recipient (or 
subrecipient) would or might fall within the scope of these prohibitions, the recipient is to contact 
OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the express prior written approval of OJP. 
 
26. Specific post-award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in any procurement 
contract that would exceed $250,000 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements to obtain specific advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in any 
procurement contract that would exceed the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (currently, 
$250,000). This condition applies to agreements that -- for purposes of federal grants 
administrative requirements -- OJP considers a procurement "contract" (and therefore does not 
consider a subaward). 
 
The details of the requirement for advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in a 
procurement contract under an OJP award are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/NoncompetitiveProcurement.htm (Award condition: Specific post- 
award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in a procurement contract (if contract 
would exceed $250,000)), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
27. Requirements pertaining to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in persons (including reporting 
requirements and OJP authority to terminate award) 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier, must comply with all applicable 
requirements (including requirements to report allegations) pertaining to prohibited conduct 
related to the trafficking of persons, whether on the part of recipients, subrecipients 
("subgrantees"), or individuals defined (for purposes of this condition) as "employees" of the 
112 of 224

--- page 113 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 50 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
recipient or of any subrecipient. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to prohibited conduct related to trafficking in 
persons are posted on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/ProhibitedConduct- 
Trafficking.htm (Award condition: Prohibited conduct by recipients and subrecipients related to 
trafficking in persons (including reporting requirements and OJP authority to terminate award)), 
and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
28. Requirement to report potentially duplicative funding 
 
If the recipient currently has other active awards of federal funds, or if the recipient receives any 
other award of federal funds during the period of performance for this award, the recipient 
promptly must determine whether funds from any of those other federal awards have been, are 
being, or are to be used (in whole or in part) for one or more of the identical cost items for which 
funds are provided under this award. If so, the recipient must promptly notify the DOJ awarding 
agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate) in writing of the potential duplication, and, if so requested 
by the DOJ awarding agency, must seek a budget-modification or change-of-project-scope Grant 
Award Modification (GAM) to eliminate any inappropriate duplication of funding. 
 
29. Reporting potential fraud, waste, and abuse, and similar misconduct 
 
The recipient, and any subrecipients ("subgrantees") at any tier, must promptly refer to the DOJ 
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) any credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, 
subrecipient, contractor, subcontractor, or other person has, in connection with funds under this 
award-- (1) submitted a claim that violates the False Claims Act; or (2) committed a criminal or 
civil violation of laws pertaining to fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, gratuity, or similar 
misconduct. 
 
Potential fraud, waste, abuse, or misconduct involving or relating to funds under this award 
should be reported to the OIG by--(1) online submission accessible via the OIG webpage at 
https://oig.justice.gov/hotline/contact-grants.htm (select "Submit Report Online"); (2) mail directed 
to: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General, Investigations Division, ATTN: 
Grantee Reporting, 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20530; and/or (3) by facsimile 
directed to the DOJ OIG Investigations Division (Attn: Grantee Reporting) at (202) 616-9881 (fax). 
 
Additional information is available from the DOJ OIG website at https://oig.justice.gov/hotline. 
 
30. FFATA reporting: Subawards and executive compensation 
 
The recipient must comply with applicable requirements to report first-tier subawards 
("subgrants") of $30,000 or more and, in certain circumstances, to report the names and total 
compensation of the five most highly compensated executives of the recipient and first-tier 
subrecipients (first-tier "subgrantees") of award funds. The details of recipient obligations, which 
derive from the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA), are 
posted on the OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/FFATA.htm (Award condition: 
Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
This condition, including its reporting requirement, does not apply to-- (1) an award of less than 
113 of 224

--- page 114 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 51 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
$30,000, or (2) an award made to an individual who received the award as a natural person (i.e., 
unrelated to any business or non-profit organization that he or she may own or operate in his or 
her name). 
 
31. The recipient agrees to comply with OJP grant monitoring guidelines, protocols, and procedures, 
and to cooperate with BJA and OCFO on all grant monitoring requests, including requests related 
to desk reviews, enhanced programmatic desk reviews, and/or site visits. The recipient agrees to 
provide to BJA and OCFO all documentation necessary to complete monitoring tasks, including 
documentation related to any subawards made under this award. Further, the recipient agrees to 
abide by reasonable deadlines set by BJA and OCFO for providing the requested documents. 
Failure to cooperate with BJA's/OCFO's grant monitoring activities may result in sanctions 
affecting the recipient's DOJ awards, including, but not limited to: withholdings and/or other 
restrictions on the recipient's access to grant funds; referral to the Office of the Inspector General 
for audit review; designation of the recipient as a DOJ High Risk grantee; or termination of an 
award(s). 
 
32. Required monitoring of subawards 
 
The recipient must monitor subawards under this award in accordance with all applicable 
statutes, regulations, award conditions, and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, and must include 
the applicable conditions of this award in any subaward. Among other things, the recipient is 
responsible for oversight of subrecipient spending and monitoring of specific outcomes and 
benefits attributable to use of award funds by subrecipients. The recipient agrees to submit, upon 
request, documentation of its policies and procedures for monitoring of subawards under this 
award. 
 
33. Use of program income 
 
Program income (as defined in the Part 200 Uniform Requirements) must be used in accordance 
with the provisions of the Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Program income earnings and 
expenditures both must be reported on the quarterly Federal Financial Report, SF 425. 
 
34. Justice Information Sharing 
 
Information sharing projects funded under this award must comply with DOJ's Global Justice 
Information Sharing Initiative (Global) guidelines. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) 
must conform to the Global Standards Package (GSP) and all constituent elements, where 
applicable, as described at: https://it.ojp.gov/gsp_grantcondition. The recipient (and any 
subrecipient at any tier) must document planned approaches to information sharing and describe 
compliance with the GSP and appropriate privacy policy that protects shared information, or 
provide detailed justification for why an alternative approach is recommended. 
 
35. Avoidance of duplication of networks 
 
To avoid duplicating existing networks or IT systems in any initiatives funded by BJA for law 
enforcement information sharing systems which involve interstate connectivity between 
jurisdictions, such systems shall employ, to the extent possible, existing networks as the 
communication backbone to achieve interstate connectivity, unless the recipient can demonstrate 
114 of 224

--- page 115 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 52 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
to the satisfaction of BJA that this requirement would not be cost effective or would impair the 
functionality of an existing or proposed IT system. 
 
36. Compliance with 28 C.F.R. Part 23 
 
With respect to any information technology system funded or supported by funds under this 
award, the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with 28 C.F.R. Part 23, 
Criminal Intelligence Systems Operating Policies, if OJP determines this regulation to be 
applicable. Should OJP determine 28 C.F.R. Part 23 to be applicable, OJP may, at its discretion, 
perform audits of the system, as per the regulation. Should any violation of 28 C.F.R. Part 23 
occur, the recipient may be fined as per 34 U.S.C. 10231(c)-(d). The recipient may not satisfy 
such a fine with federal funds. 
 
37. Protection of human research subjects 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with the requirements of 28 C.F.R. 
Part 46 and all OJP policies and procedures regarding the protection of human research subjects, 
including obtainment of Institutional Review Board approval, if appropriate, and subject informed 
consent. 
 
38. Confidentiality of data 
 
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with all confidentiality requirements 
of 34 U.S.C. 10231 and 28 C.F.R. Part 22 that are applicable to collection, use, and revelation of 
data or information. The recipient further agrees, as a condition of award approval, to submit a 
Privacy Certificate that is in accord with requirements of 28 C.F.R. Part 22 and, in particular, 28 
C.F.R. 22.23. 
 
39. The award recipient agrees to participate in a data collection process measuring program outputs 
and outcomes. The data elements for this process will be outlined by the Office of Justice 
Programs. 
 
40. The recipient agrees to cooperate with any assessments, national evaluation efforts, or 
information or data collection requests, including, but not limited to, the provision of any 
information required for the assessment or evaluation of any activities within this project. 
 
41. Law enforcement task forces - required training 
 
Within 120 days of award acceptance, each current member of a law enforcement task force 
funded with award funds who is a task force commander, agency executive, task force officer, or 
other task force member of equivalent rank, must complete required online (internet-based) task 
force training. Additionally, all future task force members must complete this training once during 
the period of performance for this award, or once every four years if multiple OJP awards include 
this requirement. 
 
The required training is available free of charge online through the BJA-funded Center for Task 
Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). The training addresses task force effectiveness, 
as well as other key issues including privacy and civil liberties/rights, task force performance 
115 of 224

--- page 116 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 53 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
measurement, personnel selection, and task force oversight and accountability. If award funds 
are used to support a task force, the recipient must compile and maintain a task force personnel 
roster, along with course completion certificates. 
 
Additional information regarding the training is available through BJA's web site and the Center 
for Task Force Integrity and Leadership (www.ctfli.org). 
 
42. Justification of consultant rate 
 
Approval of this award does not indicate approval of any consultant rate in excess of $650 per 
day. A detailed justification must be submitted to and approved by the OJP program office prior to 
obligation or expenditure of such funds. 
 
43. The recipient understands that, in accepting this award, the Authorized Representative declares 
and certifies, among other things, that he or she possesses the requisite legal authority to accept 
the award on behalf of the recipient entity and, in so doing, accepts (or adopts) all material 
requirements that relate to conduct throughout the period of performance under this award. The 
recipient further understands, and agrees, that it will not assign anyone to the role of Authorized 
Representative during the period of performance under the award without first ensuring that the 
individual has the requisite legal authority. 
 
44. Compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and related statutes 
 
Upon request, the recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must assist BJA in complying with 
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the National Historic Preservation Act, and other 
related federal environmental impact analyses requirements in the use of these award funds, 
either directly by the recipient or by a subrecipient. Accordingly, the recipient agrees to first 
determine if any of the following activities will be funded by the grant, prior to obligating funds for 
any of these purposes. If it is determined that any of the following activities will be funded by the 
award, the recipient agrees to contact BJA. 
 
The recipient understands that this condition applies to new activities as set out below, whether or 
not they are being specifically funded with these award funds. That is, as long as the activity is 
being conducted by the recipient, a subrecipient, or any third party, and the activity needs to be 
undertaken in order to use these award funds, this condition must first be met. The activities 
covered by this condition are: 
 
a. New construction; 
 
b. Minor renovation or remodeling of a property located in an environmentally or historically 
sensitive area, including properties located within a 100-year flood plain, a wetland, or habitat for 
endangered species, or a property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of 
Historic Places; 
 
c. A renovation, lease, or any proposed use of a building or facility that will either (a) result in a 
change in its basic prior use or (b) significantly change its size; 
 
d. Implementation of a new program involving the use of chemicals other than chemicals that are 
116 of 224

--- page 117 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 54 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
(a) purchased as an incidental component of a funded activity and (b) traditionally used, for 
example, in office, household, recreational, or education environments; and 
 
e. Implementation of a program relating to clandestine methamphetamine laboratory operations, 
including the identification, seizure, or closure of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories. 
 
The recipient understands and agrees that complying with NEPA may require the preparation of 
an Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement, as directed by BJA. 
The recipient further understands and agrees to the requirements for implementation of a 
Mitigation Plan, as detailed at https://bja.gov/Funding/nepa.html, for programs relating to 
methamphetamine laboratory operations. 
 
Application of This Condition to Recipient's Existing Programs or Activities: For any of the 
recipient's or its subrecipients' existing programs or activities that will be funded by these award 
funds, the recipient, upon specific request from BJA, agrees to cooperate with BJA in any 
preparation by BJA of a national or program environmental assessment of that funded program or 
activity. 
 
45. Establishment of trust fund 
 
If award funds are being drawn down in advance, the recipient (or a subrecipient, with respect to 
a subaward) is required to establish a trust fund account. Recipients (and subrecipients) must 
maintain advance payments of federal awards in interest-bearing accounts, unless regulatory 
exclusions apply (2 C.F.R. 200.305(b)(8)). The trust fund, including any interest, may not be used 
to pay debts or expenses incurred by other activities beyond the scope of the Edward Byrne 
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). The recipient also agrees to obligate the 
award funds in the trust fund (including any interest earned) during the period of performance for 
the award and expend within 90 days thereafter. Any unobligated or unexpended funds, including 
interest earned, must be returned to OJP at the time of closeout. 
 
46. All State and Local JAG recipients must submit quarterly Federal Financial Reports (SF-425). 
Additionally, State JAG and Local JAG Category Two ($25K or more) must submit semi-annual 
performance reports through JustGrants and Local JAG Category One (Less than $25K) must 
submit annual performance reports through JustGrants. Consistent with the Department's 
responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and the GPRA 
Modernization Act of 2010, the recipient must provide data that measure the results of its work. 
The recipient must submit quarterly performance metrics reports through BJA's Performance 
Measurement Tool (PMT) website (www.bjaperformancetools.org). For more detailed information 
on reporting and other JAG requirements, refer to the JAG reporting requirements webpage. 
Failure to submit required JAG reports by established deadlines may result in the freezing of 
grant funds and future High Risk designation. 
 
47. Required data on law enforcement agency training 
 
Any law enforcement agency receiving direct or sub-awarded funding from this JAG award must 
submit quarterly accountability metrics data related to training that officers have received on the 
use of force, racial and ethnic bias, de-escalation of conflict, and constructive engagement with 
the public. 
117 of 224

--- page 118 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 55 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
48. Expenditures prohibited without waiver 
 
No funds under this award may be expended on the purchase of items prohibited by the JAG 
program statute, unless, as set forth at 34 U.S.C. 10152, the BJA Director certifies that 
extraordinary and exigent circumstances exist, making such expenditures essential to the 
maintenance of public safety and good order. 
 
49. Authorization to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse certain project costs incurred on or 
after October 1, 2021 
 
The recipient may obligate (federal) award funds only after the recipient makes a valid 
acceptance of the award. As of the first day of the period of performance for the award (October 
1, 2021), however, the recipient may choose to incur project costs using non-federal funds, but 
any such project costs are incurred at the recipient's risk until, at a minimum-- (1) the recipient 
makes a valid acceptance of the award, and (2) all applicable withholding conditions are removed 
by OJP (via an Award Condition Modification (ACM)). (A withholding condition is a condition in 
the award document that precludes the recipient from obligating, expending, or drawing down all 
or a portion of the award funds until the condition is removed.) 
 
Except to the extent (if any) that an award condition expressly precludes reimbursement of 
project costs incurred "at-risk," if and when the recipient makes a valid acceptance of this award 
and OJP removes each applicable withholding condition through an Award Condition Modification 
(ACM), the recipient is authorized to obligate (federal) award funds to reimburse itself for project 
costs incurred "at-risk" earlier during the period of performance (such as project costs incurred 
prior to award acceptance or prior to removal of an applicable withholding condition), provided 
that those project costs otherwise are allowable costs under the award. 
 
50. If award funds are used for DNA testing of evidentiary materials, any resulting eligible DNA 
profiles must be uploaded to the Combined DNA Index System ("CODIS," the DNA database 
operated by the FBI) by a government DNA laboratory with access to CODIS. No profiles 
generated under this award may be entered or uploaded into any non-governmental DNA 
database without prior express written approval from BJA. Award funds may not be used for the 
purchase of DNA equipment and supplies unless the resulting DNA profiles may be accepted for 
entry into CODIS. Booking agencies should work with their state CODIS agency to ensure all 
requirements are met for participation in Rapid DNA (see National Rapid DNA Booking 
Operational Procedures Manual). 
 
51. Recipients utilizing award funds for forensic genealogy testing must adhere to the United States 
Department of Justice Interim Policy Forensic Genealogical DNA Analysis and Searching 
(https://www.justice.gov/olp/page/file/1204386/download), and must collect and report the metrics 
identified in Section IX of that document to BJA. 
 
52. Submission of eligible records relevant to the National Instant Background Check System 
 
Consonant with federal statutes that pertain to firearms and background checks -- including 18 
U.S.C. 922 and 34 U.S.C. ch. 409 -- if the recipient (or any subrecipient at any tier) uses this 
award to fund (in whole or in part) a specific project or program (such as a law enforcement, 
118 of 224

--- page 119 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 56 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
prosecution, or court program) that results in any court dispositions, information, or other records 
that are "eligible records" (under federal or State law) relevant to the National Instant Background 
Check System (NICS), or that has as one of its purposes the establishment or improvement of 
records systems that contain any court dispositions, information, or other records that are "eligible 
records" (under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS, the recipient (or subrecipient, if 
applicable) must ensure that all such court dispositions, information, or other records that are 
"eligible records" (under federal or State law) relevant to the NICS are promptly made available to 
the NICS or to the "State" repository/database that is electronically available to (and accessed by) 
the NICS, and -- when appropriate -- promptly must update, correct, modify, or remove such 
NICS-relevant "eligible records". 
 
In the event of minor and transitory non-compliance, the recipient may submit evidence to 
demonstrate diligent monitoring of compliance with this condition (including subrecipient 
compliance). DOJ will give great weight to any such evidence in any express written 
determination regarding this condition. 
 
 
53. Prohibition on use of award funds for match under BVP program 
 
JAG funds may not be used as the 50% match for purposes of the DOJ Bulletproof Vest 
Partnership (BVP) program. 
 
54. Certification of body armor "mandatory wear" policies, and compliance with NIJ standards 
 
If recipient uses funds under this award to purchase body armor, the recipient must submit a 
signed certification that each law enforcement agency receiving body armor purchased with funds 
from this award has a written "mandatory wear" policy in effect. The recipient must keep signed 
certifications on file for any subrecipients planning to utilize funds from this award for ballistic- 
resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchases. This policy must be in place for at least all 
uniformed officers before any funds from this award may be used by an agency for body armor. 
There are no requirements regarding the nature of the policy other than it be a mandatory wear 
policy for all uniformed officers while on duty. 
 
Ballistic-resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased with award funds may be purchased 
at any threat level, make or model, from any distributor or manufacturer, as long as the body 
armor has been tested and found to comply with applicable National Institute of Justice ballistic or 
stab standards, and is listed on the NIJ Compliant Body Armor Model List. In addition, ballistic- 
resistant and stab-resistant body armor purchased must be made in the United States and must 
be uniquely fitted, as set forth in 34 U.S.C. 10202(c)(1)(A). The latest NIJ standard information 
and the NIJ Compliant Body Armor List may be found by following the links located on the NIJ 
Body Armor page: https://nij.ojp.gov/topics/equipment-and-technology/body-armor 
 
55. Extreme risk protection programs funded by JAG must include, at a minimum: pre-deprivation 
and post-deprivation due process rights that prevent any violation or infringement of the 
Constitution of the United States, including but not limited to the Bill of Rights, and the substantive 
or procedural due process rights guaranteed under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the 
Constitution of the United States, as applied to the States, and as interpreted by State courts and 
United States courts (including the Supreme Court of the United States). Such programs must 
119 of 224

--- page 120 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 57 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
include, at the appropriate phase to prevent any violation of constitutional rights, at minimum, 
notice, the right to an in-person hearing, an unbiased adjudicator, the right to know opposing 
evidence, the right to present evidence, and the right to confront adverse witnesses; the right to 
be represented by counsel at no expense to the government; pre-deprivation and post- 
deprivation heightened evidentiary standards and proof which mean not less than the protections 
afforded to a similarly situated litigant in Federal court or promulgated by the State's evidentiary 
body, and sufficient to ensure the full protections of the Constitution of the United States, 
including but not limited to the Bill of Rights, and the substantive and procedural due process 
rights guaranteed under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United 
States, as applied to the States, and as interpreted by State courts and United States courts 
(including the Supreme Court of the United States). The heightened evidentiary standards and 
proof under such programs must, at all appropriate phases to prevent any violation of any 
constitutional right, at minimum, prevent reliance upon evidence that is unsworn or unaffirmed, 
irrelevant, based on inadmissible hearsay, unreliable, vague, speculative, and lacking a 
foundation; and penalties for abuse of the program. 
 
56. The recipient agrees that no funds under this grant award (including via subcontract or subaward, 
at any tier) may be used for unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), which includes unmanned aircraft 
vehicles (UAV), or for any accompanying accessories to support UAS. 
 
57. "Methods of Administration" - monitoring compliance with civil rights laws and nondiscrimination 
provisions 
 
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with 
applicable federal civil rights laws and nondiscrimination provisions. Within 90 days of the date of 
award acceptance, the recipient must submit to OJP's Office for Civil Rights (at 
CivilRightsMOA@usdoj.gov) written Methods of Administration ("MOA") for subrecipient 
monitoring with respect to civil rights requirements. In addition, upon request by OJP (or by 
another authorized federal agency), the recipient must make associated documentation available 
for review. 
 
The details of the recipient's obligations related to Methods of Administration are posted on the 
OJP web site at https://ojp.gov/funding/Explore/StateMethodsAdmin-FY2017update.htm (Award 
condition: "Methods of Administration" - Requirements applicable to States (FY 2017 Update)), 
and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
58. Recipient integrity and performance matters: Requirement to report information on certain civil, 
criminal, and administrative proceedings to SAM and FAPIIS 
 
The recipient must comply with any and all applicable requirements regarding reporting of 
information on civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings connected with (or connected to the 
performance of) either this OJP award or any other grant, cooperative agreement, or procurement 
contract from the federal government. Under certain circumstances, recipients of OJP awards are 
required to report information about such proceedings, through the federal System for Award 
Management (known as "SAM"), to the designated federal integrity and performance system 
(currently, "FAPIIS"). 
 
The details of recipient obligations regarding the required reporting (and updating) of information 
120 of 224

--- page 121 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 58 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
on certain civil, criminal, and administrative proceedings to the federal designated integrity and 
performance system (currently, "FAPIIS") within SAM are posted on the OJP web site at 
https://ojp.gov/funding/FAPIIS.htm (Award condition: Recipient Integrity and Performance 
Matters, including Recipient Reporting to FAPIIS), and are incorporated by reference here. 
 
59. BJA- JAG - Withholding of funds for program narrative 
Withholding of funds: Program narrative 
The recipient may not expend or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits, and OJP 
reviews and accepts, the program narrative for this award, and an Award Condition Modification 
has been issued to remove this condition. 
 
60. Withholding - Certification with respect to Federal taxes - award exceeding $5 million (updated 
Aug. 2017) 
 
The recipient may not obligate, expend, or draw down any funds under this award until it has 
submitted to the program manager, in a format acceptable to OJP, a formal written certification 
directed to OJP and executed by an official with authority to sign on behalf of the recipient, that 
the recipient (unless an exemption applies by operation of law, as described below)-- (1) has filed 
all Federal tax returns required for the three tax years immediately preceding the tax year in 
which the certification is made; (2) has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986; and (3) has not, more than 90 days prior to this certification, been 
notified of any unpaid federal tax assessment for which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless 
the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has been 
approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the subject 
of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding; and until an Award Condition Modification 
(ACM) has been issued to remove this condition. 
 
61. BJA- JAG - Withholding of Funds for Chief Executive Certification 
 
Withholding of funds: Required certification from the chief executive of the applicant government 
 
The recipient may not expend or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits the 
required "Certifications and Assurances by the Chief Executive of the Applicant Government," 
properly-executed (as determined by OJP), and an Award Condition Modification has been 
issued to remove this condition. 
 
62. BJA- JAG - Withholding of Funds for State Strategic Plan submission 
Withholding of funds: Required State Strategic Plan submission 
The recipient may not expend or draw down any award funds until the recipient submits a 
sufficient Statewide Strategic Plan (to include an Annual Report in each year in which the 
Statewide Strategic Plan is not fully updated), and an Award Condition Modification has been 
issued to remove this condition. 
121 of 224

--- page 122 ---
San Mateo County 
BSCC 1215-23 
Page 59 of 59 
Rev 10/2022 
 
 
 
 
63. BJA- JAG - SORNA Appeal Limits 
 
The recipient acknowledges the final agency decision made by DOJ that recipient's jurisdiction 
did not substantially implement the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (Public Law 
109-248, "SORNA") before the deadline, and understands that, as a result of that final agency 
decision, the amount of this JAG award was reduced, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 20927. By accepting 
this specific award, the recipient voluntarily agrees that if it elects to file a judicial appeal of that 
final agency decision, which was integral in determining this particular funding amount, no such 
appeal may commence more than 6 months after the date of acceptance of this award. 
 
64. In accepting this award, the recipient agrees that grant funds cannot be used for Facial 
Recognition Technology (FRT) unless the recipient has policies and procedures in place to 
ensure that the FRT will be utilized in an appropriate and responsible manner that promotes 
public safety, and protects privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties and complies with all applicable 
provisions of the U.S. Constitution, including the Fourth Amendment’s protection against 
unreasonable searches and seizures and the First Amendment’s freedom of association and 
speech, as well as other laws and regulations. Recipients utilizing funds for FRT must make such 
policies and procedures available to DOJ upon request. 
122 of 224

--- page 123 ---
BSCC 
Powered by Submittable 
 
 
Title 
County of San Mateo 
by Connie Juarez-Diroll in Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant 
Program Application 
cjuarez-diroll@smcgov.org 
12/02/2022 
id. 34217785 
 
 
 
Original Submission 
12/02/2022 
 
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance (JAG) Grant Program Application is divided into four sections as 
identified below: Background Information Contact Information Proposal Narrative and Budget Mandatory 
Attachments Each section has a series of questions that require a response. Applicants will be prompted to 
provide written text, select options from a drop down menu, select options from a multiple choice menu, or upload 
attachments. Questions with a red asterisk require responses. Applicants will not be able to submit the JAG Grant 
Program Application until all questions with a red asterisk have been completed. Applicants may reference the 
JAG Instruction Packet for background information, key dates, rating factors, and other important information to 
aid in the completion of the Grant Program Application. The JAG Instruction Packet is available on the BSCC 
website at: http://www.bscc.ca.gov/s_bsccjag/. NOTE: Applicants may start and stop their application but must 
select "Save Draft" at the bottom of the application before existing. 
SECTION I - BACKGROUND 
INFORMATION 
This section requests information about the project name and location, federal identification, funding requested, 
and an overview of the project. 
 
 
Name of Applicant 
County of San Mateo 
 
Applicant's Physical Address 2000 Alameda De Las Pulgas 
Ste. 280 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
Applicant's Mailing Address 
(If different than physical 
address) 
n/a 
 
 
Mailing Address for Payment 2000 Alameda De Las Pulgas 
Ste. 280 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
 
Tax Identification Number 
94-6000532 
Federal Employer ID 
94-6000532 
Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) MFFRTNKE5KP7 
Grant Funds Requested 
3067989.0 
Lead Public Agency 
County of San Mateo 
 
Multi-County Partnerships n/a 
Multi-County Partnerships n/a 
Multi-County Partnerships  n/a 
Project Title 
Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team 
Program Purpose Areas 
(PPA) 
 
 
 
 
Law Enforcement Programs 
(PPA 1) 
Prosecution and Court 
Programs (PPA 2) 
Prevention and Education 
Programs (PPA 3) 
Drug Treatment and 
Enforcement Programs (PPA 
5) 
Applicants are required to apply for the Program Purpose Areas (PPA) and Priority Areas of Need identified in the 
JAG Instruction Packet (Page 5). A total of five PPAs are identified: PPA 1: Law enforcement programs PPA 2: 
Prosecution and court programs PPA 3: Prevention and education programs PPA 5: Drug treatment and 
enforcement programs PPA 8: Mental health programs and related law enforcement and corrections programs 
Applicants are required to address a minimum of one Program Purpose Area and one corresponding Priority Area 
of Need. Applicants are not required to address each PPA or Priority Area of Need. 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
 
 
123 of 224

--- page 124 ---
Mental Health Programs and 
Related Law Enforcement 
and Corrections Programs 
(PPA 8) 
Crisis intervention teams 
Co-responder initiatives (law enforcement and mental health clinicians working together to respond to calls for 
service involving a person experiencing a behavioral health crisis) 
 
 
Proposal Summary 
San Mateo County proposes to expand its Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team initiative to improve 
public safety and mental health by creating cross-sector collaboration and coordination among law enforcement 
and mental health services agencies throughout the county. First launched in 2021 as a pilot, the co-response 
program establishes the presence of a full-time mental health clinician within city police agencies, to be 
dispatched on 911 calls with a known or suspected mental health component. For the expanded project, we are 
working with the East Palo Alto, Menlo Park and San Bruno police departments, and clinical partners BHRS and 
StarVista. 
SECTION II - CONTACT 
INFORMATION 
This section requests contact information for the individuals identified as the Project Director, Financial Officer, 
Day-to-Day Project Contact, Day-to-Day Fiscal Contact, and the Authorized Signature. 
 
 
Project Director 
Shirley 
Chu 
Project Director's Title with 
Clinical Services Manager II, Behavioral Health and Recovery Services 
Agency/Department/Organization 
Project Director's Physical 
Address 
 
 
 
Project Director's Email 
Address 
Project Director's Phone 
Number 
1950 Alameda De Las Pulgas 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
schu@smcgov.org 
 
+16504215181 
 
 
Financial Officer 
Janet 
Gard 
Financial Officer's Title with 
Deputy Director, FInance & Administratiion, Behavioral Health and Recovery Services 
Agency/Department/Organization 
Financial Officer's Physical 
Address 
 
 
 
Financial Officer's Email 
Address 
Financial Officer's Phone 
Number 
Day-To-Day Program 
Contact 
Day-To-Day Program 
Contact's Title with 
2000 Alameda De Las 
Pulgas San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
JGard@smcgov.org 
 
+16502071961 
 
Shirley 
Chu 
Cliinical Services Manager II, Behavioral Health and Recovery Services 
Agency/Department/Organization 
Day-To-Day Program 
Contact's Physical Address 
 
 
 
Day-To-Day Program 
Contact's Email Address 
Day-To-Day Program 
Contact's Phone Number 
1950 Alameda De Las Pulgas 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
schu@smcgov.org 
 
+16504215181 
 
 
Day-To-Day Fiscal Contact 
Juilien Ling 
 
 
Day-To-Day Fiscal Contact's 
Title with 
Accountant II, Behavioral Health and Recovery Services 
Agency/Department/Organization 
Day-To-Day Fiscal Contact's 
Physical Address 
 
 
 
Day-To-Day Fiscal Contact's 
Email Address 
2000 Alameda De Las 
Pulgas San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
JLing@smcgov.org 
 
 
124 of 224

--- page 125 ---
Day-To-Day Fiscal Contact's 
Phone Number 
650-573-2378 
 
 
Name of Authorized Officer*  Jei Africa 
 
Authorized Officer's Title with Director of Behavioral Health and Recovery Services, San Mateo County 
Agency/Department/Organization 
Authorized Officer's Physical 
Address 
 
 
 
Authorized Officer's Email 
Address 
Authorized Officer's Phone 
Number 
Authorized Officer 
Assurances 
SECTION III - PROPOSAL 
NARRATIVE AND BUDGET 
Proposal Narrative 
Instructions 
1950 Alameda de Las Pulgas 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
US 
JAfrica@smcgov.org 
 
+16505732541 
 
checked 
 
This section requests responses to the Rating Factors identified in the the JAG Instruction Packet. 
 
The Proposal Narrative must address the Project Need, Project Description, Collaboration, Capability and 
Qualifications, and Project Evaluation and Monitoring Rating Factors as described in the JAG Instruction Packet 
(Pages 21-24). When responding, clearly identify each Rating Factor section that is being addressed (i.e. Project 
Need, Project Description, etc.). The Proposal Narrative may not exceed 33,556 total characters (includes 
punctuation, numbers, spacing and any text). In Microsoft Word, this is approximately 15 pages in Arial 12-point 
font with one-inch margins on all four sides and at 1.5-line spacing. A character counter is automatically enabled 
that shows the number of characters used and the remaining number of characters before the limit is met. If the 
limit is exceeded, a red prompt will appear with the message "You have exceeded the character limit". Applicants 
will be prohibited from submit the JAG Grant Program Application until they comply with the character limit 
requirements. NOTE: It is up to the applicant to determine how to use the total word limit in addressing each 
section, however as a guide, the percent of total point value for each section is provided in the JAG Instruction 
Packet (Page 21). 
 
 
Proposal Narrative 
Section 1: Project Need 
1.1 Need(s) addressed. San Mateo County (SMC) proposes to expand our Community Wellness and Crisis 
Response Team (CWCRT) pilot initiative to address the need for co-response teams composed of police officers 
and mental health clinicians. We know that residents in crisis typically call 911, and that police, fire, or medical 
personnel are dispatched in response–all of whom lack clinical mental health expertise. Further, the county’s 
mental health services to support those experiencing crises (SMC Assessment and Referral Team, Psychiatric 
Emergency Response Team, and affiliated programs at school), go largely underutilized during emergencies. 
Moreover, we learned via the pilot that only 8% of police request mental health support in responding to a crisis, 
and officers request clinicians for non-medical calls about only 1% of the time—yet 20% of all non-medical calls 
involved a mental health emergency (e.g., mental distress, suicide, trauma) (Sources: City of San Mateo, Policing 
Data Transparency, 2022; Police records, CWCRT pilot cities). 
 
When clinicians are not dispatched or present onsite, 911 calls can lead to deadly confrontations between police 
officers and those in crisis. Prior to our CWCRT pilot, there were a number of cases throughout the county that 
resulted in fatal police encounters with unarmed individuals struggling with mental health issues. These 
individuals were tased and later died. Our expanded program will serve as a mental health tool to avoid such 
tragedies. As one SMC Supervisor observed, “people suffering from a mental illness are often dealing with 
serious conditions by the time they have a run-in with the cops, leading to altercations that can result in serious 
injury or even deaths. Some of the incidents have been heartbreaking. The pilot is a response to that; I just 
thought there must be something we can do better" (Source: The Almanac, 2021). 
 
In 2021, SMC launched the CWCRT program in direct response to community demands for “better outcomes” in 
situations where law enforcement comes into contact with individuals in crisis. Recognizing the importance of the 
role of the first responder in affecting positive outcomes, and knowing that most people call 911 during 
emergencies, the solution was clear: create a first-responder model that teamed police officers with clinicians, and 
dispatch both to the scene. Once onsite, the clinicians can de-escalate the crisis, and add empathic engagement 
(using trauma-informed techniques), clinical assessment, and follow-up resources to support clients and families 
—and divert a deadly encounter and mitigate criminal justice involvement. 
 
For the pilot, currently in year two of a two-year program, we selected the county’s four largest cities as 
demonstration sites: Daly City, Redwood City, San Mateo and South San Francisco. We partnered with county 
Behavioral Health and Recovery Services (BHRS), which contracted with StarVista, a health services nonprofit, to 
develop the co-response model and staff city police agencies with full-time mental health clinicians. Long-term, 
the goal was not only to achieve better outcomes, but reduce recidivism, increase utilization of resources, 
empower clients to proactively self-advocate, and close the trust gap between law enforcement and communities. 
 
SMC now proposes to continue to improve public safety and mental health by deepening the cross-sector 
collaboration and coordination begun with our pilot among law enforcement and mental health agencies in 
handling responses to emergency calls and mental health crises to achieve better outcomes. This strategy is 
directly aligned with JAG purpose area Mental Health and Related Law Enforcement Programs and corresponding 
priority areas: 1) establish crisis intervention teams; 2) establish a co-responder initiative, and 3) provide general 
mental health services to mitigate crises. 
 
1.2 Service gaps. For the 2021-22 pilot, city selection was based on population size (the four largest cities) with 
125 of 224

--- page 126 ---
the assumption they would also have the highest volume of mental health calls—and this was true in all but one 
case. For the 2023-2026 CWCRT project, we are targeting the next three high-need cities based on the number of 
logged mental health-related 911 calls. In the 11-month January-November 2022 period, the cities with the largest 
number of mental health calls (apart from pilot sites) were: East Palo Alto (197), Menlo Park (180), and San Bruno 
(199). 
 
1.3 Racial/ethnic disparities. In SMC, black residents are three times more likely to be arrested than white residents 
(Source: Public Policy Institute of California). And yet, black residents make up only 2.8% of the county overall 
population, while white residents represent 58%, followed by Asian (32%) and Hispanic (24%). SMC is second in 
arrest rate racial disparities only to San Francisco among all California counties. 
 
While instances of abuse and violent crime have been trending downward in the county since 2020: 226.3 per 
100K (CA DOJ, 2022), perceptions about community safety have not changed and most residents still rate 
neighborhood safety as fair or poor (SMC Health & Quality of Life Survey, 2020). Our county’s number one impact 
goal remains the reduction of crime and increased life expectancy (Shared Vision 2025); likewise, our top priorities 
are to address: 1) violence and abuse, 2) mental health; and, at their intersection, 3) racial and ethnic disparities. 
 
1.4 Relevant local data. Findings from the CWCRT pilot evaluation (year 1) provide preliminary data to understand 
and contextualize the need in SMC for such a program. The evaluation was designed and conducted by Stanford 
University’s Gardner Center. Based on data collected via official police records and documents, interviews, and 
observations: 
 
Quantitative 
- 121,065 of the 911 calls in the four pilot cities were non-medical 
- 20% of non-medical calls involved mental distress, suicide, or other mental issue 
- 12% of 911 call responses involved a law-enforcement-officer-initiated request for clinician dispatch; this tapered 
off to 7%-2% (depending on the city) as the program progressed 
 
Qualitative 
- The co-response model is working as designed: officers are taking the lead in securing public safety, clinicians 
are taking the lead on assessing individuals in crisis and recommending an appropriate response; together they 
determine the most appropriate response to resolve immediate and long-term crisis. 
- Clinicians are providing much-welcomed support and assistance to police officers. 
Officers are reporting feelings less strained as a result of clinician partnerships. 
Community members are reaching out to the clinicians directly or walking into police departments and requesting 
to see them individually. 
Citation: CWCRT Pilot Program: September 2022 Interim Report 
 
Findings suggest: 1) a need to team clinicians with law enforcement to respond to 911 calls; 2) a need to 
encourage and increase law enforcement requests for clinicians; 3) an increasing demand by residents for clinical 
response to 911 calls; and 4) the co-response model is working. 
 
1.5 Justification. The proposed project fits hand-in-glove with JAG’s Mental Health and Related Law Enforcement 
Programs, and corresponding priority areas. Moreover, there is ample evidence to suggest our intervention will 
work, including our own pilot study, now in its second year. Research findings reveal that co-response teams: de- 
escalate crises; make service connections; reduce the burden to both the criminal justice and healthcare 
systems; and are cost effective. In fact, the cost savings are significant, with a cost decrease in both 
hospitalizations and incarcerations. Estimated cost savings nationally is about $350,000 per year per co- 
responder, based on an average of 60 in-person contacts per month (Source: The Pros and Cons of Co- 
responder Programs, 2021). There are also significant benefits to the community and individuals: individuals in 
crisis report feeling less threatened and stigmatized in interactions with co-responder teams than interactions with 
law enforcement alone (Maximizing Benefits of Behavioral Health in Co-responder Programs, 2020). Additionally, 
serious mental illness causes $193.2 billion dollars in lost earnings each year nationally, or an average of $16,302 
fewer earnings per person (National Alliance on Mental Illness). Finally, JAG funds would support the expansion of 
an evidence-based program that is both replicable and scalable, will add to the evidentiary research, and aid the 
achievement of SMC priorities and goals. 
Section 2: Project Description 
2.1 Description. Goals & Objectives: SMC is proposing to expand our CWCRT pilot program. The goal is to 
improve public safety and mental health by creating cross-sector collaboration and coordination among law 
enforcement and health and human services agencies throughout the county. 
 
First launched in 2021 as a pilot, CWCRT establishes the presence of a mental health clinician within city police 
agencies. Each department collaborates with a full-time clinician, who is dispatched on 911 calls with a known or 
suspected mental health component. This results in the combined expertise and resources of law enforcement 
and mental health professionals so the public can be served effectively and efficiently, and outcomes improved. 
For this grant, SMC will partner with three cities, East Palo Alto, Menlo Park and San Bruno, and our pilot clinical 
partners, BHRS and StarVista, to implement new co-response teams. 
Measurable objectives. Short-term outcomes: Reduce the use of deadly force, number of arrests, 5150 holds, 
criminal offenses and case-to-incident ratios. Long-term outcomes: Reduce criminal justice involvement, police 
bias and recidivism, and improve the experience of those receiving emergency services. 
 
Services/interventions: There are four core components to the program: 1) Dispatch: a co-response team is 
dispatched to 911 calls with a known or suspected mental health crisis; 2) Co-Response: the team de-escalates 
the crisis, assesses clients for risks, provides appropriate interventions, and guides to appropriate health 
services; 3) Continuum of Care: clinicians follow-up with clients to connect them to Behavioral Health and 
Recovery Services or other community resources; and 4) PD: training is provided by SMC BHRS and StarVista 
consultants to build co-response team capacity. 
 
Length/Duration: Clinicians will be partnered with agencies M-F, 10 am to 6 pm. 
 
Project needs are addressed by implementing a program that directly responds to the needs of 911 callers who 
are experiencing mental health crises – by creating a co-response team of police officers and clinicians who will 
126 of 224

--- page 127 ---
work together to manage and de-escalate crises with the goal of reducing negative outcomes. 
 
Intent of JAG is addressed by aligning with Mental Health And Related Law Enforcement Programs, and 1) 
establishing crisis intervention teams, 2) establishing a co-responder initiative, and 3) providing mental health 
services to mitigate crises. 
Disparities are addressed by: dispatching clinicians on emergency calls to ensure crises are de-escalated; 
improving law enforcement and mental health collaborations in response to mental health crises; optimizing 
responses to individuals experiencing crises, especially people of color; and reducing strain on emergency 
services and systems. We anticipate that cross-sector collaborations will mitigate bias-related responses, and 
reduce the use of deadly force, the number of arrests, 5150 holds, and involvement with the criminal justice 
system and recidivism. 
 
Trauma-informed care is inherently incorporated in our project design by dispatching mental health clinicians to 
emergency calls. Clinicians are guided by the principles of trauma-informed care by being mindful of clients’ 
unique life experiences and need for safety, choice, individual empowerment, and self-advocacy. All services will 
be delivered with consideration for race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, and SES status. 
 
2.2 Target population are individuals of any gender, age, race, and offense history, who reside in one of the three 
participating cities and call 911. The cities were selected based on their volume of mental health-related calls. All 
residents who call 911 for a non-medical emergency are eligible for participation. Below are the cities’ 
demographics and crime statistics (Sources: US Census, respective PDs). 
- East Palo Alto: population: 28,847: 35.2% White; 12% Black; 6% Asian; 60.6% Hispanic. In 2021-22, there were 
38,189 calls for service; of these,197 were mental health related. There were 4,588 offenses; the largest was theft 
at 1,356; among violent crimes there were 29 assaults, 5 rapes, and 0 homicides. 
- Menlo Park: population: 32,475: 65.4% White; 4.3% Black; 15.2% Asian; 15.8% Hispanic. In 2021-22, there were 
20,000 calls for service; of these, 180 were mental health related. There were 903 crimes in all, including 584 
larcenies, 73 domestic violence incidents, 16 assaults, 6 rapes, 6 officer assaults, and 0 homicides. 
- San Bruno: population: 42,275: 42.1% White; .8% Black; 31.2% Asian; 30% Hispanic. There were 199 mental- 
health-related calls. The overall rate is 2,748 (per 100K residents); rates for high volume and violent crimes are: 
1,620 for larceny, 442 for assault, 19, rape, and 2.1 for murder. 
 
The plan to serve participants (city residents in crisis) is directly tied to our goals to improve public safety and 
mental health. To do this, we will deepen cross-sector collaboration and coordination among law enforcement and 
health and human services. Mental health clinicians will be dispatched on non-medical emergency calls, so they 
can administer mental health and/or social services to callers in need, and in the process de-escalate crises, and 
reduce the use of deadly force, arrests, 5150 holds, racial-ethnic bias, involvement with the criminal justice 
system, and recidivism. 
 
The strategy for sustained engagement involves a Continuum of Care. This is one of the project’s core 
components, and ensures that mental health clinicians follow up with recipients to connect them to resources 
through our partner, BHRS and Psychiatric Emergency Services, to strengthen the coordination of care and 
reduce reliance on 911 as a primary mental health resource. Dispatched clinicians will also create safety plans and 
conduct 5150 evaluations and holds, or clinical analysis of participants to determine appropriate services. Pilot 
findings also show that clinicians are taking steps to foster a more holistic approach to public safety by 
developing relationships with people with mental health problems and serving as advocates who connect them to 
needed services. 
 
2.3. Supporting evidence. There is ample research on co-responder programs to classify our intervention as 
evidence-based, and to suggest it will be beneficial; and that outcomes achieved by other co-responder programs 
support our proposed model. Recent research indicates that co-responder programs are effective, that 
successful ones do make an impact on individuals in crisis; and further, that the role of mental health co- 
responders in police departments is vital to program success. Our intervention has been pilot tested, 
implemented as intended, and rigorously evaluated by an independent evaluator. 
 
1. Crisis de-escalation: Available evidence suggests co-responder programs may be effective in crisis de- 
escalation. Blais and colleagues (2020) found calls for service that involved the team were associated with fewer 
incidents of police use of force: used in only 4.2% of incidents with the co-responder team compared to 12.1% of 
similar incidents handled by regular patrol units. 
2. Service connection: Research examining the effects of co-responder programs provide evidence that they 
facilitate connections to services (Dyer et al., 2015; Helfgott et al., 2016; Huppert & Griffiths, 2018; Lee et al., 2015; 
Morabito et al., 2018). 
3. Reduced pressure on criminal justice system (CJS): Evidence suggests co-responder teams alleviate pressure 
on the CJS often produced by police-only responses to mental health calls for service; and these teams may have 
the capacity to reduce formal interventions by police officers (e.g., arrests, 5150 holds, involuntary mental health 
detentions), preventing the introduction of individuals in crisis into the criminal justice system. And, co-responder 
programs are identified as beneficial because they more efficiently use police resources and reduce time spent by 
first responding officers in management crises (Shapiro et al., 2015). 
4. Reduced pressure on healthcare system: Co-responder teams are observed to enhance conversion rates from 
referrals to hospital admission by identifying individuals with the greatest need of hospital services (Dyer et al., 
2015; Jenkins, 2017). As a result, co-responder programs are viewed as capable of diminishing the burden on 
healthcare systems by limiting unnecessary referrals to ERs, while ensuring levels of care remain accessible to 
individuals who need it the most (Fahim et al., 2016). 
5. Cost effectiveness: Findings from initial studies suggest promising financial benefits produced from co- 
responder team programs. Although the specific costs associated with a program are contingent upon the 
effectiveness of the team, both average and annual costs for behavioral health crisis responses are less for co- 
responder teams when compared to traditional police responses (Allen Consulting Group, 2012; Baess, 2005; 
Dyer et al., 2015; Fitts & Robertson, 2017; Heslin et al., 2016; Scott, 2000). 
Citation: Assessing the Impact of Co-Responder Team Programs: A Review of the Research, IACP/UC Center for 
Police Research & Policy, 2021. 
 
The target population includes residents of partner cities who call 911 for behavioral health issues. CWCRT was 
created specifically to better serve this population, and is appropriate, because about 20% of the county’s non- 
medical calls involve a mental health component, and a co-response team model is successful in de-escalating 
127 of 224

--- page 128 ---
mental health and other crises, making mental health service connections and referrals, and easing the burden on 
the healthcare and criminal justice systems. 
 
Each city police partner collaborates with one full-time clinician who is dispatched on police calls with a known or 
suspected mental health component. This results in the mobilization of expertise and resources of both law 
enforcement and mental health professionals to effectively and efficiently serve those in crisis, and improve both 
mental health and law enforcement outcomes. 
 
Section 3: Collaboration 
3.1 Local JAG Committee Roster and Letter of Agreement. See Appendices E, F. 
 
3.2 Process to identify. SMC first established a Local JAG Steering Committee for our 2015 JAG program, SWAG. 
At that time, we conducted an extensive executive search to identify and recruit local government officials, both 
appointed and elected, and traditional and non-traditional stakeholders who had extensive experience with the 
populations we serve, and with one or more of the industries relevant to our program. At the start of the CWCRT 
pilot in 2021, we built on this process to establish an Advisory Council. This serves as our Local JAG Steering 
Committee. 
 
3.3 Full & balanced representation. The Council is represented by both traditional and non-traditional 
stakeholders, and includes: local leaders (e.g., Board of Supervisors) and city managers; those who bring 
expertise in criminal justice (e.g., Police Chiefs from participating police departments) and behavioral health (e.g., 
BHRS Director); as well as partners from educational research institutions (i.e., Gardner) and community -based 
nonprofit youth and family services providers (i.e., StarVista) who work closely with and understand the diverse 
needs of the participating communities. Clinical and nonprofit members bring extensive experience working with 
community members who are experiencing mental health crises, and providing mental health interventions and 
services, especially within the context of the criminal justice system. The County has involved members of the 
community in our planning process, and are committed to recruiting additional non-traditional members to join the 
Council. 
 
3.4 Participation & voting rights. All members take part in the Council decision-making process with equal voting 
rights. The Council meets quarterly and has well-established protocols for oversight and communication. We 
schedule meeting dates, times, and locations to maximum participation, and members are permitted to vote 
virtually if unable to attend in person. 
 
3.5 Identifying need. The Council has worked to develop the goals and program design for the CWCRT in direct 
response to the needs of the community. The local leaders and service providers are those who worked with 
residents who identified this need for intervention with mental health crises and de-escalation with law 
enforcement. With the County’s initial funding for the CWCRT pilot in 2021, these leaders, providers, and 
residents have been closely involved in guiding the development and implementation of this successful project. 
This process was enhanced by 2021 pilot evaluation findings. The Council identified three additional cities based 
on their high volume of mental health-related calls. 
 
3.6 Collaboration will include quarterly meetings and ongoing communication across members and their 
representative agencies. SMC is also committed to building on our large network of partners to ensure the 
proposed program is an inclusive and collaborative initiative that will continue to receive support and input from 
the community. Ongoing communication and collaboration will aid continuity. 
 
3.7 Role is largely one of oversight. The Council will meet quarterly throughout the project period to review 
progress reports, provide feedback, strategize, address challenges, and ensure accountability, transparency, 
ongoing evaluation, CQI, data dissemination, and the fulfillment of grant requirements. 
 
Section 4: Capability and Qualifications 
4.1 Applicant ability. SMC has a long and demonstrated history of success implementing grant-funded projects. 
This is especially true of those funded by JAG. If awarded, this will be SMC’s third JAG program. The first, funded 
in 2015, was refunded in 2019. For the 2022 grant cycle, we proposed to expand a promising pilot program, 
CWCRT, that already has the partnerships and infrastructure in place to make it a success. We are confident in 
our ability to not only implement the proposed project, but to scale it countywide, add to emergency response 
research, and advance public knowledge and understanding. 
 
4.2 Partners. The project has two types of partners as follows. 
Law Enforcement Partners: consist of the East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, and San Bruno police agencies. They were 
selected as high-risk cities, and will serve as project sites for the implementation of the co-response team model. 
Each agency will be assigned one full-time clinician; the clinician will team with police officers and be dispatched 
to 911 calls with a known or suspected mental health component. Representatives from each agency will serve on 
the Advisory Council, and participate in the evaluation. 
Mental Health Partners: consist of Behavioral Health and Recovery Services (BHRS) and StarVista. BHRS is a 
county agency and will provide mental health resources, including integrated and culturally sensitive services and 
training for the prevention, intervention, and treatment of mental illness and substance abuse. StarVista is a SMC- 
based nonprofit youth and family services organization contracted by BHRS to provide onsite clinical services 
and deliver high-impact crisis de-escalation, evaluation, 5150 assessment, and short term case management 
services. They will also provide clinician training on a wide range of topics customized for co-response teams and 
led by a consultant from Experience Design, Facilitation and Coaching. Both BHRS and StarVista are current pilot 
partners, and as such will be invaluable in helping SMC continue to refine and implement our co-response model 
and optimize outcomes. They are represented on the Advisory Council, and will participate in the evaluation. 
 
4.3 Partner experience. Clinical partners are part of the pilot program, and initially selected for the pilot due to their 
extensive clinical expertise. BHRS is a division of SMC and has designed our co-response model, and provided 
integrated and culturally sensitive prevention, intervention and treatment of mental illness and substance abuse 
since its inception. StarVista has 55 years of experience serving 40,000 SMC residents in crises annually, and has 
provided clinical expertise. SMC has worked with both partners for many years, and along with the Advisory 
Council, determined they are the best fit for the project. Both partners will also provide training: BHRS, 
professional development for co-response teams to optimize outcomes; and StarVista, basic training (e.g., DEI, 
cultural competency) for clinical staff. Partner cities were selected for the prevalence and type of annual 911 calls: 
128 of 224

--- page 129 ---
East Palo Alto (197 calls), Menlo Park (180), and San Bruno (199); and their commitment to the project. 
 
4.4 Project staffing Will include 8 staff members from SMC BHRS and StarVista: 
1) Project Director: existing SMC BHRS position (in-kind @.20 FTE): provides high-level oversight, monitors and 
evaluates project effectiveness, ensures all project deliverables are achieved, and standards of quality care are 
maintained. 
2) Sr. Management Analyst: to-be-hired SMC BHRS position (@ .35 FTE); to provide administrative/analytic 
support; and maintain administrative, fiscal, and grant records. 
3) Department Director: existing StarVista position (in-kind @ .10 FTE); provides high-level administrative, fiscal 
and personnel oversight and decision-making. 
4) Program Manager: existing StarVista position (in-kind @.5 FTE), provides daily operational oversight, and 
training for clinicians and law enforcement agencies. 
5) Program Coordinator: open StarVista position (@ 1.0 FTE); to provide operational and administrative support; 
responsible for the day-to-day activities, including implementing the co-response model, achieving goals, 
addressing challenges, etc. 
6-8) Clinicians (3): existing StarVista positions (@ 1.0 FTE); one for each of the three participating cities; 
responsible for: teaming with police officers and dispatching to 911 calls with a known or suspected mental health 
crisis; de-escalating crises, assessing clients for risks, providing appropriate interventions; and providing follow- 
up to connect clients to BHRS or other resources. 
4.5. Staff qualifications. 1) Project Director: LCSW; 30 years of clinical expertise; develops and implements 
programs for Crisis & Psychiatric Response Teams. 
2) Senior Management Analyst: open: will possess a combination of education, training and experience that will 
support the implementation of the project. 
3) Department Director: Ph.D.; 20 years experience, including as a Regional Clinical Specialist and Administrator; 
directs regional clinical care and multi-site resources. 
4) Program Manager:existing; LCSW; 24 years of social work and clinical experience; pilot clinician; works with law 
enforcement on crisis intervention and co-response teams. 
5) Program Coordinator: open: minimum qualifications: combination of experience and education; degree in 
counseling, psychology, social work or related field. 
6-8) 3 Clinicians: possess advanced degrees and licenses (e.g., LCSW); have between 9 and 24 years of clinical 
and research experience; and are multilingual. 
 
4.6 Management structure can be described as a top-down collaboration: SMC BHRS’s Project Director oversees 
the entire project and provides in-kind, high-level administrative and fiscal decision-making. The Sr. Management 
Analyst reports to the Project Director. BHRS contracts with StarVista for clinical support services. StarVista’s 
Department Director consults with the Project Director to coordinate clinical services, and oversees the day to day 
operations of the clinicians. Both positions serve on the Advisory Council, which provides program-level 
decision-making, and ensures accountability, transparency, CQI, and ensures fulfillment of grant requirements, 
etc. The Program Manager, Program Coordinator and Clinicians are all StarVista positions, and report to the 
Department Director. The Program Coordinator and the Clinicians report to the Program Manager. 
4.7. Applicant Readiness. SMC has successfully piloted the proposed project since 2021. The pilot runs through 
December 2023. The County remains committed to using pilot evaluation findings to improve and expand our 
program, and continue to strengthen our partnerships, further emergency response research, and advance public 
knowledge and understanding. 
 
Section 5: Project Evaluation & Monitoring 
5.1. Evaluator. SMC engaged John W. Gardner Center for Youth and their Communities (Gardner), as evaluator of 
our CWCRT pilot program in 2021. Gardner was established in 2000 at Stanford, and is part of its Graduate School 
of Education. They partner with communities, researchers, and practitioners to conduct rigorous research, 
support evidence-based practices. SMC and the Advisory Council selected Gardner as part of a rigorous bidding 
process and county affiliations. We plan to contract them for this project. In 2021, Gardner, in collaboration with 
our CWCRT Advisory Council, designed a formative evaluation. The goal was to identify factors affecting 
successful implementation, understand key outcomes, and identify opportunities for improvement. 
The 2022 CWCRT project evaluation will be both formative (process) and summative (outcomes), and incorporate 
all phases, from startup through close. The formative evaluation will delineate project activities and 
accomplishments by examining project design and implementation, professional development, collaborations and 
coordination, interventions and treatment, and the continuum of care. The summative evaluation will examine 
project impact by quantifying increases in co-response dispatches, officer time on the scene, de-escalations, 
follow-up and referrals; and the reduction of deadly force, arrests, emergency hold rates, recidivism, police bias, 
etc. 
 
5.2. Process & outcome indicators. For this CWCRT project, we will implement a mixed-methods evaluation that is 
both formative and summative, and aligned with project goals and anticipated outcomes. Data collection methods 
will entail both quantitative and qualitative, and primary and secondary sources. Primary sources may include 
surveys, interviews, and site visits. Secondary sources may entail record and document review (e.g., police 
records, clinician records, minutes of meetings, clinician case notes, etc.), and relevant needs assessments and 
research studies. We plan to use a systems model to examine key indicators: context (process), implementation 
(process) and impact (outcome). Process indicators involve the type and scope of services, and entail program 
design (co-response model), implementation, service delivery, leadership and staffing, partnerships and 
collaboration, city/precinct demographics/characteristics, PD/training curriculum, etc. 
 
Outcome indicators involve immediate and sustained effects, and entail changes in knowledge, attitudes and 
behaviors. We anticipate these will include: increases in police requests for clinicians to be dispatch to non- 
medical 911 calls; and increases in the dispatch of clinicians to non-medical 911 calls, and as a result, increases 
in the de-escalation of crises, a continuum of care, follow and referrals. We also anticipate a change in police 
behavior, and as result, the reduced use of deadly force, number of arrests, 5150 holds, recidivism, police bias, 
and involvement with the criminal justice system on the part of those in crisis, among others. 
 
5.3. Data collection, evaluation, DUA. Baseline data for project processes and outcomes indicators identified in 5.2 
are currently being collected as part of the pilot project, and. entail the number and type of incident and officer 
time on the scene; outcomes data consisted of arrest rates and referral rates. Pilot data collection methods are 
interviews, observation, and record/document review (meeting minutes, video recordings, police administrative 
records, program-related materials). For this project, we may also add surveys, clinical case notes, 911 call 
129 of 224

--- page 130 ---
logs/records, etc. 
 
We anticipate the short-term outcomes to be a reduction in the use of deadly force, arrests, criminal offenses, 
case-to-incident ratios; and conversely, improved law enforcement and mental health collaborations in response 
to mental health crises, optimized responses to individuals experiencing crises, and reduced the strain on 
emergency services and response systems. We anticipate long-term outcomes will entail a reduction in 
involvement with the criminal justice system and recidivism, reduced bias and improved the experience of 
individuals receiving emergency services. 
 
SMC has a data use agreement (DUA) with Gardner, the independent evaluator, and our partners to ensure project 
data is used responsibly as it relates to privacy, confidentiality, data collection, maintenance, retention, and 
informational harms. 
 
Budget Instructions 
Applicants are required to submit a Proposal Budget and Budget Narrative (Budget Attachment). Upon 
submission the Budget Attachment will become Section 6: Proposal Budget (Budget Tables & Narrative) making 
up part of the official proposal. The Budget Attachment must be filled out completely and accurately. Applicants 
are solely responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the information entered in the Budget Table and 
Budget Narrative. The grant budget must cover the entire grant period. For additional guidance related to grant 
budgets, refer to the BSCC Grant Administration Guide. The Budget Attachment is provided as a stand-alone 
document on the BSCC website at http://www.bscc.ca.gov/s_bsccjag/. 
 
JAG Budget Attachment 
2022-JAG-Budget-Attachment.xlsx 
 
SECTION IV - MANDATORY 
ATTACHMENTS 
 
This section list the attachments that are required at the time of submission. Criteria for Non-Governmental 
Organizations Receiving BSCC Grant Funds (Appendix C) Project Work Plan (Appendix D) JAG Steering 
Committee Roster (Appendix E) Letter of Agreement or Operational Agreement (Appendix F and G) Certification of 
Compliance with BSCC Policies on Debarment, Fraud, Theft, and Embezzlement (Appendix K) 
 
 
Criteria for Non-Governmental Organizations Receiving Grant Funds (Appendix C) 
Appendix_C_NGO_Agreement.pdf 
 
Project Work Plan (Appendix D) 
2022_JAG_Project-Work-Plan.docx 
 
JAG Steering Committee Roster (Appendix E) 
Appendix-E-JAG-Steering-Committee-Roster.docx 
 
Letter of Agreement (Appendix F) 
Appendix_F_LOAs.pdf 
 
Sample Operational Agreement (Appendix G) 
Appendix_G_Operational_Agreement.pdf 
 
Certification of Compliance with BSCC Polices On Debarment, Fraud, Theft, and Embezzlement (Appendix K) 
Appendix_K_Certification.pdf 
 
OPTIONAL: Governing Board n/a 
Resolution 
 
OPTIONAL: Bibliography 
Center for Police Research & Policy. (2021). Assessing the Impact of Co-Responder Team Programs: A Review of 
the Research. 
City of San Mateo (2022). Policing Data Transparency, City of San Mateo, California. 
County of San Mateo. (2016). Community Health Needs Assessment. Health & Quality of Life in San Mateo County. 
County of San Mateo. (2022). Shared Vision: Our shared vision for 2025 is for a healthy and safe, prosperous, 
livable, environmentally conscious, and collaborative community. 
Forestieri, K. (2021). San Mateo County plans to pair cops with mental health workers to help those in crisis. The 
Almanac. www.almanacnews.com/news/2021/01/25/san-mateo-county-plans-to-pair-cops-with-mental-health- 
workers-to-help-those-in-crisis 
Hollander, Y., Lee, S. J., Tahtalian, S., Young, D., & Kulkarni, J. (2012). Challenges relating to the interface between 
crisis mental health clinicians and police when engaging with people with a mental illness. Psychiatry, Psychology 
and Law, 19(3), 402–411. 
John W. Gardner Center for Youth and their Communities (2022). Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team 
Interim Report. Stanford University. (San Mateo County’s pilot program first year report) 
Julota. (2021). The pros and cons of co-responder programs. www.julota.com/news/the-pros-cons-of-a-co- 
responder- 
program/#:~:text=However%2C%20in%20the%20long%20term%2C%20the%20savings%20are,an%20average%20of  
person%20contacts%20per%20month. 
Krider, A. et al. (2020). Responding to Individuals In Behavioral Health Crisis Via Co-Responder Models: Roles of 
Cities, Counties, Law Enforcement and Providers. Policy Research Institute. 
www.theiacp.org/sites/default/files/SJCResponding%20to%20Individuals.pdf 
Medical Group Management Association. (2020). Better Together: Maximizing benefits of behavioral health in co- 
responder programs. www.mgma.com/MGMACustom/Error500.aspx? 
aspxerrorpath=/CMSPages/PortalTemplate.aspx 
National Alliance on Mental Illness. (2020). Mental Health By the Numbers. www.nami.org/mhstats 
United States Census Quick Facts (2020). San Mateo County, California. 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: All documents submitted as a part of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program proposal are 
public documents and may be subject to a request pursuant to the California Public Records Act. The BSCC 
cannot ensure the confidentiality of any information submitted in or with this proposal. (Gov. Code, § 6250 et seq.) 
 
130 of 224

--- page 131 ---
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
Appendix C: Criteria for Non-Governmental Organizations Receiving 
BSCC Grant Funds 
 
 
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program Request for 
Proposals (RFP) includes requirements that apply to non-governmental organizations 
that receive funds under this grant. All grantees are responsible for ensuring that any 
contracted third parties continually meet these requirements as a condition of receiving 
JAG funds. The RFP describes these requirements as follows: 
 
Any non-governmental organization that receives JAG funding (as either subgrantee or 
subcontractor) must: 
● Have been duly organized, in existence, and in good standing for at least six (6) 
months prior to the effective date of its fiscal agreement with the BSCC or with the 
JAG grantee; 
o Non-governmental entities that have recently reorganized or have merged 
with other qualified non-governmental entities that were in existence prior 
to the six-month date are also eligible, provided all necessary agreements 
have been executed and filed with the California Secretary of State prior to 
the start date of the grantee subcontractor fiscal agreement; 
● Be a nonprofit and recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) 
organization; 
● Be registered with the California Secretary of State’s Office; 
● Have an Employer Identification Number (EIN) or Taxpayer ID (if sole 
proprietorship); 
● Have a valid business license, if applicable; 
● Have any other state or local licenses or certifications necessary to provide the 
services requested (e.g., facility licensing by the Department of Health Care 
Services), if applicable; and 
● Have a physical address in the State of California. 
o An agent for service of process with a California address is insufficient. 
 
In the table below, provide the name of the Grantee and list all contracted parties. 
 
Grantee: 
Name of Contracted 
Party 
Address 
Email / Phone 
Meets All 
Requirements 
StarVista 
Sara Larios Mitchell 
610 Elm Street, 
Suite 212, 
San Carlos, CA 94070 
smitchell@star-vista.org 
(650) 591-9623 x 112 
Yes X No ☐ 
The Gardner Center 
520 Galvez Mall 
Stanford, CA 94305 
gerstein@stanford.edu 
(650) 736-2064 
Yes X No ☐ 
Yes ☐ No ☐ 
Yes ☐ No ☐ 
Yes ☐ No ☐ 
131 of 224

--- page 132 ---
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grantees are required to update this list and submit it to the BSCC any time a new third­ 
party contract is executed after the initial assurance date. Grantees shall retain (on-site) 
applicable source documentation for each contracted party that verifies compliance with 
the requirements listed in the JAG RFP. These records will be subject to the records and 
retention language found in Appendices A and C of the Standard Agreement. 
 
Unless prior approval is obtained, the BSCC prohibits disbursement or reimbursement to 
any NGO that does not meet the requirements listed above and for which the BSCC does 
not have a signed grantee assurance on file. 
 
A signature below is an assurance that all requirements listed above have been 
met. 
 
 
 
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE 
(This document must be signed by the person who is authorized to sign the Grant Agreement.) 
NAME OF AUTH RIZED OFFICER 
Lisa Mancini 
TITLE 
Interim Directo:, Behavioral Health and 
Recovery Services, San Mateo County 
TELEPHONE 
650_573_274a 
2000 Alameda de las Pulgas 
CITY 
San Mateo 
STATE 
CA 
ZIP CODE 
94403 
EMAIL ADDRESS 
lmancini@smcgov.org 
132 of 224

--- page 133 ---
Page 1 of 4 
 
 
 
Appendix D: Project Work Plan 
 
 
Goal 1: Years 1-3: Build capacity of partners, precincts, and county emergency services. 
Objectives (A., B., C…): 
A. Establish crisis intervention teams in high-need cities and precincts. 
B. Continue to build a co-responder program and county-wide co-response infrastructure. 
C. Provide professional development for co-response team members. 
D. Increase law enforcement requests for clinicians in response to emergency services calls. 
E. Improve effectiveness of participating cities’ response to emergency calls. 
F. Improve public health and safety. 
Project activities that support the identified goal and objectives: 
Responsible staff/ 
partners 
Timeline 
Start Date 
End Date 
1. Convene local JAG Steering Committee=CWCRT Advisory Council to provide 
project oversight and coordinate with state JAG Steering Committee. 
2. Partner with three high-need cities and police precincts, with high volumes of 
mental-health-related 911 calls: East Palo Alto (197), Menlo Park (180), and San 
Bruno (199). 
3. Hire and assign three highly trained and qualified mental health clinicians to high- 
need precincts in partner cities. 
4. Train/orient partner police department personnel in goals and objectives of the 
project. 
5. Train partner police and clinicians to collaborate as a co-response team. 
6. Monitor co-response team activities and outcomes; evaluate project 
implementation and effectiveness; prepare progress and annual evaluation reports. 
7. Inform and educate the public about the CWCRT project via community outreach 
and engagement; solicit feedback via community needs assessments. 
SMC BHRS Project 
Director; 
BHRS Management 
Analyst 
StarVista Dept. Director 
StarVista Program 
Manager and Program 
Coordinator 
StarVista Clinicians (3); 
Law Enforcement 
Partners (3); 
Gardner (evaluator) 
June 1, 
2023 
December 
31, 2023 
List data and sources to be used to measure outcomes: minutes of meetings; employment records; PD/training curriculum and schedule; 
911 call records; police records/documents; project PR campaign materials and website posts; project evaluation data (e.g., findings from 
surveys, interviews, observations, etc.) 
Goal 2: Years 1-3: Establish three co-response teams to respond to 911 calls with a known or suspected mental health crisis. 
Objectives (A., B., C...): 
A. Track 911 calls of partner police precincts. 
B. Delineate the role of law enforcement on the co-response team. 
C. Delineate the role of clinicians on the co-response team. 
D. Facilitate co-response team trust of partners and respect for each other’s roles. 
Project activities that support the identified goal and objectives: 
Timeline 
133 of 224

--- page 134 ---
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
Responsible staff/ 
partners 
Start Date 
End Date 
1. Collect 911 data; identify and evaluate call type (e.g., #/% mental health related). 
2. Take lead in securing public safety and facilitating resources (police officers). 
3. Take lead in assessing individuals in crisis and recommending responses 
(clinicians). 
4. Together determine the best response to resolve the crisis (police officers and 
clinicians). 
5. Make welfare checks (police officers and clinicians). 
6. Consult with the Homeless Outreach Teams (clinicians). 
7. Connect with the public using additional dispatch strategies (clinicians). 
8. Provide risk assessment, de-escalation, safety plan, referral to general mental 
health services (clinicians). 
StarVista Clinicians (3); 
Law Enforcement 
Partners (3); 
Gardner (evaluator) 
September 
1, 2023 
Ongoing 
List data and sources to be used to measure outcomes: 911 call log/records; police records/documents; clinician records and case notes; 
project evaluation data e.g., findings from surveys, interviews, observations) 
Goal 3: Years 1-3: De-escalate crises, assess client risk, and provide appropriate interventions and health services. 
Objectives (A., B., C…): 
A. Increase law enforcement requests for clinicians to be dispatched to behavioral health crisis 911 calls. 
B. Increase dispatch of clinicians to behavioral health crisis 911 calls. 
C. Support a collaborative, well-functioning co-response team. 
D. Make assessment of clients (clinicians). 
E. Make recommendations for appropriate interventions and behavioral health services (clinicians). 
Project activities that support the identified goal and objectives: 
Responsible staff/ 
partners 
Timeline 
Start Date 
End Date 
1. Train and team law enforcement and clinicians within high-need precincts. 
2. Dispatch clinicians on behavioral health crisis calls to assess clients. 
3. Make interventions and recommendations (clinicians). 
4. provide a continuum of care, follow up and referrals to resources (clinicians). 
5. Rely on clinician de-escalation strategies and recommendations (law 
enforcement). 
SMC BHRS Project 
Director; 
StarVista Dept. Director 
BHRS Training Consultant 
StarVista Training 
Consultant 
StarVista Clinicians (3); 
Law Enforcement 
Partners (3); 
January 1, 
2024 
Ongoing 
List data and sources to be used to measure outcomes: 911 call records; police records/documents; clinician records and case notes; project 
evaluation data e.g., findings from surveys, interviews, observations) 
 
134 of 224

--- page 135 ---
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
Goal 4: Years 1-3: Improve the CWCRT project and its impact on recipients. 
Objectives (A., B., C...): 
A. Reduce the use of deadly force in response to emergency calls. 
B. Reduce the number of arrests in response to emergency calls. 
C. Reduce the number of 5150 holds. 
D. Reduce involvement with the criminal justice system on the part of those in crisis. 
E. Reduce recidivism. 
F. Mitigate bias and racial/ethnic disparities. 
G. Improve the effectiveness of the project in achieving the goals and objectives. 
H. Add to the body of emergency response research. 
Project activities that support the identified goal and objectives: 
Responsible staff/ 
partners 
Timeline 
Start Date 
End Date 
1. Facilitate collaboration of co-response team to assess client and level of risk. 
2. Facilitate the use of appropriate strategies in response to 911 calls. 
3. Provide ongoing professional development for team members to improve 
project outcomes. 
4. Use evaluation findings to improve project design and outcomes. 
5. Prepare annual evaluation reports; disseminate evaluation findings and add 
to emergency response program research. 
6. Consult with local and state JAG Steering Committees. 
7. Collaborate with and solicit feedback from partners. 
8. Solicit feedback from the public via community needs assessments. 
SMC BHRS Project 
Director; 
StarVista Dept. Director 
BHRS and StarVista 
Training Consultants 
StarVista Clinicians (3); 
Law Enforcement 
Partners (3); 
Gardner (evaluator) 
January 1, 
2024 
Ongoing 
List data and sources to be used to measure outcomes: 911 call records; police arrest records and other documents; clinician records and 
case notes; PD/training curriculum and schedule; project evaluation data e.g., findings from surveys, interviews, observations) 
Goal 5: Year 3: Determine project effectiveness to inform improvements to program and county-wide replication. 
Objectives (A., B., C…): 
A. Assess project effectiveness/success: logistics; outcomes; cost-effectiveness, public response, etc. 
B. Determine project value for county-wide replication. 
C. Determine timeline, resources, logistics, implementation process, etc., need to go to scale. 
Project activities that support the identified goal and objectives: 
Responsible staff/ 
partners 
Timeline 
Start Date 
End Date 
1. Collect and analyze evaluation data. 
2. Compare project findings (#cities) with pilot findings (four cities). 
3. Generate final evaluation report. 
4. Make high-level decisions about replication and cost effectiveness. 
SMC leadership; 
CWCRT Advisory 
Council; 
Gardner (evaluator) 
June 1, 2023; 
January 1, 
2026 
June 30, 2026 
135 of 224

--- page 136 ---
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
END WORK PLAN 
 
 
List data and sources to be used to measure outcomes: project evaluation data; reports 
136 of 224

--- page 137 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 25-10298
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Basins 2 and 3, Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) Construction — Contract Contingency Increase
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve to the construction contract with Anderson Pacific Engineering 
Construction, Inc. for the Underground Flow Equalization System project in the amount of $600,000, for a new total 
revised contingency amount of $6,271,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute contract change orders 
within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes various projects to improve the City’s sanitary sewer system to improve flow 
management and increase capacity to prevent sanitary sewer overflows. Included in the Basins 2 and 3 project is the 
Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) Project, which consisted of constructing an underground storage tank of 
five million gallons and collection system improvements. 
On June 7, 2020, City Council awarded a construction contract to Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction Inc. (APEC) for 
construction of the UFES Project (Project) in the amount of $55,277,330 and approved a contingency reserve of 
$4,500,000. The contingency reserve was established to address and mitigate potential unknowns that may arise during 
construction and was approximately 8 percent of the agreement’s value. 
On August 16, 2021, City Council approved Contract Change Order No. 4 to the contract in the amount of $3,877,875 
adding construction of approximately 745 linear feet of new 30-inch sewer on Delaware Street between 25th and 28th 
Avenues to connect the southern end of the original scope to the northern end of the Delaware Relief Sewer construction 
package. At that time, Council also approved an increase to the contingency reserve in the amount of $400,000. On May 6, 
2024, Council approved a contingency increase of $771,000 for various activities related to final completion. 
In order to ensure a fully operational facility, the UFES facility requires performance testing, which occurred in February 
2025. During the testing, the UFES system received flow in excess of the tank capacity which overwhelmed the facility and 
resulted in flooding of the mechanical vault. APEC has been issued a Work Change Directive to proceed with repairing the 
damaged components of the mechanical vault and restore full functionality to the UFES facility. The total cost of this repair 
is estimated to be $522,000 and other potential changes including provision of a temporary odor control system, which are 
estimated to be $100,000. An increase to the contingency reserve is now requested because the remaining contingency 
balance of $62,879 is not sufficient to execute the anticipated change orders. 
To mitigate risks associated with SSOs, and to provide flexibility for staff to negotiate contract change orders in a timely 
manner, staff recommends increasing the contingency reserve by an additional $600,000, for a revised total contingency in 
the amount of $6,271,000. 
137 of 224

--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for this additional contingency amount is available within the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements 
(46s003) project budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Tom Williams, Senior Engineer
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
138 of 224

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-10263
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 2, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Improvements — Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update and provide direction to staff on the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane 
Improvements project.
BACKGROUND:
Project Overview & Background
The Delaware Safe Routes to School (SRTS) Corridor Project (Project) is a grant-funded initiative supported by $1.66 million 
from the State’s Active Transportation Program Cycle 5. The Project will enhance safety and connectivity for students 
accessing two public schools via Delaware Street and improve multimodal access to the Hillsdale and Hayward Park 
Caltrain stations.
The Project supports the City Council’s FY24-25 and 25-26 Priorities and is consistent with the adopted Bicycle Master Plan, 
particularly in completing high and medium-high priority corridors.
The project proposes to:
•
Upgrade bike infrastructure to physically separated (Class IV) bike lanes on Delaware Street from 19th to 28th 
Avenues
•
Convert Delaware Street into a bike boulevard south of 28th Avenue to the southerly limit of Delaware Street 
where it transitions to Pacific Blvd
•
Improve pedestrian crossings and curb ramps for ADA compliance
•
Implement safety enhancements for intersections, including new signals and crosswalk treatments
•
Maintain acceptable levels of vehicle congestion
Since the start of design work in late 2023, City staff conducted two phases of extensive community engagement to gather 
feedback on project elements and refine the design comprised in spring 2024 (Phase 1 outreach) and spring 2025 (Phase 2 
outreach), as outlined below. 
139 of 224

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Phase 1 – Spring 2024
•
Project Webpage – Provided project information, updates, and links (Online Survey, Online Presentation 
Recording, Design Concepts).
•
Outreach Materials – Distributed printed flyers, A-frames, mini-flyers/postcards, and posters at in-person pop-up 
events.
•
Online Survey – Collected input on travel habits, bikeway preferences, and safety enhancements (4/29/2024 – 
5/29/2024).
•
Online Video – Posted on City’s YouTube channel to present project background, funding sources, and design 
concept overview.
•
Door-to-Door Canvassing – Reached residents directly along the study corridor in addition to mailers.
•
School-Specific Outreach – Conducted targeted meetings with school populations.
•
Pop-Up Events – Engaged corridor users through in-person events.
Phase 2 – Spring 2025
•
Door-to-Door Canvassing – Continued outreach directly to residents.
•
Project Website Updates – Shared new project information online.
•
Public Meetings – Three offerings, and two of these offerings had a virtual attendance meeting option.
•
Mailers (English, Spanish, Simplified Chinese) – Over 10,000 San Mateo residents received mailers notifying them 
of the upcoming public meetings held at College Park Elementary and Nueva School in 3 languages.
•
County Events Center Meeting – Met with board of directors on 5/28/2025 and held conversations with Events 
Center Chief Executive Officer about the project.
•
A-Frame Posters – Installed along the corridor to notify residents and commuters of the upcoming public 
meetings.
•
San Mateo Consolidated Fire, San Mateo Police Department, and County OES meetings – Met with these 
agencies regarding the project design to assess any concerns from a public safety standpoint
•
Field Observations between Bermuda Dr to Saratoga Dr intersections – Staff observed conditions in the field to 
validate some of the resident concerns regarding persistent issues between this segment for buses, trucks, and 
delivery vehicles blocking bike lanes and vehicle travel lanes. Counted bikes/scooters using Delaware Street during 
these observations.
Summary of Key Community Concerns
During the second phase of outreach in April 2025, the City hosted two community meetings, one focused meeting for 
residents in the northern segment of the Project where more substantial parking and lane configuration changes were 
proposed, and a broader meeting to gather general feedback from the wider community. Staff also presented Project 
information to the San Mateo United Homeowners Association.
Feedback during this phase centered largely on the originally proposed reduction of southbound travel lanes between 
Bermuda Drive and Saratoga Drive. Residents and stakeholders raised concerns about increased congestion, particularly 
during school pick-up and drop-off periods, and during large-scale events at the San Mateo County Event Center. A 
recurring concern was that delivery and rideshare vehicles, which already park and block the existing bike lanes, could 
block the single remaining southbound lane, creating backups and impeding traffic flow.
The Event Center expressed additional concerns about the corridor’s ability to accommodate traffic during peak events. 
Emergency access also emerged as a key topic, with questions about how first responders would navigate the corridor 
under constrained conditions or respond effectively in a major incident.
Some residents flagged issues related to bus stop locations and changes to solid waste collection, particularly for multi-
family homes along the corridor. Ensuring that transit operations and essential services could continue without disruption 
was an important theme.
140 of 224

--- page 141 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
While much of the input focused on the northern segment, some concerns were also raised about a portion of the 
northbound bike lanes just north of 28th Avenue. Residents noted that delivery vehicles and short-term parking frequently 
block the existing Class II bike lanes, creating safety issues. Large trash bins are also often left in the bike lane, further 
impeding use. Feedback in this area focused on whether the project could help address these ongoing operational 
challenges.
Revised Project Design to Address Community Feedback from Phases 1 and 2
In response to community feedback, particularly regarding the proposed reduction of southbound lanes between Bermuda 
Drive and Saratoga Drive, City staff conducted a detailed evaluation of the Project’s design and its operational impacts. The 
original Project design proposed reducing the number of southbound travel lanes from two to one (from Bermuda Drive to 
Saratoga Drive) to create space for Class IV protected bike lanes, while preserving the majority of on-street parking.
To directly address operational concerns with the one-lane configuration, staff implemented the following strategies:
•
Confirmed with San Mateo Police, Fire, and the County Office of Emergency Services that emergency access would 
not be hindered by the proposed lane reduction.
•
Conducted field observations showing that large trucks currently block both lanes temporarily and that this 
condition would not be worsened by the new configuration.
•
Proposed a loading zone near Pacific Boulevard for delivery and rideshare vehicles to reduce travel lane 
obstructions.
•
Verified with SamTrans that bus operations near Mode Apartments would remain unaffected and that southbound 
vehicles would be able to pass a stopped bus in this area
•
Identified that all parcels along the west side of Delaware have usable driveways, reducing the need for curbside 
stops.
•
Initiated discussions with the San Mateo County Event Center to improve event-related traffic management, 
including a planned quarterly coordination process.
These efforts demonstrated that the concerns related to the single southbound lane configuration could be effectively 
addressed without compromising the Project’s goals. However, despite these mitigations, community concerns, 
particularly about congestion during peak periods and event traffic, persisted.
Rather than continuing along a path where substantial public opposition remained, staff reevaluated the design approach 
with a focus on preserving the second southbound travel lane, which emerged as the broader and more consistently 
expressed concern across outreach phases.
This led to the development of a revised design, which retains both southbound travel lanes between Bermuda Drive and 
Saratoga Drive. To fit the required bike and vehicle infrastructure within the existing right-of-way, the design narrows 
vehicle, bike, and buffer lanes to minimum allowable widths at the corridor’s narrowest point. The tradeoff for preserving 
the second travel lane is a greater reduction in on-street parking on the east side of Delaware Street, retaining 6 of the 
original 18 parking spaces (a loss of 8 more spaces compared to the original design).
Importantly, no comments were received during the prior outreach efforts from residents living directly along the segment 
where parking loss would occur. However, to further offset this impact, staff is exploring re-striping Pacific Boulevard west 
of Delaware Street to add approximately 3 to 6 new parking spaces.
The revised design maintains all key pedestrian improvements at Pacific Boulevard, including a slightly narrowed but fully 
compliant refuge island consistent with the original design. Waste collection staging is preserved in the public right-of-way, 
and coordination with Recology is ongoing to ensure smooth operations.
Additional changes further south of this area were also made near Montara Apartments (north of 28th Avenue), where the 
Project now adds short-term parking spaces and keeps the existing SamTrans bus stop in place (rather than moving the bus 
141 of 224

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
stop southerly closer to the 28th Avenue intersection in the original design). Trash bin staging will be moved to private 
property at no cost to the apartment complex, addressing past concerns about bike lane blockages.
Final Community Meeting and Public Feedback on Alternative B
The final community meeting was held on August 19, 2025, at College Park Elementary School in the Fiesta Gardens 
neighborhood to present the revised design and gather final community input. This meeting built on the earlier outreach 
phases and was held specifically to close the loop with residents and provide a clear comparison between the revised and 
original designs.
More than 21,000 multilingual notices were delivered to over 7,000 households in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese. 
A-frame signage and direct outreach, including door-to-door canvassing, were also used to ensure robust noticing and to 
garner participation, especially in the segment of South Delaware Street most impacted by the changes.
At the meeting, the revised design was generally supported by both supporters and prior opponents of the original design. 
Residents along the west side of Delaware Street appreciated that the revised plan preserved both southbound lanes while 
still incorporating protected bike lanes and driveway access.
While the revised approach resolved many concerns, some attendees continued to express worries about increased cut-
through traffic due to the retained travel lanes. Others were disappointed that the Project does not address the gap 
between Delaware Street and College Park Elementary along Bermuda Drive, which remains outside the current Project 
scope. There were also lingering concerns about the proposed bicycle boulevard south of 28th Avenue and its 
effectiveness in calming traffic and supporting safe biking.
Concerns about the loss of bicycle racks near Saratoga Drive and multimodal access to the Event Center were also raised. 
Event Center staff present at the meeting acknowledged these concerns and committed to considering improvements as 
part of any future redevelopment of the site.
Council Consideration and Next Steps
City staff recommends moving forward with the revised design for the 900-foot segment of South Delaware Street 
between Bermuda Drive and Saratoga Drive. The revised design was developed in direct response to ongoing community 
concerns about the previously proposed southbound travel lane reduction. It retains both southbound travel lanes while 
accommodating Class IV protected bike lanes in this segment along with key pedestrian improvements. Although it results 
in greater on-street parking loss compared to the original design, no comments have been received from residents living 
along the affected segment about this change. Regardless, staff is exploring opportunities to offset the parking loss 
through nearby modifications. Pending Council direction, staff will proceed with final design and advance the Project to 
construction in alignment with funding timelines, with continued notifications and updates to property owners and 
stakeholders.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving an informational update on the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane 
Improvements project. The Project consists of a variety of funding that include Measure A, the Bike San Mateo, Quick Build 
Mobility, and Citywide Pavement Rehabilitation projects, and the Sewer Fund, but most importantly is the ATP Cycle 5 
grant funds. $1.4M in ATP Cycle 5 funds have been incorporated into the 2025-26 project budget for construction, which 
was allocated by the California Transportation Commission on June 26, 2025.    
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action in receiving an informational update and providing direction for the Project is not a project subject to 
CEQA review, in that it consists of the planning for possible future actions which the City has not approved, adopted, or 
funded. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15262.)
142 of 224

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Delaware Bermuda - Saratoga Revised Design
STAFF CONTACT
Sang Hee Cho, Associate Engineer
scho@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7348
143 of 224

--- page 144 ---
19TH AVENUE
BERMUDA DRIVE
A
A'
B
B'
SECTION A-A'
63' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
80' ROW
11'
6'
11.5'
11'
16.5'
11'
13'
11'
11'
11'
5'
62' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
78' ROW
SECTION B-B'
11'
11'
5'
5'
PARKING
8'
11'
62' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
78' ROW
SECTION B-B'
*WIDTH OF BUFFER SHALL VARY FROM 8' TO 3' AS THE CURB TO CURB WIDTH OF THE
CORRIDOR VARIES THROUGHOUT THIS SECTION.
10'
11'
3'
5.5'
10'
5'
12.5'
4.5'
5.5'
*
80' ROW
SECTION A-A'
11'
6'
11'
5.5'
11'
63' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
80' ROW
11.5'
11'
13'
NOTES:
-
CONCEPTUAL, NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
-
GREEN BIKE LANE PAINT IS SHOWN FOR PRESENTATION PURPOSES ONLY. MORE DETAILED DESIGN STUDY REQUIRED.
-
SIGN DETAILS TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Delaware Street Safe Routes To School Project
Proposed Design
sandis.net
build on.
0'
1 INCH = 
80'
40'
20'
8'
40 FT
S. DELAWARE ST - 19TH AVE TO BERMUDA DR
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET EX-2
EX-1.0
EXISTING
PROPOSED
BIKE LANE STRIPING
1B
1A FLEXIBLE DELINEATORS
1
1
EXISTING
PROPOSED
S. DELAWARE ST -  BERMUDA DR TO PACIFIC BLVD
ON-STREET PARKING COMPARISON
S DELAWARE ST
PARALLEL PARKING
EXISTING
3
AB 413*
0
PROPOSED
0
DESIGN FEATURES INCORPORATED
FROM COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
K71 DELINEATORS
INTERSECTION OPERATION ANALYSIS
BERMUDA DRIVE / S. DELAWARE STREET
EXISTING CONDITIONS
PROPOSED CONDITIONS
LOS
DELAY
LOS
DELAY
WEEKDAY AM
PEAK HOUR
B
13.8
14.6
WEEKDAY PM
PEAK HOUR
B
12.4
12.9
144 of 224

--- page 145 ---
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
SARATOGA DRIVE
PACIFIC BOULEVARD
C
C'
D
D'
11'
5'
11'
6'
PARKING
62' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
73' ROW
SECTION C-C'
11'
5'
8'
11'
5'
11'
11'
5'
5'
11'
11'
11'
11'
5'
73' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
89' ROW
SECTION D-D'
8'
PARKING
6'
63' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
74' ROW
SECTION C-C'
10'
10'
5'
10'
10.5'
1.5'
5'
PARKING
8'
3'
5'
5'
10'
10'
10'
10'
10.5'
11'
73' CURB TO CURB WIDTH
89' ROW
SECTION D-D'
8'
PARKING
1.5'
5'
3'
5'
NOTES:
-
CONCEPTUAL, NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
-
GREEN BIKE LANE PAINT IS SHOWN FOR PRESENTATION PURPOSES ONLY. MORE DETAILED DESIGN STUDY REQUIRED.
-
SIGN DETAILS TO BE FINALIZED DURING DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
Delaware Street Safe Routes To School Project
Proposed Design
sandis.net
build on.
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET EX-3
EX-2.0
MATCHLINE - SEE SHEET EX-1
EXISTING
PROPOSED
EXISTING
PROPOSED
0'
1 INCH = 
80'
40'
20'
8'
40 FT
PEDESTRIAN REFUGE
BICYCLE SIGNAL
5
PARKING PROTECTED BIKEWAY
WITH FLEXIBLE BOLLARDS
3
2
RRFB
4
S. DELAWARE ST - BERMUDA DR TO PACIFIC BLVD.
S. DELAWARE ST - PACIFIC BLVD. TO SARATOGA DR
ON-STREET PARKING COMPARISON
S DELAWARE ST
PARALLEL PARKING
EXISTING
15
AB 413*
1
PROPOSED
6
DESIGN FEATURES INCORPORATED
FROM COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
PEDESTRIAN REFUGE ISLANDS
FLASHING WARNING LIGHTS (RRFB)
BIKE BOXES
K71 DELINEATORS
INTERSECTION OPERATION ANALYSIS
SARATOGA AVENUE / S. DELAWARE STREET
EXISTING CONDITIONS
PROPOSED CONDITIONS
LOS
DELAY
LOS
DELAY
WEEKDAY AM
PEAK HOUR
B
18.4
24.7
WEEKDAY PM
PEAK HOUR
B
15.5
23.1
145 of 224

--- page 146 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
146 of 224

--- page 147 ---
1
From:
Rick Ballard <
>
Sent:
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 1:57 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Agenda item 9: Please fully fund and approve the Delaware St. Safe Routes to School 
Corridor Bicycle Improvements project
Dear City Council, 
 
I'm wriƟng to urge your strong support for the Delaware St. Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements 
project. 
 
As someone who uses a bicycle as my primary mode of transit in San Mateo, I know ﬁrsthand how lacking our current 
street condiƟons are and how criƟcal safe infrastructure is for encouraging more people to choose cycling and walking 
over driving. Delaware St. is a vital corridor that should be accessible to everyone — especially the children and families 
traveling to and from our schools. 
 
This project directly supports our climate goals by making sustainable transportaƟon a viable choice for more residents. 
It also builds the kind of livable, connected city we want San Mateo to be: where kids can safely travel independently, 
where families can choose healthier transportaƟon opƟons, and where our streets serve all people. Every delay in 
building safe infrastructure represents conƟnued risk to our community members, especially our children. We have an 
opportunity this summer to make meaningful progress on our bicycle master plan and demonstrate our commitment to 
safe streets. 
 
Please ensure this project moves forward on schedule and with full funding. We all need safe streets, and our kids 
deserve safe routes to school. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Rick Ballard, 
San Mateo Resident, 
 
 
147 of 224

--- page 148 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Ximena Barisone <i

Date Tue 9/2/2025 7:14 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As
we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and
bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling
safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Ximena Barisone

148 of 224


--- page 149 ---
oh Outlook
Delaware Bike Project Support

From Maggie Bobbin {iia

Date Tue 9/2/2025 1:13 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

Please accept this letter as part of public comment for the Delaware
Safe Routes to School item before City Council.

I'd like to express my strong support for this project.
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4794/Delaware-Street-Safe-Routes-to-School-Co

San Mateo needs safer bicycle infrastructure to encourage more people
to bicycle and provide safe ways for students to get to and from

school. Burlingame has already taken this step with the class IV bike
lane on California ave, which I see students use to get to and from
school everyday. Why can't we do the same for students in San Mateo?

Additionally, city council members have previously commented during
the meeting regarding the Humboldt bike lanes that they believe that
the current infrastructure that has been installed in places like
Humboldt is still not safe enough that he would let his kids bicycle

in the bike lanes there. Please take the necessary steps to create
bicycle infrastructure on Delaware that is safe for everyone. Parents
shouldn't have to worry about their kids making it to and from school
safely. San Mateo can take the necessary steps to provide safety for
its residents.

Thank you,
Maggie Bobbin

149 of 224


--- page 150 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Karen Field [i

Date Mon 9/1/2025 6:45 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe! | am writing to ask you to
approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as originally proposed by the City's traffic
engineers, This design maximizes safety and comfort for residents and students who walk and
bike, especially around several schools.

As a teacher at San Mateo High School | have seen the aftermath of a student getting hit by a
car, it was horrific. We need more safe streets for both pedestrians and bicycles. We want
students to feel safe to walk and bike to school.

As a mother of a teenager who bikes, I want him and his friends to have safe access to routes
throughout San Mateo. My son and his friends have been biking from Hillsdale to downtown,
along very busy streets. | worry everytime about their safety. The Delaware Safe Routes to
school would give them that safe route to bike to downtown.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. As we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around
on foot and bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to
parents not feeling safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Karen Field

150 of 224


--- page 151 ---
oh Outlook

public comment for 9/2 meeting

From Danielle Gray hl
Date Tue 9/2/2025 3:50 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Public comment for agenda item 9 (Update on Delaware Safe Routes to Schools):

| am a City of San Mateo resident who lives in the Bay Meadows neighborhood and regularly cycles in
the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Lane Project Area. | bike and walk on this
section of Delaware Street to take my children to school, after school activities, parks, and destinations
like the YMCA. Much of the corridor is currently very intimidating in a cargo bike with young children,
with speeding traffic not watching out for cyclists and pedestrians.

| attended a public meeting about the project earlier this year and was very happy to see the proposed
Class IV parking separated bike lanes and the proposed road diet to reduce vehicle speeds and traffic
volumes.

| was unable to attend the most recent public meeting, and was appalled to hear that there is a new
proposal to remove the road diet element from the project and instead replace parking lanes for a
portion of the project area with additional vehicle traffic lanes. This is a short-sighted proposal that will
make traffic on the corridor more dangerous and unpleasant for all road users. Adding road capacity
will encourage increased cut-through traffic from I-92 in what is already a busy corridor. Having fewer
lanes is safer for pedestrians and cyclists and reduces overall traffic volumes for automobile drivers
and buses. Staff and consultants at the earlier meeting indicated that the road diet was not expected
to unduly impact vehicle congestion in the area; removing the road diet and instead adding vehicle
capacity will unnecessarily increase vehicle traffic, increasing congestion and adding areas of potential
conflict, making the road more dangerous and less pleasant for everyone.

| am also concerned to hear about the proposal to locate the bus stop in the bike lane on Delaware
Street. At the meeting | attended there was discussion of putting the bus stop in the vehicle lane on
28th Street instead of blocking the bicycle lane on Delaware Street. 28th street is a much safer
alternative. And I'm disappointed that there are no proposals to address the “sharrows" between 31st
and 28th Street. This is a busy area with impatient drivers (especially rideshare drivers) conflicting with
bicycles, pedestrians and other vehicles, and these sharrows do nothing to help matters.

This project is a wonderful opportunity to use best practices in traffic planning to keep cyclists and
pedestrians safe and reduce congestion for automobiles. Thank you for supporting safer roadways for

all.

Sincerely,
Danielle Gray

151 of 224


--- page 152 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Olivia Kotler [is

Date Mon 9/1/2025 6:28 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

When I think of San Mateo the first thing that comes to mind is a city where people can safely
walk and bike everywhere. My family and many of our friends walk or bike whenever possible.
There are days where I never get into my car. | believe that our city council prioritizes the safety
of our children on bikes and everyone else who chooses to use this environmentally friendly
mode of transportation. Our bicyclists need to be protected. Our students deserve a safe way to
get to school. The Bay Area is known for being a place where people can get around without
cars. Becoming less bicycle friendly would be a move backwards. Please approve the bicycle
lane proposal. As residents for over a decade with three kids in San Mateo schools we stand
with the cyclists.

Olivia Kotler

152 of 224


--- page 153 ---
oh Outlook

I support the Delaware Street Safe Routes To School Project

From Anna Lieb
Date Mon 9/1/2025 9:04 PM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

| am writing in to express my strong support of the original proposal for the Delaware Street Safe
Routes to School Project. | voiced this support in the city council meeting in May, and although | will
not be able to attend the meeting tomorrow night, | want to make sure you know | still support the
project!

| am a working mother of two young children, and | like to get around by bike because it gets me fresh
air and exercise, reduces our carbon footprint, and lets us connect more with our surroundings. | am
also constantly worried about safety in San Mateo, and I'm happy and relieved to see our city putting
effort into making our city safer for people who bike, walk, or scooter. Please build the protected bike
lanes, ASAP!

| do want to note that I think that the alternative proposal presented a few weeks ago to add back an
additional travel lane between Bermuda and Pacific is a bad idea, for several reasons:

1. The additional travel lane will attract more vehicle traffic and incentivize higher speeds, reducing
safety for peds and cyclists

2. Removing parking has led to bitter rifts in my neighborhood, North Central. | do not want to see
more divisive rhetoric in our city.

3. My understanding of the rationale for the additional travel lane is that it will reduce congestion
when there are big events at the Event Center. However, these events are rare and congestion is
inevitable at these times. The Event Center has great connections to public transit -- let's encourage
that instead! Please do not sacrifice the safety of peds and cyclists to shave off a few minutes of
waiting time for events that happen only a few times per year.

Making this route safer has clear benefits for the many families with children attending schools in the
area, as well as people who commute from the Event Center or Hillsdale Caltrain, or those who need to
run errands in the shopping center nearby. Safe, protected bike lanes will empower more people to
get around by bicycle or scooter.

| have personal experience with this -- | used to bike from North Central to the Event Center to take a
shuttle bus to work. When I| was pregnant with my second child, | stopped biking, even though my
doctor said cycling was allowable, because | didn't feel safe enough on any route to the Event Center.
With protected bike lanes and slower vehicle speeds, | would be much more comfortable cycling in
this part of our city.

Please do not ignore the hard work the city planning department has done to envision a safe,
sustainable, and inclusive future for Delaware street. Please prioritize safety over convenience and go
with the original proposal.

153 of 224


--- page 154 ---
154 of 224

--- page 155 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Erin Livingston [irr

Date Tue 9/2/2025 11:51 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As
we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and
bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling
safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Erin Livingston

155 of 224


--- page 156 ---
oh Outlook

Delaware Safe Routes to School Project

Date Tue 9/2/2025 8:21 AM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Allison MacQueen Felder

Hello San Mateo City Council,

Please approve the first street-side separated & protected bike lanes in San Mateo via this Safe
Routes to School project:

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4794/Delaware-Street-Safe-Routes-to-School-Co

This project enhances pedestrian and bicycle safety, directly impacting two schools and access to
Hillsdale Caltrain, which is the largest Caltrain stop in San Mateo per Caltrain's 2024 ridership report,
and the #7 stop in Caltrain's 29 stop network. https://www.caltrain.com/media/34265

This project also enhances bicycle access to Hillsdale Mall, the site of future impending housing
redevelopment. Current development plans show interest in bike infrastructure, which only enhances
the utility in the Delaware segment, creating a safe walking and biking network in San Mateo.

My daughter and her friends would like to ride their bikes to Hillsdale Mall, a route which is currently
unsafe and prohibitive. This project connects to the northern Delaware Bike Lanes and the
pedestrian/bicycle crossing improvements under construction right now at Hillsdale and El Camino
(site of a pedestrian fatality Nov 2024). This project will give my daughter and her friends the
confidence to bike safely and independently and many others who are trying to get to school, transit,
work or wherever they want to go.

This project is grant funded, shovel ready, green lighted by San Mateo Police and Fire departments,
and will have immediate impact on the safety of folks who call San Mateo home.

Please vote yes to create Safe Streets for Everyone in San Mateo.

Allison MacQueen
San Mateo resident

156 of 224


--- page 157 ---
oh Outlook

Support for Delaware Bike Project

From Max Mautner
Date Tue 9/2/2025 12:53 AM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please accept this letter as part of public comment for the Delaware Safe Routes to School
item before City Council.

We express our strong support for this project.

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4794/Delaware-Street-Safe-Routes-to-School-Co

We've followed the project plan’s progression as a small but critical piece of San Mateo’s
Bicycle Master Plan to its currently proposed form. It has taken years.

Please honor the city's stated priority to build a safe bicycling network.

Residents benefit from having alternative transportation choices to the car—in terms of
household finance, public health, and lower costs to the city in maintaining road
infrastructure.

But perhaps most importantly this project is for the mobility needs of families and our
community's children—providing protected bike lanes to the new College Park Elementary
School, Nueva School and more.

As you review the project in its last stages, bear in mind that school attendance is mandatory
5 days a week throughout the school year, and it generates a massive share of our

community's vehicle congestion.

Please center the safety of our city’s residents and school children in this conversation—not
vehicle speeds—and place your trust in our city staff's traffic analysis.

Thank you,
Max Mautner & Jessica Fleeman

157 of 224


--- page 158 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Flower Miler {ia

Date Mon 9/1/2025 11:56 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello San Mateo City Council,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't drive.
| am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as originally proposed
by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for residents and students
who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts’ original design in the interest of higher auto speeds.
Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As we add
housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and bike. Failure
to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling safe letting their
kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Best Regards,

Flower Miller

158 of 224


--- page 159 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Ana Salotti [i

Date Mon 9/1/2025 9:54 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| bike everywhere in San Mateo, especially back and forth schools, taking my daughter to school.
My family and many others might already be impacted by the potential removal of Humboldt bike
lanes. This would be devastating for my family, as live on Humboldt and take the bike lane every
single day to school, go grocery shopping and other errands. Adding Delaware would be
tremendously helpful to add more bike lanes to San Mateo. Safety should be the most important
aspect in traffic. Removing or not adding bike lanes is paramount to safety.

As we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot
and bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not
feeling safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Ana Salotti

159 of 224


--- page 160 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

Date Tue 9/2/2025 6:10 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

This is an important and personal matter to me. | was hit by a car while biking in Sunnyvale. We
devote far too much of San Mateo to cars. Let's start to balance this better.

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As
we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and
bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling
safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Dan Schonberg

160 of 224


--- page 161 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

From Mariam Teimoradch la

Date Tue 9/2/2025 3:37 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As
we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and
bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling
safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Mariam Teimorzadeh

161 of 224


--- page 162 ---
oh Outlook
Approve Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor project

Date Tue 9/2/2025 12:00 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor and Councilmembers,

I'm writing to voice my strong support for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor
project, and to urge you to vote in favor of its approval under Agenda Item #23 tonight.

As a San Mateo resident and a parent, I know how hard it is to feel safe letting children walk or bike in
our city. We talk a lot about active transportation and environmental goals, but they remain out of
reach for many families—simply because the infrastructure doesn’t feel safe enough.

This project—San Mateo’s first protected bike lane corridor—is a real opportunity to change that. It
will connect kids to schools, families to parks and neighborhoods, and all of us to a more livable,
breathable city. It’s fully funded by Caltrans through Active Transportation Program grants and was
developed with public feedback. It's shovel-ready and cost-effective.

In contrast to recent decisions that have walked us backward on street safety, this project moves us
forward.

Please prioritize this plan and make sure we're doing everything we can to protect our youngest and
most vulnerable road users—not after the next tragedy, but now.

Thank you for your leadership and your continued commitment to safer, smarter streets.
Warm regards,

Mariana d' Abreu Tiwari
North Central resident

162 of 224


--- page 163 ---
oh Outlook

Please approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as Originally Recommended By City
Engineers

Date Tue 9/2/2025 11:24 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

City Clerk Martin McTaggart,

Thank you for your efforts to keep the streets of San Mateo safe, especially for those who don't
drive. | am writing to ask you to approve the Delaware Safe Routes to School Project as
originally proposed by the City's traffic engineers. This design maximizes safety and comfort for
residents and students who walk and bike, especially around several schools.

| urge the Council not to water down experts' original design in the interest of higher auto
speeds. Auto congestion is currently tolerable, even on days when the Events Center is busy. As
we add housing units in this area, we need to make it safe for people to get around on foot and
bike. Failure to do so will result in far more auto congestion, especially due to parents not feeling
safe letting their kids walk , bike, or take transit to school.

Thank you for your consideration and please let me know whether you support the project in its
current, safest form.

Lindsay White

163 of 224


--- page 164 ---
S. Delaware 
Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike 
Lane 
Improvements Project
City Council Meeting
September 2, 2025
164 of 224

--- page 165 ---
Council Feedback
Does council support staff's recommendation to move 
forward with the Revised Design and proceed with bidding 
the project?
2
165 of 224

--- page 166 ---
Presentation Agenda
1.
Brief Project Overview 
2.
Community Engagement Efforts
3.
Revised Project Design and Final Community Meeting
4.
Summary / Council Discussion
3
166 of 224

--- page 167 ---
Project Goals
•
Improve Bicyclist + Pedestrian Safety
•
Parking Retention
•
Traffic Operations
4
167 of 224

--- page 168 ---
5
General Plan 2040 Policies and Actions 
•
Policy C 1.1: Sustainable Transportation. Reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from transportation 
by increasing mode share options for sustainable travel modes, such as walking, bicycling, and public transit. 
•
Policy C 1.2: Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects in the public right-of-way and on private 
property. Complete streets are streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age or ability or 
whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving, and should include landscaping and shade trees as well as green streets 
stormwater infrastructure to reduce runoff and pollution. 
•
Policy C 1.3: Vision Zero. Use a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, emergency response, and 
maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities to improve safety where conflicts between users exist to eliminate traffic fatalities and 
serious injuries in our roadways. 
•
Policy C 1.4: Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize local pedestrian and bicycle projects that enhance mobility, 
connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection improvements. 
•
Action C 4.9: Bicycle Master Plan Implementation. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended programs and projects to create 
and maintain a fully connected, safe, and logical bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. Update the Bicycle Master 
Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future bicycle and micromobility facility needs to support the City’s circulation network. 
•
Action C 5.13: Safe Routes to Transit. Prioritize bicycle and pedestrian improvement projects that provide safe and equitable access to 
transit stops. 
168 of 224

--- page 169 ---
6
2025-2026 City Council Priorities
•
No. 28: Prioritize planning, design, construction and maintenance of rapid 
safety improvement projects citywide…
•
No. 40: Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian Master Plan with the goal of 
prioritizing quick-build projects where feasible.
169 of 224

--- page 170 ---
Project Overview
170 of 224

--- page 171 ---
Winter
Augus
t
Sept
Winter
April
May
2024
2025
Traffic & 
Parking 
Analysis Ὡ
Stakeholder and 
Community 
Engagement (Ph 
1)
Project Bid 
& Award 
Project Design 
Construct 
Project Ὢ
Preliminary 
Design 
…Aug
Sept
Project Status
ATP 
project 
funding
2020-
2021
8
Oct
Fall to Winter 
2026
= Council meeting
= Community meeting
Follow-up
Community 
Engagement
(Ph 2)
Sept 
2
171 of 224

--- page 172 ---
“ o
Bicycle Master Plan *,"\\s .
Po \

Proposed Bicycle Network

Bicycle Facilities
Existing

=== Shared Use Path
-— Buffered Bike Lane
“= Bike Lane

“= Bike Route

SNK

) ox. Wr woe &

a Pl _

Proposed
=== Shared Use Path wa
Rail Lines
=== Separated Bike Lane
Parks
=== Buffered Bike Lane
=== Bike Lane

Bicycle Boul 7 Water
=== Bicycle Boulevar .
y © Intersection Treatments

«== Bike Route Requiring further study =)
_ é a at no

~) Caltrain Stations

FOOIS

172 of 224


--- page 173 ---
173 of 224

10

-

"Plan

le Master

Bicyc


--- page 174 ---
Project Limits
11
●Delaware Street between 19th 
Avenue and Pacific Boulevard
○19th to 28th: 
0.7 Mi Protected Bikeway
○28th to Pacific: 
0.3 Mi Bicycle Boulevard
174 of 224

--- page 175 ---
Community Engagement Efforts
175 of 224

--- page 176 ---
Phase 1 – Spring 2024
•
Door-to-Door canvassing
•
A-frame messaging
•
Project Website
•
Online Survey
•
Pop-up events
•
Recorded Project Presentation
•
S&I updates (Bike & Ped)
•
Meetings with schools
13
Phase 2 – Spring 2025
•
Door-to-Door canvassing
•
A-frame messaging
•
Project Website updates
•
Two public meetings offerings in 
April (one with virtual option)
•
200 mailers sent in English 
and Spanish and 16 flyers 
handed out for local meeting
•
Over 2,000 mailers sent in 
both English and Spanish for 
broader community meeting
•
City Council Regular Meeting
•
County Events Center meeting
•
Final community meeting 
(Summer 2025)
Outreach Efforts through 
Spring 2025
176 of 224

--- page 177 ---
Feedback Themes through 
Spring 2025
§Southbound lane reduction between Bermuda and Saratoga
§ Impacts to Event Center access during large events
§ Buses, trucks, delivery vehicles blocking travel lane
§ Emergency vehicle access
§Centerline striping between Bermuda and Saratoga
§ Ability to make left turns into and out of driveways 
§Vehicles blocking bike lane north of 28th Avenue
§Students excited to use Delaware St to bike more to school
14
177 of 224

--- page 178 ---
Activities Since Phase 2 Community Meetings
§ City Council regular meeting on 5/5/2025
§ Resolution of dumpster staging problem north of 28th
§ Revised design to address parked vehicles in bike lanes post-project
§ Meetings with San Mateo County Events Center staff
§ Fire, SMPD, OES conversations for design approval
§ Observations made between Bermuda to Saratoga
§ Counting bikes/scooter users, semi truck movements into Keller Plumbing, 
lane blockages from delivery vehicles
§ Revised Design for Bermuda-Saratoga
§ Explores additional parking on Pacific Blvd to mitigate parking impacts in this 
revision
§ Samtrans coordination meetings
15
178 of 224

--- page 179 ---
Revised Project Design and Final 
Community Meeting
179 of 224

--- page 180 ---
Delaware between 
Bermuda and Saratoga
18
180 of 224

--- page 181 ---
S Delaware St
Bermuda Dr
19
§ 2 SB through lanes to 1 
lane (Bermuda to 
Saratoga)
§
Redistribute width to 
accommodate bike facilities & 
retain parking (east side)
§
Retain 14 of the existing 
parking spaces on the east 
side of Delaware
§
Overall reduction of 4 
parking spaces
§
NB travel lanes must remain to 
serve traffic headed to SR-92
ORIGINAL Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
181 of 224

--- page 182 ---
Bermuda Dr
Pacific 
Blvd
Saratoga Dr
20
ORIGINAL Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
182 of 224

--- page 183 ---
21
Pacific Blvd
Saratoga Dr
ORIGINAL Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
183 of 224

--- page 184 ---
Pacific 
Blvd
Saratoga Dr
22
REVISED Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
184 of 224

--- page 185 ---
§ Retain 2 SB through 
lanes from Bermuda to 
Saratoga
§
Retain 6 of the existing 18 
parking spaces on the east 
side of Delaware in favor of 
keeping the vehicle lane
§
Overall reduction of 12 
parking spaces, based on 
City standard parking 
space lengths
§
Staff reviewing options for 
additional parking on Pacific 
Blvd to partially offset parking 
losses on Delaware
§
Additional, easily 
accessible loading zone 
Saratoga Dr
23
REVISED Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
Pacific 
Blvd
185 of 224

--- page 186 ---
Saratoga Dr
24
REVISED Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
§ Retain 2 SB through 
lanes from Bermuda to 
Saratoga
§
Retain 6 of the existing 18 
parking spaces on the east 
side of Delaware in favor of 
keeping the vehicle lane
§
Overall reduction of 12 
parking spaces, based on 
City standard parking 
space lengths
§
Staff reviewing options for 
additional parking on Pacific 
Blvd to partially offset parking 
losses on Delaware
§
Additional, easily 
accessible loading zone 
Pacific 
Blvd
186 of 224

--- page 187 ---
Delaware St
25
REVISED Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
§ Retain 2 SB through 
lanes from Bermuda to 
Saratoga
§
Retain 6 of the existing 18 
parking spaces on the east 
side of Delaware in favor of 
keeping the vehicle lane
§
Overall reduction of 12 
parking spaces, based on 
City standard parking 
space lengths
§
Staff reviewing options for 
additional parking on Pacific 
Blvd to partially offset parking 
losses on Delaware
§
Additional, easily 
accessible loading zone 
187 of 224

--- page 188 ---
Delaware St
26
REVISED Design
Bermuda to Saratoga
Bermuda Dr
§ Retain 2 SB through 
lanes from Bermuda to 
Saratoga
§
Retain 6 of the existing 18 
parking spaces on the east 
side of Delaware in favor of 
keeping the vehicle lane
§
Overall reduction of 12 
parking spaces, based on 
City standard parking 
space lengths
§
Staff reviewing options for 
additional parking on Pacific 
Blvd to partially offset parking 
losses on Delaware
§
Additional, easily 
accessible loading zone 
188 of 224

--- page 189 ---
REVISED Design
Parking counts
Existing 
Parking Spaces
Proposed 
Parking Spaces
Parking Loss
Original Design
18
14
- 4
Revised Design
18
6
- 12
Difference of 8 parking spaces lost* between 
Original and Revised Design
*Does not include potential increase of parking spaces 
and provision of loading zone on Pacific Blvd, which 
would mitigate these losses
189 of 224

--- page 190 ---
Additional Design Changes
190 of 224

--- page 191 ---
ORIGINAL Design:

Traffic
“ae ~e

=
=

191 of 224


--- page 192 ---
NEW Design:
Traffic
30
Left turns now permitted into driveways
192 of 224

--- page 193 ---
NEW Design:
Traffic
31
S Delaware St
E 28th Ave
ORIGINAL 
Design:
193 of 224

--- page 194 ---
NEW Design:
Traffic
32
S Delaware St
E 28th Ave
Additional bollard protection, 
designated short term parking for 
delivery vehicles
NEW 
Design:
194 of 224

--- page 195 ---
NEW Design:
Traffic
33
S Delaware St
Ave
Additional bollard protection, 
designated short term parking for 
delivery vehicles
NEW 
Design:
E 28th Ave
195 of 224

--- page 196 ---
Final Community Meeting
196 of 224

--- page 197 ---
35
Final Community Meeting
•
August 19, 2025
•
College Park Elementary
•
7,000 mailers sent in each 
language – English, Spanish, 
Simplifed Chinese
•
10 A-frames posters along 
corridor - English, Spanish, Chinese
•
Door knocking about parking 
losses on Delaware
•
36 Single family residences, 8 
duplexes
•
Mode apartment resident emails
•
4 apartment complexes, Ironwood 
HOA communications
•
Discussed changes to original 
design, including Revised Design 
between Bermuda-Saratoga and 
other changes at 28th Ave & 
Delaware St intersection
197 of 224

--- page 198 ---
36
Final Community Meeting
•
25 attendees
•
Feedback received:
• Concerns about proposed addition of 
the SB travel lane
• Question if bike lane widths were 
sufficient
• Concerns about bike boulevard 
treatment from 28th Ave to project end
• Appreciate changes north of 28th Ave
• Desired more changes on Bermuda Dr 
along with this project
• Appreciation for retaining the SB 
through lane from Bermuda Dr to 
Saratoga Dr
• Question on staff making data driven 
decisions for the Southbound left turns 
from Delaware onto Saratoga
• Concerns about walking and biking to 
get to Events Center being particularly 
difficult, forcing attendees to drive
198 of 224

--- page 199 ---
Summary
199 of 224

--- page 200 ---
Project Summary
•
General Plan Policies and Actions alignment
•
City Council Priority No. 28 & No. 40
•
Bike Master Plan – High Priority Project
•
Community feedback
•
Traffic Calming/Speeding
•
Bike/Ped Improvements
•
Concerns about lane reduction
•
Revised Design to address this
•
Continued coordination with Events Center
•
Project goals
•
Bike/Ped Safety
•
Parking Retention
•
Traffic Operations
38
200 of 224

--- page 201 ---
Next Steps
39
•
Fall 2025 - Bid project
•
November/December 2025 - Award project for construction
•
January 2026 – Contractor Notice to Proceed
•
February to April 2026 – Phase 1 Construction
•
September to December 2026 – Phase 2 Construction (signal 
equipment)
201 of 224

--- page 202 ---
Council Discussion
202 of 224

--- page 203 ---
Council Feedback
Does council support staff's recommendation to move 
forward with the Revised Design and proceed with bidding 
the project?
41
203 of 224

--- page 204 ---
Questions + Comments?
204 of 224

--- page 205 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10312
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 2, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce: 2025-26 Work Plan — Presentation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation from the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce on the 2025-26 Work Plan.
BACKGROUND:
Each year, the City of San Mateo contributes $90,000 to the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce in support of 
programs and initiatives that benefit local businesses and the broader community. The first $70,000 supports the primary 
Work Plan, which includes:
1.
Business Attraction and Retention
2.
Targeted Business District Activation
3.
Civic Engagement and Workforce Development
4.
Convening, Informing, and Policy Advocacy
These focus areas are generally longstanding but were further developed this year by the Chamber, in partnership with 
City staff, to foster a vibrant business community that supports the needs of its users, engages the community, and 
attracts visitors to the area. The work plan is included as Attachment 1.
The other $20,000 supports the Chamber’s LeadForward Program, which was retooled this past year to provide a forum 
for cross-sector relationship-building, partnerships, and mentorship for leaders throughout the area. As part of the City’s 
contribution, the program provides four slots and twelve executive coaching sessions to City leadership staff.
At the September 2 meeting, Council will also hear highlights from 2024/25, including the Best of San Mateo Area, the 
September Arts & Culture Fest, and feedback on the changes to LeadForward, which were well received by participants.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No impact – the annual contribution has already been budgeted and issued.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
205 of 224

--- page 206 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – FY 2025-26 Chamber Work Plan 
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager 
Chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7210
206 of 224

--- page 207 ---
July 3, 2025 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager 
Christina Horrisberger, Assistant City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Re: FY 2025-26 Work Plan and Funding Proposal 
Dear Alex and Christina, 
It was a pleasure speaking with you both last week and sharing our 
proposed work plan for fiscal year 2025-26. As noted in our 
conversation, we've closely followed the City's progress on its 
economic development framework and have designed our plan to 
align with those priorities. 
We believe our continued partnership will help to meaningfully 
advance your strategic goals-diversifying the economy, attracting 
and retaining businesses, and fostering sustainable economic 
growth. 
We are truly grateful for the City's past support and are pleased to 
submit our request for continued investment at the $90,000 level. 
Thank you again for your partnership and thoughtful consideration 
of this request. 
Warm regar@ f
tNW)) 
Erica Wood 
President & CEO 
Attachment - FY 2025-26 Work Plan 
207 of 224

--- page 208 ---
ATTACHMENT - FY 2025-26 PROPOSED WORK PLAN  
FOR THE SAN MATEO AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce (the Chamber) has outlined a proposed work 
plan for FY 2025–26 centered around four strategic focus areas: business attraction and 
retention; targeted activation of key business districts; civic engagement and workforce 
development; and convening, informing, and advocating on public policy. These priorities are 
designed to advance the City’s economic development goals while aligning with the 
Chamber’s mission to foster a vibrant local economy and community. 
A summary of proposed activities under each focus area is provided below. These activities 
were initially presented at the June 24 meeting and have been refined based on feedback 
received during the meeting and further input from Chamber staff. 
1.
Business Attraction and Retention
1.1. 
Create an enhanced licensing and onboarding process for new businesses, including
welcome kit with economic development resources accessible from the City and 
Chamber websites. 
1.2. Provide high value business development services for members and non-members 
through quarterly webinars, 1:1 mentoring through the Chamber’s Business Assistance 
Center, monthly business-to-business referrals and networking opportunities and 
ribbon-cutting ceremonies. 
1.3. Promote and connect minority- and women-owned businesses as well as age-
friendly businesses with certification opportunities and resources. 
1.4. Work with City on a shared early warning approach / communication process for 
troubled businesses, including those considering relocation. 
1.5. Promote and celebrate business excellence through annual shop local campaign 
and Best of San Mateo Area awards celebration. 
2.
Targeted Business District Activation
2.1. Partner with City and DSMA on downtown planning, programs, and events (Farmer’s
Market, September Nights on B Street, Lunar New Year and Boba Day); identify 
opportunities to include Latinx businesses and residents. 
2.2. Help promote the Downtown Specific Plan process with Chamber members; ensure 
participation of local businesses to support City community outreach activities. 
2.3. Develop and execute 3rd annual September Arts & Culture Fest event. 
2.4. Expand businesses participating in the 25th Avenue Collective, guide and support 
planning of events, including Winter Wonder Walk.  
2.5. Explore opportunities for public art in 1-2 business districts and ways to support / 
promote City’s Art in Public Places Program. 
2.6. Pilot dedicated Facebook / Instagram page for 1-2 business districts (beyond 
downtown) to spotlight shops, cafes, restaurants, services, and experiences. 
208 of 224

--- page 209 ---
ATTACHMENT - FY 2025-26 PROPOSED WORK PLAN  
FOR THE SAN MATEO AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
3.
Civic Engagement and Workforce Development
3.1. Plan and execute LeadForward 2026, including orientation kickoff meeting, 3-day
retreat experience, and post-retreat dinner. Ensure participation of employees from 
larger companies (e.g., Roblox, Franklin Templeton, commercial developers). 
3.2. Organize an annual community service project with Leadership alumni aligned with 
City opportunities and needs. Consult with City Manager’s Office and Community 
Relations Committee. 
3.3. Partner with City to complete inventory of organizations and institutions providing 
workforce development programs within the City of San Mateo; make information 
available through City and Chamber websites. 
3.4. Organize a job fair / career day to connect youth with local job opportunities in 
partnership with the City, College of San Mateo and local high schools. 
4.
Convening, Informing and Policy Advocacy
4.1. Hold monthly public policy committee meetings aligned with City priorities and
initiatives, including potential sales tax measure. 
4.2. Design and execute Good Morning San Mateo forum for business, government and 
community leaders focused on the economic outlook and major trends impacting 
San Mateo. 
4.3. Organize 3-4 developer roundtable meetings to identify opportunities for commercial 
development process improvements. 
4.4. Lead 1-2 strategic input sessions with larger firms to inform economic development 
plan (include gaming and fintech representatives). 
4.5. Partner with SF Peninsula, San Mateo County Events Center and others to make San 
Mateo the place to host a major gaming and / or watch parties associated with next 
year’s NFL / FIFA sporting events.  
Funding Justification 
The Chamber is requesting $90,000 to help cover the direct program expenses associated 
with the activities listed above, including staff salaries and benefits, materials and supplies, 
event-related expenses (venue, food, vendors, and fees), marketing and communications 
(printing and social media), speaker honoraria and consultant support. The Chamber also 
raises funds from its business members, board members, sponsors, and grants to support 
these expenses. 
The Chamber is pleased to name the City as a title sponsor for the September Arts & Culture 
Fest and provide associated benefits, including stage time and a complimentary booth, three 
Mayor-designated awards as part of the Best of San Mateo Area campaign and four 
complimentary spots for City staff in LeadForward 2026. 
209 of 224

--- page 210 ---
San Mateo Area 
Chamber of 
Commerce: 
2025-26 Work Plan-
Presentation
Christina Horrisberger 
Assistant City Manager
210 of 224

--- page 211 ---
ANNUAL UPDATE

September 2, 2025

@ee
Sa

San Mateo Area



--- page 212 ---
BUILDING MEMBER 
MOMENTUM
$317,299
356
“Being part of BRN has 
helped us get more business 
and build strong relationships 
-- not only work related but 
friendships.”
701
212 of 224

--- page 213 ---
ENERGIZING OUR DOWNTOWN
ENERGIZING OUR DOWNTOWN
5,000+
213 of 224

--- page 214 ---
NICOLE FERNANDEZ 
District 2 
 DR. CHARLES HANSEN
District 2 
 DANIELLE CWIRKO-
GODYCKI
District 4 
POLICY IN ACTION
POLICY IN ACTION
7,015
214 of 224

--- page 215 ---
LEAD
FORWARD
WHAT IT IS
WHAT IT IS
WHAT PARTICIPANTS GAIN
WHAT PARTICIPANTS GAIN
• A powerful network
A powerful network
• Stronger leadership 
Stronger leadership 
• Real-world impact
Real-world impact
An immersive 3-day retreat with 
An immersive 3-day retreat with 
pre- and post-retreat gatherings and 
pre- and post-retreat gatherings and 
community service opportunities
community service opportunities
215 of 224

--- page 216 ---
LEAD FORWARD RESULTS
LEAD FORWARD RESULTS
100%
“The location was serene and folded 
into the experience beautifully”
“The personal stories were 
exceptional”
“Loved meeting leaders in my 
community and the opportunities 
for partnership and growth”
“I loved the workshops and left with 
really tangible skills”
“It ignited my passion for becoming 
more involved in community”
216 of 224

--- page 217 ---
VOTED BEST

217 of 224


--- page 218 ---
Workplan 
Focus Areas
2025-26
Business Attraction and Retention
Targeted Business District Activation
Civic Engagement and Workforce 
Convening, Informing and Policy Advocacy
218 of 224

--- page 219 ---
Process
Council Study Session.
Participate to support launch of 
Economic Development Framework
Nov. 2024
Chamber Board Meeting.
Introduce Economic Development 
Framework to board members.
Dec. 2024
Council Blue Sky Workshop.
Attend to understand City workplan 
and priorities.
Feb. 2025
Chamber Board Retreat. 
Engage in assessment of City’s 
economic landscape and Chamber’s 
role. 
Apr. 2025
Chamber Board Meeting.
Review key take-aways from board 
retreat. Begin work plan.
May 2025
219 of 224

--- page 220 ---
Business 
Attraction & 
Retention
1. Develop welcome kit and onboarding 
process for new businesses
2. Provide high value business development 
services; expand support for small and 
minority-owned businesses
3. Develop shared early warning approach 
for troubled businesses
4. Execute annual / bi-annual celebration 
to honor business excellence 
TO CREATE A THRIVING AND 
TO CREATE A THRIVING AND 
RESILIENT LOCAL ECONOMY
RESILIENT LOCAL ECONOMY
220 of 224

--- page 221 ---
Targeted Business 
District 
Activation
1. Partner with City and DSMA on downtown 
planning, programs and events
2. Execute signature downtown September 
Arts & Culture Fest
3. Support 25th Avenue Collective and holiday 
event
4. Explore development of public art, and 
placemaking strategies in priority districts
TO INCREASE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 
TO INCREASE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY 
AND VIBRANCY
AND VIBRANCY
221 of 224

--- page 222 ---
Civic Engagement 
& Workforce
1. Plan and execute LeadForward 2026 – 
kickoff, 3-day retreat, post-retreat 
dinner
2. Organize annual community service 
project with Leadership alumni 
3. Partner with City to complete workforce 
development program inventory
4. Organize job fair / career day to connect 
youth with local job opportunities
TO DEVELOP LOCAL TALENT THAT 
TO DEVELOP LOCAL TALENT THAT 
STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESSES & 
STRENGTHENS OUR BUSINESSES & 
COMMUNITY
COMMUNITY
222 of 224

--- page 223 ---
Convening, 
Informing & Policy 
Advocacy
1. Hold public policy committee meetings 
aligned with City priorities and initiatives
2. Execute Good Morning San Mateo forum 
on key economic insights and trends
3. Organize developer roundtable meetings to 
identify opportunities for commercial 
development process improvements
4. Lead 1-2 strategic input sessions with 
selected businesses to further inform 
economic development plan
TO RAISE AWARENESS, INCREASE 
TO RAISE AWARENESS, INCREASE 
COLLABORATION AND INFLUENCE 
COLLABORATION AND INFLUENCE 
POLICY DECISIONS
POLICY DECISIONS
223 of 224

--- page 224 ---
A.
VY)
Zz
O
—
Y)
Lu
—
O

@ee
Sa

San Mateo Area
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

