source: packet.pdf
sha256: f2ca4a0e49694ee23db2fcc3c2761afea973c7105df379a996b87a5bc96ef61d
pages: 145
ocr_pages: 43
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
February 25, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 25, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 889 4777 8471      Passcode: 198797
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 1.28.25.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by

--- page 2 ---
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
200 N. Quebec Street – Special Use Permit to Allow for a Community Service Use (PA-2023-075)
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit to allow a community service use (basketball training facility)
in an existing building located at 200 N. Quebec Street in a Single-Family Residence (R1C) district, and determine
that the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 1, Section 15301 from further environmental
review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), based on the Findings for Approval and subject to
Conditions of Approval.
CEQA: A Categorical Exemption, Class 1, Section 15301 (Existing Facility), is recommended for the project pursuant
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines.
3.
Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s approval of a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for a for a Two-Unit
Development (TUD) at 1825 Nash Drive (PA-2023-082)
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the approval of a SFDDR for a Two-Unit Development (TUD) at
1825 Nash Drive for a new 1,200 square-foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) on Lot A, and a new 2,400 square-
foot single-family dwelling with an attached 800 square-foot ADU on Lot B, as well as a Site Development
Planning Application (SDPA) for removal of major vegetation, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
of approval; and determine that this project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 3, Section 15303
from further environmental review under California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Urban Lot Split (ULS)
and Tentative Parcel Map (TPM) were approved ministerially by the Zoning Administrator and are not subject to
the appeal.
CEQA: The project was evaluated for environmental impacts and found to qualify for a categorical exemption from
further review under the California Environmental Quality Act Class 3 Section 15303(b) - New Construction or
Conversion of Small Structures.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of

--- page 3 ---
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9669
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 25, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 1.28.25.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 1.28.25
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Assistant
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/28/25
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, January 28, 2025
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Seema Patel, Vice Chair Adam Nugent, Commissioners John Ebneter and John Klafter
Remote: 
None
Absent: 
Commissioner Margaret Williams
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of 11.12.24.
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Klafter
Ayes:
Nugent, Ebneter, Klafter
Noes:
None
Abstain:
Chair Patel
Absent: 
Williams
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
None.
PUBLIC HEARING
2.
General Plan 2040 Land Use Map Amendments
Senior Planner, Somer Smith, presented an overview of the General Plan 2040 Land Use Map Amendments.
Public Comments: 
Public commenter, Penny Nixon, expressed support for the Quasi-Public designation for Site 1: 831 Monte Diablo.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on whether Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) count towards density limits, 
ADU development in townhomes or condominiums, timeline for the implementation of Measure T, probability of 
commercial-only development being constructed on Mixed-Use Medium II sites, and Site 10's restrictions on 
development due to environmental components.
Commissioner Comments:

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/28/25
2
Commissioners expressed support for the proposed land use map amendments with some Commissioners 
expressing concern for Site 6's change to Mixed-Use Medium II, Site 11's accessibility, and Site 12's proximity to the 
highway and transition to adjacent site.
The Commission moved to recommend to the City Council adoption of the Resolution to amend the General Plan 
2040 Land Use Map to update the land use designation at 13 specified locations.
Moved:
Klafter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Patel, Nugent, Ebneter, Klafter
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Williams
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
other reports from Commissioners or the City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:01 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Seema Patel, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9548
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 25, 2025 
SUBJECT:
200 N. Quebec Street – Special Use Permit to Allow for a Community Service Use (PA-2023-075)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit to allow a community service use (basketball training facility) in an 
existing building located at 200 N. Quebec Street in a Single-Family Residence (R1C) district, and determine that the 
project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 1, Section 15301 from further environmental review under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), based on the Findings for Approval and subject to Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The subject property is developed with an existing legal non-conforming building, built in the 1950s, originally known as 
the San Mateo Boys Club, and later transitioned to Mid-Peninsula Boys and Girls Club. There are no records of a planning 
entitlement or a building permit for the original development, as it predates the City’s current approval or permitting 
processes. Historically, the building housed activities such as tutoring, sport training, and various enrichment and after-
school programs for children, which would require a Special Use Permit (SUP) in the R1C Zoning District today. 
In October 2023, the Building and Code Enforcement staff identified non-permitted work and code violations, determining 
that the subject building had been altered and occupied by a daycare/afterschool use and basketball training facility by the 
new property owner, and applicant of the subject application, without the necessary permits. Since the site had been 
vacant for more than six months, the previous nonconforming use is considered discontinued and both uses required an 
SUP to operate in the R1C District. Therefore, on November 6, 2023, a notice and order to abate violations and vacate was 
issued (Attachment 3), citing unsafe and dangerous conditions and requiring the property owner to vacate the building 
and obtain an SUP and subsequent building permits for both uses before the building could be reoccupied.
Prior to submission of the formal Planning Application, the applicant held a neighborhood meeting on November 1, 2023. 
A total of eight attendees shared both support for the proposed uses and concerns regarding potential traffic impacts. A 
Preliminary Application and Planning Commission Study Session were not required for this project at that time, as the 
proposed new floor area for proposed uses is less than 10,000 square feet. 
On November 11, 2023, the applicant submitted a formal Planning Application to legalize both uses, which was deemed 
complete on December 6, 2024. However, due to the project’s inability to meet the state’s outdoor playground 
requirements for licensing associated with daycare for children, the daycare/afterschool program was ultimately removed 
from the project proposal.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SITE DESCRIPTION:
The 0.41-acre (17,679 square feet) parcel is located at the corner of N. Quebec Street and Monte Diablo Ave., adjacent to 
the Harborview Public Park to the east, and surrounded by Single-Family zoned parcels on the remaining sides. The site’s 
General Plan 2030 Land Use Designation is Single-Family, consistent with its R1C Zoning Designation. 
The site is currently developed with one 13,120 square-foot commercial building with no off-street parking spaces, which 
exceeds the maximum allowable floor area in R1C Zoning District. The existing architectural style is best characterized as 
industrial, characterized by the rectangular massing, window forms, and continuous solid walls. Based on the approved 
building permits for additions and alterations (between 1957 and 2000), the building top plate height was recorded at 25’-
4”, which exceeds the maximum plate height of 24’ in R1 District. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The applicant proposes to reconfigure the existing floor plan and gymnasium and legalize a basketball training facility, with 
no exterior expansion or modification. The project scope includes adding and renovating existing bathrooms, as well as 
repurposing existing rooms without the need for demolition or new wall additions. Seven new on-street parking spaces for 
the project are proposed along the site’s Monte Diablo Avenue frontage. 
The proposed business, T12, will offer indoor small-group basketball training in the winter and summer and team practices 
in the spring and fall, targeting 3rd through 8th graders. The facility will operate from 4:00-8:00pm Monday through 
Thursday for two training sessions, and from 4:00-5:30pm on Friday for one training session. Each training session involves 
18-22 children and 2-3 coaches. In the summer and winter, the facility will also operate for small group training sessions 
from 8:00am-noon on Saturdays, including 8-10 children and one coach. Assigned staff members from T12 will facilitate 
drop-off and pick-up procedures to ensure safe drop-off and pick-up (Attachment 4).  
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Zoning Code
The project was submitted prior to General Plan 2040 adoption, and is therefore not subject to the newly adopted General 
Plan, as stated in City Council Resolution No. 25 (2024). General Plan 2030 Land Use Map designates the site as Single-
Family. The Single-Family land use category, as defined in Appendix B of General Plan 2030, emphasizes preserving of low-
density residential development and enhancing the livability of San Mateo neighborhoods. 
The project site is zoned R1C, consistent with its General Plan 2030 Land Use designation. The project’s required and 
proposed development standards are listed in the Factual Data Sheet in Attachment 6, many of which remain unchanged 
because the project does not involve any exterior alterations. Pursuant to SMMC Section 27.72.060, non-structural related 
alterations are permitted for legal non-conforming buildings. As a result, the project may retain its legal non-conforming 
height and floor area while complying with all City policies and remain in conformance with the applicable development 
standards. 
Although the site lacks off-street parking spaces, SMMC Section 27.72.020 specifies that “additional parking or loading 
facilities only in the amount by which the requirements for the new use would exceed those for the existing use.” Both the 
previous use and the proposed community service use require the same number of parking spaces per square. Since the 
proposed basketball training facility only occupies a portion of the building, the proposed use does not necessitate any 
additional parking spaces beyond the previous use (see Attachment 6 Data Sheet). 
However, records from a 1971 Planning Application, including an approved site plan, identified three off-street parking 
spaces for the Boys and Girls Club, the building's former occupant. The area accommodating these parking spaces was not 
on the project site, and was subsequently developed with homes. As such, a minimum of three parking spaces are required 
for this project. To fulfill this requirement, the applicant collaborated with the Public Works Department to develop an 
agreement for constructing seven parking spaces on Monte Diablo Avenue along the southern property line, partially 
within the City’s right-of-way. Three of the parking spaces will serve the proposed facility, while the remaining four spaces 
will be dedicated as public parking for the City.

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Use Permit
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.74.020, “any use designated as a "special use," but which does 
not currently have a special use permit, shall be required to procure a special use permit from the appropriate approval 
body for any physical alteration, physical expansion, or change of the use.” The previous occupant, Boys and Girls Club, did 
not have a Special Use Permit (SUP). As the proposed project includes physical alteration and change of use, it requires a 
SUP in the R1C Zone District pursuant to Section 27.18.030(e) – community services. 
The proposed basketball training facility qualifies as a community service use, which is a listed Special Use in R1C Zone 
District. The use of this site as a basketball training facility would be similar in operation and impact to the prior Boys and 
Girls Club use. The use will not adversely affect the general health, safety, and welfare of the community nor will it cause 
injury or disturbance to adjacent property because the use and operations of the site are required to be in compliance 
with all applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and the Municipal Code. The City’s Traffic Engineer reviewed the application 
and determined that the project would not generate substantial trips nor create significant impact on local street system. 
No site-specific traffic studies were required for the subject project. Therefore, the SUP findings for approval can be made, 
which are discussed in greater detail within the Resolution (Attachment 1).
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No public comments were submitted to staff during the formal planning application review. Public comments received 
after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public 
hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Categorical Exemption, Class 1, Section 15301 (Existing Facility), is recommended for the project pursuant to the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Qualification for the exemption consists of minor alteration of 
existing public or private structures, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) The 
proposed use is similar in nature to the previous use and the physical modifications are minor, with no expansion or 
exterior alterations. As such, the project meets the qualification for this categorical exemption. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting: 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s Planning e900 email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Conditions of Approval 
Att 2 – Location and Zoning Maps
Att 3 – Notice and Order to Abate Violations
Att 4 – Project Operation Plan
Att 5 – Project Plans
Att 6 – Project Data Table
STAFF CONTACT
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner
eling@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO LEGALIZE A COMMUNITY SERVICE USE IN THE SINGLE-
FAMILY ZONE 
WHEREAS, Guy Fong (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) on November 11, 2023, submitted a planning 
application PA-2023-075 with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit for property located at 200 N Quebec 
Street to allow a community service use for a basketball training facility (collectively referred to as “Project”) in 
the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is located within the Single-Family zone and requires a Special Use 
Permit; and 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.90.020 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on Special Use Permits for the uses designated as “special use” within the districts; 
and
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15301 
Existing Facilities; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the  
2030 General Plan and other applicable policies; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on February 25, 2025, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA under CEQA Class 1, Section 15301 as “exiting facilities” because it consists of 
the conversion of an existing building with no expansion or exterior alteration, and involves no 
expansion of use or any new impacts.
2.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element and Circulation Element of 
the City’s General Plan.
a.
The Project conforms to Land Use Element Policy LU 1.19 and LU 1.20, in that the Project 
follows the policy regarding the conversion of a legally established non-conforming uses and 
buildings, and Code Enforcement ensures all uses are in compliance with City Codes and 
conditions of development approval.

--- page 11 ---
b.
The Project conforms to policies C 2.5 and C 2.11 of the Circulation Element, in that the City’s 
Traffic Engineer reviewed the application and determined that the project would not generate 
substantial trips nor create significant impact on local street system. No site-specific traffic 
studies were required for the subject project. 
3.
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application to allow a commercial 
service use at 200 N. Quebec Street and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based 
on the following findings: 
a.
Power to grant a special use permit shall be limited to those uses designated as "special 
use" within the districts established under SMMC Section 27.74.
The proposed T12 basketball training facility is considered as community service use, 
listed as a Special Use in R1C Zoning District under SMMC Section 27.18.030.
b.
The proposed use will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of 
the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or 
by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial 
waste.
The proposed T12 community service use will not adversely affect the general health, 
safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to 
adjacent property given that the use and operations of the site are required to be in 
compliance with all applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and the Municipal Code. The 
Project will also be subject to conditions of approval at all times during construction of 
the project pertaining to construction work hours for all building improvements.

--- page 12 ---
EXHIBIT A - CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2023-075, 200 N. QUEBEC ST., SUP
200 N QUEBEC ST, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-1321
 PARCEL # 033090090
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to the issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, or prior to the deadline specified 
in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
2 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
3 CODE VIOLATION ABATEMENT – The subject planning application approval is to abate 
violations verified in Code Enforcement case No. CE-2023-000319. The final approval is 
limited to legalize the basketball training facility for school-aged children from 3rd to 8th 
grade. Therefore, any plumbing fixtures for pre-school children shall be removed or 
replaced in the building permit plans prior to building permit issuance and on the 
construction site prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
3 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING) 
Public Works Department (PA)
4 EASEMENT DEDICATION – Applicant shall dedicate a public easement for roadway and 
sidewalk purposes. The easement dedication shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee, recorded by the County Recorder’s Office, and a recorded copy of the 
document returned to the City prior to the issuance of any City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 13 ---
5 ENCROACHMENT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – Applicant shall enter into an 
encroachment and maintenance agreement for the seven parking stalls, access aisle and 
planter strip proposed in the public right of way prior to the issuance of the building 
permit. The applicant shall have the agreement recorded against the owner’s property that 
indemnifies and holds harmless the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees and 
agents.  The agreement shall include language in which the applicant agrees to allow public 
access for the dedicated parking stalls proposed along with maintenance obligations for all 
proposed parking stalls and property frontage. The agreement shall be approved as to 
form by the City Attorney’s Office and shall be recorded against the owner’s property prior 
to the issuance of any City encroachment permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
6 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
7 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50 feet beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
8 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required fees and posting 
the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution 
prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The 
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made. (PUBLIC WORKS)
9 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic control 
plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, including pedestrian 
and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan shall comply with the most 
recent version of the California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and 
the City’s Traffic Control Plan Requirements.
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The plan, at 
a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Fire Department (PA)

--- page 14 ---
10 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)
11 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
12 USE OF HARBORVIEW PARK – The applicant shall submit in writing to the Director of Parks 
and Recreation written and graphic information as to the nature (ie: recess/PE, etc), 
duration and location (ballfield, play area, picnic area, etc.) of all activity, that the applicant 
proposes to take place within Harborview Park as part of a Special Use Permit for any 
future day care use.   Based upon the review of the submitted information as whether or 
not, and to the degree by which, the park will be burdened by the proposed activities, the 
Director or his authorized representative may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the 
proposed activity via the Department of Parks and Recreation permitting process, and the 
applicant shall be required to comply with such action. (PARKS AND RECREATION)
Police Department (PA)
13 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE – The building permit plans for future 
improvements shall comply with the City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)
14 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – Detailed specifications for, and 
the installation of, telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at 
the main exterior building entrance(s) for secured buildings shall be included in the 
building permit plans for any future improvements or construction.  These access systems 
must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the building. The 
access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to secured areas 
of the site, such as interior courtyards.  Access system placement location is subject to the 
review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval of the 
first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of 
Police or his/her designee at the time of installation. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
15 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans shall show drainage designed into landscaping with 
the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3-1-120

--- page 15 ---
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase 
to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform 
to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The building permit plans 
for the superstructure shall show drainage to include roof downspout and outlet locations. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
16 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
17 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations.  Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application.  Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion.  All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted.  Project 
specifications shall be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way: 
(A) SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall remove the portion of sidewalk 
along Monte Diablo Ave to accommodate public parking stalls and install curb and gutter 
in substantial conformance with the planning application.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
(B) CURB RAMP(S) – The applicant shall construct an accessible curb ramp in accordance 
with State Standard Drawing No.A88A for the ADA access aisle in substantial conformance 
with the planning application. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 16 ---
(C) VALLEY GUTTER – The applicant shall install standard concrete valley per City Standard 
in substantial conformance with the planning application. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(D) STRIPING – The applicant shall restripe the loading zone located on Quebec Street and 
coordinate with Public Works to update sign details as needed. The parking stalls located 
on Monte Diablo Avenue shall be striped in accordance with City Standards. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
18 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
19 UTILITIES - Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both proposed and existing public and private 
utilities.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids. The existing water meter located in the sidewalk along Monte Diablo 
Avenue shall be relocated out of the proposed parking stall as shown on the planning 
application. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
20 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
21 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT – A plan showing the installation of 
cameras and approximate viewing fields of surveillance cameras shall be submitted to be 
reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her designee prior to the first day of 
operation.  The plan shall include cameras placed to view areas as required by VIDEO 
SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS, and include select specifications for cameras and storage 
equipment to ensure compliance with the VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS.  (POLICE)

--- page 17 ---
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
22 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
23 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
24 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE)
25 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties. 
(FIRE) 
Public Works Department (PA)
26 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
27 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during

--- page 18 ---
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
28 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project 
sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release 
engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be approved by 
the Director of Public Works or designee prior to building permit issuance. A letter from 
the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the 
Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All 
material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, 
hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the 
responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public 
right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit 
from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide 
an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt 
and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash 
down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it is a 
wet-vacuum sweeper. All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with 
applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for 
suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
29 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 
p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified

--- page 19 ---
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee finds 
that:
(i) The following criteria are met:
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down 
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed.

--- page 20 ---
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site. 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
30 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)
31 PICK-UP AND DROP-OFF PLAN – the business owner of the basketball facility shall 
implement the pick-up and drop-off plan as submitted in the Special Use Permit
 
Planning Application, including but not limited to the following measures: 
•
Communicate to parents on the circulation route 
•
Assign staff members to facilitate safe and efficient drop-off and pick-up
•
Mark entrance and exits with signage
•
Evaluate the drop-off and pick-up conditions periodically to make necessary 
adjustment. (PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)
32 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against

--- page 21 ---
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
33 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)
Police Department (PA)
34 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – The applicant shall install and operate for the life of 
the project a video surveillance system subject to the following requirements:
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days.  The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?FID=134).
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, drop off areas, and grounds 
contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install 
pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the 
building facing out.
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion. (POLICE)

--- page 22 ---
LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2023-075
200 N Quebec Street
Address(es): 
200 N Quebec Street
San Mateo, CA 94401
Parcel Number(s):
033-090-090
500 feet
Project Site

--- page 23 ---
LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2023-075
200 N Quebec Street
Address(es): 
200 N Quebec Street
San Mateo, CA 94401
Parcel Number(s):
033-090-090
 
Project

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

330 W. 20° Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org

11/06/2023

NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE VIOLATIONS AND VACATE
CITISTAR INC CASE: CE-2023-000319
PO BOX 505 APN: 033090090
BRISBANE, CA 94005 200 N. QUEBEC

The City of San Mateo Building Official has determined that the structured located at 200 N. Quebec St,
San Mateo (APN 033090090) is dangerous and unsafe, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC)
Chapter 7.14, the adopted Property Maintenance Code and SMMC Chapter 23.08, and the adopted
Building Code.

Code Enforcement received a complaint on October 2, 2023, that tenants had occupied the structure
without the required planning approvals and illegally altered the building pursuant to the San Mateo
Municipal Code section 27.18.030, Property Maintenance Code 111.1.3, and California Building Code (CBC)
111.1. On October 18, 2023, the San Mateo Consolidated Fire and the City of San Mateo Building
Inspection, Code Enforcement, and Planning conducted an inspection and based on those observations,
the Building Inspection Division posted the structure unsafe, unfit for human occupancy and imminently
dangerous, pursuant to SMMC Section 7.14.020 (i).

You are required to abide by the conditions set forth in that posted notice and these findings are based on
the following conditions set forth in the Property Maintenance Code Section 111.1.3 relating to structures
unfit for human occupancy and CBC section [A] 116.1 relating to unsafe and dangerous structures.

Violations observed:
1. Hazardous electrical conditions across the facility, such as:
a. Uncovered/exposed electrical wiring,
b. Electrical outlets that are not tamper-resistant,
c. Overuse of extension cords, especially noticeable in the staff’s breakroom.

2. The electrical main service panel exhibits signs of corrosion, and new electrical loads have been
added to Federal Pacific electrical panels. These panels are known to be potentially unsafe and may
have been recalled by the manufacturer.

3. Existing water heating equipment was removed, and a new water heater was installed improperly
without permit, with improper sizing for the number of plumbing fixtures, combustion air,
ventilation, and seismic strapping.

4. Lack of fire-rated firewall above the unpermitted HVAC installation.

5. Tenant improvements conducted illegally without the necessary permits, including:

a. Installation of a new shower;
b. Renovations in all bathrooms, including new toilets and sinks;
c. Installation of a new sink at the new break area;

Building Division (650) 522-7172 - Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 - Planning Division (650) 522-7212 - General (650) 522-7200


--- page 25 ---


--- page 26 ---


--- page 27 ---
No re-occupancy is allowed without an inspection to determine that no dangerous, unsafe, or unfit
conditions remain. Approval from the Building Official is required prior to reoccupation.

Penalties:

Penalties may be issued to the property owner of record or other responsible parties for failure to comply
with any Notice by the compliance date. Partial, incomplete and/or unaddressed violation(s) that continue
to exist on the property are subject to penalties.

Pursuant to SMCC §1.10, Administrative Citations: Each and every day a violation of this code exists
constitutes a separate and distinct offense. Each section of the code violated constitutes a separate
violation for any day at issue. However, the issuances of the administrative citations are not the exclusive
remedy.

In addition to administrative penalties, the City may assess administrative costs against the violator. The
administrative costs may include any and all costs incurred by the City in connection with the matter,
including, but not limited to, code enforcement staff and associated indirect costs, costs of inspection,
investigation, attorneys’ fees. All administrative penalties and costs shall be borne by the owner of the
property and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon and against the property and such lien shall continue in
existence until the same shall be paid.

Sincerely,

AH

Kristen Aiu
Code Enforcement Officer II
(650) 522-7152
kaiu@cityofsanmateo.org
CC: Street File
Tenants: The Sports Learning Center & Icadamy Learning

Building Division (650) 522-7172 - Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 - Planning Division (650) 522-7212 - General (650) 522-7200


--- page 28 ---


--- page 29 ---


--- page 30 ---


--- page 31 ---


--- page 32 ---
LEGEND

N48 38° 100.00 . SCOPE OF WORK: ————_ ADA ACCESSIBLE PATH
YORAIN Tn Fic TENANT IMPROVEMENTS FOR GROUP INSTRUCTIONS FACILITY: Mo EXISTING ADA SIGN @ ENTRY DOOR

ZX REMOVE (E)SHED REMOVE (E)WALLS, (E)DOORS, (E) LAVITORIES. MOUNTED 60" ABOVE PAVING

= INSTALL NEW WALLS, NEW DOORS, NEW LAVITORIES, WC TACTILE SIGNAGE

NOTES
INSTALL MOTION SENSORS AND DIMMER TO (E) LED LIGHTS, [For DSW/AC & SFM] Tactile Exit Signage. For the purposes
ADJUST AND ADD SUPPLY AND RETURN REGISTERS TO af the 2022 CAC, the term “tactile exit sign’ shall meant those required ALL WALKWAYS AND SIDEWALKS ALONG ACCESSIBLE ROUTES OF
EXISTING HVAC UNIT, INSTALL EXHAUST FANS AT RESTRMS Pe Dean & ea] Were required nT
(CHANGE OCCUPANCY FROM ASSEMBLY USE TO EXERCISE USE) DSWAC & SFM] Where required. Tactile ns st 1. BE CONTINUOUSLY ACCESSIBLE
~ required at the following locations:

1. Each grade - level exterior exit door shall be identified by a tactile exit with
A ‘the word "EXIT". 3. BE MINIMUM OF 48” IN WIDTH
2.| Each exit door that leads directly to a grade - level exterior exit by means
Akar yb deere necessary te plame rng the Planning Apatow. of stairway or ramp shall be identified by tactile exit sign with the follawing 4. WHERE NECESSARY TO CHANGE ELEVATION AT A SLOPE
words as appropriate: EXCEEDING 5% SHALL HAVE RAMPS COMPLYING WITH CURRENT
 aseraeene: CBC STANDARDS
(eer nace oat Gar one tpn aE A.“EXIT STAIR DOWN"
Deer SET Deb —— "EXIT RAMP DOWN"
— oe O-BUT RAMP UP" SITE ADA LEGEND
iets a, LE Ta
Perit Fb Ae ai spon as a
Tiny Ped Pir AEE EE Sa wo 3. Each exit door that leads directly to a grade - level extorior exit means of an
Fr ea AE =e exit enclosure or an exit passageway shall be identified by tactile exit with the
an Sucre Tr =F sign " ". NOTE: MAXIMUM PERMITTED SLOPE OF
eae aoe LS aed 4. Each exit access door from an interior room or area to a corridor or hallway ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
Teta Foor ro TF that is required to have a visual exit sign, shall be identified by a tactile exit 1S 2% IN ANY DIRECTION
gore a MeOH aaa sign with the words "EXIT ROUTE". cat 2022
Total or Are orang RegureeT BT .| Each exit door through a horizontal exit shall be identified by a sign with the 8-0" MIN, (VAN ACCESS.
( )
“alain Sai o words "TO EXIT",

otal Uncovered Paring Sa NCU goo"
Uist ofl Tees on Ste including Species and Se @ GNC PAINT BORDER

REVISIONS

VX city COMMENTS: 10-15-2024

ZX REVOVE DAYCARE a&,TUTORNG —_12-16—2024

2. HAVE MAXIMUM 1/2” CHANGES IN ELEVATION

| utr cfnew and vetainiediondape re Ba | —@) NCS TRAFFIC. BLUE
(rst Boasts on
A een rata ama TACTILE SIGNAGE nts |10

1. ee Zoning Code Section 27.04.20 (t) (fr floor Area defiton.
2. See Zoning Code Section 2704209) 2} for flit of Foor Area exclusions. |
13. Ste Zoning Code Secon 2704-200 (4 for fll ist of Parking Flor Area exclusions doesnot FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTES:

ppl to general offi, retal stores, food stores, drugstores and shopping center ses) ALTER THE FIRE ALARM SYSTEM AS NEEDED BY NEW PARTIONS AND CEILINGS, SUBWIT ” LADA PAVE
3 SETS OF FIRE ALARM DRAWINGS FOR PERMIT APPLICATION TO THE SAN MATEO ” SIGN 9/A\
FIRE DEPARTMENT FOR APPROVAL BEFORE ALTERING THE SYSTEM

ALL PORTIONS OF THE BUILDING SHALL BE 75' OF A FIRE EXTINGUISHER. THE MINIMUM
‘SIZE OF THE EXTINGUISHER SHALL BE 2-A-10BC (CFC 2022)

EGRESS DOORS SHALL BE READILY OPENABLE FROM THE EGRESS SIDE WITHOUT A
THE USE OF A KEY, THUMB TURN OF ANY SPECIAL KNOWLEDGE OF EFFORT. MANUALLY SIRIP 6” WIDE
OPERATED FLUSH BOLTS OR SURFACE BOLTS ARE NOT PERMITTED (CBC 2022)
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS(PER 2022 CPC) INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 2022
EXERCISE, TRAINING: 5856 /50=117 OCCUPANTS 3) AUTOMATIC SHUTOFFS: EACH SYSTEM(S) PROVIDING HEATING OR COOUNG AIR JACE OF CONC WALK}

GROUP FUNCTION: 1965/50=40 OCUPANTS IN ACCESS OF 2,000 CFM SHALL BE EQUIPPED WITH AN AUTOMATIC SHUTOFF 5-0

GAME ROOMS: 1130/35=32 OCCUPANTS ACTIVATED BY SMOKE DETECTOR.

AUTOMATIC SHUTOFF |S NOT REQUIRED WHEN ALL OCCUPIED ROOMS SERVED BY THE

TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD: 189 (94 MALE, 95 FEMALE) AIR HANDLING EQUIPMENT HAVE DIRECT EXIT TO THE EXTERIOR AND TRAVEL
DISTANCE DOES NOT EXCEED 100 FEET (CMC 2022) ADA SIGN

MODIFIED RESTROOMS COMPLIED AS NOTED BELOW CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS SHALL BE PROVIDED AND INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE CONCRETE WALK. —_ <— | OUTED 60

2WC, 1U, 2LAV + TALL GENDER > 94 MALE COMPLIED WITH CFCOIS
DWC, 2LAV + 1ALL GENDER > 95 FEMALE COMPLIED ‘A MANUAL AND AUTOMATIC FIRE ALARM SYSTEM WITH ENERGENCY VOICE ALARM ae
ARNE) 2LAV > 32 GAME ROOMS COMPLIED COMMUNICATION SYSTEM IS REQUIRED IN FONFORMANCE WITH CA FIRE CODE SEC 907.2.3 TRUNCATED DOMES

SEE 7/M1
FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTES 11 ADA PARKING STANDARDS

APN 033-090-090

SITE AREA: 0.4059 ACRES
17,679 SQ. FT.

18"X18" REFLECTORIZED PORCELAIN BUILDING AREA THIS PROPERTY:21\ 13,120. ‘SQ. FT.
TSrxib" BLAGK ANODIZED PANEL M0" REFLECTORZED PORCELAN TOTAL PARKING THIS PROPFRTWZAMQN)TSTALLS(ANOUD — CARS

* : ON STEEL SIGN_W/ INTERNATIONAL - 5
DESIGNATED ACCESSIBLE SPACES r BLUE BACKGROUND, BEADED TEXT AREA OF GAMI SQ. FT.
NOT DISPLAYING DISTINGUISHING AREA OF THIS IMPROVEMENT: 13,120 SQ. FT.

PLACARDS OR SPECIAL LICENSE 4°x8" REFLECTORIZED PORCELAIN — = = 7 =
PLATES ISSUED FOR PERSONS WITH ON STEEL SIGN INDICATING VAN ACCESSIBLE BUILDING OCCUPANT LOAD: GSKBALL= COURTS TRAINING: 8856/50=117
DISABILITIES WILL BE TOWED AWAY AT SIGN (LOCATED AS SHOWN ON SITE PLAN) GAME = ROOMS H130/55~ 32

OWNER'S EXPENSE. ‘GROUP—FUNCTION: 1985/50=40

TOWED VEHICLES MAY BE . ‘GAME ——GRP— FUNCTION: 72

RECLAIMED AT. 2°DIAMETER GALV STEEL POSE __ TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD: TOTAL: 32+40+117=189(EXIT-REQD)<8>PRVD

OR BY TELEPNONING -- 4 AUILDING COVERAGE: (FAR) 13120/17679=72.21_ %

. = PARKING REQUIRED: NCU CARS.
2°DIAMETER GALV STEEL POSF————_ PARKING PROVIDED E=NCU STANDARD STALLS.
E=NQU ADA STALLS.
a 12 BIA cone. Fooms y TOTAL THs PROECT: “N= Sa

— ~ TAL THI: fi —NCU-3 STALL

—| oo PARKING RATIO THis UNIT: A\ (E\NA=SPEGIAL=USE—
Leo PAVED_ AREA EXISTING
—_ PAVING COVERAGE
LANDSCAPE. AREA:
LANDSCAPING. COVERAGE: EXISTING

TOW AWAY SIG E) ADA PARKING SiGNwts Mee prMczecoos

VAN ACCESSIBLE

wowed

S41 2 Ee 127700

NIN 0-81

841 22 R 177.00

Rr fe olor OP LANE

SPORTS

‘ADA PATH 32"

REPAINT CURS WHITE FOR ORO}

CITISTAR
LEARNING CENTER

200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

QUEBEC STREET

[ADA PATH 45°

12" DIA CONC, FOOTING——__

USE ZONE
FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM = )TH—FIRE— ALARM
i 2022 e
ee iw ers se LRS_ ASSOCIATES
ss crc 2022
CEC 2093 DESIGN AND PLANNING
CN.C 2022
PROPORTIONS THLE 24 DISABLE CODE 2022 2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE 2019 SAN JOSE, CA 95124" (408) 691-5038
2.3'-2.4" Lrs8B8@sbcglobal.net

TABULATION

ARCHITECTURAL

A-2 DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN AND NEW FLOOR PLAN, WALL LEGEND
Z\a-24 DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN AND NEW FLOOR PLAN, WALL LEGEND
TF oso--oger | <2 UBHING DeMOTON AND NEW REFLECTED CELLNG PLAN

t . " A4 DETAILS.

A-5 EXISTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS.

Ip o48"-047"

ay A-1 SITE PLAN, TABULATION, NOTES & SITE DETAILS, PARKING ANALYSIS

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

©
————<——
\ 9 ELECTRICAL

+ mo i or i 23°-2.4" t E+1 ELECTRICAL POWER PLAN AND LEGEND
£2 UGHTING PLAN, LIGHTING DEMOLITION AND LIGHTING LEGEND
MECHANICAL,

street improvement for his area see C-1 G 1) M=1 HVAC PLAN MECHANICAL SCHEDULE AND DETAILS
pore" PLUMBING
= TAPERED EDGES P-1 PLUMBING PLANS — SEWER, WATER PLANS
MONTE DIAABLO AVENUE PAINT SYMBOL WITH 2-COATS HD. GLUE TRAFFIC Tamer coc, SURVEY STREET NPROVEMENTS
‘ScCTION \PS=1 PROPERTY AND BUILDING SURVEY
NC STREET DEMOLITION PLAN
NK C-2 STREET GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN

SITE PLAN TED ADA SIGN TRUNCATED DOME DRAWING INDEX

SCALE DRAWN

SHOWN,

SHEET

oF



--- page 33 ---
REVISIONS.

CITY COMMENTS 10-15=202.

SCOPE OF RED TAG REPAIR WORK:
‘ALL REPAIR AND NEW WORK TO CONFORM TO 2022 CBC, CEC,
MC, CPC AND CFC.

1) CHECK AND REPLACE ALL EXPOSED ELECTRICAL WIRING,
CHECK ALL ECTRICAL OUTLETS REMOVE AND REPLACE
ALL NONE TAMPER RESISTANT OUTLETS TO UL LISTED OUTLETS
REMOVE ALL EXTENSION CORDS ADD OUTLETS AS REQUIRED
(SEE SHEET E-1)

2) REPMOVE AND REPLACE EXISTING ELECTRICAL PANELS
WITH UL LISTED ELECTRICAL PANELS (SEE SHEET E-1)

3) REMOVE EXISTING WATER HEATER AND INSTALL NEW UL
LISTERD WATER HEATER AS SHOW ON PLAN WITH SEISMIC
TRAPPINGS VERIFY SIZING PRIOR TO INSTALLATION
(SEE SHEET A-2 & P-1)

4) CHECK & LEGALIZE (E) AC UNITS FOR REQUIRED CFM
PER 2022 CMC (SEE SHEET M-1)

5) REMOVE EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES AND INSTALL NEW LED
UGHTING FIXTURES WITH NEW MOTION SENSORS, DIMMER
SWITCHES AS PER 2022 CEC (SEE SHEET £-2)

6) REMOVE AND REINSTALL NEW WALLS AS SHOWN ON PLANS
PROVIDE FIRE RATED GYPSUM BOARD AS REQUIRED
(SEE SHEET A-2)

7) REMOVE AND INSTALL NEW RESTROOM AND FIXTURES AS
SHOWN ON PLAN (SEE SHEET A~2 & P-1)

oo

Kos @ HALLWAY

FECA

mee

SPORTS

LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

CITISTAR

X=

LRS ASSOCIATES

DESIGN AND PLANNING

2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303
SAN JOSE, CA 95124 (408) 691-5038
Lrs888@sbeglobal.net

\e e

DOOR SCHEDULE

@ (6) 8-0'x7'-0"x1-3/4" SOLID CORE CORE WOOD DOOR
WALL LEGEND ine WALLS TO BE REMOVED WITH PREFINISHED BIRCH VENEER SET IN METAL FRAME

PROJECT NO.
45,3252

WALL LEGEND
DRAWN

(E) 3'-0"x7'-0°x1~3/4" SOLID CORE OORE WOOD DOOR NW

EXISTING WALLS TO BE REMOVED i WTH PREFINISHED BIRCH VENEER SET IN METAL FRAME
EXISTING WALLS TO REMAIN NEW §$-5/8" STEEL STUDS @ 24” OC INGLE OR PAIR 3'~0°X7'-0"X1-3/4" HOLLOW NET
Wih'S/8- TEE. YP. 8D. ON EACH SDE To © (©) SNGLE OF PAR 307 -0"xI-3/4" HOLLOW METAL

NEW 3-5/8" STEEL STUDS © 24" oc
WITH 5/8” TYPE 'X’ GYP. 8D. ON EACH SIDE TO (E) CEILING (USE W/R AT WET WALLS) © (E) PAR 3'-0"X7'-0°K1-3/4" ALUMINUM GLASS DOORS.

(E) CEILING (USE W/R AT WET WALLS) FECA SET IN ALUMINUM FRAME
© ——2A-108C FIRE EXTINGUISHER

EXISTING DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN PROPOSED EXISTING AND NEW FLOOR PLAN

NG WALLS TO REMAIN

A-2

OF SHEETS



--- page 34 ---
5
2

FLOOR AREA TABULATION

FOR EXTERIOR ADA PATH SEE A-1

1) MAIN ENTRANCE/HALLWAYS — 7124148=860S
2) UBRARY/CLUB 531SF

STORAGES  924105475=270SF
OFFICES: 234+300=534SF
RESTROOMS 442+65=5075° [&]
BASKETBALL COURT 52875F

}) LUNCH -378SF

9) JANITOR “40S

10) LOCKER 38SF

11) SPORTS PLAY 1140SF

USABLE BUILDING AREA 11901SF

GROSS BUILDING AREA 13,120SF

ADA PATH OF TRAVEL

REVISIONS

CITY COMMENTS 10-58-2024

CITISTAR SPORTS
LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

<=

LRS ASSOCIATES
DESIGN AND PLANNING
2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303

SAN JOSE, CA 95124 (408) 691-5038
Lrs888@sbeglobal.net

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

SCALE
SHOWN,

SHEET

A-2.1

OF — SHEETS



--- page 35 ---
a

=

+

+—

te

—t+—

9 ta =f

m

=,

nl

+—

or

cast 9 te=sp-f ett ott
TF

+

i)

Aro}

21'-2"

86"

ZASCOPE OF RED TAG REPAIR WORK:
ALL REPAIR AND NEW WORK TO CONFORM TO 2022 CBC, CEC,
CMC, CPC AND CFC.
1) CHECK AND REPLACE ALL EXPOSED ELECTRICAL WIRING,
CHECK ALL ECTRICAL OUTLETS REMOVE AND REPLACE
ALL NONE TAMPER RESISTANT OUTLETS TO UL LISTED OUTLETS
REMOVE ALL EXTENSION CORDS ADD OUTLETS AS REQUIRED

2) REPMOVE AND REPLACE EXISTING ELECTRICAL PANELS
WITH UL LISTED ELECTRICAL PANELS

3) LEGALIZE EXISTING WATER HEATER AND INSTALL VENTING
SEISMIC STAPPINGS PER 2022 CPC

4) CHECK & LEGALIZE (E) HVAC UNITS FOR REQUIRED CFM
PER 2022 CMC

LEGEND

F-1

7

=)

RECESSED 2’X4’ LED 2 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (36W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

SURFACE 2’X4' LED 2 Sro81 FIXTURE (34W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

SURFACE EXPOSED TIBE LED 1 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE

INSTALL NEW LIGHT FIXTURES. MOTION SENSORS AND DIMMER SWITCHES

RECESSED 2'X4' LED 4 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (72W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

=4
Ey SURFACE 2°X4’ LED 1 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (16W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

EXISTING FLOOR & POWER PLAN

CEILING AND NEW LIGHTING PLAN

REVISIONS

CITY COMMENTS 1015202.

CITISTAR SPORTS
LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

<=

LRS ASSOCIATES
DESIGN AND PLANNING
2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303

SAN JOSE , CA 95124 (408) 691-5038
Lrs8B8@sbcqlobal.net

ARCHITECT

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

SCALE DRAWN

SHOWN Mw

SHEET

OF SHEETS



--- page 36 ---
SEE PLAN
5’ MIN REVISIONS

v3 i Vi\ RED TAG REPAIR 10-15-2024
<
FULLY RECESSED
A |
i

GRAB BAR (36” MIN.) —___ FRO WAINSCOT (
GRAB BAR (42" MIN.)}——

ROLL PAPER HOLDER ald 12"
i H9u
‘ALL GENDER
— RESTROOM
t 4/4" THK. 1/4" HT ;—1/4" THK. 12" HT 1/4" THK. 12" HT
+48"-60" AFF \
° BOTTOM BRAILLE Men We
L__ CENTER LN.

7
vr f Sopa” ARI”
OF DOOR

poo MIN 7 CENTER IN, CENTER LN.

[OF DOOR ff OF DOOR
RESTROOM DOOR SIGNAGE RESTROOM WALL SIGNAGE
. COLOR OF THESE GEOMETRIC SYMBOLS COLOR OF THESE GEOMETRIC SYMBOLS
6° CERAMIC TILE BASE ‘AND LETTERS SHALL CONTRAST DISTINCLY AND LETTERS SHALL CONTRAST DISTINCLY RESTROOM SIGNAGE
INSULATE DRAIN, H & COLD PROVIDE FOLLOWING: FROM THE PLAQUE. THE PLAQUE SHALL FROM THE PLAQUE. THE PLAQUE SHALL COLOR_OF THESE GEOMETRIC SYMBOLS
WATER PIPES A) PERMANENTLY INSTALLED SOAP AND PAPER TOWER DISPENSERS ‘ALSO CONTRAST DISTINCLY FROM THE ‘ALSO CONTRAST DISTINCLY FROM THE AND LETTERS SHALL CONTRAST DISTINCLY
3) TOILET TISSUE DISPENSER DOOR ®) WALL FROM THE PLAQUE. THE PLAQUE SHALL

+5'-0" AFF | +5'-0" AFF

CENTER OF SIGN

A

SEE PLAN

ALSO CONTRAST DISTINCLY FROM THE
C) SELF CLOSING DOOR
1D) HAND WASH SINK WITH HOT/COLD COMBINATION WATER FAUCET

TANDARD BATHROOM PLAN & ELEVATIONS BATHROOM ALL GENDER SIGNAGE (E) RESTROOM SIGNS

; DISABLED ACCESS NOTES:
(N) 9'-0"x6"-5" N) CONC RAWP EXCH SIDE

(N)_9'=0"X6'=5" LANDING " 1. THE MAXMUM CLOSURE FORCE : 5 POUNDS FOR EXTEROR DOORS
(0) 6° cone curs B POUNDS FOR INTERIOR DOOR, AND TS POUNDS FOR FIRE DOORS

2. THE MAXIMUM PILE HEIGHT OF THE CARPET SHALL NOT EXCEED
(N) AC PAVING 4/2. NCH,

3. ELECTRICAL CONTROL AND SWITCHES IN ACCESSIBLE AREAS
SHALL BE NOT MORE THAN 48” MEASURED FROM THE TOP OF THE OUTLET

SIGN

== OX AND NOT LESS THAN 15" FROM BOTTOMOF THE OUTLET BOX MEASURED RM SIGN GR EXIT

iE TO Te ANISH FLOOR [eae
(EM 4. COMPLY 100% WIHH TLE 24 ACCESSIBLE STANOARD
a 5. ALL DOORS TO BE OPERABLE BY A SINGLE EFFORT WITH LEVER TYPE

HARDWARE WITHOUT REQUIRING THE ABILITY TO GRASP THE OPENING
HARDWARE PER CBC 2022

6, PROVIDE SPACE IDENTIFICATION SYMBOL FOR ACCESIBLE SEVICE COUNTER
FOR PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSONS.

7. PROVIDE PERMANENT ROOM IDENTIFICATION SIGN WITH RAISED LETTERS
AND BRAILLE SYMBOLS SEE DETAIL 2-4 FOR MOUNTING

CONC] CUR beyod cone 8. DOOR HARDWARE MOUNTING HEIGHT (347 TO 44") ABOVE FINISH FLOOR
DE WALK

(N) CONC CURB

5’-0"x6’—5" RAMP. 9'-0"x_6'=5" LAI 5’-0"x_6’-5” RAMP

TRUNG: }OMES

SIGN TO BE A MIN. OF 6” X 6". LETTERS TO BE RAISED 1/32”
9. DOORS EQUIPPED WITH CLOSERS SHALL BE ADJUSTED SO THAT FROM AN WITH CHARACTERS OF AT LEAST 5/8” BUT LESS THAN 2”

OPEN POSITION OF 90 DEGREES, THE TIME REQUIRED TO MOVE THE DOOR LETTERS SHALL BE ACCOMPANIED WITH GRADE 2 BRAILLE.

f — — TO A POSITION OF 12 DEGREES FRO THE LATCH IS 5 SECONDS MINIMUM. SIGN TO HAVE ALL GENDER SIGNAGE OR EXIT SIGNAGE

1) 10. PERAGLE AT TOLET AND LAVATORY SHALL BE OPERAGLE WIE ONE HARD MiNaAie iceeas esSoRaNS

| I | ; AND SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING OR TWISTING OF THE VERBAL DISCRIPTION BELOW. SIGN SHALL BE NON~GLARE

IE=IIl WRIST AND INE FORCE REQUIRED 10° ACTNATE CONTRONS. SHALL BE NO FINISH CHARACTERS AND SYVBOLS SHALL CONTRAST WITH
GREATER THAN 5 POUND FORCE. THEIR BACKGROUND.

4° CONC. RAMP OVER COMPACTED
‘SUB=GRADE 95% RELATIVE

ADA RAMP. DETAIL DISABLED ACCESS NOTES ADA ACCESS & BRAILLE SIGN NS

CA 94401

RAB BAR (36°
GRE BAR fe Pins [—— #12 GA, LATERAL SUPPORT WIRE FIXTURES WT. 20 OR MORE.
WITHIN 3” OF EACH CORNER OF CONNECT 2 #12 GA. FIXTURE
UGHT FIXTURE. SPLAY WIRES SUPPORT WIRE AT DIAGONAL
AS SHOWN AND FASTEN TO FACE CORNERS OF EACH FIXTURE.
OF ROOF PURLIN OR BEAM WITH THREE PULL WRAPS MINIMUM
16d RING SHANK NAIL. MIN. OF FIXTURE SUPPORT WIRE SUPPLIES
CORNERS AND ANCHORED S410 WO SCREW 3 WRE TURNS EACH CONNECTION AND HUNG BY T-BAR CONTRACTOR.
oe e TURE ABOVE, |TO SOLID BLOCKING | POINT. WIRE SUPPORTS BY ‘MAX, FIXTURE WT. 55¢
i BENT 3-5/8" X 206A STUD LEG 2° ACOUSTICAL CEILING CONTRACTOR.
HEAVY DUTY GRID SYSTEM rs
WTH (2) #12 X 1-1/2" Wooo SCREWS :

COPE STUD LEG AS SHOWN, TYP.

ROLL PAPER HOLDER
TWO (2) 12 GA. SLACK ‘WITHOUT STOPS

SAFETY WIRES ATTACHED
TO FIXTURE AT DIAGONAL

CITISTAR SPORTS
LEANING CENTER

200 N QUEBEC STREET

SAN MATER,

ROOF STRUCTURE

"T-BAR® CEILING WIRE

BRACING AT UNSUPPORTED WALL

CEILING TILE USE 3-1/2°x20 GA METAL STUDS 5 5 Brob ER One

TO STRUCTURE ABOVE AT ——
RECESSED LED LIGHT FIXTURE 0 5 MAIN: RUNNER
SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS: #0 0.0. WAX, ALTERNATE SIDES ‘ACCESSORIES MOUNTING HEIGHT CROSS TEE:

RECESSED FLUORSCENT
FIXTURE,

CROSS TEES

/
“SUSPENDED CEILING RUNNER

ZA, RECESSED DOWN LIGHT DETAIL y ROOM ELEV. & LIGHT FIXTURE DETAIL NS Se

8" MAX 12'-0" 0.0. (TYP) 8"MAX

ARMSTRONG ESR-1308 OR APPROVED EQUAL ALL 24"X48” CEILING LIGHT

SUSPENDED CEILING USG OR EQUAL #12 WIRE HANGER AR REGISTERS SHALL Be LRS ASSOCIATES

MOLD 1/4” THK, TEMPERED GLASS MAN RUNNER @) wo HaNoess © OPP. DESIGN AND PLANNING

5/8” TYPE_X GYP. BD. 20 GA MEAD TRACT WH (2) 402 1-1/2 Si STRES SEAL or Sapo orteR 2059 CAMDEN AVENUE, STE 303

. . . TEMS. .

aot Hoes |} Senge a oe an 2 Nate sree Sees os eat oe ean
‘ ] . ) rs888Osbeglobal.net

EACH SIDE 2 PERIMETER MEMBER @ OTHER WALL

3-5/8" X 20CA STEEL STUDS LEAVE LOOSE W/3/4" CLEARANCE.

@ 24” OC + ALUMINUM DOOR FRAME

NORTH . . 12’-0"

1 ; EVERY 144 SF OF CULING AREA

TEEL DOOR FRAME |v umiNUM 00% YAME © PASTE MRE PER CURRENT CBC

20 MIN RATED AT HALLWAY) | | | Man Shiver MIN, NO.t2 GAUGE (4) SPLAY

Al F411 EGGERS OR EQUAL a , ALUMINUM HC APPROVED MIN. NO.I2 GAUGE (4

(© QUAL) | THRESHOLD SET IN MASTIC 5 CROSS RUNNIE? 4-0" 0. DON
PROD. HEAVY DUTY #RXC-5 OR:

\ APPROVED EQUAL

DATE PROJECT NO.
2-15-2023 44,5246

MAIN RUNNER @4'~0" 0.C. DONN.
. 4:2 SLOPE TYP. West PROD. HEAVY DUTY #RXM6-12 OR
1/8" X20 GA SILL TRACK VED EQUAL

| I-5, . . APPRO\ Al
FA ; 1-01156°DIA HILT] X-¢ (ICC-ESR f 1663) ale Wa ALLINTERIOR WALL & CEILING FINISHES SHALL BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE
WTH 1” EMBED AT 16” OC TeRioR EW. 1008 WT CURRENT CBC 9

1) 1-5/8°x20 GA(SS) TO 7-8" MAX.
\ [exterior FIN. FLOOR /8"x29 GAWC) TO 10'=0" MAX.
(E} CONC SLAB PROVIDE SEISMIC JOINT BY FULL HEGHT WALL WHEN AREA EXCEEDS 2500 SF

PROVIDE 2” OVERSIZE RING TO ALLOW MIN 1” FREE MOVMENT IF WITHOUT RIGID BRACING
ICC-ES ESR130O8 ARMSTRONG OR APPROVED EQUAL

SOLID CORE WOOD DOOR

SCALE DRAWN
SHOWN MW

SHEET

A-4

OF SHEETS

DOOR DETAIL (N) WALL DETAIL (E) EXT. DOOR SILL SUSPENDED CEILING DETAIL



--- page 37 ---
REVISIONS

NORTH QUEBEC STREET VIEW

MONTE DIABLO AVENUE VIEW

WEST ELEVATION

CINSTAR SPORTS
LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

X=

LRS ASSOCIATES
DESIGN AND PLANNING
2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303

SAN JOSE , CA 95124 (408) 691-5038
Lrs888@sbeglobol.net

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

SCALE DRAWN
SHOWN MW

EAST ELEVATION SHEET

A-5S

OF — SHEETS

EXISTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS



--- page 38 ---
PANEL BOARD SCHEDULE PANEL NO : (E) PNL_A

REVISIONS

CITY COMMENTS 10-15-2024

120/240V 3P /4—WIRE,

vous

‘\, SCOPE OF RED TAG REPAIR WORK:
ALL REPAIR AND NEW WORK TO CONFORM TO 2022 CBC, CEC,
CMC, CPC AND CFC.

DIRECTORY DIRECTORY

‘OUTLETS: UGHTS, EXIT, EME LTE.
OUTLETS SPARE

OUTLETS CEILING OUTLETS ° 5
ALL NONE TAMPER RESISTANT QUTLETS TO UL LISTED OUTLETS
ACH RESTRM EXH FAN é LITE REMOVE ALL EXTENSION CORDS ADD QUTLETS AS REQUIRED
AC=1 SPAREE (SEE SHEET £1)
WASHER SPARE 2) REPMOVE AND REPLACE EXISTING ELECTRICAL PANELS
WATER HEATER E DRYER WITH UL LISTED ELECTRICAL PANELS (SEE SHEET E-1)
WATER HEATER DRYER
OUTLET OUTLET.
‘OUTLET 000 SPARE
SPARE SPARE
TOTAL WATTS [6600 [5600 [4800 2940 [i500 [1200 [TOTAL WATTS

1) CHECK AND REPLACE ALL EXPOSED ELECTRICAL WIRING,
CHECK ALL ECTRICAL OUTLETS REMOVE AND REPLACE

WATTAGE: PaASE as —____$5604H# _ wRE size :___PER 2016CEC.
PHASE 8: —— [190 “PER 2016CEC
PHASE @ __6000W conoUIT size

22,640W / 360 = 62.89 AMP

PANEL BOARD SCHEDULE PANEL NO: (E) PNL_A

vours ; 120/240 125 AMP 3P /A-WRE

DIRECTORY DIRECTORY i
OUTLETS + LIGHTS, EXIT, EME LITE
‘OUTLETS SPARE LEGEND: /
OUTLETS CEILING OUTLETS _

‘AC=1 RESTRM EXH FAN & LITE Ce DISCONNECT (E)OFFICE
AC-1 SPAREE e MODEM (E)BASKETBALL COURT

WASHER, SPARE
WATER HEATER DRYER = DUPLEX CONVENIENT
AE DRYER > TELEPHONE JACK

OUTLET ouner
OUTLET, SPARE $$ WALL SWITCH
SPARE SPARE

TOTAL WATTS 2940 [1500 1200 [__ TOTAL WATTS c= (EELECTCAL PANEL
A BATTERY PACK EMERGENCY LIGHTS

WATTAGE: PHASE a; ___9940W WRE size :___PER 2016CEC
PHASE & 7109 CONDUIT size :_PER_2016CEC «wy —NEW

Passe EXISTING

22,640W / 360 = 62.89 AMP @ _ werwosrar
B BI-PASS SWITCH

SYMBOLS LIST

FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, RECESSED IN CEILING.

FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED.
FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, WALL MOUNTED.
FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, CHAIN: HUNG, CONDUIT RUN CONCEALED IN SLAB, UNDERSLAB OR UNDERGROUND.

CONDUIT RUN EXPOSED ON WALL OR CEILING.

FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED.

FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED WITH BACKUP.
PROVIDE A BATTERY—BACKED POWER,

INCANDESCENT OR H.LD. FIXTURE, RECESSED IN CEILING.
INCANDESCENT OR H.LD. FIXTURE, SURFACE OR PENDANT MOUNTED.

EXIT FIXTURE, CEILING OR WALL MOUNTED.

EMERGENCY LIGHT FIXTURE, MOUNTED 1 FOOT BELOW CEILING, TYPICAL UON.

SHADING OF ANY FIXTURE INDICATES EMERGENCY LIGHTING. PROVIDE
BATTERY BACKUP AND CONNECT TO UNSWITCHED CIRCUIT.

PANEL, SURFACE OR FLUSH MOUNTED.
MoToOR.

JUNCTION BOX, MOUNTED ABOVE ACCESSIBLE CEILING.

JUNCTION BOX, WALL MOUNTED.

DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18” UON.

DOUBLE DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18” UON.

DUPLEX WEATHERPROOF CONVENIENCE QUTLET MOUNTED ON ROOF.

DEDICATED CIRCUIT DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18” UON.
TELEPHONE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18" AFF. UON.

DUCT SMOKE DETECTOR.

SENTRY SIMTCH, +46” UON.

segaareaceas |] aac | Hd

SINGLE POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, +46” UON.

DOUBLE POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, +46” UON.

THREE-WAY TOGGLE SWITCH, +46" UON,

DINMER SWITCH, +46" UON.

MOTOR RATED SWITCH WITH THERMAL OVERLOAD ELEMENT, +48” AFF.
CIRCUIT BREAKER,

CIRCUIT BREAKER RATING:

225
rir RATING,

eames

CURRENT TRANSFORMER.
TRANSFORMER.

CONNECTION TO GROUND,

GROUND BUS.
METER,

CONDUIT RUN CONCEALED IN WALL OR CEILING.

CONDUIT HOMERUN, CONTINUOUS RUN TO PANEL OR EQUIPMENT CABINET.
PROVIDE JUNCTION BOX AS REQUIRED.

FLEXIBLE METALLIC CONDUIT.

CONDUIT TURN UP.

—— CONDUIT TURN DOWN.

—“3 CONDUIT OR DUCT STUB, MARK THE EXACT LOCATION ON THE AS-BUILT
DRAWINGS,

HASE
IEUTRAL CONDUIT AND WIRE: CROSSMARKS INDICATE THE QUANTITY OF
GROUND CONDUCTORS. NUMBER ADJACENT TO CROSSMARKS
INDICATES WIRE SIZE. NEUTRAL SHALL BE #10 WHERE
SHARED BY PHASE CONDUCTORS. WIRE MARKS ARE SHOWN
ONLY FOR "HOMERUNS” AND WHERE CONSIDERED NECESSARY
TO CLARIFY CIRGUITRY OR CONTROL. NO WIRE MARKS
INDICATE 212, 1#12GROUND.
—t+— GROUND WIRE: NUMBER ADJACENT TO CROSSMARKS INDICATES WIRE
SIZE. NO NUMBER INDICATES #12 WIRE.
~ EQUIPMENT CONNECTION. PROVIDE FLEX CONDUIT, WIRE, FITTINGS AND
WIRE TERMINATIONS

DUPLEX WATERPROOF CONVENIENCE OUTLET MOUNTED ON FLOOR.

om
(EET NUMBER.
TAIL DESIGNATION.

3- f2 FIXTURE IDENTIFICATION TAG:

pene 18
UANTITY, (FOR FIXTURE IDENTIFICATION ONLY, NOT FOR PROJECT COSTING.)

iia SAFETY DISCONNECT, S-POLE, WALL MOUNTED, +54” UON.
A: 30A, NON-FUSED. AF: 30A, FUSED.

8: 60A, NON-FUSED. BF: 860A, FUSED.
C1004, NON-FUSED. CF: 100A, FUSED.
0: 200A, NON-FUSED. DF: 200A, FUSED.
€: 400A, NON-FUSED. EF: 400A, FUSED.

COMBINATION STARTER, INSTALLED AND WIRED BY ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR,
NUMBER INDICATES NEMA SIZE.

PACKAGE CONTROLLER, FURNISHED AND INSTALLED BY OTHERS BUT
CONNECTED BY ELECTRICAL.

NUMBERED SHEET NOTE: APPLIES TO DRAWING CONTAINING NOTE ONLY.

HVAC EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION TAG.

LEGEND, SYMBOLS,

SCHEDULE AND ONE LINE DIAGRAM

ELECTRICAL POWER PLAN

CITISTAR SPORTS
LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

<=

LRS ASSOCIATES
DESIGN AND PLANNING
2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303

SAN JOSE , CA 95124 (408) 691-5038
Lrs888@sbcolobal.net

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

SCALE DRAWN
SHOWN,

SHEET

OF SHEETS



--- page 39 ---
LEGEND:

RECESSED 2’X4’ LED 2 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (36W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

SURFACE 2°X4’ LED 2 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (34W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

SURFACE EXPOSED TUBE LED 1 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE(16W)

RECESSED 2’x4’ LED 4 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (72W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

SURFACE 1°X4’ LED 1 LAMP LIGHT FIXTURE (16W)
LITHONIA OR EQUAL

(E) FLUORESCENT FIXTURES TO BE REMOVED
(E) OR (N) LED EXIT SIGN

EXHAUST FAN

MOTION SENSOR
PHOTO SENSOR
J BOX

SYMBOLS LIST

nmgaedeoecal | 3° $0] BA

FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, RECESSED IN CEILING.
FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED.
FLUORESCENT FIXTURE, WALL MOUNTED.
FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, CHAIN HUNG.
FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED.

FLUORESCENT STRIP FIXTURE, SURFACE MOUNTED WTH BACKUP.
PROVIDE A BATTERY-BACKED POWER,

INCANDESCENT OR H.ID. FIXTURE, RECESSED IN CEILING.

INCANDESCENT OR H.I.D. FIXTURE, SURFACE OR PENDANT MOUNTED.

EXIT FIXTURE, CEILING OR WALL MOUNTED.

EMERGENCY LIGHT FIXTURE, MOUNTED 1 FOOT BELOW CEILING, TYPICAL UON.
SHADING OF ANY FIXTURE INDICATES EMERGENCY LIGHTING. PROVIDE
BATTERY BACKUP AND CONNECT TO UNSMITCHED CIRCUIT. [ae
PANEL, SURFACE OR FLUSH MOUNTED. [eto
MOTOR.

JUNCTION BOX, MOUNTED ABOVE ACCESSIBLE CEILING.

JUNCTION BOX, WALL MOUNTED.

DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18" UON.
DOUBLE DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18” UON.

DUPLEX WEATHERPROOF CONVENIENCE OUTLET MOUNTED ON ROOF.

aA
+
®

DEDICATED CIRCUIT DUPLEX CONVENIENCE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18" UON.

ZA SCOPE OF RED TAG REPAIR WORK:
ALL REPAIR AND NEW WORK TO CONFORM TO 2022 CBC, CEC,
CMC, CPC AND CFC.

3) REMOVE EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES AND INSTALL NEW LED
LIGHTING FIXTURES WITH NEW MOTION SENSORS, DIMMER
SWITCHES AS PER 2022 CEC (SEE SHEET E-2 & A-3)

DISCONNECT

MODEM

DUPLEX CONVENIENT
OUTLET

TELEPHONE JACK

WALL SWITCH WITH DIMMER:
(©ELECTCAL PANEL

BATTERY PACK EMERGENCY LIGHTS.

NEW
EXISTING

THERMOSTAT

BI-PASS SWITCH

FIRE ALARM
FIRE ALARM PULL STATION

CONDUIT RUN EXPOSED ON WALL OR CEILING.

CONDUIT RUN CONCEALED IN SLAB, UNDERSLAB OR UNDERGROUND.
CONDUIT RUN CONCEALED IN WALL OR CEILING.

CONDUIT HOMERUN, CONTINUOUS RUN TO PANEL OR EQUIPMENT CABINET.
PROVIDE JUNCTION BOX AS REQUIRED.

FLEXIBLE METALLIC CONDUIT.

CONDUIT TURN UP.

CONDUIT TURN DOWN.

CONDUIT OR DUCT STUB, MARK THE EXACT LOCATION ON THE AS-BUILT
DRAWINGS.

CONDUIT AND WIRE: CROSSMARKS INDICATE THE QUANTITY OF
CONDUCTORS. NUMBER ADJACENT TO CROSSMARKS
INDICATES WIRE SIZE. NEUTRAL SHALL BE #10 WHERE
SHARED BY PHASE CONDUCTORS. WIRE MARKS ARE SHOWN
ONLY FOR "HOMERUNS” AND WHERE CONSIDERED NECESSARY
TO CLARIFY CIRCUITRY OR CONTROL. NO WIRE MARKS
INDICATE 2912; Uf12GROUND.

GROUND WIRE: NUMBER ADJACENT TO CROSSMARKS INDICATES WIRE
SIZE. NO NUMBER INDICATES #12 WIRE.

EQUIPMENT CONNECTION. PROVIDE FLEX CONDUIT, RE, FITTINGS AND
WIRE TERMINATIONS.

DUPLEX WATERPROOF CONVENIENCE QUTLET MOUNTED ON FLOOR.

TELEPHONE OUTLET, WALL MOUNTED, +18" AFF. UON. a~
DUCT SMOKE DETECTOR. \e-1) EET NUMBER.
SENTRY SWITCH, +46" UON DETAIL DESIGNATION.

SINGLE POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, +46” UON. 3-F

FIXTURE IDENTIFICATION TAG:

DOUBLE POLE TOGGLE SWITCH, +467 UON. t
IXTURE. TYPE.

THREE-WAY TOGGLE SWITCH, +46" UON.

DIMMER SWITCH, +46” UON.

MOTOR RATED SWITCH WITH THERMAL OVERLOAD ELEMENT, +46” AFF. ae
CIRCUIT BREAKER.

CIRCUIT BREAKER RATING:

Ne RATING.
reve se.

CURRENT TRANSFORMER.

TRANSFORMER.

CONNECTION TO GROUND.

GROUND BUS.
METER,

UANTITY. (FOR FIXTURE IDENTIFICATION ONLY, NOT FOR PROJECT COSTING.)
SAFETY DISCONNECT, 3-POLE, WALL MOUNTED, +547 UON,
A 30A, NON-FUSED. AF: 30A, FUSED.
60A, NON-FUSED. BF: 60A, FUSED.
100A, NON-FUSED. CF: 100A, FUSED.
200A, NON—FUSED. OF: 200A, FUSED.
400A, NON-FUSED. EF: 400A, FUSED.

COMBINATION STARTER, INSTALLED AND WRED BY ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR.
NUMBER INDICATES NEMA SIZE.

PACKAGE CONTROLLER, FURNISHED AND INSTALLED BY OTHERS BUT
CONNECTED BY ELECTRICAL.

NUMBERED SHEET NOTE: APPLIES TO DRAWING CONTAINING NOTE ONLY.

HVAC EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION TAG.

il

(©)BASKETBALL COURT

REVISIONS

CITY COMMENTS 10-15~202.

CENTER

CITISTAR SPORTS

LEARNING
200 N QUEBEC STREET

SAN MATEO, CA 94401

<=

LRS ASSOCIATES

DESIGN AND PLANNING

2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303
SAN JOSE , CA 95124 (408) 691-5038

Lrs888@sbeglobal.net

DATE PROJECT NO.
1-15-2024 45.3252

SCALE ORAWN

1/8"
SHEET

oF



--- page 40 ---
REVISIONS

VX ciTy COMMENTS 10-15—202.

ENTERING WATER TEMP, LEAVING WATER TEMP
Fe FR cou
Oy om tsar ra FUL Loa AWPS.
ZONE OR UNIT # ec GENERAL CONTRACTOR MIN. 36°6 MIN. Se*o
2 MANUAL VOLUME DAMPER: ou GALLONS PER MATE DUCT DUCT
He HoRSEPOVER

ory [PRE/SMOKE DAMPER W/ DUCT ACCESS DOOR hak 1000 BTUAR.
we vino Great aves.

NORMALLY CLOSED. NORMALLY OPN, COMMEN .
ER soromte onose ouTsoe Ae 12 GA. HANGER Y" x 22 GA. HANGER
rene coucror Vike Sree
D ccuruonr sme nent)
SOISILE CAPAGTY, TOTAL CAPACITY
Wem Uc. UNO CUT 9008 5/4" BY OTS STATE PRESSURE, EXTERUAL STAT PRESSURE a ie SHEETHETAL
fim DL 0008 LONER 1.0 FT” FREE AREA VoN-BY OMMERS uncss omens NoreD wet
-@—_APPROK. LOCATION OF FLEC. CONN. BY EC. waTes CON 25 GA GALV SM DUCT

sLot oruseR

22 GA. HANGER
GENERAL LEGEND STRAP 3/8" ALL THREAD ROD
ae Src HORSE PoveR
i urvomen on orto oF over (Ma. No 2 Fcc REET DUCT) 2)H10 | SHEETMETAL ,
sic400  DFFUSER SE - THROW PATIERN ~ CFM AR QUAKTY owe Conoonses ae PUMP SCREWS 1" x 16 GA STRAP
DY emmist rue CONDENSER WATER RETURN, CONDENSER WATER SUPPLY eG
* © asm CS

ever ore Fo ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR
25 GA GALV SM DUCT

© -APPROK. LOCATION OF DRAIN CONN. BY Pc

J APPROX, LOCATION OF GAS CORN. BY PLE MIN. 106

MIN, 24°6
DUCT DUCT

ERESH AIR INTAKE NOTE:

EASTING FRESH AR INTAKE UNIT: 6250 301878 cra ANGERS MUST NOT DEFORM DUCT SHAPES,
EXISTING FRESH AIR INTAKE UNIT2: 2000x.3= 600 CFM SEE SMACNA CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS TABLE
Rp. REGURED FRESH ART INTAKE. AT CLASSROOMS. iraxte=1710 CFM 4-2 FOR MININUM SUPPORT SIZES.

AE REQUIRED FRESH AIR INTAKE AT CLaSsROOMS: Z27ox0.s0~808 CFM

Mio, REGUIRED PRES" AP INTAKE AT GROUP FUNGTONY 1e16X0.5=008 CPW

OTHERS: REQUIRED FRESH AR INTAKE AT ALL OTHERS: 1440%0.15=216 Chu ROUND DUCT HANGING DETAIL

(E) AC UNIT SCHEDULE

Fay FRE
waex Jtocanon vermooa. [rom [SE [ute | S| vapor] vornee ream wrt eas

(E)BASKETBALL COURT

(aca | ROO [carmen aenc-or4 [128 [620 [vers | 12 | 7 | 480/36/80 702,000 SMOKE DETECTOR
(acne | ROOF leevanr/eaaasoxa | 5 [2000 [ooo | 12 | 3 | 208/36/60 60,000

EXHAUST FAN EQUIPMENT SCHEDULE

oR 1H a vu | 18°] Fan i EN
M tocarion | seaves | cr |! Ye | AL | viscw | ove Taey | se | ae vour

GREENHECK| SP. oor | Restroow| roo | 375 | sto | - | - | 980 120v-19 60)

“GREENHECK oor | restroow | too | 378 | sto | - | - | a0 120v-19 60

CEILING DIFFUSER DETAIL

1. ALL DUCTWORK TO BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH STANDARD SCALE NONE
PRACTICES, LOCAL CODES, SMACNA STANDARDS, 2022 TITLE 2:

Aso PER 2022 CMC. MINIMUM 26 GA GALV RIGID SPIRAL DUCTS,

UCT SIZES SHOWN ARE OUTSIDE DIMENSIONS.
2. SEAL DUCTWORK PER SMACNA SEAL CLASS C.

3. PROVIDE THERMAL INSULATION AS REQUIRED FOR DUCT SYSTEMS.
PER 2022 TITLE 24, CALIFORNIA STATE ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS,
AND PER 2022 CMC. INSULATION
‘OF DUCTS TO BE MINIMUM THICKNESS OF 1” AND MINIMUM OF 3/4 LBS DENSITY LEGEND:
FIBERGLASS. DUCT LINING TO 8E 1” INDOORS AND 1 1/2” OUTDOORS, 1 1/2 LBS .
DENSITY FIBERGLASS.

CITISTAR SPORTS
LEARNING CENTER
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

ALL EXPOSED TO THE WEATHER DUCTWORK TO BE LINED WITH 1-1/2" THICK
DUCT LINER AND MINIMUM 10'-0" FROM THE EQUIPMENT CONNECTION SUPPLY REGISTER
HARDCAST ALL JOINTS FOR WATERTIGHT INSTALLATION

SUPPORT ALL DUCTWORK PER CODE AND/OR SMACNA REQUIREMENTS

RETURN REGISTER

INSULATION TO BE DUCT WRAP WITH ALUMINUM FOIL BACK 1-1/2” THICK FOR
ALL SUPPLY AND RETURN AIR DUCTWORK IN CONCEALED AREAS
ALL LONGITUDINAL AND TRAVERSE DUCT JOINTS, PLENUM AND FITTINGS TO BE

SEALED WITH HARD CAST SEALANT TO PREVENT AIR LOSS, NO TAPE OR SILICON
SEALANT ARE ALLOWED EXHAUST FAN

PROVIDE MANUAL VOLME DAMPERS AS REQUIRED TO ALL DUCTWORK BRANCHES -
FOR BALANCING AND TESTING —— SULATED SUPPLY DUCT

DUCT ACCESS DOORS TO BE PROVIDED AT ALL FIRE/SMOKE DAMPERS BY — SULATED RETURN DUCT X=
MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR. CEILING ACCESS PANELS 70 BE PROVIDED

AS REQUIRED BY MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR.

FINAL CONNECTION T AIR OUTLETS TO BE INSULATED WIRED FLEX DUCT (E) LED EXIT SIGN W/EMERGENCY LIGHTS LRS ASSOCIATES

‘AT MAXIMUM OF 5'—O” LONG. SECURE ALL CEILING AIR OUTLETS PER
SEISMIC CODE REQUIREMENTS EXHAUST FAN DESIGN AND PLANNING

PROVIDE FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM )ANSUL OR EQUAL) FOR KITCHEN 5

EXHAUST HOODS, THESE SYSTEMS TO BE INSTALLED BY THE QUALIFIED WALL SWITCH 2059 CANDEN AVENUE... STE 305

AND LICENSED CONTRACTOR, SUBMIT ALL DESIGN DRAWINGS AND D Sco ECT SAN JOSE, CA 95124 (408) s 508
E sB8RQxbcalcbal ne

SPECIFICATIONS TO CITY FIRE DEPARTMANT FOR APPROVAL AND PERMITS
START UP ALL HVAC EQUIPMENT AND PROVIDE FOUR COPIES OF BALANCING EXISTING TO REMAIN

REPORT TO THE ARCHITECT, THE TEST AND BALANCING CONTRACTOR

TO BE QUALIFIED AND AT LEAST FIVE YEARS IN BUSINESS ALL WORK TO BE EXISTING TO BE REMOVED OR RELOATED
IN CONFORMANCE WITH AABC STANDARDS. EW

ALL STRUCTURAL FRAMING AND REINFORCEMENTS TO BE BY THE GENERAL GHT LIGHT b
CONTRACTOR Cc
EMERGENCY LIGHT

ALL _OPENIGS THROUGH ROOF AND WALL, FRAMING ,PATCHING, CUTTING
LEVELING AND PAINTING TO BE BY GENERAL CONTRACTOR MANUAL VOLUME DAMPER
HERMOSTAT ZX SCOPE OF RED TAG REPAIR WORK:
CONDENSATE DRAIN AND GAS PIPING FOR AC UNITS TO BE BY PLUMBING ALL REPAIR AND NEW WORK TO CONFORM TO 2022 CBC, CEC,

CONTRACTOR ec VENTILATION AIR SUPPLCREQUIREME TS PER CMC 2022 TABLE 402.1 CMG, GPE AND CFG:

BI-PASS SWITCH 5) CHECK FURNACES FOR REQUIRED CFM PER 2022 CMC
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL ELECTRICAL POWER Cc A

WIRING AND CONDUITS FOR HVAC EQUIPMENTS AND CONDUITS FOR THERMOSTATS AND AS REQUIRED BY CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE (SEE SHEET M-1)

(WIRING AND HOOK-UP THERMOSTATS TO BE BY MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR

PROJECT NO.
45.3252

DRAWN
Mw

M—1

OF SHEETS

NOTES, LEGEND, SCHEDULE, DETA (E) HVAC PLAN



--- page 41 ---


--- page 42 ---
GRAPHIC SCALE
8 16 3

eS

w rer)
= Oh 3-18-2024
5-20-2024
CORRECTED
EASEMENT

EGEND

L

{o)

Trunk {

8

+124

im WATER VETER OR WATER VALVE BOX
bd FIRE HYDRANT

TREE — TRUNK DIAMETER iN INCHES

TREE SPECIES IDENTIFICATION: BEST EFFORT,
WE_ARE NOT ARBORISTS OR DENDROLOGISTS
TREE DRIP LINE POINTS TOWARDS TREE
TRUNKS, TREE DRIP LINES ABOVE
PROPERTY LOCATED AS SHOVIN.

TOP 2F CURB

FENCE

OVERHEAD WIRES

POWER POLE

SPOT ELEVATION

16 12 8 ok

on

SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
UTILITY BOX-TYPE AS NOTED SIZE AS DRAWN

sIGi
POLE ANCHOR
HANDICAP RAMP OR PARKING

STORM DRAIN CURB INLET

$41'22'00"E_.

NOTES

ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE IN FEET ANC DECIMALS.
UNDERGROUND UTLITY — LOCATION IS BASED ON SURFACE EVIDENCE,

BUILCING LOCATION DIMENSIONS ARE MEASURED PERPENCICULAP TO THE
PROPERTY LINES.

DIMENSIONS TO THE BUILDING ARE TAKEN AT THE EXTERIOR FINSHED SURFACE.

FINISH! FLOGR ELEVATION TAKEN AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR).

BENCHMARK: GPUS G°S NAVDEB DATUM [NAVDBE (Computed using GEGD1€)]

‘A BOUNDARY SURVEY WAS PERFORMED TO ACCURATELY LOCATE THE LECAL
PROPERTY LINES IN RELATIGN 70 THE EXISTING IMPRGVEMENTS (BUILDING)

TLE REPORT: CHICAGO FW70-3762400009

SITE IES IN FLOOD ZONE AEIO PER FIRM MAP.

TREE SPECIES IDENTIFICATION: BEST EFFORT, WE AE NOT ARSORISTS OR
DENDROLOGISTS.

TREES SHOWN ARE 6" TRUNK CIAVETER OR LARGER, MEASURED 5° ABOVE
GRADE

oe

STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
SANITARY SEWER MANHCLE

ae pane
ee
a

Un7}

N48°38'00"E.
190.90"
aw YG

Building

SSS

“Milie

MM

MSY

Builaing
13,120 Sr.

MY LL OL

YYW

me YY

L a

YYYys

py a
Ulli

§

&

z
WEE EECRE_DDo’sSsgh

arauuw‘’,n

S41 22°00"E

| Posers
Ls

|
5° 1yoRESS JE
FASRUENT
332b PG 733
|

‘GRE
PER

1
98
ik

(awa ,s¢)
AV O1EVIG 3LNOW

N. QUEBEC

(50° WIE)

$4122C0F
_ 655.73"

a

L=15.71' R: ‘aor_/
D=g0°00'00”

BOUNDARY AND

TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
200 N. QUEBEC ST.

SAN MATEO

APN: 033-090-096 DOC#2025-015168

LOT AREA:

17,679 SQ. FT.

L. Wade Hammond
Land Surveying
Civil Engineering
36660 Newark Blvd. Suite C

Newark, California 94560

Tel: (510)579-6112
wade@wnlandsurveyor.com www. wedehammondp1s.com

SURVEY

REVISIONS

ICADEMY LEARNING/
T12 SPORTS LEARNING
200 N QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

X=

LRS ASSOCIATES

DESIGN AND PLANNING
2059 CAMDEN AVENUE , STE 303
SAN JOSE , CA 95124 (408) 691-5038

Lrs888@sbeglobal.net

PROJECT NO.
45.3252

DRAWN
Mw

PS—1

OF SHEETS



--- page 43 ---
SITE PREPARATIONS ABBREVIATIONS

1. CLEARING AND GRUBBING SHALL CONSIST OF REMOVAL OF VEGETATION SUCH AS BRUSH, AB AGGREGATE BASE
GRASS, WOODS, STUMPS, TREES, ROOTS OF TREES, OR OTHERWISE DELETERIOUS AC ASHPALT CONCRETE
NATURAL MATERIALS FROM THE AREAS TO BE GRADED. CLEARING AND GRUBBING ADJ ADJACENT
SHOULD EXTEND TO THE OUTSIDE OF ALL PROPOSED EXCAVATION AND FILL AREAS. ASP ASPHALT
DEMOLITION SHOULD INCLUDE REMOVAL OF BUILDING, STRUCTURES, FOUNDATIONS, a BACK OF WALK
RESERVOIRS, UTILITIES (INCLUDING UNDERGROUND PIPELINES, SEPTIC TANKS, LEECH BMP BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE
FIELDS, SEEPAGE PITS, CISTERNS, MINING SHAFT, TUNNELS, ETC.) AND OTHER MAN MADE BOE BOTTOM OF EXCAVATION
SURFACE AND SUBSURFACE IMPROVEMENTS FROM THE AREAS TO BE GRADED. BOP BOTTOMOF PIER
DEMOLITION OF UTILITIES SHOULD INCLUDE PROPER CAPPING AND/OR REROUTING BP BOTTOMOF POOL
PIPELINES AT THE PROJECT PERIMETER AND CUT-OFF AND CAPPING OF WELLS IN BW BOTTOM OF WALL
ACCORDANCE OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND THE CL CENTERLINE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER AT THE TIME OF DEMOLITION. co CLEANOUT

CONC CONCRETE
TREES, PLANTS, OR MAN-MADE IMPROVEMENTS NOT PLANNED TO BE REMOVED OR COR CORNER
DEMOLISHED SHOULD BE PROTECTED BY THE CONTRACTOR FROM DAMAGE OR INJURY. DI DUCTILE IRON

DMA DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT AREA
DEBRIS GENERATED DURING CLEARING, GRUBBING, AND/OR DEMOLITION OPERATION EXISTING
SHOULD BE WASTED FROM AREAS TO BE GRADED AND DISPOSED OFF-SITE. CLEARING, EA EACH
GRUBBING, AND DEMOLITION OPERATION SHOULD BE PERFORMED UNDER THE EG EXISTING GRADE
OBSERVATION OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. EL ELEVATION

EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT
THE CLIENT OF CONTRACTOR SHOULD OBTAIN THE REQUIRED APPROVAL FROM THE FFE FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT FOR THE PROJECT PRIOR, DURING, AND/OR AFTER FL FLOWLINE
DEMOLITION, SITE PREPARATION, AND REMOVALS. THE APPROPRIATE APPROVAL SHOULD fT FEET
BE OBTAIN PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH GRADING OPERATIONS. GND GROUND

GV GAS VALVE
SITE PROTECTION HSS HOLLOW STEEL SECTION
INV INVERT
1. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO ADEQUATELY SPRINKLE THE PROJECT LID LOW IMPACT DESIGN
SITE WITH WATER OR SPRAY THE SITE WITH AN EFFECTIVE DUST PALLIATIVE TO PREVENT MAX, MAXIMUM
DUST FROM BEING BLOWN INTO THE AIR AND CARRIED ONTO ADJACENT PRIVATE AND MH MANHOLE
PUBLIC PROPERTY. DUST CONTROL SHALL BE FOR SEVEN DAYS A WEEK AND 24 HOURS A (N) NEW
DAY.” N.TS, NOT TO SCALE
(P) PROPOSED
PROTECTION OF THE SITE DURING THE PERIOD OF GRADING SHOULD BE THE PL PROPERTY LINE
RESPONSIBLE OF THE CONTRACTOR. UNLESS OTHER PROVISIONS ARE MADE IN WRITING PT PRESSUR TREATED
AND AGREED UPON AMONG THE CONCERNED PARTIES, COMPLETION OF THE PORTION OF RF ROOF

QUEBEC STREET

THE PROJECT SHOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED TO PRECLUDE THAT PORTION OR ADJACENT
AREA FROM THE REQUIREMENT FOR SITE PROTECTION UNTIL SUCH TIME AS THE ENTIRE
PROJECT IS COMPLETE AS IDENTIFIED BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER, THE CLIENT,
AND THE LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT.

THE CONTRACTOR SHOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE STABILITY OF ALL TEMPORARY
EXCAVATIONS. RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE GEOTECNILCAL ENGINEER PERTAINING TO.
TEMPORARY EXCAVATION (E.G. BACKCUTS) ARE MADE IN CONSIDERATION OF THE

‘SEE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
SD STORM DRAIN
‘SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
‘SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
SS SANITARY SEWER
SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
SSD SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE

eacacactchcertenstelctctcictenstsieicicictcieis
SOO ROK ERO) SRK RK IOS
SKK RRS

ORES
KEY

iecererecerererorerelerecnererecereereeerees
KROSS NRO K SS ¥

% SKK
Oe ON areetetane

STABILITY OF THE COMPLETED PROJECT AND, THEREFORE, SHOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED ST STREET
TO PRECLUDE THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CONTRACTOR. TC TOP OF CURB

TF — TO.OF FOOTING
PRECAUTIONS SHOULD BE TAKEN DURING THE PERFORMANCE OF SITE CLEARING, TOC TOP OF CONCRETE

SKS
SRKE
SX

ieee
Nec
KS

EXCAVATIONS, AND GRADING TO PROTECT THE WORK SITE FROM FLOODING, PONDING, TP TOP OF PAVEMENT

OR INUNDATION BY POOR OR IMPROPER SURFACE DRAINAGE. TEMPORARY PROVISIONS
SHOULD BE MADE DURING THE RAINY SEASONS TO ADEQUATELY DIRECT SURFACE
DRAINAGE AWAY FROM AND OFF THE WORK SITE. WHERE LOW AREAS CAN NOT BE
AVOIDED, PUMPS SHOULD BE KEPT ON HAND TO CONTINUALLY REMOVE WATER DURING
PERIODS OF RAINFALL.

DURING PERIODS OF RAINFALL, PLASTIC SHEATHING SHOULD BE KEPT REASONABLY
ACCESSIBLE TO PREVENT UNPROTECTED SLOPE FROM BECOMING SATURATED. WHERE
NECESSARY DURING PERIODS OF RAINFALL, THE CONTRACTOR SHOULD INSTALL CHECK
DAMS, DESILTING BASINS, RIPRAP, SANDBAGS, OR OTHER DEVICES OR METHOD
NECESSARY TO CONTROL EROSION AND PROVIDE SAFE CONDITIONS,

DURING PERIODS OF RAINFALL, THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER SHOULD BE KEPT
INFORMED BY THE CONTRACTOR AS TO THE NATURE OF REMEDIAL OR PREVENTIVE
WORK BEING PERFORMED (E.G, PUMPING, PLACEMENT OF SANDBAG OR PLASTIC
SHEETING, OTHER LABOR, DOZING, ETC.)

FOLLOWING PERIODS OF RAINFALL THE CONTRACTOR SHOULD CONTACT THE
GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER AND ARRANGE A WALKTHROUGH OF THE SITE IN ORDER TO
VISUALLY ASSESS RAIN-RELATED DAMAGE. THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER MAY ALSO
RECOMMEND EXVATION AND TESTING IN ORDER TO AID IN THE ASSESSMENT. AT THE
REQUEST OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE
EXCAVATIONS IN ORDER TO EVALUATE THE EXTEND OF RAIN-RELATED DAMAGE.

RAIN-RELATED DAMAGE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED TO INCLUDE, BUT MAY NOT BE LIMTED
TO, EROSION, SILTING, SATURATION, SWELLING, STRUCTURAL DISTRESS AND OTHER
ADVERSE CONDITIONS IDENTIFIED BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. SOIL ADVERSLY
AFFECTED SHOULD BE CLASSIFIED AS UNSUITED MATERIALS AND SHOULD BE SUBJECT
TO OVEREXCAVATION AND REPLACEMENT WITH COMPACTED FILL OR OTHER REMEDIAL
GRADING AS RECOMMENDED BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.

RELATIVELY LEVEL AREAS, WHERE SATURATED SOIL AND/OR EROSION GULLIES EXIST TO
DEPTHS OF GREATER THAN ONE FOOT, SHOULD BE OVEREXCAVATED TO UNAFFECTED,
COMPETENT MATERIAL. WHERE LESS THAN ONE FOOT IN DEPTH, UNSUITABLE MATERIALS
MAY BE PROCESSED IN PLACE TO ACHIEVE NEAR-OPTIMUM MOISTURE CONDITION, THEN
THOROUGHLY RE-COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SPECIFICATIONS.
IF THE DESIRED RESULTS ARE NOT ACHIEVED, THE AFFECTED MATERIALS SHOULD BE
OVEREXCAVATED, THEN REPLACED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE
SPECIFICATIONS.

TS TOP OF SLOPE
TW TOP OF WALL
TYP TYPICAL
UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE
WM — WATER METER
WV WATER VALVE
@ AT

GRADING PLAN

1/8”=1'-0"

[f° GRADE

‘ cur

SECTION
1/4"=1°-0"

EXCAVATION QUANTITIES:

NET OFF-HAUL = 49 CY

We cas?
Dp em

OF CANE

KEVIN O'CONNOR, INC. yet; 41200042
4033 LINCOLN WAY FAX: 415-665-5252
San Francisco CA 94122 WWWW.KOCENGINEERNG.coM

THLE
NEW PARKING STALLS
200 NORTH QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

PROJECTING, ORAWINGNO.

2024-41 c1



--- page 44 ---
3

(P) BK 5.04 (P) BK 5.15
(P) BC 4.84" (P) BC 4.93"
9-0" 5:0" _y

< <
41.0% 45% 2 (P) BK 5.15°
Fa

os"
(E) SIDEWALK

EASEMENT

® 2
1 (P) TC 488° )Tc4565 V P)TC4394~
(P) BC 4.55 (P) BC 4.36" (P) BC 4.06" \ (P) BC 3.83" \

[11'-8” PROPOSE!
PUBLIC
(N) SIDEWALK

[ Peo BRICK PAVERS

pa

T—(P) AC 4.54"
 s

WHEEL stoP. 7]
TYP.

co
(N) WATER SSTES
METER cS
NY Z 3 Lo

(P) TC 4.46" Ke j
(P) BC 3.96" | EES \
woe A Lejyac | macaw tan? (P)AC 4.13" if AG eu ] Lp ac 402
AS (E)HIGH POINT 4.22! (E) FL3.96° (2) FL391 (&) FLOWLINE E) (|) FL357" ()FL357

acarat > (P)AC 3.79

+:
(E) CATCH BASIN, MARK Leewove «)
WITH "NO | UME ene: WATER METER

(E) FL3.84 J
() Tc 4.32"

LEGEND.
2" AC OVER 8° SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT/DRAINAGE PLAN ra

CONCRETE PAVEMENT
1/4"=1'-0"

CONCRETE GUTTER
KEVIN O'CONNOR, INC. yet; 41200042
4033 LINCOLN WAY FAX: 415-665-5252
San Francisco CA 94122 WWWW.KOCENGINEERNG.coM

CONCRETE PAVER

THLE
NEW PARKING STALLS
200 NORTH QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

Kor. [11/16/24]

PROJECTING, ORAWINGNO.

2024-41 c2



--- page 45 ---
7 mA,

A=

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution
Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community.

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials

Q Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dirt or other construction material
with tarps when rain is forecast or if not actively being used within
14 days.

Q Use (but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust control.

Hazardous Materials

Q Label all hazardous materials and hazardous wastes (such as
pesticides, paints, thinners, solvents, fuel, oil, and antifreeze) in
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations.

Q Store hazardous materials and wastes in water tight containers, store
in appropriate secondary containment, and cover them at the end of
every work day or during wet weather or when rain is forecast.

Q Follow manufacturer's application instructions for hazardous
materials and be careful not to use more than necessary. Do not
apply chemicals outdoors when rain is forecast within 24 hours.

Q Arrange for appropriate disposal of all hazardous wastes.

Waste Management

Q Cover waste disposal containers securely with tarps at the end of
every work day and during wet weather.

Q Check waste disposal containers frequently for leaks and to make
sure they are not overfilled. Never hose down a dumpster on the
construction site.

Q Clean or replace portable toilets. and inspect them frequently for
leaks and spills.

O Dispose of all wastes and debris properly. Recycle materials and
wastes that can be recycled (such as asphalt, concrete, aggregate base
materials, wood, gyp board, pipe, etc.)

Q Dispose of liquid residues from paints, thinners, solvents, glues, and
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste

Construction Entrances and Perimeter

Q Establish and maintain effective perimeter controls and stabilize all
construction entrances and exits to sufficiently control crosion and
sediment discharges from site and tracking off site.

O Sweep or vacuum any strect tracking immediately and sceure
sediment source to prevent further tracking. Never hose down streets
to clean up tracking.

they apply to your project, all year long.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

Maintenance and Parking

O Designate an area, fitted with appropriate BMPs, for
vehicle and equipment parking and storage.

Q Perform major maintenance, repair jobs, and vehicle
and equipment washing off site.

QO If refueling or vehicle maintenance must be done.
onsite, work in a bermed area away from storm drains
and over a drip pan or drop cloths big enough to collect
fluids. Recycle or dispose of fluids as hazardous waste.

Q If vehicle or equipment cleaning must be done onsite,
clean with water only in a bermed area that will not
allow rinse water to run into gutters, streets, storm
drains, or surface waters.

Q Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite using soaps,
solvents, degreasers, or steam cleaning equipment.

Spill Prevention and Control

Q Keep spill cleanup materials (¢.g., rags, absorbents and
cat litter) available at the construction site at all times.

Q 1 Inspect vehicles and equipment frequently for and
repair leaks promptly, Use drip pans to catch leaks
until repairs are made.
Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of
cleanup materials properly
Do not hose down surfaces where fluids have spilled.
Use dry cleanup methods (absorbent materials, cat
litter, and/or rags)
Sweep up spilled dry materials immediately. Do not
try to wash them away with water, or bury them
Clean up spills on ditt areas by digging up and
properly disposing of contaminated soil.
Report significant spills immediately. You are required
by law to report all significant releases of hazardous
materials, including oil. To report a spill: 1) Dial 911
or your local emergency response number, 2) Call the
Governor’s Office of Emergency Services Warning
Center, (800) 852-7550 (24 hours).

Earthmoving

O Schedule grading and excavation work
during dry weather.

Stabilize all denuded areas, install and
maintain temporary erosion controls (such
as crosion control fabric or bonded fiber
matrix) until vegetation is established.

O Remove existing vegetation only when
absolutely n and seed or plant
vegetation for erosion control on slopes
or where construction is not immediately
planned.

Prevent sediment from migrating offsite
and protect storm drain inlets, gutters,
ditches. and drainage courses by installing
and maintaining appropriate BMPs, such
as fiber rolls, silt fences, sediment basins,
gravel bags, berms, ete.

Keep excavated soil on site and transfer it
to dump trucks on site, not in the streets.

Contaminated Soils

O Ifany of the following conditions are
observed, test for contamination and
contact the Regional Water Quality
Control Board.

Unusual soil conditions, discoloration,
or odor

Abandoned underground tanks.
Abandoned wells
Buried barrels, debris, or trash.

Paving/Asphalt Work

Q Avoid paving and scal coating in wet
weather or when rain is forecast, to
prevent materials that have not cured
from contacting stormwater runoff.

Q Cover storm drain inlets and manholes
when applying seal coat, tack coat, slurry
seal, fog seal, etc.

OQ Collect and recycle or appropriately
dispose of excess abrasive gravel or sand.
Do NOT sweep or wash it into gutters

Q Do not use water to wash down fresh
asphalt concrete pavement.

Sawcutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal

Q Protect nearby storm drain inlets when
saw cutting. Use filter fabric, catch basin
inlet filters, or gravel bags to keep slurry
out of the storm drain system

Q) Shovel, abosorb, or vacuum saw-cut
slurry and dispose of all waste as soon
as you are finished in one location or at
the end of each work day (whichever is
sooner!),

O If sawcut slurry enters a catch basin, clean

it up immediately.

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

O Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets under cover to protect them from
rain, runoff, and wind.

Wash out concrete equipment/trucks.
offsite or in a designated washout

area, where the water will flow into a
temporary waste pit. and in a manner

that will prevent leaching into the
underlying soil or onto surrounding areas.
Let concrete harden and dispose of as
garbage.

When washing exposed aggregate,
provent washwator from ontering storm
drains. Block any inlets and vacuum
gutters, hose washwater onto dirt areas, or
drain onto a bermed surface to be pumped
and disposed of properly.

Landscaping

Q Protect stockpiled landscaping materials
from wind and rain by storing them under
tarps all year-round,

O Stack bagged material on pallets and
under cover.

Q Discontinue application of any erodible
landscape material within 2 days before a
forecast rain event or during wet weather.

Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines of up to $10,000 per day!

Painting & Paint Removal

jup and Removal

Q Never clean brushes or rinse paint
containers into a street, gutter, storm
drain, or stream.

Q For water-based paints, paint out brushes
to the extent possible, and rinse into a
drain that goes to the sanitary sewer.
Never pour paint down a storm drain.

O For oil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible and clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container. Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents. Dispose of
excess liquids as hazardous waste.

O Paint chips and dust from non-hazardous
dry stripping and sand blasting may be
swept up or collected in plastic drop
cloths and disposed of as trash.

Q Chemical paint stripping residue and chips
and dust from marine paints or paints
containing lead, mercury, or tributyltin
must be disposed of as hazardous waste.
Lead based paint removal requires a state-
certified contractor.

Dewatering

Q Discharges of groundwater or captured
runoff from dewatering operations must
be properly managed and disposed. When
possible send dewatering discharge to
landscaped area or sanitary sewer. If
discharging to the sanitary sewer call your
local wastewater treatment plant.

Q Divert run-on water from offsite away
from all disturbed areas.

QO When dewatering, notify and obtain
approval from the local municipality
before discharging water to a street gutter
or storm drain. Filtration or diversion
through a basin, tank, or sediment trap
may be required.

O In areas of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine whether the ground water must
be tested. Pumped groundwater may need
to be collected and hauled off-site for
treatment and proper disposal.

<7

CAL

KEVIN O'CONNOR, INC. yet; 41200042
4033 LINCOLN WAY FAX: 415-665-5252
San Francisco CA 94122 WWWW.KOCENGINEERNG.coM

THLE
NEW PARKING STALLS
200 NORTH QUEBEC STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401

PROJECTING, ORAWINGNO.

2024-41 C3



--- page 46 ---
PROJECT DATA TABLE
NAME:
PA:
PA-2023-075
ADDRESS:
200 N Quebec Street, 
San Mateo, CA, 94401
LAND AREA: 
ZONING: R1C
APN: 
PROPOSED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
Floor Area: 
11,175
  Building:
  Expansion Areas:
  Garage:
TOTAL:
13,120 sq.ft*
No Expansion
No Garage
F.A.R.:
  Building:
  Expansion Areas:
Total:
0.742
No Expansion
0.5 for parcels of less than or 
equal to 6,000 square feet plus 
0.2 for additional parcel area over 
6,000 square feet
BLDG. HEIGHT:
25’-10” plate height and roof 
top height*
24’ plate height and 32’ roof top
STORIES: 
SETBACKS:
EXISTING:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Front:
20’
15’
  Left Side:
6’-6”
5’
  Right Side (Street Side):
7’-6” *
15’
  Rear:
8’-6” **
15’
PARKING:
CREDITS:
Standard:
2
13,120/200=66 Permitted for 3
Compact (Maximum):
0
REQUIRED
Disabled:
1
Basketball Training: 
7740/200=39
TOTAL PARKING:
3
COVERED PARKING:
0
0
LOADING:
3
0
BICYCLE:
1
1
PKG.  LOT LANDSCAPING:
0
0
Archeological – No Archeological Resources; Historical – No modification to the exteriors;
Noise – No ambient noise; Tree Removal – No existing trees; Grading – No grading proposed;
Traffic – No potential significant traffic impact per city traffic engineer
*Note: legal non-conforming building
** Note: legal non-conforming building. Based on the record, a portion of the original rear yard 
is no longer part of the property.

--- page 47 ---
Kevin & Lisa Cullinane

San Mateo, CA 94402

Subject: 200 N. Quebec, San Mateo - Special Use Permit

Honorable Planning Commisson Members,

| currently reside and operate a business (SC Properties) in San Mateo.
Over the 35 years | have lived and worked here, | have developed and
built many properties in our city. |am proud of the benefits they have
created, not only from an aesthetic point of view, but from a practical one
as well.

When | first learned of the planned use by Mr. Fong of the former Boys &
Girls Club on Quebec Street, | was appalled that the city would even
consider granting a special use permit (SUP) for this site knowing the zoning
only allows for residential use.

Having worked with the Boys & Girls club for over 25 years | know the reason
for them selling the site was the facilities inability to service the needs of the
families with its’ limited soace and, more importantly, lack of parking.

For the Committee to even consider approving the use of this facility as a
for profit gym | feel the following criteria would have to be met:

1) That the facility would provide a benefit to the community in a similar
fashion to the Boys & Girls Club. Meaning that the approved use be
like the previous use (i.e. Charitable/Non-Profit in nature).

2) That the approved use does not impact the neighbors’ ability to
quietly enjoy their homes (i.e. impact access to or ability to park).

3) That if a conditional use permit is granted the following conditions be
met:

a. A parking in-lieu fee by paid by the applicant based on the
number of spaces needed for the square footage present at
the building (both as a gym and office/support space).

b. That the office/support space be sealed off and steps taken to
insure that it won’t be used for a purpose that would impact


--- page 48 ---
the surrounding neighborhood and park access (i.e. using it for
employees and/or staging areas for parents to pick up their
children).

Please understand that since | worked with the Boys & Girls Club | know of
the problems their use sometimes created. | am sure there are actual
neighbors who have voiced that same concern to the committee with
letters and/or emails.

| know that the applicant did remove the originally planned use of a
portion of the space for the pre-school. It is my opinion that the 7,668
square feet of office/kitchen space that is there will, at some point, be used
to house and/or hold employees, families and athletes that are using the
gym (if that is the true intended use of the property). When that happens, it
will impact the neighborhood and ability for the public to access
Harborview Park.

In closing | would ask you to remember that John Dore, the original
developer of the Shoreview neighborhood, built and donated this site to
the Boys & Girls Club in memory of his son. The intent was to provide a
place for kids to go at NO COST to the families it served. If the planning
commission approves this use it will be in direct contradiction to the original
intent and reason for the existing structure being built.

In the end the City of San Mateo needs housing. This is an excellent site to
provide that to our community. What the city doesn’t need is another “for
profit” training facility that won't provide a true, no cost benefit to its’
citizens. | would encourage the applicant to explore that option.

It is my hope that the commission sees that and denies the CUP that is
presently being considered.

~ Kevin Cullinane


--- page 49 ---
200 N Quebec
Special Use Permit for a Community Service Use
(PA-2023-075)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 25, 2025
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
1

--- page 50 ---
4 yA A ‘ \ ;
As i A ¥ y

‘ Harborview Park

, y
niet AND

SHarbomven
‘Pak

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————


--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 52 ---
Background
4
• Existing Building 
• Boys & Girls Club
• Legal Non-Conforming Setback, Height, 
and Floor Area. 
• 2023: Code Enforcement Case
• Existing Legal Non-conforming Use 
replaced by two businesses of similar 
uses
• Unpermitted and unsafe alterations
• 2024: PA23-075 Deemed Complete
•  Legalize the basketball facility use and 
remove the childcare facility use

--- page 53 ---
5
• Retain Legal Non-Conforming Features
• Interior alteration w no exterior modifications
• SMMC Section 27.72.060 allows non-structural 
related alterations. 
Applicable Code and Policy 
Review

--- page 54 ---
6
• Parking
• 0 Existing Parking
• SMMC Section 27.72.020 – Parking Credits
• Seven new Parking Spaces
• Three for the Proposed Use 
• Four Dedicated to the City 
Applicable Code and Policy 
Review

--- page 55 ---
Special Use Permit
• SMMC Section 27.74.020
• Community Service Use – a listed Special Use in R1C Zoning District
• Similar in Operation and Impact to the Previous Use
• Not Adversely Affect on General Health, Safety, and Welfare
• No Significant Impact on Local Street System
7

--- page 56 ---
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Exempt from Further Environmental Review
• CEQA Guidelines Section 15301 – Existing Facility
8

--- page 57 ---
Public Comments
• Neighborhood Meeting: November 6, 2023 - 8 neighbors attended
• Public noticing: Feb 13, 2025 Notice neighbors within 500 ft. of project 
site
• All interested parties
• City’s email subscription list
• One Public Comment – requesting the following items
• Community Benefit – Charitable / Non-Profit 
• Parking In-lieu Fee
• Close out the interior areas not in use
9

--- page 58 ---
Recommendation
• Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit to allow a community service 
use (basketball training facility) in an existing building located at 200 N. Quebec 
Street in a Single-Family Residence (R1C) district, and determine that the project 
qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 1, Section 15301 from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), 
based on the Findings for Approval and subject to Conditions of Approval.
Page 10 of 13

--- page 59 ---
Thank You
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
eling@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219
Page 11 of 13

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9592
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 25, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s approval of a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for a for a Two-Unit 
Development (TUD) at 1825 Nash Drive (PA-2023-082)  
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal and uphold the approval of a SFDDR for a Two-Unit Development (TUD) at 1825 
Nash Drive for a new 1,200 square-foot Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) on Lot A, and a new 2,400 square-foot single-family 
dwelling with an attached 800 square-foot ADU on Lot B, as well as a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for 
removal of major vegetation, based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval; and determine that this 
project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 3, Section 15303 from further environmental review under 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Urban Lot Split (ULS) and Tentative Parcel Map (TPM) were approved 
ministerially by the Zoning Administrator and are not subject to the appeal.
BACKGROUND:
On December 8, 2023, Kenneth Huo (Applicant), submitted a Planning Application for an ULS to create two new lots and a 
Two-Unit Development for a total of four housing units on the proposed two lots (also known as an SB9 project). Since the 
project proposed units greater than 800 square feet, the these larger units were subject to Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review (SFDDR). However, the urban lot split and the additional new units were not subject to the SFDDR.
On November 7th, 2024, the Zoning Administrator approved the Planning Application, following a duly noticed public 
review period. On November 18, 2024, Nicholas Colucci (Appellant), a neighboring property owner, filed an appeal of the 
Zoning Administrator decision, citing concerns related to the increased density and parking impacts to the neighborhood 
from the proposed development. It should be noted that only the discretionary part of the Zoning Administrator approval 
is subject to appeal, which includes the SFDDR of the Two-Unit development when greater than 800 square feet. The ULS 
met all the requirements for ministerial approval as noted in San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 27.21.100, 
Article II, and therefore is not subject to this appeal.  SMMC Section 27.08.090 authorizes the Planning Commission to take 
action on an appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision. Per the staff recommendation, a resolution to deny the appeal, 
based on the findings and conditions of approval, is included as Attachment 1.
Project Description
The project site is located at 1825 Nash Drive, in the Shoreview/Parkside Neighborhood. The site is zoned R1-C (One Family 
Dwellings), is 11,233 square feet in size and developed with an existing two-story, 1,863 square-foot single-family home in 
the front portion of the lot. A location map showing the project site and its vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
The project includes the subdivision of the parcel to create two new lots – Lot A: 5,842 square feet, and Lot B: 5,391 
square feet. The resulting lots are proposed in a flag lot configuration, with Lot A in the front and Lot B in the rear. The

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
existing home (including an attached one-car garage) is proposed to remain on Lot A. The project would add a new 
detached 1,200 square-foot ADU on Lot A behind the existing primary residence. On Lot B, a new two-story single-family 
house is proposed, consisting of a new primary residence of 2,340 square feet with an attached two-car garage, and an 
attached 800 square-foot ADU on the second floor. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, and 
elevations are included in Attachment 3.
Zoning Code and Design Review
Regulatory Context: The project is subject to the requirements of SMMC Chapter 27.21 “Two Unit Development 
Residential Overlay District – R1 Districts” and Senate Bill 9 (SB9), a state law that allows for ministerial approval of urban 
lot splits to divide existing single-family zoned parcels into up to two lots, and ministerial approval of up to two new 
residential units on each newly created lot. 
Urban Lot Split: Lots A and B are both in conformance with state and local law. Each lot is at least 1,200 square-feet in size, 
and neither is less than 40% of the original lot area. Regarding required access to the public right of way, Lot A maintains 
an existing driveway access off Nash Drive, and access to Lot B is provided via a new 10-foot-wide access easement on Lot 
A from Nash Drive in a flag lot configuration, which meets minimum access requirements. The ULS is a ministerial review 
as established under SB9. Therefore, the ULS subdivision proposed with this project is not subject to appeal. 
Two-Unit Development: The proposed new primary SB9 unit on Lot B is subject to SMMC Chapter 27.21, and the 
proposed ADUs are subject to SMMC Chapter 27.19 (Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – 
Residential Zones). These chapters include standards regulating building setbacks, height, daylight plane, and parking, as 
well as floor area ratio (FAR) and maximum unit size, in accordance with State Law. However, the San Mateo Municipal 
Code allows for larger units beyond those allowed by state law under SB 9, subject to discretionary review and approval. 
Setbacks, Height and Daylight Plane: All new structures proposed meet or exceed required setbacks. The existing primary 
residence, which is to remain unchanged, has a nonconforming garage setback of 15 feet to the front property line (20 feet 
is required for a garage in R1C Zoning). This existing garage setback is permitted to remain as a legal non-conforming 
condition in accordance with SMMC Chapter 27.72. All units are compliant with maximum building height and daylight 
plane requirements. Each unit also meets minimum parking requirements, as discussed in the Appeal section below.
Unit Size and FAR: Both Lots A and B are compliant with maximum FAR standards. The overall proposed floor area for Lot 
A is 2,263 square feet, which is within the maximum allowable floor area of 2,921 square feet (0.5 FAR). For Lot B, the 
overall proposed floor area is 2,340 square feet, which is within the maximum allowable floor area of 2,695 square feet 
(0.5 FAR). Additional notes on the FAR calculation and applicable exemptions are provided below:
•
An exemption of 800 square feet of ADU area has been applied for each lot. Per SMMC Section 27.19.050(c), an 
ADU of at least 800 square feet in size is allowed by-right, with the floor area of any new ADU in excess of 800 
square feet applied to the maximum floor area allowance of the subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning 
district. Therefore, only ADU floor area exceeding 800 square feet is counted towards each lot’s overall FAR. 
•
The project’s compliance with all applicable Zoning Code requirements is summarized in the Project Data Sheet 
(Attachment 4). 
Discretionary Review: This project is subject to discretionary review, as it includes a new SB9 primary unit over 800 square 
feet. SMMC Section 27.21.045 “Discretionary Review as Alternative to Ministerial Approval” establishes this process for 
SB9 projects that exceed specified minimum requirements to be reviewed with a SFDDR application. This SFDDR 
discretionary review includes evaluation of the project for compliance with the Zoning Code as well as for consistency with 
the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines (Design Guidelines). Staff found this project to be in substantial conformance 
with the Design Guidelines because the new units proposed are designed to be well integrated and architecturally 
compatible with the existing context of the single-family neighborhood, as well as the existing single-family unit that will 
remain unchanged on Lot A. The units have been designed to minimize privacy impacts to neighboring properties with 
offset windows, fencing and landscaping. Additional details addressing the project’s conformance with the Design 
Guidelines is included in the Zoning Administrator Decision Letter (Attachment 5).

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA): This application also includes a Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) for removal of major vegetation. As defined in SMMC Section 23.40.020(m), “major vegetation” includes live 
vegetation with a trunk of 6 inches or greater measured at 54 inches above natural grade. The project proposes to remove 
5 trees (1 plum, 2 glossy privets, and 2 fig trees) that are over 6 inches in diameter. These trees are located along the side 
of the project site where the proposed access easement and driveway on Lot A will be located, as well as in the rear of the 
existing dwelling, within the proposed building footprint and driveway area on Lot B. None of the trees to be removed are 
Heritage Trees, as defined by SMMC Section 13.40.030(k). The applicant proposes to plant four new trees, and will be 
required to plant additional trees or pay in-lieu fees proportional to the Landscape Unit Value of the existing trees to be 
removed for compliance with SMMC Chapter 23.40 “Site Development Code”.
DISCUSSION:
Appeal
The appellant owns a neighboring property, located across the street from the project site. As noted on the appeal form 
(Attachment 6), the appeal is based on three issues: 1) parking impacts 2) site circulation, and 3) density. 
1.
Conformance with Parking Requirements: The project is compliant with minimum parking standards on each lot, and 
adequate circulation is provided for vehicular access. Each primary unit is subject to minimum parking standards, while 
the ADUs are exempt from minimum parking standards under State Law. Additional detail is provided below:
a.
On Lot A, the existing one-car garage satisfies minimum parking requirements for the existing primary unit. 
i.
While a minimum of two (2) garage stalls are typically required for a single-family dwelling under 3,000 
square feet in size under SMMC Section 27.18.110, the existing primary unit is legal non-conforming 
with an existing one-car garage. Consistent with Chapter 27.72, the nonconforming condition is 
permitted to remain, as there is no change proposed to the main home.
b.
On Lot B, the proposed two-car garage satisfies minimum parking requirements for the Primary SB9 Unit.
i.
Per SMMC Section 27.21.070(e), a minimum of one standard sized off-street parking space shall be 
provided for each primary SB9 Unit. State law does not allow a local jurisdiction to require more than 
one parking space for an SB9 unit. In this case, two standard sized off-street stalls are provided in the 
attached garage, exceeding the minimum required. 
c.
The ADUs proposed on both Lots A and B do not require any off-street parking. 
i.
Per Government Code Section 66322(a)(1) and SMMC Section 27.19.050(i)(4)(A), ADUs are exempt 
from minimum parking requirements when located within ½ mile of a bus stop. The project site is 
within this radius. A map showing the half-mile radius of transit stops to determine where ADU 
parking exemptions are applied is included as Attachment 7. 
2.
Turning Radii and Site Circulation were reviewed by Public Works and Planning staff and are in conformance with 
minimum standards. 
a.
On both Lots A and B, vehicles can exit the parking stalls by backing out directly onto the public right-of-way.
b.
There are no additional turning radius requirements for single-family and two-family dwellings. However, 
Public Works staff have reviewed and verified that adequate space is provided on Lot B for a vehicle exiting the 
garage to make a three-point turn and exit via the driveway; exceeding minimum requirements for vehicles to 
back out. Additional detail is provided below to detail compliance with specific code sections:
i.
Per SMMC Section 27.64.130, the vehicles may back out onto public right-of-way for single-family and 
two-family dwellings.
ii.
Per SMMC Section 27.64.025(1)(A), driveways may not be less than 10 feet wide when serving a 
garage or parking area of two stalls or fewer. A 10-foot wide driveway and access easement is 
provided in a flag lot configuration to give access to Lot B (rear lot) and serving the two-car garage, 
which meets this requirement. 
iii.
Per SMMC Section 27.64.025(1)(2), when more than one curb cut is proposed on one parcel, at least 
20 feet shall be provided between the two curb cuts on the parcel. The new curb cut for the driveway

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
access to Lot B is separated by approximately 25 feet from the existing curb cut for the driveway on 
Lot A, exceeding this minimum separation. 
iv.
Per SMMC Section 27.21.140(d), flag lot configurations are allowable under SB9 ULS standards. In this 
configuration, a minimum of 10-foot-wide strip “flag pole” (which may be provided as an access 
easement) is required when the “flag pole” is 150 feet or less in length. The “flag pole” is 148 feet in 
length. 
v.
The project Conditions of Approval include a requirement for the applicant to submit access easement 
and maintenance agreement language for the proposed flag lot driveway. This agreement will address 
unimpeded access, maintenance, and improvements of the driveway subject to review and approval 
by the Public Works Department. 
3.
Density: The project conforms with maximum allowable density as allowed under SB9 (ULS and Two Unit 
Development) and as codified locally per SMMC Chapter 27.21. Under these provisions, a single-family zoned parcel 
may be subdivided into no more than two roughly equally sized lots, and up to two units (inclusive of ADUs and JADUs) 
may be developed on each lot. These subdivision standards and densities established by SB9 apply universally to all 
Single-Family zoning districts in the State of California and were also adopted by ordinance by the City in 2022. The 
project meets the density provisions of four total units (two units per lot when proposed with an ULS) under this 
statute. 
4.
Urban Lot Split and Two-Unit Development: The project meets all qualifying criteria for an ULS and Two-Unit 
Development under SB9 and SMMC Chapter 27.21. Detailed findings are included in the Zoning Administrator Decision 
Letter included as Attachment 5.
As discussed above and in the Resolution (Attachment 1), the project meets all applicable Zoning Code requirements and is 
in substantial conformance with the Single-Family Design Guidelines. Therefore, staff recommends that the Planning 
Commission find that the project meets all applicable policies and regulations, deny the appeal, and uphold the Zoning 
Administrator’s decision to approve the SFDDR, Two-Unit Development, ULS and TPM, and Site Development Planning 
Application for the subdivision of the existing parcel at 1825 Nash into two lots (Lots A and B), with Lot A retaining the 
existing single family residence and adding a new detached ADU, and the construction of a new primary SB9 unit with an 
attached garage and attached ADU on Lot B.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The project was evaluated for environmental impacts and found to qualify for a categorical exemption from further review 
under the California Environmental Quality Act Class 3 Section 15303(b) - New Construction or Conversion of Small 
Structures in that the project includes less than 6 units and is located in an urban area where all public services and 
facilities are available to allow for maximum development permissible in the General plan, and is not located in an 
environmentally sensitive area.  
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this Public 
Hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site.
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email subscription list. 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held the required informal neighborhood meeting prior to Planning Application submittal on November 15, 
2023. Attendees expressed concerns about removal of trees, proposed driveway width and material, parking, sewer lateral 
requirements, powerline clearance, and privacy impacts to neighboring parcels, the increase in density and overall SB9 
process and requirements, as well as impacts during construction. During the Zoning Administrator notice period, staff

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
discussed inquiries and concerns from the appellant and one other neighbor, however, no written public comments were 
received. As of the date of publication of this report, no additional public comments have been submitted to staff. Any 
comments received following the publishing of this agenda report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for 
review and consideration at the Public Hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet 
Public Comments.”
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data Sheet 
Att 5 – Zoning Administrator Decision Letter
Att 6 – Appeal Form to the Planning Commission
Att 7 – ADU Parking Exemption Map
STAFF CONTACT
Elizabeth Gagliardi, Associate Planner
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
RESOLUTION DENYING THE APPEAL AND UPHOLDING THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR APPROVAL OF A SINGLE-
FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW, TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT, URBAN LOT SPLIT, TENTATIVE PARCEL MAP, 
AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (PA-2023-082) AT 1825 NASH DRIVE (APN 033-381-490)
WHEREAS, on November 20, 2023, Kenneth Huo (“Applicant”) submitted Planning Application PA-2023-
082 for a ministerial Urban Lot Split (ULS) and Tentative Parcel Map (TM) for the subdivision of an 11,233 sq. ft. 
lot to create two new lots (5,842 sq. ft. Lot A and 5,391 sq. ft. Lot B) and Two-Unit Development (TUD) and 
discretionary Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) to retain the existing single-family dwelling and 
construct a 1,200 sq. ft. accessory dwelling unit (ADU) on Lot A and construct a new 2,400 sq. ft. single-family 
dwelling with an 800 sq. ft. ADU on Lot B. The request also included a Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) for removal of major vegetation, and is located at 1825 Nash Drive, APN 033-381-490 (collectively 
referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and,
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Urban Lot Split (ULS) and Tentative Parcel Map 
(TPM) to create two new parcels meet all requirements pursuant to SMMC Sections 27.21.140 and 26.56.060 for 
ministerial approval, and are not subject to appeal; and
 
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project includes an SB9 unit over 800 square feet in 
size and is therefore subject to either a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) or Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) discretionary review process, subject to appeal, in accordance with San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 27.21.070(b)(2); and
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project is consistent with the applicable policies of 
the General Plan and other applicable codes and policies, including the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines; 
and
WHEREAS, on November 7, 2024, the Zoning Administrator approved the Project, following a duly 
noticed public review period; and 
WHEREAS, on November 18, 2024, Nicholas Collucci (“Appellant”) filed an Appeal of the decision by the 
Zoning Administrator to approve the Project; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.08.090 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take action on the Appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision; and
WHEREAS, on February 25, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing to 
consider the Appeal, at which all public comments were considered.

--- page 66 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 2 of 12
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES THAT:
1.
The Project will not have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt 
from the provisions of CEQA under Class 3 Section 15303(b) New Construction or Conversion of Small 
Structures.
2.
The Appeal is denied based on the analysis of the Project as a whole and substantial evidence in the 
record.
3.
The decision of the Zoning Administrator to approve the project based on findings and subject to the 
conditions of approval attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference is upheld. 
4.
Pursuant to SMMC Sections 27.08.032 and 27.21.045, the Single-Family Dwelling Design Review for the 
Two-Unit Development, and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following 
findings:
a)
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are consistent with the adopted R1 Single Family 
Dwelling Design Guidelines in that:
i.
The massing of the proposed units complies with the maximum height and daylight 
plane requirements for R1 Zoning Districts. The second-story of the proposed structure 
on the rear lot is stepped back on all sides, and is centered over the living area, resulting 
in a two-story structure that is well-balanced.
ii.     The surrounding neighborhood consists of a mix of one- and two-story homes. The 
architectural style and materials for the proposed units is consistent with the common 
style of surrounding homes, featuring composition shingle hipped roofs, stucco, and 
siding. The front door and appearance of the garage for the main unit visible from the 
street will remain unchanged, and are consistent with the surrounding neighborhood 
entries. Additionally, the new units on site are designed in a manner that is cohesive 
with the existing two-story home, which will remain unchanged. 
iii.
The hipped roof design for all of the proposed units is consistent with the neighborhood 
context, which includes both hipped and gabled roofs with similar slopes, all of which 
are constructed with composition shingles.
iv.
The windows of the proposed units are offset from openings on neighboring properties, 
and privacy is further protected through fencing and landscaping. The ADU unit on lot B 
(rear lot), features a second-story deck which has been designed to face the interior of 
the lot, away from neighboring properties to minimize privacy impacts. 
b) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that the proposed units are designed in accordance with the San Mateo Zoning Code and 
adheres to the maximum floor area ratio, minimum setback, and maximum building height 
standards. The proposed development is in the R1C Zoning District which allows for a 
maximum floor area ratio of 0.5 for parcels less than or equal to 6,000 square feet. Per SMMC 
Section 27.19.050(c), an ADU of at least 800 square feet in size is allowed by-right, with the 
floor area of any new ADU in excess of 800 square feet applied to the maximum floor area 
allowance of the subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. Proposed Lot B is

--- page 67 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 3 of 12
5,391 square feet, with 2,340 square feet of floor area proposed (800 square feet of ADU area 
has been exempted from the total FAR calculations on this lot). Lot A is 5,842 square feet, with 
2,263 square feet of floor area proposed (800 square feet of ADU area has been exempted 
from the total FAR calculations on this lot). 
c)
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that the 
proposed project is designed in a manner that is sensitive and compatible with the surrounding 
neighborhood. 
d)
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site in that the proposed 
dwelling does not exceed the height limitation, parking, or daylight plane requirements for the 
site and will be constructed in conformance with the California Building Code. 
e)
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City's Security 
ordinance.
5.
The Two-Unit Development, pursuant to SMMC Section 27.21.030, and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a)
The parcel is located within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying criteria as 
outlined in that:
i.
The project would not require the demolition or alteration of:
•
Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant that restricts rents to levels 
affordable to persons and families of moderate, low, or very low incomes; or,
•
Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control required by the City; 
or,
•
Housing that has been occupied by a tenant within the last three years; or,
•
Housing on a property which has withdrawn from the rental market pursuant to 
the Ellis Act within the last 15 years 
ii.
The project is not located in a historic district or property included on the State 
Historic Resources Inventory or within a site that has been designated or listed as a 
local or County landmark, historic property, or district; and  
iii.
The project is not located in a resource hazard area per Government Code Sections 
65913.4(a)(6)(B-K), as amended
b)
The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and required by the 
General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted plan, with the exception of 
floor area ration standards subject to discretionary review as outlined in the SFDDR findings 
for approval (see Section 2, above)
c)
The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards of Chapter 23.54.

--- page 68 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 4 of 12
d)
The proposed SB 9 unit(s) are consistent with all applicable Single Family Dwelling Desing 
guidelines.
6.
The Site Development Planning Application, pursuant to SMMC Chapter 23.40, and associated 
Conditions of Approval is approved based on the following findings:
a)
The project will result in the removal of major vegetation consisting of 5 trees over 6 inches 
in diameter (glossy privet, fig, and plum) on the project site by the applicant as part of the 
project construction.  These trees are located along the side of the project site where the 
proposed access easement and driveway to the rear parcel will be located, as well as in the 
rear of the existing dwelling where the proposed parking area and building footprints are 
located for the proposed new development. No heritage trees are to be removed on the 
project site. The removal of these trees will not be detrimental to public welfare or injurious 
to other property in the vicinity.  These trees will be removed in order to construct the 
proposed improvements to allow reasonable enjoyment of the property.  The applicant will 
be planting four new trees and will be required to either plant additional trees or pay in-lieu 
fees in order to comply with the Zoning Code which requires the full Landscape Unit Value of 
the existing trees to be removed to be replaced.  A standard condition of approval has been 
included to address the tree removal and replanting requirements. 
b)
All concerns regarding tree removal and protection of remaining trees on the site have been 
addressed as conditions of approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape 
regulations, through the provision of extensive on-site landscaping as shown on the project 
plans, and/or through the payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.
7.
The project conforms to the following Land Use Policies and Community Design and Historic Resources 
Policies of the City’s General Plan 2040:
a)
Policy LU 3.1 Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, and walkable residential 
neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, families, and 
households of all income levels. 
b)
Policy CD 7.2 Single-Family Design. Encourage single-family additions and new dwellings that 
address the preservation and enhancement of neighborhood visual and architectural 
character through context-sensitive building scale, materials, architectural style and details, 
and privacy. 
The project conforms to these policies in that the maintenance of one existing single-family dwelling unit 
and the construction of one new single-family dwelling unit, plus two Accessory Dwelling Units provides 
a benefit to the community by providing additional housing units, adheres to the Single-Family Dwelling 
Design Guidelines, and is cohesive with the existing single-family character of the neighborhood. The 
project is located in the R1-C (Single-Family Dwelling) zoning district and Single-Family area per the 
General Plan’s Land Use Plan and is consistent with the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines and 
applicable subdivision and zoning code standards, including minimum lot sizes, parcel access, building 
height, daylight plane, maximum number of allowable units, and is within the allowable floor area ratio, 
as outlined in the findings listed above.

--- page 69 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 5 of 12
EXHIBIT A
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2023-082, 1825 NASH DR., SB9 ULS, TUD, TPM, SFDDR, SDPA
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, 94401-3128 CA
 PARCEL # 033381490
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON ______.
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of approval are 
grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. Additional language within a 
condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of Building permits include Demolition, 
Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT FOR 
SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, or prior to the deadline 
specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, and 
subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning application. This 
includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning 
application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, shall determine whether the proposed modifications substantially 
conform with the approved planning application, or whether a planning application modification is 
required to be submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be reproduced onto 
the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
4 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL – The applicant shall obtain a Site Development 
Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal of existing trees with a diameter of 
6 inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site Development Permit for tree removal shall 
authorize the applicant to replace on-site and street trees equivalent or greater than the 
Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed by planting on-site and street trees, pay a fee in 
lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule upon 
permit issuance, or a combination of both. (PLANNING)

--- page 70 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 6 of 12
Building Division (PA)
5 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING) 
6 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land Surveyor 
licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: location and 
dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic 
contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
7 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and 
dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the Geotechnical 
engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform to the 
recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her 
designee. (BUILDING) 
Public Works Department (PA)
8 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a final address plan. 
Said submittal shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to the submittal 
of plans for any demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS)
9 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an encroachment 
permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) year warranty for all work 
to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
10 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and features 
at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, label contour 
elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
11 PARCEL MAP – It shall be the applicant's responsibility to have a parcel map, prepared by a person 
authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels created or deleted and all 
changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.56. 
The applicant or owner shall dedicate reciprocal driveway ingress and egress easements, as 
delineated in the approved plans.  The easements shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee, recorded with the County Recorder’s Office, and a recorded copy of the

--- page 71 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 7 of 12
document returned to the City prior to the release of the building permit for the superstructure.  
The easement may also be designated on any associated parcel or subdivision map.  The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show all easements.
  
The parcel map shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and recorded with the 
County Recorder’s Office prior to the issuance of any City permits.  A parcel map guarantee shall be 
submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to release of the parcel map to the 
title company for recordation. 
Prior to the City’s release of the parcel map to the title company, the applicant may, at the 
discretion of the Director of Public Works or designee, be required to submit to the City an 
electronic copy of the map in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of 
recordation.  It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their title company and the County 
Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to have the map recorded after City approval.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)
12 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required fees and posting the 
required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution prevention program in 
accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The fee amount will be based upon 
the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building permit application is made. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
13 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are properly 
implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter prepared by the 
project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs showing the tree protection 
installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future inspections by the Project Arborist. The 
verification letter is subject to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)
14 LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed 
landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the project’s Plant Establishment 
Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing season months (March through October) 
for all proposed landscaped areas.  (PLANNING)
15 SETBACKS - The site plan shall be updated to show the second story setback for Lot B. This setback 
shall be measured from the building wall closest to the rear property line.  (PLANNING)

--- page 72 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 8 of 12
16 UPDATE GRADING INFORMATION - As identified in the Planning Application, the Single-Family Data 
Information Chart on Sheet A4 shall be updated to reflect the 240 c.y. of fill identified by the Site 
Grading and Drainage Plan contained on Sheet C1. (PLANNING)
17 UPDATE LANDSCAPE PLANS -  The landscape plans shall be revised to include one single chart that 
identifies the number, size (gallon), WUCOL factor, scientific and common name of all proposed 
living plant materials (i.e. trees, shrubs, proposed perennials). (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
18 ADU FIRE RATING - The building permit plans shall either demonstrate that the ADU on Lot A 
includes fire sprinkler system, or applicant/owner must provide one-hour rated windows for 
bedroom #1, bedroom #2, and bathroom #1 on the south wall, in accordance with CRC R302.1(1).
19 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist noting 
the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the California Green 
Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to the review and approval by 
the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San Mateo CALGreen checklists are 
located on Building Division webpage or will be provided by Community Development Department 
staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
20 EAVES & FIRE SEPARATION - The imaginary line for Fire Separation Distance between the Single-
Family Dwelling and the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) shall meet the following compliance 
requirements:
a. Lot A ADU building shall provide detailed drawings to show 1-hour fire-resistance rated 
construction for exterior walls of non-sprinklered buildings that have a Fire Separation Distance of 
less than 5 feet per CRC R302.1(1).
b. Lot A ADU building eaves are not permitted due to a Fire Separation Distance of less than 2 feet 
between the Single-Family Dwelling and the ADU per CRC Table R302.1(1). Applicants shall revise 
the drawings and provide eave detail drawings to show compliance with minimum fire separation 
distances during the building review stage.
c. Openings in exterior walls of non-sprinklered buildings are limited to 25% of the wall area when 
the Fire Separation Distance is ≥3 feet and <5 feet per CRC Table 302.1(1). Applicants shall provide 
elevation drawings and calculations verifying that the proposed openings do not exceed the 25% 
opening area limitation.
d. Dimensions on elevation drawings and site plan dimensions regarding the Fire Separation 
Distance per CRC R302.1(1) shall be consistent.  the Applicant(s) shall revise discrepancies on the 
plan such that the distances noted between structures on the site plan match the distances 
between structures identified on the elevations.

--- page 73 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 9 of 12
21 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is subject 
to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code Section 
23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also be included with 
the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms are located on Building 
Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required landscape documentation package with 
building permit application subject to the review and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her 
designee.  (BUILDING)
Public Works Department (PA)
22 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans shall show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to 
extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee or designee.  
No increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream.  In addition, discharge shall 
conform to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board.  
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and shall 
not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The proposed pervious pavement shall 
be designed and installed to comply with requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional 
Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County (MRP 3.0). The underdrain system sizing calculations for 
the pervious pavement shall be included in the building permit submittal package. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show drainage to include roof downspouts and discharge 
locations.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
23 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project fencing and 
foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of the City right-of-way. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
24 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection containers for 
scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The collection containers shall 
be brought to the service area  and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner.  The 
containers are not to be in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service times.  
A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service provider stating 
that service is available to the project as designed. The building permit plans for the superstructure 
shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC WORKS)
25 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 13.05.070) 
or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC 
Chapter 26.64).  The final fee shall be determined upon approval of the final map for the park In-
lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the building permit for the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee 
shall be paid prior to the release of the final map for recordation and the park impact fee shall be 
paid prior to the issuance of the building permit. If a project with an approved tentative map is 
issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, the applicant shall be subject to the

--- page 74 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 10 of 12
payment of the park impact fee only prior to the issuance of the first building superstructure 
permit. (PARKS) 
26 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public improvements 
in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public improvements shall be completed prior to the 
Certificate of Occupancy.  
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding requirements for the 
encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the following 
public improvements in the public right of way: 
(A) DRIVEWAY APPROACH - The applicant shall install City Standard Residential driveway approach 
as shown on the approved plans. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(B) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install a sewer lateral and main line connection to the 
sewer main located in the side easement to service the new proposed lot B. The sewer lateral shall 
be sized in accordance with the currently adopted Plumbing Code. Connection to the main will be 
with in line wyes, or for sewer mains ten (10) inches or larger in diameter, with a prefabricated 
saddle.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
(C) STORM WATER CATCH BASIN – The applicant shall connect the onsite surface drainage system 
directly to the storm drain basin connection on Nash Dr., per the approved plans and in accordance 
with current City Standard.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
27 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION – As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the applicant shall 
hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection and complete a Sewer 
Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of Public Works or designee, unless 
the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be 
completed prior to building permit issuance. The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of 
Public Works. If the Form indicates a failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer 
lateral shall appear on the building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit 
issuance. In addition, if the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or 
replace the sewer lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing 
inspection, prior to occupancy. (Public Works)
28 SHARED USE AGREEMENT –The applicant shall provide a shared use agreement for the shared 
ownership and maintenance for the proposed drainage system between the proposed lots. The 
shared use agreement shall be recorded after the parcel map recordation and prior to any building 
permit issuance for the superstructure. (PUBLIC WORKS)
29 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the project's 
share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development within the City of

--- page 75 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 11 of 12
San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. The fee shall be collected 
by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
30 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show that 
the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' triangular area of 
visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of visibility at any project corner meets the 
requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes 
all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
31 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type of utilities 
and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both existing and proposed public and private utilities.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated boxes and 
lids. The proposed ADU on lot A shall connect the proposed sewer lateral to the existing onsite 
sewer lateral connection as shown on the approved application. (PUBLIC WORKS)
32 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a proportionate 
share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or 
expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable wastewater capacity charge is 
determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater strength loadings and the amount shall be 
established by City Council resolution. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department 
and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the 
most current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC WORKS)
33 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be supplied to 
the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE OF A 
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever 
occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
34 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS –Apart from paved driveway and walkway 
areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be improved with 
landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants and other organic and 
inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not proposed, any damaged landscaping 
shall be replaced with new landscaping as described above. Proposed new landscaping shall be 
shown on the building permit plans prior to permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed 
prior to final inspection, subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee. (PLANNING)

--- page 76 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 12 of 12
35 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification letter to 
the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape architect indicating that 
all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site trees, street trees, shrubs, and 
irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans. This 
letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)
36 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the applicant 
shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  verification of compliance 
with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to 
schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. 
(PLANNING)
37 RECORDATION OF DEED RESTRICTION – Proof of a signed, notarized, and recorded deed restriction, 
as prepared by the project planner, shall be required for both Lots A and B. The deed restriction 
shall include the following:
Short-term rentals of less than 30 days are prohibited on the subject properties.
a.
All rentals must be of at lest 30 or more consecutive days.
b.
All uses on the subject properties are limited to residential uses only.
c.
Each parcel is limited to a maximum of two dwelling units (inclusive of Accessory Dwelling 
Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units)
d.
Further subdivision of the subject parcels under the provisions of Chapter 27.21 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code is prohibited.
Building Division (PA)
38 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the completed 
pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform to the approved 
plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her 
designee. (BUILDING)
39 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – (This condition applies when there is 2500 sqft or more 
landscaping work performed to the project site) In accordance with the City’s Water Conservation 
in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a licensed landscape architect, a 
licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation designer shall complete the “Certification of 
Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping form. Upon completion 
of the work, the certification of completion shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector 
subject to the review and approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
40 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system throughout the single-
family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the California Residential Code subject to review

--- page 77 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 13 of 12
and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE) Single 
family dwelling and ADU on Lot B will require a 13D fire sprinkler system to be installed.
CDD Arborist (PA)
41 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and submit a 
final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report shall confirm 
that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall assess the condition of 
Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall be subject to replacement and/or 
penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP.
Public Works Department (PA)
42 ACCESS EASEMENT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT - The applicant shall submit access easement 
and maintenance agreement language for the proposed flag lot driveway. This agreement at 
minimum shall identify the grantor and grantee, define the boundaries of the easement, duration, 
use/purpose of the easement, and speak to unimpeded access, maintenance and improvements to 
the driveway. This language shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works 
Department prior to recordation. All legal descriptions shall be wet signed and stamped by the 
responsible engineer or surveyor licensed to practice in the State of California (per Section 8761 of 
the Professional Land Surveyors Act).  (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THE 
PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
43 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project Planner 
conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, window locations, 
window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each 
inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
44 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 
7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 
12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction that 
takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise 
level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines. The applicant shall conform to the 
construction work hours to control traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is 
granted in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Public Works Department (PA)

--- page 78 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 14 of 12
45 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction activities in 
accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations 
(SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by 
reference. Detailed information can be located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
46 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the Building 
Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting the condition of 
trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages to Protected trees. (CDD 
ARBORIST)
47 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in place and 
be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or contractor shall notify 
the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to be performed within the Tree 
Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of 
Tree Protection Measures requires approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
48 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical improvements, 
uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning application shall, at all 
times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises, substantially 
conform with the approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, 
materials, project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction 
of the proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit 
the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)
49 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of litter, 
debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing condition 
and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to ensure continued 
conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)

--- page 79 ---
PA-2024-082, 1825 Nash Dr. SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
As approved on ________
Page 15 of 12
50 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any costs, 
claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, including, without 
limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party challenge.  If applicant is 
required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend 
the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
51 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of Planning 
Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is unlawful and will 
subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  (CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 80 ---
LOCATION MAP

PA-2023-082

1825 Nash Dr., SB9 Urban Lot Split & Two Unit Development

Address: 1825 Nash Dr A
San Mateo, CA 94401 -N-

Parcel Number(s): 033-381-490



--- page 81 ---
LOCATION MAP

PA-2023-082

1825 Nash Dr., SB9 Urban Lot Split & Two

Address: 1825 Nash Dr A
San Mateo, CA 94401 -N-

Parcel Number(s): 033-381-490



--- page 82 ---
lala) a) 3] lel 2|2 i
L 2m

© Latitude Geographies Group Lt

VE AVE
COTTAGE GRO —
Fa elslelalels

elejela)elayalaleley2leyele)t are) es ag

3 Fa a)a}e)2)8 2\8)8

BE) a) 2) 2) 3 a

se 7 [rasa ar7 [as aa8| veci| 18 [1057] 1068 | 1879 2087
“ “Tk map ia ue’ generated atc Up rom an nteret mappings and or
WGS_1984 Web Mercator Auniiany Sphere 1:2,257 0 "Seen es ep p e

THIS MAP I NOT TO E USED FOR NAVIGATION

LOCATION MAP

PROJECT DATA:
SITE & DESIGN DATA
SITE ADDRESS: 1825 NASH DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

APN 033-381-490
CONSTRUCTION TYPE: V-N

OCCUPANCY GROUP: —R-3/U-1

ZONING: R1-C

SITE AREA: 11,233 SQ.FT (0.27 ACRE)

SETBACKS REAR LOT FRONT - 15(FT) / SIDE RIGHT & LEFT - 5 (FT) / REAR ~ 5 (FT)

MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT AT RIDGE 29’ (32’ Allowable)
FROM GRADE TO BUILDING PLATE LINE 24’-0” (24’ Allowable)

The applicant intends to subdivide the property, including the creation of unit rind
(see below), the project will be adhering to the Shingle-Family Design Guidelines.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION:

THE EXISTING 11, 233 SQ FT LOT, ZONED R1-C IS LOCATED IN CITY OF SAN MATEO, WE ARE
PROPOSING A SB-9 LOT SPLIT, TO CREATE LOT A - 5842 SQ. FT (FRONT LOT) WITH EXISTING 1863
SQ.FT. SED AND A NEW DETACHED 1200 SQ. FT. ADU; AND LOT B -5391 SQ. FT (NEW FLAG LOT —
REAR) WITH A NEW 2340 SQ FI -1° FLOOR RESIDENTIAL UNIT, AND AN ATTACHED 800 SQ. FT - 28°
FLOOR PROJECT. WE WILL BE FULFILLING ALL THE OBJECTIVE ZONING, SUBDIVISION, AND DESIGN
STANDARDS, ALONG WITH PLANNING, BUILDING CODES & REGULATIONS PER CITY OF SAN MATEO.

SHEET INDEX:

ARCHITECTURAL

A.1 TITLE SHEET/PROJECT DATA/SITE AERIAL & PHOTOS/VICINITY MAP

A.2 SITE PLAN COMBINE/SIT PLANNING / LANDSCAPE PLAN (LOT A & LOT B)

A.2.1 EXISTING SITE/DEMO PLAN/TREE PHOTOS (LOT A & LOT B)

A.2.2 ARBORIST REPORT/TREE PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS.

‘A3 SITE NEIGHBORING PROPERTIFS/VIEWE STUDIES (NEIGHBORHOOD INFORMATIONAL MEETING)
A.4 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DATA/INFORMATION/FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS (LOT A & LOT B)
A.4.1 COLOR RENDERING /MATERIALS BORAD/LANDSCAPE-LIGHTING FIXTURE

A.5 LOT A-ADU FLOOR/ROOF PLAN/GENERAL NOTES

A.6 LOT A-ADU ELEVATIONS, BUILDING SECTIONS

A.7 LOT B-MAIN RESIDENCE FLOOR PLAN/ROOF PLAN

A.8 LOT B-ADU UPPER FLOOR/ROOF PLAN, SECTIONS

A.9 LOT B (HOUSE/ADU) ELEVATIONS N, S, E, W

A.10 EXISTING HOUSE (LOT A) FLOOR PLAN/ ROOF PLAN

A.10.1 EXISTING HOUSE (LOT A) ELEVATIONS

LAND SURVEY
LS.1- EXISTING BOUNDARY AND TOPO
LS.2-PROPOSED MAPPING SHOWING DISTINCTIVE BORDER LINE AND NEW LOT LINE

CIVIL

C.1-GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
C.2-SITE DRAINAGE DETAILS
C.3-PROPOSED UTILITY PLAN

1825 Nash Or

Google

SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT / TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SB 9 Tentative Parcel Map (TM) /SB 9 Two-Unit Development (TUD)

1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

APN. 033-381-490

76,
—
6) y 1033
& _——_—
ee W’/ n3’os’oo"W _ 185.64"
ie 15.0’
‘ 3/1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, cag4401 |
&) 12 rd
© Py —
N3’06'00”W » %
NS’34’39”W 2 o
148.00’ 2 5
mf §
2 Rie «
Zz

ca — &.

VICINITY MAP (N.T.S)

Topo Map

PROJECT AND PROPERTY INFORMATION :

PROJECT DIRECTORY

PROPERTY OWNER:
SHEVA QIHUA HU / STEVEN WONG (650)713-9283 SHEVAHU@GMAIL.COM
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATFO, CA 94401, CALIFORNIA (APN. 033-381-490)

PROJECT ARCHITECT:
KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT (650)572-8195 PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

LAND SURVEYOR:
ZHEN WANG, PE (415) 802-9945 ZHEN. WANG@ZHENSLANDSURVEVING.COM

CIVIL & STRUCTURAL ENGINNER:
JAIME ARAFILES PE.SE. (510) 386-5899 JPARAFILES@AOL.COM

DESIGN DATA

2022 CALFORNIA BULONG CODE

2022 CALFORNIA MECHANICAL COCE
2022 CALIFORNIA PLUMBNG CODE

2022 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE

2022 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE 2022 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE

2022 CALFORNIA RENDENTIAL CODE 2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN BULDING CODE

"Project addition and alteration will need to comply with City of San Mateo New Mandatory Green Building Measures (aka
Reach Code). Drawings submitted during building application review stage shall demonstrate compliances on the plans.”
httos://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/89889/2022-CalGreen-Checklist-New--Altered Residential

#**2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODES ARE IN EFFECT AS OF JANUARY 1, 2023***
ALL OTHER STATE AND LOCAL ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.

‘ALL STRUCTURAL DESIN DATA AS PER CBC SECTION 1603)

ALL CONSTRUCTION AS PER CBC TABLE 601 TYPE V.

ADOPTION OF THE 2022 EDITION OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE BUILDING CODES, TITLE 24.

CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGLLATIONS WAS MANDATED BY AS 4616 AND SB 2871, EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,
2023. THE FOLLOWING LOCAL AMENDIENTS TO THE CALIFORNIA STATE BUILDING CODES WHERE FILED WITH
THE OFFICE OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.

FIRE SPRINKLER REQUIREMENT: FOR REAR LOT 8 - MAIN AND ADU: ENTIRE RESIDENCE, SLAB ON GRADE AND
ATTIC SHALL BE PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM PER NFPA 13-D STANDARD.
(EXCEPT NOTED OTHERWISE - LOT A ADU IS NOT REQ(D PER CITY OF SAN MATEO FIRE PROTECTION)

GENERAL NOTES

1. ALL DETAILS, MATERIALS, FINISHES AND ASSEMBLIES ARE NOT NECESSARILY SHOWN THESE FINAL FINISH
DETALS INCLUDING CASEWORK AND MATERIAL SELECTIONS WILL BE COORDINATED BY OWNER.

2. ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE UNIFORM BUILDING CODE, APPLICABLE EDITION,
AND ALL OTHER PERTINENT CODS, LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE LOCAL BUILDING OFFICIALS, WHETHER
OF NOT SPECIFICALLY SHOW ON THESE DOCUMENTS. THESE DOCUMENTS ARE NOT INTENDED TO SHOW
EVERY DETIL OR CONDITION. MANY DETAILS IN RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION ARE BUILT ACCORDING TO
PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION PRACTICES, AND ARE THEREFORE NOT DETAILED IN THESE DOCUMENTS.
CONTACT ARCHITECT, CIVIL & STRUCTURAL ENGINEER, LAND SURVEYOR, AND ALL PROFESSIONAL LISTED ON
DOCUMENTS IF CONDITIONS OR OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES REQUIRE CHANGES IN THE WORK SHOWN, OR
REQUIRE CLARIFICATION. ALL WORK SHALL BE DONE IN A HIGH QUALITY MANNER ACCORDING TO THE
PREVAILING STANDARDS OF THE INDUSTRY FOR EACH TRADE.

3, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL LABOR MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, SUPERVISION AND CLEAN-UP TO
ACCOMPLISH ALL OF THE WORK SHOWN, INCLUDING ALL WARRANTIES AND INSTRUCTIONS, TO PROVIDE A
COMPLETE WORKING INSTALLATION, AND TO LEAVE THE OWNER WITH AN APPROVED PRODUCT.

4, CONTRACTOR SHALL ASSUME COMPLETE AND SOLE RESPONSIBILITY FOR MEANS AND METHODS OF
CONSTRUCTION AND FOR ALL SAFETY MEASURES TO PROTECT ALL PROPERTY, PERSONNEL AND THIRD
PARTIES FROM DAMAGE OR INJURY. THIS RESPONSIBILITY SHALL BE CONTINUOUS AND NOT SOLELY DURING
WORKING HOUS. CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS ARCHITECT, ENGINNERS,
‘SURVEYOR AND ALL PROFESSIONA LISTED FROM ANY CLAIMS OF LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED IN CONNECTION
WITH THE PREFORMING OF HIS WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE
NEGLIGENCE OF ALL DESIGN PROFESSIONALS.

5. THESE DOCUMENTS DO NOT CONTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE HANDLING OR REMOVE OF ANY HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS SHOULD ANY SUCH MATERIALS BE SUSPECTED OR ENCOUNTERED, SPECIALISTS SHALL BE CALLED
IN TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS.

6. PROVIDE ALL MANDATORY FEATURFS RFQUIRED BY THE T-24 ENFRGY CODE, INCLUDING WEATHER-
STRIPPING, BUILDING INSULATION, PIPE INSULATION, LIGHTING AND APPLIANCE MEASURES, AND OTHER
FEATURES REQUIRED BY TITLE 24 OR OTHER STATE, FEDERAL OR LOCAL CODES.

7. NO PERSON SHALL ERECT (INCLUDING EXCAVATION AND GRADING, DEMOLISH, ALTER OR REPAIR ANY
BUILDING OR SRUCTURE OTHER THAN BETWEEN THE HOURS PERMITTED BY THE LOCAL JURISDICATION.

8. ANY HIDDEN CONDITIONS THAT REQUIRE WORK TO BE PERFORMED BEYOND THE SCOPE OF THE BUILDING
PERMIT ISSUED FOR THESE PLANS MAY REQUIRE FURTHER CITY APPROVALS INCLUDING REVIEW BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.

9. PLUMBING CONTRACTOR WILL PROVIDED A SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM OF TIME OF INSPECTION AND ANY
INSTALLATION PRIOR TO PLAN CHECK AND APPROVAL IS AT CONTRACTOR'S RISH.

10. FIRE SPRINKLER SHALL BE INSTALLED AND SHOP DRAWINGS SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.

11. IF GRADING PERMIT IS REQUIRED. IT SHOULD BE OBTAINED FROM DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.

12. IF PUBLIC WORKS REQIRES SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT, POLICY FOR EXPAND WIDTH OF PLANTER STRIP.
NEED TO BE IMPLEMENTED AND TRECS NEED TO BE ADDED.

A.1 TITLE SHEET/PROJECT DATA/SITE AERIAL & PHOTOS/VICINITY MAP

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

E
2
wu
=
a
g
ww
>
Ww
oe:
4
]2
2
2
E
—_
a
G
8
2
<
P=)
m4
>
a
a
7)

SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG

1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401



--- page 83 ---
a _ _ - _

KEY
Esc ii oo sri iit sri sr Ss 1825 NASH — PROJECT SITE SITE PLAN ,anpscapiNc/PLANTING/FENCES/UTILITYIPARKING:

-Access to Lot B will have to comply with the following code section: SECTION 503.1.1 BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES. 1, LOT A- EXISTING 2 STORY HOUSE/FRONT YARD

REAR/ LOT B- MAI ADU: A - YY - THIS MAIN &
ste 50811 ad jeep es sale rover ver ey ular aon fig REAR {LOT B- MAIN & ADU: ATTACHED, 2-STORY = this FRONT/LOTA-ADU DETACHED 2. LOT A NEW 1200 SQ FT ADU PORCH/ENTRY
het d 2d inte ithin the sdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of s Ss 0 cae
Oa eared apenas ai S50 et (45 720 mm) of all portions of the facility and all portions of the exterior ~ —-ADDITIONAL TRENCHING (ONE TRENCH FOR ALL NEW UTILITY CONNECTIONS). PLANTING. THIS ADU PLAN INTRODUCES A SINGLE UTILITY TRENCH: ONE TRENCH FOR ALL NEW | |
walls ofthe firs story of the building s measured by on approved route around the exterir of te building or facility. Exceptions: The SCREENS. FRIENDLY FENCING, PARKING (NEW GARAGE, PARKING COURT, DRIVEWAY UTILITY CONNECTIONS PLANTING SCREENS, PARKING IN (E) GARAGE & DRIVEWAY (EAST 3, DRIVEWAY
fire code official is authorized to increase the dimension of 150 feet (45 720 mm) where any of the following conditions occur: Paper. 1/4] [2] BAN SIDE, FRONT) ggzee. [2] peter
— ~ 4, LOT B—NE
1: bilgi equiped ecushon wih on apoeeved oiorilespenkleh aps Nisa aecraCe Savisy om . W HOUSE 2340 SQ FT/GARDEN/YARD
wath Section 903.3... 9033.12 0 903.3.1.3, . ]OSCAPING SHALE USED TO DEFINE AND SEREFW OUTDOOR SPACE. LOW SHRUBS OIE
\ New evergreen hédge. ipa arid Saacing tabs Agreed Upon by Nelghbors Project Gwner;  POUDAINETALEAHenens tases ao TEES roviN ratece on esos ee mat 5. LOT B - NEW ADU 800 SQ FT/DECK/PATIO
11.2. Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of location on property, topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or \ Solid Wood Fence 6’ High (with 2’ Lattice) eettan eee SPACES OR PROTECTING THE PRIVACY OF NEIGHBORS. FA
ther skp conan, i si cppPOEd aNRGRVG' vais of fire tection provided. " FENCES Ase UsED Yo vRonrov iy an Se FomaachvanoswFuon vans Low Fences te sage (Salvia apiona) https://devilmountainnursery.com/salvia-apiana/ Botanical Name Salva apiana Common Name: SCREEN ADUTENANT SPACES FROM NEIGHBORS AND HOME OWNERS USING WELL DESIGNED FENCES, re =
DEFINE PUBUC, SEMI dea ‘ California White Sage, Bee Sage. USDA Zone: Zones 9- 11 Sunset Zone: Zones 7 - 9, 11, 13-24 Mature Height: 2- 5 feet Mature —— HEOGES, TRELLIS OR OTHER GARDEN LANDSCAPING FEATURES. PROVIOI q
roads shall be permit -mpted or modified for solar photovoltaic power generation facilities. FUNCTIONAL CONSIDERATIONS. (SHRUBS 7 EDGES] As al
G. Manzanita cultivars (Arctostophylos edmunds Carmel Sur’ sig Su’ hitns //devilmountalnnursery.comlarctostaphules YX sunues / nepots | / -Provide an imaginary ine between two buildings on each lot to clarify both building meets fire separation distance for wal, = =
6 ikon fame: Carmel Sur Manzanita USDA Zone: Zones 8 RS projections, opening, etc. per CRC 302.1(1) or 302.1(2). Show dimension of the imaginary line on elevation plan sheet to show the eave
sud] Botoniel Noes arctstaphylos edmunds ‘Carmel Su Conon Name: Came! Sur Mancanta US : —a )
a my oy a wee 24 are ogi 1 foot Mature Width: 4 -6 feet Light Needs: Full Sun, Filtered Sun, Partial PROPOSED SETBACKS: REAR LOT FRONT -15’ SIDE RIGHT/LEFT -S’ REAR-5’ and wall fire distance. Any rated wall or eave fire distance requirements need to provide legend or callout the fire rating. | | oO 2
sn Se Se ii at \ PROPOSED LOT “B” (5391 S.F.) \ Gy maintenance | I-77 ata PROPOSED LOT “A”(5842 S.F) | 7 e
\ 7 ulus x pH OSCAPING Y /
"06a SxD0! IANREAVING \ ON V S, Coie
5 “a \ / 7 __N3”06'00”W. ‘i “| __ MULCH AND PERENNIALS ON DRIP'SYSTEM N3”06’00”W 185.64 2xIc TREES DEFINE FRONT VAR | og
== =: 7 = chee 2 f _ a £8 = -- =r =
? a i BS rr | “T LANTERS HY : | 1 >=
i Fr .0’ 80.22 “TEA Z 5 F 5.0’ siveyarp| / < Tre NE | mg
\ / | A ~ ~ } . = +“  ! \ /. A x &
: a ; — a ot A _ oS
™., FA / a: 43 — Tt oo A Pie Aaple (Acer palmatum) ‘iH Fr Oo
- og | = aN A 3, ipanese Maple (Acer palmatum Ee
oN Fi si 7 [50 ONT RS zd
re | fy N-
sy & A eth \ . / poi et || ~Z 3
(aw (2 | sai | a . 1! te Leena , PARKING a6
' Fe Be | | $ 4 oe ;
oJ z <2 \ < i Tas! 14 | ' Fe
1 9/4 SS Fy a8 |o | ’ y gy 3 1] 8
¥ pee. esis | . / i
/ d Oo lin iis a
A < , J | | a
/ 3 \ (RB » | SEIS | an Nseorame on [gtd | | . | |e
s/ ¥ ) / s | a | aN Wee | =] wi
nd - ‘ / an gi / \s Fa ° ra
3) (7 vie | - | Eay 2 \ | jz|3 | E wo | XS 2
/ s/s 2 —— | 5/G\2 | . (Sj 7 | rt|z Bg NASH DRIVE (50’ WIDE) | Sbu0d
~/ &/s Fa aw 2) ay | g /Bie J wy - g| 8 | \ 2 °o as oO
a / § / . ‘
lol gig & ; — ete B EXISTING 2 STORY TO REMAIN. a \ s t
ele) ss & y a L! a } a 20¢
8/ SF / 27 2 / fag ~— | wu Oo n
f(g $e 7 / » / \* ° . na gqs¢
£7 & wee ° fos Ly ee RN oo : S|, | Sao
b/ S/S sey | | “PARKING COURY ted 3 z is | ES
e/ & They]! & 8 ) 3
£/ € ‘= ani = —s! PAVED AREA WITH BMP’S |” it “jrume PROPOSED EASEMENT LINE \ = 2 Ni
a Lan Oh! ADU ENTRY 4 [}-—- AL : 2 ————-~— —— > ee SSA -— SS = E
si & EN | “Te _ . wan Palo veslorceping gil - F qd | Sek
Pf CON zy Of STAR DOWN | |= perrsoefF~ w ” DUE UF . TW
f/) SOF 4 em - pom. 4a | / EXISTING S'PUE ifr a +H #10 oMs
g/ Sy > |& ve a -driveway “TE; ef | —A~—- sani cries ot) Hi * Existing and proposed driveways and walkways {fF |
£7 OY © pyistING 5’ PUE 7 sekup (orlot®) TpAPAES ts —-Z ----=™ a Ts pecess Easem PF a2’  INDRIVE 2 Zz
zi FF Ls. a a 5 bs. | 45.04’ HEDGE AND TREES DEFINE YARD 60. PERMEABLE PAVIN NERVE CEE
7 = -walkwa’ | K. 1 . prerast = — s- = t-
NV iT t : y 1402.96" SIDEYARO: ct PLANTERS|, PERMEABLE PAVING IN baste 5734°30"W ==. SCREEN FENCE N3’06’00”W LANDSCAPE 5 < wa
/ nD Ee 148.00’ \ $c Se INU SIRT TH Nk msc rodeauarne \SITEFURNISHING | Se
F FAB on Ed erie i _”_ MAKING YOUR ENTRY MORE WELCOMING IS ALSO A LANDSCAPE OPPORTUNITY. CHANGING THE PATTERN OF VISUAL IMPACT OF PARKING. INCLUDE LOW FENCES, SHRUBS FOR SCREENING, AND SHADE TREES TO BREAK | | a
/ j SFY IN5734739° W. rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis Collingwood Ingram’) https,//devilmountainnursery.com/rosmarinus-offcinalis- 7/exNG MATERIALS OR GEOMETRY CAN DEFINE THE PATHWAY AND OUTDOOR ENTRY AND LING AREAS UP PAVING AND HIDE CARS SITE PL AN nap 6x
~ ‘ = lingwood ir snical Name: Rosmarinus officinalis 'Collir 1m’, ‘Ingramil’, Nex #4’, ‘Benenden Blue! Common Name: u i _—
/ RUBS / HEDGES | ‘links00d-Ingram/ Botanical Name: Ripe “en eitoge mere Ingram REAR Daneteren eo TING 5’ PUE ++ wite sage (salvia apiana) https://devilmountainnursery.com/salvia-apiana/ Botanical Name: salva apiana Common Name: / = =
Lowlvscap G~7 x00! Height: 2-3 feet Mature Width: 3 -4 feet Light Needs: Full Sun Water Needs: Low, Moderate Width: 2-5 feet Light Needs: Full Sun, Filtered Sun, Partial Sun Water Needs: Low, Moderate Il 1 rs
4 te aes at a rate of at least four (1) cubic yards per 1,000 £9, ft. to a depth of 6 inches (unless \ i BUILDING “FLOOR AREA” /“PARKING FLOOR AREA” CALCULATION S <x =
* ie Amin 3 per of ma yea apse al ged uae tain aes ein aes \ LOT SPLIT( SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT / TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT ): FORMULA - PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO 50% : CALCULATION (LOT SIZE X 50%) + 800 5Q FT( BONUS) i a un
of turf or creeping or rooting eroundcovers
—_ Irrigation System - Irrigation controllers use evapotranspiration or soil moisture data and utilize a rain sensor. _ LOT A - 5842 SQ. FT (NEW FRONT LOT A) - approx (55'+56.95')/2X105' = 5842 SQ FT (DRIVEWAY 10'W +) 2 xr S
i c ansbies Ui -
/) RED HORSECHESTNUT | LEMON 4) LOT B - 5032 SQ. FT (NEW REAR LOT B) - APPROX. 56.95’ + x(80'+103")/2= 5032 sc. FT LOT A (5842 SQ FT / FRONT LOT} ana
Jealsnco Gtrus inion DRIVEWAY ~ 10’ WIDE FROM THE FRONT (11.95’ FROM THE MIDDLE LOT SPLIT LINE, WIDER TOWARDS THE END OF LOT) MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA ALLOWED (SQ, FT.): 5842X 50% + 800 =2921 +800= 3721 SQFT
ray rasa WATER USE CLASSIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE SPECIES (WUCOLS) “all existing and proposed the fencing PROPOSED/EXISTING:
in Rutaceae 6 : notes. 6 fost high omer fence w/2 feet latt (E) FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 1610 (HOUSE)/253(GARAGE) =1863 SQ FT
PHONES fAL- - G L ATION - et lattice
sma | om | és | DETL - TREE PLANTING, TTP « pone ‘aE -(E) SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE W/ ATTACHED GARAGE: 1610(HOUSE)/253(GARAGE) =1863 SQ.FT
Aesculus [ADDITIONAL COMMON NAMES INSTALLATION eee Tone ~ (N) PROPOSED DETACHED ADU: 1200 SQ FT A-ADU - GROUND LEVEL
httpo://eclectree.calpoly edutroe-detail133, | https://selectree.colpoly.edu/tree-detai/364 2. SUPE OL SURFACE TO sents amsune ron —————
\ Peover watenno mo Scymsuerees TOTAL PROPOSED: FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 3063 SQFT (<312-| SQFT ALLOWED FLOOR AREA)

3. ADMST IREE TES 10
‘ALOU ROOM FOR

by EES
race ree ur) i ico ee gatlpeed E
eS sanemeineres——————| XISTING INTERIOR FLOOR AREA TO BE REMODELED : 0 SQ FT

4 TREE PIT DEPTH SHALL PLAN SECTION
toon roa TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS REQUIRED (MIN. 10’ BY 18’): 1 (1 EXISTING GARAGE PARKING

DIGGNG TO AvO0 sa recw eu

oe stares 40 LOOP PROVIDED)

() JAPANESE MAPLE JACARANDA | | ) eee age eer
= 7 = 3° (D)FALCH DO NOT

LOT B (5391 SQ FT / FLAG LOT — REAR)

‘Acer palmatum Jacaranda mimosifolia cou res cnet — aD
CciRciAR WATER DAM REVOVE ALL Ue MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 5391 X50%=2695.5+800 = 3495.5 SQFT
mr amy | RON TREE | See so .
sopindaceae enamacee | ROUEN SES RS RA PROPOSED/EXISTING:
os | ey i | BACKFILL UTH NATIVE Ty nive sraces At
——smes_ | GAL | ——— ' Bok S01 ABE UTES - EXISTING FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.
ADDITIONAL COMMON NAMES @ | i FERN TREE eC | cea [oer _ a ~ (IN) SFD W/ATTACHED GARAGE: 45’X53.5’-5'X12'=2340 SQ FT (LOWER LEVEL) B-MAIN 1°7 FLOOR
a _BLACKFOU poses 72 een cS - (N) ATTACHED ADU: 800 SQ.FT (UPPER LEVEL-ACCESSED THRU OUTDOOR STAIRWAY) B-ADU 2° FLOOR
y TOTAL PROPOSED FLOOR AREA: 3140 SQ FT (<#4965Q FT ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA)
WUCOLS_all_regions plant list for website.xisx /_ https://ccuh.ucdavis.edu/wucols Hi 3.5)
Type(s) Botanica! Name ___Common Name Water Use £70 Plant Factor
Tree Jacaranda mimosifliajacaranda Moderate 40-60%  0.40-0.60 TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS REQUIRED (MIN. 10’ BY 18’) : 1 (2 PROPOSED ATTACHED GARAGE
Tree Aesculus xcarnea _red horsechestnut Moderate 40-60%  0.40-0.60 PARKING PROVIDED) A
Tree Acer palmatum Japanese maple Moderate 40-60%  0.40-0.60 FeNc

hutpsi//eelectree.calpoly.cdu/tree-detail/742

rtp elect calply edutee detail | Tree Citrusspp. orange, lemonetc. Moderate 40.60% 040.060 ELEVATION SECTION iT. (Se vimialolnl) A.2 SITE PLAN COMBINE (LOT A & LOT B)/ SITE PLANNING

* WUCOL (water use classification of landscape spccics-see detail as noted) Existing (front yard) - New(side & rear yard) Total 813 Square foot LANDSCAPING / PLANTING / FENCES

. it (total area of new and rehabilitated landscape area SQFT) . tm Trees : Sx5x4= 100 SQFT ]
suena iolaus ot enseapng=t=2e4 (14429 x cahiiiiall sex. Hedges © 3x20xa= 240 SOFT*~ JA? Saf] NEN


--- page 84 ---
re
NSS

A.2.1 EXISTING SITE/DEMO PLAN/TREE PHOTOS (LOT A & LOT B)

5.03 8.22

/ Trees proposed for removal(see Arborist report) :
- see arborist report, site/demo plan for Location, species and size (diameter measured at 54 inches

We / above grade larger than 6 inches) of all existing trees, to beremoved.

So.

d

Existing

46
a

CANOPY OVER PAVER

VALK

TREE #61 TPZ =4’

~ &|— 7
TE *SIOEW.

pone

fu / a4 (11,2334 so FS
6

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

Sa
S NY

\

PLAN / DEMO PLAN

ae U
és fo)
s ]2 t+
ane) S
os
_ x
ane)
TREE #61, #90, #91 AND NEIGHBORING PINE ARE TREES SELECTED FOR PRESERVATION, THEIR E aw ~
ee TREE PROTECTION ZONES, AND LOCATION OF FENCING PLACEMENT. ALL WORK CONDUCTED -> °
: — Siro _| IN THESE PROTECTED AREA SHALL BE PERFORMED WITH HAND TOOLS AND UNDER ARBORIST — SITE PLAN 1/8”=1’ Zwe
a OT . | | SUPERVISION. SEE A2, A2.1, A2.2 FOR TREE PROTECTION DETAILS, ARBORIST REPORTS. f 5eF<«
~ TREE #90 TPZ =16" r NEIGHBORING PINE TPZ=20' > ~ on Ss
rf Sa | UCT peal) selcaal , j ~ wa =>
1 cuibaiswim asus Ne ATP) ert ct Fen TP (open rapeve > —— antl 2
my. wera incatesthe number tag attached to tree | >ime
duet fer ton NR, rere ; “ave resents oan oe os 3 i Oe Sem a = Yn
mon Name- Vernacular nae ; FENCING p. Bere | —Penoman | n 7 >
‘. ferent wenn [sSNPs si Boe ee ee = aS
en ae ut serine err Fore wrote et a, Te B22 DRE ST Re 1 [tne — | ae ; sasstces or — == oa nD oO
Heath Tree Heath: €sExcallen, Gs Good, sar, Pis Poor, is Dead or Dying io ments fg ad P= fa Ee r | soe — 6x
structure- Tree structural Safety: El Excellent, Gs Good, Fis Fa, Ps Poor, is Hazardous =| = Sed =| om | om | as stele] e | name atl sai
eneces ee Ataris chy eSun nee Pes es oe afl sect oa On
sutabtty for Retention Based on Tree Condition: s Good Fis ar, Pe Poor ‘| ee eae — z 2
satus - Remove or Preserve = 5 a ae a ae
2 Root reaction Zone Thera stance net tombs ore tobe ned Homa cnstueton ct unt desatedycentedrtenn S| minsfte srenrervten | Pe {exe ans Sma [5 ss > renee Sia a oats
conucion impacs-stinated ive of ipa om constachon: Non Mining, Meseate Spann eae «| een water tores | [| em —| ee Tt peter I ‘or <>S
color coding - Trees wth D5 and greater, proposed for removal and receved LU valve wee [tone [S| cs | we | wo lee | P| tne oe S un
Farah | Memon Une p sence 35.535 ly
son womeamacnee | [ws | cmw | ome] as >[>lele >| nme eh ted res oe or oS
[ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS. ‘ldum Multi stemmed, eb os | roto | tomet 10 > Ej rena a
[net tt eo ncn nen ethene tn tne techn spam, [| Ur on | i ee ot : — aWna
, ocr ctncmlgoncc sou "7" tether are mat, Pleat | semtere_|_Sovenn | 2 Sul |et |e S| temo toma
Page y emegeretSricap arg —— cio = oumam | a3 | = fs] wt [or 7 oa Wee
SEEAT sonst nee COE ener rir ove pie ee mend =| Saemrene | [a eee estes pt tt —— =
[end Weigh Reduction (WR) - Reduction of end branch end weight recommended to reduce potenti for lb allure 72 | rewrcarca Mutipe cb, conangtanche | [22] semperens | CovtRedweed | 19 s[« 1 6 Preserve | Moderte [16 Tocated 3 816 Vine
THE ARBORIST REPORT WITHIN THE PROJECT PLANS SET. intereyaiqunienhamtesctracrerinererat an cons coumetonas | L* | “tcaon’ | cewyrme [sass [ve s | u Presre | Minimat | 11s lected at 816 Vine

1.

—]

1825 NASH DR. SAN MATEO, CA: (PER CITY
REQUIREMENTS, THE ARBORIST REPORT AND TREE
PROTECTION PLAN )

(1) ALL EXISTING TREES LOCATED ON-SITE HAVE BEEN
INCLUDED IN THE SURVEY,

(2) 3 CITY PROTECTED TREE LOCATED ON THE ADJACENT
PARCEL THAT CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES WILL ENCROACH
WITHIN 10X TRUNK DIAMETER HAS BEEN INCLUDED.

(3) TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE HAS BEEN PROVIDED FOR [enenerensaae [__senmierenriniee

ALL TREES OVER 6” IN TRUNK DIAMETER. SEE SURVEY DATA
IN ATTACHED APPENDIX 1. 72 A2.2,

(4) PROTECTION SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ONE CITY PROTECTED TREE LOCATED ON ADJACENT
PROPERTY ARE PROVIDED ON PAGES¢ - 4 OF OUR REPORT
(ATTACHED), AND WERE TAKEN FROM CODE
REQUIREMENTS OUTLINED IN 13.40.080. ee AZ.2

- SBCA TREE CONSULTING / MOLLY BA’ TCHELDER, CONSULTING
ARBORIST/ WE ISA CERTIFIED ARBORIST #9613A



--- page 85 ---
Table 2. Table on following page provides LU calculations.

A.2.2 ARBORIST REPORT/TREE PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS soormneen a) SBCA TREE CONSULTING

rote: | Species
PLANTING NOTES Condition
LANTING Ni Concluding Remarks Preserved) | Value | ive x 1504 Kone stress, Crochet, CA 24628
Removed :
Pan: (610) 787-3068

1. CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT UNDERGROUND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION PRIOR TO EXCAVATION AND GRADING. ‘Tree protection — Critical to tree survival will be arborist involvement during the pre-construction phase
‘and excavation. Coast Redwoods have a good tolerance to construction impacts and root loss if they | 23 | | a6 | os |oas| a E | | | | .

2. ALL PLANTING AREAS SHALL BE CLEARED OF WEEDS AND OTHER DEBRIS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY WITH THE ‘ 3 i inet nt and durstion of supplemental
GWNER WHICH EXISTING PLANTS ARE TO REMAIN. EXISTING PLANTS TO BE REMOVED SHALL BF VERIFIED WITH OWNER receive supplemental irrigation. Arborist will determine the amount and duration of stp

PRIOR TO REMOVAL ALL IVVIN PROJECT AREA SHALL BE REMOVED; IVY SHALL BE SPRAYED WITH HERBICIDE TWO
WEEKS PRIOR TO REMOVAL. roots with minimal impacts to the redwood and privet. For the neighboring pine, the use of clean

‘crushed rock under the new herdscape will be key.

acces ae —————— “Sara
2 boy erecting an 8’ plywood box around the tree, =
[+ |

ce possible. Fencing shall be chain link with posts driven into the ground 2’. Soil a1 Sheva Qjhua Hu / Steven Wong,

© Jacaranda (Jacaranda mimosifolia) 5 | protections will then apply to TPZ areas that cannot be fenced. When work is required 1825 Nash Dr. San Mateo, CA 94401
4: SOL TESTING SALLE UNDERTAKEN BY THE CONTRACTOR, AND PEFORMED BY ACERIIED LABORATORY. COPY + lapanese Maple (Acer plmatu) ic moor

irrigation based on the amount of rvvt loss. It is hoped that the sewer line can be installed under the

3, REMOVAL OF EXISTING TREES SHALL BE CONFIRMED WITH THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND OWNER IN THE FIELD
PRIOR TO REMOVAL EACH TREE TO BE REMOVEO SHALL HAVE A RED OR ORANGE TAPE SECURED TO A BRANCH. AND
‘THE TRUNK SHALL BE CLFARIY MARKED WITH PAINT OF THE SAME COLOR. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SUPPLY THE
MATERIALS FOR MARKING THE TREES AND COORDINATE WITH THE LANDSCAPE ARCHIECT. THE TREE STUMPS AND
ROOTS SHALL ALSO BE REMOVED. AND SURROUNDING SURFACE RE-GRADED AND RtSIUKED.

Species recommendation ~ Recommended replacement tree species:
Red Horsechestnut, (Aesculus x carne)

in the area, Arborist shall be notified.

‘OF THE REPORT SHALL BE PROVIDED TO THE OWNER AND LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR Meyer lemon (Citrus x meyeri) “a 5. Tee#61 Fencing wl alo be required for protection or tree #6Linthefrontyar,toFYo}ect SHB Tu Unit Development losated st 1825 Nash Dr, San Mateo, CA 94401 rs
AMENDMENTS AND FERTILIZATION SHALL REFLECT THE NUTRIENT REQUIREMENTS OF SPECIFIED PLANT SPECIES _ [oss] as | TE vncroartioton of ionongbalonBiesleG ie onanensee path b 8
Under pavement treatments — Under pavement treatments, either structural sol topped with a crushed h moo’ x, iti é ory Permit #; APN 033-381-490 S
. mn When fencing!s not possible due to necessary construction access, sil )
5, SOIL AMENDMENTS SHALL BE FREE OF DEBRIS SUCH AS LITTER, BROKEN CLAY POTS, AND OTHER FOREIGN MATERIAL rock layer or just the crushed rock, is recommended for use for new tree planting. These treatments will _| a 12” of mulch and 1.1/8” plywood or a
ROCKS LARGER THAN ONE INCH DIAMETER WILL NOT RF PERMITTED. SOIL AMENDMENTS SHALL HAVE THE FOLLOWING os , hee ‘ receive protection treatments. For heavy machinery, 12" of mulch an plywe Assignment: Arborist was asked to produce an Arborist report for al trees located at 1825 Nash Dr. a
CONTENT: assist in providing necessary soil gas exchange for roots below and allow for compressive support for the trenching plates shall armor the entire TPZ. For foot traffic, 6” of mulch and %” plywood are = <
hardscape above. Under-pavement treatments also mitigate the potential for future root related al sed, Plywood's connected wth metal strapping to keep the boards from shifting. ‘Appendices: Fa} =
REDWOON NITRIFIFD COMPOST 40%, COARSE SAND 30%, BLACK TOPSOIL 30%. hhardscape uplift. A graphic has been included in Appendix info, a 5. pre-construction meeting — Arborist shal be onsite to provide an orientation to tree 1 Survey Date a &
. Tree Location Ma
6, PLANT HOLES SHALL BE DOUBLE THE SIZE OF THE CONTAINER (generally). THE WALLS AND BASES OF PLANT HOLES preservation. At this time, al tree preservation treatments (including fencing and soll ¢ eae Pd
Sunt BE SCARED. HOLES SHALL BE BACKALLED WITHTHE FOLLOWING MIXTURE: BOX TO 20K IMPORTED SOTO protectin) wl be inspected and signed off by project arbors 5 Tee is extments pple 5
EXISTING SOIL Tree Protection Specifications 6 ~All work within the TP2s of trees #90, 91, and the neighboring pine (16', 14’, Fee encier borditibe Bape g wi
ic in ively) is to be conducted with hand tools. =
7, SOIL BCAMS SHALL BE FORMED AROUND ALL PLANTS 1 GALLON SI7F AND LARGER. BASINS SHALL BE MULCHED WITH ic ‘These protection guidelines apply to the neighboring Coast Redwood, Glossy Privet, and pine and one ae
Photo 1. Photo shows the neighboring redwood.
[A3" LAYER OF BARK CHIPS, MINIMUM OF 1° IN SIZE cate cnoment astances rem the fence, and resent Linden tat wile protect n place during the proposed constuction projec. The tree a. fpossible, the sewer pipe and water ines will be installed under roots. Minimal root San Mateo City Tree Ordinance zo
a i" rotection guidelit in place for the durat je rece damage during excavation is required. Acceptable tools for use are the air spade or 13.40,030 Definitions
8. ALL PLANTS SHALL BE FERTILIZED. FERTILIZER SHALL BE COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE TYPE. AGRIFORM OR, photo were provided by project architect and protection guidelines are expected to remain in place for the duration ofthe projec. recommended hand tools Alots are left in pace for arborist review. Exposed rots are covered xz
CQUIVALENT. APPLICATION SHALL BE ACCORDING TO MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS. owner. that the following guidelines be printed on construction plans. Contractor will inform arborist of all work and tools. ® g pisenptneyremasenpliiilgh re}
occurring within the TPZ atleast 2 weeks prior. ‘with burlap to be always kept in a moist condition, 3) Any oak (Quercus cpp!) tree witha unk hat has a dameter often inches or more (3-4 nches in w &
9, TREES SHALL BE STAKEO WITH TWO PRESSURE TREATED 2* DIAMETER POLES. TREE TRUNK SHALL BE SECURED WITH b. The excavation for the foundation for Unit 8 minimally encroaches into the TPZ of tree esuantistoce matedecd at. se echecsbove nstural era 2iz
TWO RUBBER TES OR STRAPS FORMING A F]GUREIGHT BETWEEN TRUNK AND STAKE Tree Protection Plant 430. all excavation within the TP2 shall be parformed with hand tools. 2). tavalfor textes Gant ameter affiteen inches (7Linchesincicumference) ormore,measuredst BO
‘10, ROOT BARRIERS FOR ALL TREES WITHIN EIGHT FEET OF PAVEMENT SHALL BE INSTALLED. BARRIERS SHALL BE PLASTIC End '* The following activities are prohibited within the Tree Protection Zone (10 times the DBH) of any 7. Root pruning - Arborist will perform all root pruning. All roots are cut with clean and sharp ‘54 inches above natural grade. lies hale datth uw =
[AND EXTEND COMPLETELY AROUND THE ROOT BALL, WITH A SOIL SPACE OF NO LESS THAN 62, THE DIAMETER OF THE protected Tree unless protection meesures are provided or work is approved by the City tools, A sugar solution can be applied to freshly severed root ends in the ratio % cup sugar to 3) facta ren, Ts wth ae in one ass (rng tor bow 54 in shal beset aus wa
‘BARRIER SHALL BE 42" MINIMUM. AND EXTEND TO: sath ameter point below the main union of al stems unless the union occurs below grade, in wt
—— Report submitted by: Arborist. ‘one gallon sugar. A pump sprayer can be used for application. Experiments shows that sugar ‘ase each tem shall be measured asa stand-alone tree. For oak tees, fone stem is ten inches or more in
21. ESPALIER PLANTS SHALL BE FURNISHED WITH A PREMANUFACTUREO METAL TRELUS. REFER TO DETAIL > Excavation, grading, soll deposit, drainage, and leveling. assists with root regeneration". saat ete wi constitute one erage re, Frater specs enestemis eet
> Disposal or depositing of oil, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents, or other materials ‘Tre i chermetey tie ibe Wil constitute one Harteame ees
NMKke > en eee ~ > Soil Compaction from heavy machinery and vehicles, storage of materials, structures, Table 1 Table below isa species summary. Data of all surveyed trees can be found in Appendix 1 5) Astand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others tor survival. 2 oO
‘str eens oe Zag ode eon 7:7 Landcare, ep STDDR peo mat iin ai | es 0 . Common Total Tree Retention Introduction = ro) t+
‘gua et of nde we cigs te isin of ch net youn ow iw Any ew creer ‘Molly Batchelder, Consulting Arborist Name Amount Amount Suitability ‘Comments Homeowners Sheva Qihua Hu and Steven Wong are working with Architect Kenneth Huo to subdivide a a
<< —<<—@a@#iI—<.<. WEBA Cried Ars HBOISA “ Arborist-Report-and-TPP-Checklist-4 (ctyofsanmateo ore) 5 ° ; Honeet ih tsar their property into two smaller properties and ieate a tworunit development. The Homeowners would s
i ie * iving :
raidioprasit tema) mE ree Risk Assessment Qualified (TRAQ) > Trenching ar excavation to provide irigation, utility lines, services, pipe, drainage, or . ee A a | the Sao like to remove all trees on site (apart from a Littleleaf Linden (Tilia cordata) in front of the house) to a <q
eke ibis lars aac aca EEN other Improvements below grade. Dis : accommodate new constructio oO
3 » “ > Storage of any materials or equipment of any kind. | erobotne | Loauae > ° | back. Tre #94 codominat, rt <
inten Ul (1 bate tbe emer chs Tee Daten ‘ron mses htt py i nr ring ay onc ay Ae chan > Parking or driving venices or self-propelled equipment. opanica xn ined bark ranching aWo
Sete: | 6 > Alteration of the TPZ or Dripline so as to increase the encroachment of the construction alias cated Boch and Documents reviewed by arborist: -e>
nL vl ob sped ant meg pee os Gon Page 1 of 2 Tree protection measures proposed in the report must eliminate or reduce 4 | Ficuscarica | Common Fig 2 2 FP crossing bvanctias '* 1825 Nash Dr,, San Mateo C1 Site Grading and Dre Zz Ww
tend) expected impacts from construction activities. The acceptable tree protection vcaranda | ys aando : ° ; This tree has 3 stems anda © C3 Site Utilities pian Skea
meric ' specifications outlined in SMMC 13,40,080 and the Protected Trees Administrative 3 | mimosifolia | ?°°"*" lean. © C3 Site Grading and Drainage Plan rev 1 TW
We cnmnp rs rine neeemietrivcetem cote Tem | «| Castevteinares oYs
ten bono lps my be pled. ft LU ae shown (ot gel er pete a (2) hs niin foe Cys with stems. The other
feet ary vginey ed piererh rl ict oer este a (hes mat be pad tothe Cis weet ‘© Fencing shall enclose the entire TPZ of the tree(s) to be protected throughout the life of the | porate ale cs)
construction project. Fencing shall consist of six (6') foot high chain link fence, mounted on two- | Ususttum | cossyprivet | 5 ° . oda nek Reosans, Summary z
ue inch diameter galvanized iron posts, driven into the ground to a depth of at least two feet at no bier and #71 has @ large pruning ‘Tree Inventory ~Zr<x
wound, #92 ison neighborin .
more than Jovoor spacing. ; ; . pangimaeecee Total trees ~ A total of 31 trees were inventoried, mapped, and assigned a unique aluminum E n
> we tere the be area snot feasible, Trunk Wraps in combination with Root and L aan identification tag beginning with #61. Data collected includes species, common name, DBH, 2 qi.
Soll Buffers as specified inthe Administrative Guidelines shall be installed to protec he 7 | Motus Apple 2 ° P petal y mult-stem diameter, height, spread, health, structure, City protected tree status, suitability for oD>c«
== ae , iaeastonertoniam nate fw Pat | amm [ ot |e | t| tennant seo arnt ot ne Peo
work below grade will take place within the TP2, provide recommendations to avai acuminata - © Offsite trees ~ two trees are located at 816 Vine St,, the adjacent property to the northwest. oO x=
Pear co ——— cera cathe Recommendations may ine Bi see ited todesign “ree W64 is growing under the These include ts 90 and 91. Project architect and the property owner collected the DBHs for =~
pay a eit eed lowe changes alternative construction techniques, exploratory trenching, and/or pruning Canopy ofthe Jacaranda #6 these tees, Tree 190 Herhage, Ae ES (om)
dened Fencing shal conse of chain ink fence (6 fest high), mounted on gaWvanized iron posts wit? inchas in camoter. Each sit it % 2
grat Gemprebcsne este) forse tt cea a ei metered 2 specications, Pruning roots loser than 6times the DBH willequiea separate permit |g | Ptosporum | Taste Pleat) 38800 Vine was not surveyed but wil receve protection treatments, <x
Se ater mr nett ce es ac ee becelranaia 2 | ‘enuotum | pttopoum | 4 | ® © | an util bark ston. tS
paar ." sn sey thee ae seremoved.A See areas ode Us + Heritage trees ~ Four (4) tres were classified as Heritage trees according tothe San Mateo City ao 2
aw re a pruning is requied specify the type of pruning and the amount to be removes canopy fa privet. ___| Tree Ordinance. The Heritage tree are two Figs, one Cherry Plum, and one Coast Redwood x<>
= stearate perm shall be required nn pruning more than 25% of existing foliage or amas Tree #62 is mult-stemmed (Sequoia sempervirens) located at 816 Vine St. ) wn
ut loser than 6 times the trunk diameter of a ree. erry Plum with muliple bark inclusions. uu
cattng roots closer than 6 times the trunk dlameter of Protected tree. Allteecare wo | ame | cnenyn i 1 >| whaler Ce eee cinta toe, wan pals 6° and greater proposed for removals a NC
operations must be performed only by an ISA-Certified arborist. | and 88 are volunteers. decried Ds xo
sitate > Periodic monitoring for Protected trees by the Project arborist is required on a regular 2 no
ae basis and whenever activities occur within the TPZ. The Project Arborist must 3 httos:/iwww mtoa.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/Do-you-wantsuger-with-yoursree:2.ed es
ine it iso Penererert
“Prymocd & mat — ‘Sonage <= ine direct sanereon, Heritage Overall * Sewer line excavation — Proposed construction will encroach into the TPZ of trees #s 90 and 91
© ee of woods ‘Common Total Tree Retention located on neighboring property. Encroachments include excavation for a 4” sewer lateral that
Name Amount _Amount__ Suitability = ee is proposed 7’9” from the tree. (The redwood tree is about 3'9” from the property fence, and
er tings x tree DBH (or 8’) where a separate permit is required for Major Pruning
Type Il Partia/Reduced Fencing re risk Faas aaend H
we | sequoia | Const : : ¢ Toeated on neighboring xcave
‘The fonceenloes part of he TPZ bt the al nd root zon ar proce wh ot utero existing hartspe nt sempervirens | Redwood property 816 Vine. =
‘Rival drothg Fa ton tnd nt en ra poe parr pra nano Ute teat ‘must be conducted before the building permit issuance. Excavation to be accomplished
required Usain ink fernany Wy provide pul ue Uf Une abel aid sidewalh, 12 | Tilia cordate len 1 oO P Eb x2, remove stakes:
| Lunden ‘with hand tools with minimal root damage. Preliminary trenches to be the entira length of
Construction Phase -Tree Protection Requirements Totals: 3 4 the proposed sewer line within from #90 and 7' from #91. Depth of trench is 2, All
. A el icmp i end desig teh hd oc ora apse “ me “
+ All Root Pruning is under Arbors ireton. {rue proacton measrs sha be popaty sad before staring any consucion acy, A sto a ain nk
© Spat waeion {erca wi bereqred in cointon wi ar be lowe eppovedprtacive Rao nlaaton Image 1. Image above provides general tre locations. teview root presence and provide root pruning as necessary.
: pa ease sieved Ceres the bce snd trap we > Tunnelling under roots -Efforts will be made to tunnel under the roots and lay the
posed burlap. Soil surface lap within minimal root pruning. Preliminary excavation will inform oat presence.

remain moist atall times. Burlap canbe allowed to remain under Crushed

\¥ Con n Fe esti: i in n
Yet en ;
struction impacts are estimated to be moderate until we understand root presence.

ce of
shaded areas

* TPZ-Tree Protection Zone, The TPZ the defined area within which certain activities ae prohibited or restricted to prevent or
minimize potential injury to designate trees. Methods for determining the sie ofa TPZ is taken from BMP Managing Trees
During Site Development and Construction, Third Edition 2023,

2forredwcod te #0 tissu dtane eto ae ae For ly Pic, i wan 7 trom hares

Payee o nt

‘Type I Trunk Wrap,

Image 2 and 3. ,
— Jcinetoibieistirsinnesiinesitinanntin Ja peter ‘residential driveway The re appears tobe stressed and root loss shouldbe avoided to prevent
fabric, Not necemary when scion saci yor atc orgs ec al sa ete sawed he a) trees selected for LU Calculation =
‘ants ued es errare mana Forbispaple cathe wot le Solu be Cea e Gtk on ecre [cieetsaor iain Landscape Unit (LU) Caleulatinn The City of San Mateo reauires Landscape Unit (LU) value calculations

conditions and location. Valuation utilizes the Guide for Plant Appraisal 10" Euition prepared by Council
of Tree and Landscape Appraisers. The City of San Mateo provides a table to be used in this calculation.
To calculate LU values, the following was considered:
1. Species ratings are taken from Species Clussification and Group Assignment: A Regional
‘Supplemental to the CTLA Guide for Plant Appraisal, 10 Addition.
2. Tree condition was calculated using the health and structural ratings data in Appendix 2, Tree

placement. All
‘work conducted in
these protected
areas shall be
performed with
hnand tools and

under arborist

supervision. ‘Survey Data.

* 3. Tree diameters were taken at 4.5’ above soil grade (DBH). For multi stemmed trees, the ‘trunk

Mer2-|) diameter eqiaent tothe sum ofthe cossectinal areas of ach stem was used

A1é flan 4. Location rating is derived by (Site % + Contribution % + Placement %) +3

} 5. itis assumed that al trees are located in allowable building area
‘Tale tld and vncved tot wend eqs! tg ose so Ts meas Soe oa he wom af 6. Three trees are considered Heritage according to City ordinance: #s 62, 72 and 73. e

‘Sivhoa Goa cans Regus: m "ALO LefT | 7. Total: Based on these considerations, the eleven trees with DBHs 6” and greater have a total LU
—— =o ! i value of 33.07. See Table 2 below. cada Arbor Raper Amandmant 267-24



--- page 86 ---
VIEW STUDIES

LANDSCAPING / PLANTING / FENCES / UTILITY / PARKINGS :

= 1944 SHOREVIEW - 1 STORY

PROPERTY BEOYND 1940 SHORVIEW, 1833 NASH, NO IMPACT. SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES

SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT / TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SB 9 Tentative Parcel Map (TM) /SB 9 Two-Unit Development (TUD)

1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
APN. 033-381-490
[oe
hy = 1839 NASH - 1 STORY

HOUSE (1 STORY)

4040/4040/4040/4030 /2020

= 1838 NASH — 1 STORY

PROPERTY CROSS THE STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE OF NASH DRIVE, NO IMPACT

PROPERTY BEOYND 1833 NASH, NO IMPACT_SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES

— -——

7
= 1940 SHOREVIEW - 1

§ :
} . ae
HOUSE (1 STORY) a ae
5050/3030 /3030 / \ Na wAT 2
. Vow

ay _
\__ = 1833 NASH - 1 STORY

HOUSE (1 STORY) |

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

in Sn

3030 / 3’DOOR (GARAGE FACING SIDE YARD)

™—_ ‘SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES Pond HOUSE ALIGNED WITH (E) FRONT HOUSE, NOTHING THE REAR YARD, WINDOW NO IMPACT 132
a a \ ‘ / 32 NASH — 1 STORY 5 | bt
[> = SE ie oA ‘ SIDE YARD (EAST siDe) oo = _— PROPERTY CROSS THE STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE OF NASH DRIVE, NO IMPACT FS 5 +
7 ra WALL \LL AND HEDGE SCREEN. rane AND DEFINE ua — N3’ 06 {\) TOS Ag ULTRA-TOW MAINTENANCE LANDSCAPE ° = be
= 1936 SHOREVIEW — 1 STORY I 5 5.0" _ 5 ZO
HOUSE (1 STORY) ! LOT A-ADU , 15.07 r S = fo}
2630/3’ DOOR /3030/5030 /5030 / | r\ zw =
SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES = 1825 NASH — PROJECT SITE ‘2 y ACROSS THE STREET (SOUTH SIDE) 3 a S
— ye | #8 : = =) Zz
—~_™~- +
rf : 3 ota 3 = 1824 NASH — 1 STORY = bi <
. £ ~ _— % _ Cre omy a = ran “yj mene Pat Rx PROPERTY CROSS THE STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE OF NASH DRIVE, NO IMPACT e > oe
= 1932 SHOREVIEW — 1 STORY ops c A. — or 45. 5.04", 60.42’ = o 5
/ Ne und Z5<
o ne
eiiabiil / SIDE YARD (WEST _ giz
3’DOOR /5030 /3030 / 7
f a io)
‘SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES > a
' <— ae liars | nan

, ‘s 808 VINE - 2 STORY = 1816 NASH — 1 STORY

\ PROPERTY CROSS THE STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE OF NASH DRIVE, NO IMPACT
. ast \ | 2 etd SHED —_— a
~~ 2640 /2640 /6068 /4030° = —— 2640 FEAO [2640 /6068 sao 2640 NO WINDOW f
a _
/ ~ SCREENED BY awe 2N© FLOOR BALCONY DIRECTLY LOOK INTO PROJECT SITE K!
: a f 7" _
_ EE
* 1928 SHOREVIEW — 1 STORY te J nN ee hye t, 4 —
REVIEW, NO IMPACT SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES \ A \ 4 cc
PROPERTY BEOYND 816 VINE, 1932 SHO ; ; . § 4 = 800 VINE —- 1 STORY
Ss FS, . 4
—~._—™~ / 3 ) = 816 VINE —1 STORY q 4 4 HOUSE (1 STORY) GARAGE
~ ~ / \ \ \ a 3030 ’By3"
\ /3030/ 6068 /5030 3030 (APPROX. 3’BY3’ WINDOW) . =
Se ea / Mouse (1srom)\, \ ees 7 Teh / ( ) 1808 NASH - 1 STORY
~~ s .

ee
/

» 1924 SHORVIEW — 1 STORY

PROPERTY BEOYND 816 “/ 1928 & 1932 SHOREVIEW, NO IMPACT SCREENED BY FENCE/TREES

[i rae Cy

3’DOOR /3030/ 6068 /6068/3030

= 825 VINE — 2 SOTRY

PROPERTY BEOYND 816 VINE, NO IMPACT

WINDOW NO IMPACT

a

NO WINDOW FACING PROJECT SITE

PROPERTY CROSS THE STREET ON THE OTHER SIDE OF NASH DRIVE, NO IMPACT

a

pe

OO FON Drei Ao

\
4
NS:

A.3 SITE PLAN/LANDSCAPING/ NEIGHBORING PROPERTY/VIEW STUDIES

PA-2023-082, ULS,TM, SFDDR, TUD | 1825 Nash Dr., APN 033-381-490


--- page 87 ---
LOT B

SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT / TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SB 9 Tentative Parcel Map (TM) / SB 9 Two-Unit Development (TUD) |

CITY OF SAN MATEO
wan tpaetonsien ‘COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OCPARTMENT

LOTA

‘ITY OF SAN MATEO.
‘COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

330 W. 20° avenue

San Mateo, cA 903

sewtotenmateorg

PROPOSED SETBACKS: REAR LOT FRONT 15 OE HGHT/LEFT 5! REARS! | i |
SINGLE-FAMILY PLANNING APPLICATION MOPOSO LOT EASE) ORR i | | | SINGLE-FAMILY PLANNING APPLICATION
ao - = ——- ~ | | |
ee qd] sioevan lot i i Ke
PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS J es i : I | PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS 9 8
BASTING, [12 2% aE Let, oe 98-4 wi UT. oREe} vip CbAE ae i | | wo
Lt ot { qut. te Soot §] | | \ | Pepin 1125 Sart Let THRU OO-A oT SPAT ORDET Leon COA 2 seer Ke =
The following items must be provided onthe plans uly and accurately dimensioned and draw to cle : L ' | | The folowing hems mst be provided onthe plans, fully and accurately dmensloned and rte a ease? AFT F $
A. cover Sheet - _ '| i unre x ¢
‘Single-Family Residence Data Information | y Residence - | ©
[eee onan ~ LOTB | Ash OnE WOE) | Save font Bets informetiog a at a <5
[ | i | - - 949-741-440 ] oO
— \ | ——— > =
| — z= 5
| | a t ro<
LoL } | | i oe - | ke Oo
\ ‘ Floor Area (Sq. Ft.):*? ww ls
dence: | D-MAIN CREE o — | | |_—_Singe-femiy esidence: st | 22
a @ _aes — a || | | | | nttached/detached garage: wed | — 2 0°
qT a a —2 SEVARD | in| | [Front porch: _ es ey | | wz
mt - ~ — a ™ | | Snaeeeee i | ae | 3 = a
ston (subtra fe aera z Ate \ xISTING 5! PUE \ | = - —_ a =
aon ET a pine oa _/ SOT SPLIT( SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT / TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT): ; “eo pa aa 3bB <P1Z] |
ts rr For Ars be Remote 7 LOTA~ 58420. FT (NEW FRONTLOT A)- APPROX (55'156.951/2x105"

| Garage Walls to be Demolished:>

3842 SQ FT (DRIVEWAY 10'W +):

| Existing interior Floor Area to be Remodeled.
| Percentage and Linear Feet of Existing Exterior Residence/

= Lore. » 2xtBOTEIOS . | Garage Walls to be Demolished:* _| e
Total Foor Aves for Puiting hequienois Gal SvRaG -OT B - $032 SQ. FT (NEW REAR LOT B) - APPROX. 56.95' X(80'+103')/2= 5032 sq, FT. AREA” /“PARKING FLOOR AREA”. rior ‘Total Floor Area for Parking Requirements (See SMMC | léle art (una upe e>
M8110); Re DRIVEWAY — 10’ WIDE FROM THE FRONT (11.95’ FROM THE MIDI IT SPLIT ene E - ——- “
Garage Parking Stalls (min. 19° x 18°): _ ren ea +f ‘ DLE LO MINE: WIDER TOWAROS THE-END.OF-LOT) FORMULA - PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO SOX : CALCULATION (LOT SIZE X 50%) + 800 SQ FT{ BONUS) Tota Garage Paiing Sab ih as 18): 7 U (254 74) L
Total Ur Parking Stalls (Tand jot Permitted) fotal Uncovered Parking Stalls (Tandem not Permitted):
[tsterarmeced Wess es ao ae c nT Ustof Al Protected ees indig Spd and Se HE SHE FANE paras 7 203s
rehabilitated landscape area (Sq. Ft.): | R Ae el 7 - Ke a 7 Total area of new and rehabilitated landscape area (Sq. Ft.): ior, so apwiittgo | Leen , a gt
[Cube Yards of So Disturbance: [ mindioe | Hep peel i. L — — CableverdsofSeabicurbence: en — Ape = ov
(eaten order to dtembe Fa strmmeter Potion — | Ut ING Coy Peay | u iw | eid in rds to determie fa Stormwater. ened beter | oe =
Prevention Construction Permit is required) | PARTING be}, I i_| | -revention Construc required) - __ SHIFTING VOT -
See SMMC7T.D0200 (fr tl cr ree eon, 1 He CL —_ l; 1 See MCT. 082003] fl Flo Are inion: ge wae =
2._See SMMC 27.04.2002) fr fl ist Floor Aren exclusions _ vie on mR OO | 2_ see sac 27°90 2000). for fu it of Floor Ares exclusions _ = = Aone w =
7, 7 5 Ran IN| id SS)
DRANING \ 3 ?s
I | 17 - im)
27172 «Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 | | ‘Buding DNislon (650) 822-7172 - Code Enforcement Dhison (650) $22-7150 cl | ~
1 Te Kl / | | ne Ee BS
ee 3] a | : 5 Lu
| | \ | Z2we
ie | xe ROOF RIDGE | a <x
LOT B (5391 SQ FT / FLAG LOT — REAR) Hi} Names ane \ \ aad | 4 7 a wn S
MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ_ FT.): 5391 X50%=2695.54800 = 3495.5 SQ.FT J \ \ | _ | Z a = >
PROPOSED/EXISTING: \ \ owen noor \ | 7 =
| | wsren 20800. pid
~ EXISTING FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 0SQ. FT. i | | Noe. 4 5 z WY
= (N) SED W/ATTACHED GARAGE: 45'X53.5’-5'X12'=2340 SQ FT (LOWER LEVEL) B-MAIN 1°" FLOOR Fen not | 7 ‘UPPER s i | a 5 ec
+ (N) ATTACHED ADU: 800 SQ FT (UPPER LEVEL-ACCESSED THRU OUTDOOR STAIRWAY) 8-ADU 2"° FLOOR N | go Pas = a
* TOTAL PROPOSED FLOOR AREA: 3140 50 FT (<3721 SCF ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA) = —s —— S | | a
sy —— +)
\ cicxet NI aa z a f 2
\ \ é
TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS REQUIRED (MIN. 10’ BY 18:1 (2 PROPOSED ATTACHED GARAGE PARKING PROVIDED) ye! Lowernor | gas
‘apse &
r ; Se = . | =! a wn
SS - I oy Pes / . ao N
I \ j — iM I i y, \ | a
- Ti it Lf joa / \ SH a
‘ | / i EN
j- —— tea a “eee FaMity room? | | )
Lt \ i _—S——) / | Loy N J a
‘a | NPN I sepanom | wavs. closer || -MASTER’BEDROOM | a 4
=BATH 3 \|s LL | / | TTo . ~—_—— —
ol \ | =a i, | KAU | a - via {
‘ a J i X Masten aaTH ) & —
Ht . —_| \ en (22-52\])4 (6A |0-5)-26 F=G40
je a 107 ceUNG a
/ I /U] i | yh 4 +
FAMILY ROOM MagTER BATH I} |
fo | . + |
WN || i VA =—s FamilRooM ia
Lives Room aepRooM 2 | e2\o0
— a 4 Bex Al =|200
x ll | LOT A (5842 SQ FT / FRONT LOT) ~
= \ i . ar Ale ikenl|
i 7 u [is i nw, MAXIMUM PERMITTED FL EA ALON FT.): 5842x 51 =2921 +800= fa i
i HN\ x . i}
a " i BATH |
L — BATH ‘ PROPOSED/EXISTING: wen _
| | =f | (€) FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 1610 (HOUSE)/253(GARAGE) =1863 SO FT — 7] nN ROOM (]
Foyer } y vn
] Ve ial = LY . f3 / - (E) SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE W/ ATTACHED GARAGE: 1610(HOUSE)/253(GARAGE) =1863 SQ FT - =
| | | TT | Ey | c - (N) PROPOSED DETACHED ADU: 1200 SQ FT A-ADU - GROUND LEVE! ad aes
h == } | | Serco A\ JIS ‘TOTAL PROPOSED: FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.): 3063 SQ FT (< 3495.5 SQ FT ALLOWED FLOOR AREA) seoagot 1
2340 say Foorppunty ) . Wa | .
— = =F ' — EXISTING INTERIOR FLOOR AREA TO BE REMODELED : 0SQ.FT =

4s

allot

3] -9x25.5= ra

FLOOR AREA CALCULATION

TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS REQUIRED (MIN. 10° BY 18"): 1 (1 EXISTING GARAGE PARKING PROVIDED)
[nISTING HOUSE 1610 SOFT (HOUSEY/253 SOFT (GARAGEV/TOTAL 1863 SOFT

ADK DDG er 004 sris)=290 AOA DE =| 220

A.4 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DATA INFORMATION/FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS (LOT A & LOT B)


--- page 88 ---
Building Rendering 9

* Colored elevations (see rendering)
+ Rendering of the proposed structures
Types and colors of exterior materials:

* Roof - compasition shingles
GAF Timberline HDZ (Appalachian sky)
https://www.gaf.com/en-us/roofing-materials/residential-roofing-materials/shingles/timberline-hdz

WOOD FASCIA + PAINTED
WINDOWS TRIM- PAINTED

-James hardie plank, fiber cement siding

EXTERIOR WALLS -STUCCO
- color: exterior flat, or low sheen white

COLOR
TEXTURE. FLOAT BASE

Types and colors of exterior materials: wT
¥ ia
* Eaves/ Fascia board i
- color: exterior flat, or low sheen white 3 Z
*# Sidin

8
James hardie plank, fiber cement siding
~ color: exterior flat, or low sheen white

https://www.jameshardie.com/

PROPERTY LINE.

‘BACCENT. NAPOLEON, PPcioa7 | THO-BS E93

e>qierdee
LANDSCAPE-LIGHTING

Trim
‘**corner trim, window trim
-color: exterior flat (low sheen) accent white

ALL BER yp LA
FIXTURES ae Alle\

APZ LIGHTING

LOCATION / STYLE ‘TYPE / COLOR / MANUFACTURER / DAMP / WET RATED and/or SIZE

1. Front door Large outdoor wall-mounted unit (Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 15” Outdoor Wall Sconce)

**Belly band/Windows sill
- Transition between stucco and siding
color: exterior flat (low sheen) slate/armor grey

2 Front porch ~ single story ‘Outdoor ceiling flush mount (Kichler cylinder 2 Light 12° Outdoor Wall Sconce)

3. Front porch - multi-story Outdoor pendants (Kichler Single Light Wide Outdoor Pendant)

4. Front porch multi-story 2nd or 3rd largest size wall mount (Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 12" )

 uiSen owe 5. Secondary/side entrance 2nd or 3rd largest size wall mount (Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 12" )

| 6 Rear door Small outdoor wall mount (Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 12" )

| 7. Post or pier Qutdoor post mount (if multiple, vary sizes) (Keer Sllard Dome Path igh 23° Tal)

8. General lighting (covered space) | Outdoor ceiling fan

9. Task lighting ‘Outdoor hanging pendant/chandelier (Kichler Single Light Outdoor Pendant)

10, Portable area lighting

Portable outdoor LED lantern (Kichler outdoor post light)

Brame r06. recr0.0-2 | Tho. 22
accent cooun, 040-7 | THO-23 E51

* stucco
-Lower level below Belly band, upper railing
- smooth stucco finish

-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray e
cle Cynder 2? Ugh 15" Outdoor Wal Sconce

[peewuppeeeneea

‘est ey oe

“Acti cna. Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 12" Outdoor Wall Sconce

Kichler Single Light Outdoor Pendant

Kichler Single ight 23" Tall Landecape Path Light

\ :
EXTERIOR WALLS -STUCCO

COLOR

Kichler Cylinder 2 light 12 Outdoor Wall Sconce

EXTERIOR DOOR - HARDWOOD -STAINED
GARAGE DOOR - WOOD- STAINED

= ‘i TEXTURE. FLOAT BASE
* Railings

- smooth stucco finish

color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray

* Stairway raliing use James Hardy plank

-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray

ADD AN ACCENT

BUILDING RENDERING

ZI NAL=

VENEER STONE- CORONADO
COLOR VOL TERRA STYLE
ITALIAN VILLA STONE

Kichler Cylinder 2 ight 15" Outdoor Wall Sconce

EXTERIOR DOOR - HARDWOOD -STAINED

4:12 ROOF SLOPE fogear-°
ss oroneesenr -
e ToP oF PLATE”
z
2 é a ‘

NH AnNIEO¥

SN
WOOD FASCIA + PAINTED
WINDOWS TRIM- PAINTED

© Siding
-James hardie plank, fiber cement siding
- color: exterior flat, or low sheen white

*Windows
-Anderson, 100 series FIBRX exterior

=color : black
-tempered safety glass for gliding patio doors

-opaque glazing (as noted on plan, and N & W elevations for specific location at Lot B- ADU on the
upper floor) to prevent direct line of sight into neighbors’ property.

https://www.andersenwindows.com/windows-and-doors,

CHOOSE A BODY COLOR

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT/ TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

A4.1


--- page 89 ---
GREEN BULDING STRATEGIES:

= CONSIDER RENOVATING OLDER BUILDING

= DECONSTRUCT/RECYCLE/REUSE EXISTING STRUCTURES,

= CHOOSE LEAST DISRUPTIVE PAD LOCATION TO:

= MINIMIZE GRADING/AND DISTURBANCE

= WORK AROUND/PROTECT EXISTING TREES

= PROTECT ECO/ARCHEOLOGICALLY SENSITIVE AREAS

= USE SOLAR ORIENTATION FOR MAXIMUM GAIN PROVIDE FOR ONSITE STORM AND GRAY WATER
MANAGEMENT.

= LOCATE CLOSE TO PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION HUB

FOUNDATION / UNDER FLOOR:

= HIGH VOLUME FLY ASH CONCRETE (MIN. 15%)
= CBA AND/OR ABO TREATED WOOD (AVOID ARSE
* PERMANENT FORMS/INSULATED FOUNDATIONS:

FRAMING/SHEATHING/EXTERIOR COVER:

= FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL CERTIFIED LUMBER
LIGHT GAUGE STEEL FRAMING/STRAW BALES

= STRUCTURALLY INSULATED PANELS (SIP'S)

* FINGER JOINTED/ENGINEERED WOOD

= SALVAGED TIMBERS

= AGRICULTURAL BOARDS (WHEAT/STRAW)

= EUROPLY/MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD

= FIBER-CEMENT/RECYCLED CONTENT SIDING AND ROOFING
= RECYCLED CONTENT DECKING

INTERIOR ENVIRONMENT/FINISHES:

= CELLULOSE OR COTTON INSULATION VS. FIBERGLASS

© LOW OR NO VOC ADHESIVES/SOLVENTS/PAINTS/FINISHES.
= NATURAL LINOLEUM VS. OAK/VINYL

= CORK AND/OR BAMBOO FLOORING VS. OAK/VINYL.

= RECYCLED CERAMIC CONTENT TILES

= NATURAL FIBER/RECYCLED CONTENT CARPETING

= SALVAGED WOOD FLOORING

= RECYCLED DOOR/WINDOW TRIMS

PLUMBING/ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL:

"TANKLESS OR SOLAR WATER HEATING

CRE:

HOT WATER CIRCULATION

ULTRA LOW FLOW FIXTURES.

ULTRA HIGH EFFICIENCY LIGHTING
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC ELECTRIC PANELS.
HIGH EFFICIENCY HEATING/COOLING
PASSIVE/ACTIVE SOLAR HEATING

ATING PRIVATE OUTDOOR

‘THE QUALITY OF A SMALL LIVING SPACE CAN BE GREATLY ENHANCED BY MAKING OUTDOOR SPACES,
SUCH AS YARDS, GARDENS, PORCHES AND PATIOS, PART OF THE DESIGN. MAKE THE ADU ENTRY
WELCOMING, SPECIALLY FIND WAYS TO ORGANIZF OUTDOOR SPACES, AND FOR PROTECTING THE
PRIVACY OF NEIGHBORS AND TENANTS.

A WELCOMING ENTRY

‘THE FRONT DOOR OF ANY HOUSE SAYS A LOT ABOUT THE QUALITY OF LIFE AND SOCIAL STATUS OF
‘THE RESIDENT. HOW YOU FIND THE FRONT DOOR FOR AN ADU, THE DESIGN OF THE ENTRY AND
PORCH, AND THE RELATED LANDSCAPING ARF ALL PART OF THE ENTRY SOLUTION.

DISTINGUISHING THE ADU ENTRY

MU:

WHEN THE ADU TENANT COMES HOME IN THE EVENING OR THEY HAVE A FRIEND THAT STOPS BY,
ENSURE THEY FIND THEIR WAY TO THE ADU ENTRY. IT MAY BE A SIMPLE THING TO DO IF THE UNIT
FACES AND IS VISIBLE FROM THE STREET, OTHERWISE, IDENTIFY THE ACCESS.

FOR THE RFAR UNIT, THE GARAGE IS IN THE BACK YARD, THEN FINDING IT MAY REQUIRE PROVIDING
SOME CLUES. PROVIDING A DEDICATED WALKWAY, AN ENTRY GATE, AND VISUAL ACCESS TO THE UNIT
CAN DEMARCATE ITS LOCATION. LOW-COST SOLAR-POWERED YARD LIGHTS CAN ALSO HELP
DELINEATE A PATH TO THE ADU

LTI-FUNCTION SPACE SAVING

USING SPACE FOR MORF THAN ONE FUNCTION IS NECESSARY FOR LIVING IN SMALL INTERIOR SPACES.
DOUBLE TASKING SPACES WILL REQUIRE YOU TO IDENTIFY THINGS THAT CANNOT MOVE, SUCH AS
FIXTURES, AND THINGS THAT CAN, SUCH AS FURNITURE. USING CIRCULATION ROUTES FOR
OVERLAPPING FUNCTIONS IS ANOTHER STRATEGY THAT CAN BE EXPLOITED.

CIRCULATION

‘THE CIRCULATION PLANNING SHOULD BE KEPT SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE WITHOUT REDUNDANT ROUTES.
IN A SMALL ADU, EVERY CIRCULATION ROUTE SHOULD BE "DOUBLE TASKED." THAT MEANS CHAIRS
CAN BE PULLED OUT FROM UNDER TABLES, CABINETS CAN BE OPENED INTO THEM, AND THEY CAN BE
‘TEMPORARILY USED FOR ACTIVITIES LIKE SETTING UP AN IRONING BOARD OR AN EXERCISE MAT.

USING GREEN BUILDING MATERIALS

USE"

GREEN BUILDING “MATERIALS CONSIDERED TO SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

DURING MANUFACTURE, PLACEMENT, LIFETIME USE AND POST-LIFECYCLE DECONSTRUCTION. COMBINED

WITH
IMPA\

STATE MANDATORY ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES THE FINISHED STRUCTURE POSES MUCH LESS
\CT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND UTILITY NEEDS.

WHEN ORDERING MATERIALS, CONSIDER NOT ONLY THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS BUT ALSO WHERE
MATERIALS ARE COMING FROM. A LOCAL SUPPLI-ER/MANUFACTURER CAN SAVE CONSIDERABLE TRANSPORT
COSTS AND USE OF FOSSIL FUELS. COMPARED WITH THEIR CONVENTIONAL COUNTERPARTS THE FOLLOWING
MATERIALS REQUIRE GENERALLY LESS MANUFACTURING AND HELP TO MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS:

SITE PLANNING STRATEGIES:

INCLUDE LANDSCAPE PLANNING AS PART OF THE PARKING SOLUTION. USE LANDSCAPING TO REDUCE
THE VISUAL IMPACT OF PARKING. INCLUDE LOW FENCES, SHRUBS FOR SCREENING, AND SHADE TREES
TO BREAK UP PAVING AND HIDE CARS.

‘© THIS SITE INCLUDES AN EXISTING ATTACHED GARAGE, ORIENTED TOWARD THE FRONT YARD, AFTER

THE SB-9 LOT SPLIT, WITH THE NEW FRONT UNIT ADU ENTRY FACING THE SIDE YARD WITH
ADDITIONAL SPACE IS GAINED BEHIND THE ADU. SCREENING FENCE IS PLACED ALONG THE DRIVEWAY
AND SIDE PROPERTY LINE FOR PRIVACY ALLOWING ACCESS TO REAR FLAG LOT THE NEW DWELLING
AND ADU. THE DRIVEWAY REMAINS UNCHANGED.

THIS POSITION OF THE NEW UNITS ON THE PROPERTY MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO TREAT THE AREA
AROUND THE NEW DWELLING IN THE REAR AS NEARLY A SEPARATE PROPERTY WITH A NEW ADU ON
THE 2ND FLOOR. A PRIVACY SCREEN FENCE RUNS ACROSS THE WIDTH OF THE LOT, ON THE LOT SPLIT
LINE, ALLOWING THE NEW UNIT TO OPEN OUT TO THE SURROUNDING LANDSCAPE WHILE
MAINTAINING PRIVACY ALONG THE ADJOINING PROPERTY LINES.

THE FLOORING IN THE KITCHEN AND LIVING ROOM IS SIMILAR TO THE ADJACENT OUTDOOR PAVED
YARD, MAKING THE INDOOR SPACE APPEAR MORE EXPANSIVE. THE INTERIOR OPENS TO PAVED.
OUTDOOR AREAS WITH DOORS/SLIDING DOORS, TO NEW DWELLING AND ADU UNITS
CONFIGURATION, THE LIVING, COOKING, AND DINING AREAS ARE ALL IN ONE LARGER ROOM,
DISTINGUISHED ONLY BY FURNITURE PLACEMENT.

LANDSCAPING

MAKING YOUR ENTRY MORE WELCOMING IS ALSO A LANDSCAPF OPPORTUNITY. CHANGING THE
PATTERN OF PAVING MATERIALS OR GEOMETRY CAN DEFINE THE PATHWAY AND OUTDOOR ENTRY
AND LIVING AREAS.

PROVIDING ACCENT PLANTING, COLORFUL GROUND COVER, AND FLOWERING TREES CAN BE USED TO
LEAD THE EYE AND FRAME THE ADU ENTRY. PATHWAY AND ENTRY LIGHTING MAKE THE ENTRY SAFER

AND CAN HIGHLIGHT ARCHITECTURAL AND LANDSCAPE DESIGN FEATURES IN YOUR PLAN.
LANDSCAPING SHALL BE USED TO DEFINE AND SCREEN OUTDOOR SPACES. LOW SHRUBS DEFINE
BOUNDARIES. TALLER HEDGES, TRELLISES, AND TREES PROVIDE FILTERED OR SCREENING VIEWS FROM
PRIVATE OUTDOOR SPACES OR PROTECTING THE PRIVACY OF NEIGHBORS.

CHOOSE PLANTS THAT ADD TO THE COLOR AND CHARACTER OF THE OUTDOOR SPACES AND SERVE
THE PRACTICAL MAINTENANCE NEEDS FOR RESIDENTS PER NURSERY AND ARBORISTS. USING PLANT
MATERIAL AND PAVING DEFINE YARD AREAS AND ENHANCE PRIVACY.

TREE PLANTING SHOULD CONSIDER SUN ACCESS IN WINTER MONTHS AND THE NEED FOR SHADE.
PROVIDE OUTDOOR SPACES IN LOCATIONS THAT ARE VISUALLY CONNECTED TO THE ADU AND LIVING

‘SPACES IN THE HOUSE.

SCREEN ADUTENANT SPACES FROM NEIGHBORS AND HOME OWNERS USING WELL-DESIGNED FENCES,

HEDGES, TRELLIS OR OTHER GARDEN LANDSCAPING FEATURES. PROVIDE ACCESS TO SERVICE AREAS,

PARKING AND SHARED YARDS FOR HOMEOWNERS. SCREEN HOMEOWNERS, NEIGHBORS AND ADU
RESIDENTS FROM PARKING.

FENCES

FENCES ARE USED TO PROTECT PRIVACY AND SECURITY FOR BACKYARDS. IN FRONT YARDS, LOW
FENCES DEFINE PUBLIC, SEMI-PUBLIC AND SEMI-PRIVATE SPACES. THE PROVERBIAL WHITE PICKET
FENCE PLAYS THIS ROLE. ADDING FENCES TO THE INTERIOR OF THE LOT HAS TO BE DONE CAREFULLY
WITH THE SAME TYPES OF FUNCTIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.

USE A LOW FENCE TO DEFINE SPACE BUT PROVIDE VISUAL OVERSIGHT OF A YARD. IN ORDER TO
SCREEN A PRIVATE PATIO OR PARKING AREA, AN OPAQUE FENCE, LATTICE, OR TRELLIS SHALL BE USED.
REMEMBER, TALLER FENCES IMPACT THE AMOUNT OF SUN YOU GET AND THE SHAPE OF YOUR YARD,
MAKING IT SEEM SMALLER. INCORPORATING THE FENCES WITH LANDSCAPING. ,

DOOR & WINDOW SCHEDULE
LOT A- ADU

NORTH A-A1. 4046 SL - 4’0”X4’6” SL MASTER BED
‘A-A2. 3030 SL ~ 30”X3’0” SL MASTER BATH
‘A-A3. 3046 DH — 3/0"X4’6" DH KITCHEN
EAST —A-A4. 3046 DH - 3'0”X4’6” DH KITCHEN
A-AS. 9080 SL - 9’0”X8’0” SL FAMILY (SLIDING DOOR)
A-AG. 2056 CAS — 2'0”X5'6” CAS BEDROOM 2
A-A7. 2056 DH - 2'0”XS’6” DH BEDROOM 2
SOUTH A-A8. 4026 SL ~ 4’0X2’6” SL BEDROOM 2
A-AG. 3030 SL — 3’0”X3’0” SL BATH 1
A-A10. 4026 SL - 4’0"X2'6” SL BEDROOM 1
WEST —A-A11. 2056 CAS - 20’X5'6” CAS BEDROOM 1.
A-A12. 2056 DH — 2’0”X5’6” DH BEDROOM 1
A-A13. 6050 SL - 6'0"X5'0" SL LIVING
A-A14, 3080 DOOR — 3/0” BY 8’-0” (ENTRY DOOR)
‘A-A15, 2056 CAS - 2'0”X5’6” CAS MASTER BEDROOM

A-A16. 2056 DH - 2'0”X5’6” DH MASTER BEDROOM

ROOF — COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL - SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS

ROOF RIDGE

1200 SQFT 3BED/2 BATH (30’X40’)ADU

ROOF PLAN 1/4”=1’
E

Heat pm? TANKLESS
Hac ATER ESTER
AAS —— rT AAS (AAG A-A7
——> ———— 8
EEZaI
an
2 -
< S KITCHEN 2 |
O FAMILY BEDROOM 2 =
7ISTUH, §
< LOT A-ADU Vile
a BATH1 } ys < s
0’X40’ ADU La
1200 SQFT 3BED/2 BATH (31 ) Ye
10’ CEILING
Ss
LIVING ROOM 2
Fy MASTER BEDROOM BEDROOM 1 e
< <
\ |
\2'-6" j2-o" |
= —+
AAIG A-AIS KAA A-A13 AAIZ  .... AALL

oe Wy ; |
LOT A-ADU FLOOR PLAN 1/4”=1’

A.5 LOT A-ADU FLOOR/ROOF PLAN/GENERAL & GREEN BUILDING NOTES

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

=
2
wi
=
a
fo}
=
Ww
>
ty
a
E
2
?
2
5
=
a
n
=
fe}
=
]2
<x
[->}
«
=)
a
a
ra)

SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401



--- page 90 ---
RIDGE 17’-6”

weet yey RIDGE 17'-6”
4:12 ROOF SLOPE

TOP OF PLATE 12’-0” / TOP OF PLATE 12’-0”

45 DEGREES@12’

45 DEGREES@12’
| 10’ CEILING

ONI139 OT

KITCHEN | MASTER BATH) + MASTER BEDROOM FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1'-0”

ON PROPERTY LINE
ON PROPERTY LINE

MASTER BEDROOM LIVING ROOM BEDROOM FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0”

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

PL SIDEYARD GRADE O’-0* PL GRADE 0-0”

GA ribo HDzUppalacn hy) SECTION 1/4”=1’ E-W BUILDING SECTION 1/4”=1’ N-S

https://www.gaf.com/en-us/roofing-materials/residential-roofing-materials/shingles/timberline-hdz

* Eaves/ Fascia board ROOF — COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL — SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS

~ - color: exterior flat, or low sheen white
~~ «Siding

Provide an imaginary line between two buildings on each lot to clarify both building meets fire separation distance for wall, a

projections, opening, etc, per CRC 302.1(1) or 302.1(2). Show dimension of the imaginary line on elevation plan sheet to show thé

Ou
wa

~-James hardie plank, fiber cement siding \ % ave and wall fire distance. Any rated wall or eave fire distance requirements need to provide legend or callout the fire rating. = S zy
- color: exterior flat, or low sheen white ne G \ _ 1 5 a
tnss/w jamesharie.com/ eran store NY, Rose a z 5 Ss
i e— w ~
Len han | Hele— | Oo Ww fo)
/ \ TOP OF PLATE 12’-0' | e>o
(@) A | _ } | a2! 2Wwe
youre = @45 DEGREES 5 DEGREES@12’ / For OF MATE 7b <
— se 3 ls = Fe 2z
zk g z +3 a
Sy m Ss rm = Wn

g¢ 4 2 aad
=S 3 is 4X a Py

= & gL 42
2 2 a 2 i
ak. a 2 @ , g o <=
FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1'-0” 2 FIN. FLOOR ee z a <

2 ee = )

ie GRADE 0-0” GRAI ’" E> 2
fore cher Cr UG aon od Soe UNTA patente eases - __ GRADE 0'-0”_ >a 4
2 =
ana

ROOF ~ COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL — SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS E FF 7.00 ~ LOT A- AD U E LEV, ATI ON 1 /4” = 1’ WwW

Daylight Plane has a height limit of 12 feet at each side property line, extends into the parcel at an angle of 45 degrees.

RIDGE 17’-6” RIDGE 17’-6”

* stucco 17-6"
-Lower level below Belly band, upper railing
- smooth stucco finish

-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray

Trim
*ecorner trim, window trim
-color: exterior flat (low sheen) accent white

TOP OF PLATE 12’-0”

**Belly band/Windows sill
- Transition between stucco and siding
-color: exterior flat (low sheen) slate/armor grey

+ Railings

~ smooth stucco finish

-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray
+ Stairway raliing use James Hardy plank
-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray

SIDEPROPERTY >.

3NI7 ALY3dOUd NO

ALuadOud IGIS
PROPERTY LINE

FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0” FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0”

*Windows
-Anderson, 100 series FIDRX exterior

-color : black [ 2etd
a —The pLuaeTioN pacing IMBaINAEL LING

-tempered safety glass for gliding patio doors Lotcis* =
-opaque glazing (as noted on plan, and N & W elevations for specific location at Lot B- ADU on the [Re bee ANA POX \Denb0 Ae
upper floor) to prevent direct line of sight into neighbors’ property. po letAtle = Kaa Ze S ROOF — COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL - SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS N

GRADE 0’-0” SIDEYARD GRADE 0’-0”

httos://www.andersenwindows.cam/windows-and-doors, Br — oy, Lebotwnl Vy 7 FWA DRE

“aoe pe A.6 LOT A-ADU ELEVATIONS, BUILDING SECTIONS



--- page 91 ---
ROOF — COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL - SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS

Ah
You, |
“Ne.
0G
Shee
‘225
N p, Loa =
o Re ++ 4 5
5 ep oy nN Pep Y N S i] 8
, “4p ~ po NY Ea
Cop — Ne Tt ~N Eo
SS é . TH} %& =< Fa =
Shay -25) * B-M5 i | & &
i~ @2, > [5 5 — - <5
| — 7o, (= | o#
| Pag I-S I | SE
vey, . | ~ = 6
| | Me ™ | 2 xm
- a NS yA _ = - Oo
cy 3 F y | ° wis
= 3 ~ ff bee 8} | 23%
~ ~ -| +> | T& 2
3 [= —|| “| |g DINING Gz
= ‘ ‘=BATH3 | )&
: 3
SS FE
x . Fe 3
5 8 T°
7 4:12 igi a = ce - a
4 1 4:12 b 5 oS L W Z g 8
| 3 2 st
Ht O FAMILY ROOM MASTER BATH | | 6 S )
PROPOSED UPPER FLOOR B-ADU 800 SQFT LOWER ROOF ss = r a S
min KITCHEN 22°
2 ~ aWo
W z = = | E> wu
\ as E 2Z2We
UPPER ROOF i - ¢ =) EB 4
18” EAVE LOT B-MAIN ® | «| Ld x gnS
jo are | g = 2 2 Zz
LIVING ROOM BEDROOM 2 >ic
X poe | =a | pone 5 a Ww
a 100 UPPER FLOOR FOOTPRINT a oe
+ < S26
TT hee 3 5x
liters — en ' F =o5
a NT za
4:12 g | \ / ¥ Py wn
— zr \ \ /iMel WN 3 aug
| ; _— a ao =
i /
8 2-CAR GARAGE | FOYER 2
if | a
\ i
18” EAVE + | TI \ BEDROOM 1
PROPOSED LOWER B-MAIN 2340 SQFT \ / \ | emis
| \ gelet \ / i ENTRY we We" 2
Jo18' |e 114 (|'2) 2340 SQFT (2400 sat FOOTPRINT) | z
7 — = Hy 60 SFIS'x12') 1
B-20 Bis |
L 4g-e" L

nook & winDow SCHEDULE LOT B-MAIN FLOOR PLAN (LOWER) 1/4”=1’

LOT B ~ MAIN (LOWER FLOOR) B-M7. 2056 DH — 2'0"XS’6” DH BEDROOM 3 B-M14. 2056 DH ~ 2'0"X5’6” DH BEDROOM 2
WEST B-M1. 4046 SL - 4’0"x4’6” SL GARAGE B-M8. 3030 SL - 3'0"X3'0" SL BATH 2 B-M15. 3030 SL — 3’0"X3'0” SL BATH 1 S
B-M2. 30/80 DOOR — 3'0"X8’0” DOOR GARAGE B-M9. 10-6/80 SL - 10’6”X8’0” SL MASTER BEDROUM (SLIDING DOOR) B-M16. 2056 CAS - 2’0°XS’6” CAS BEDROOM 1
B-M3. 040 AWNING/8020 FIX — 8'0"X4’0” AWNING/8/0"X2'0” FIX TRANSOM KITCHEN B-M10. 2056 CAS - 2’0”X5’6” CAS MASTER BEDROOM B-M17. 2056 DH - 2'0”XS’6” DH BEDROOM 1
B-M4. 2626 SL — 2'6”X2'6” SL BATH 3 EAST —_B-M111. 2056 DH - 2'0”X5’6” DH MASTER BEDROOM SOUTH(FRoNT) B-M18, 4046 SL - 4'0"X4’6" SL BEDROOM 1
NORTH B-M5}/°g0 SL ~{0'6"X8'0" SL DINING (SLIDING DOOR) B-M12. 3030 SL - 3'0”X3'0" SL MASTER BATH B-M19, 3-0 DOOR W/1-6 (18” W) SIDLIGHT X8’0’H X? & 18”H TRANSOM — (ENTRY DOOR)
B-M6.2056 CAS ~ 20"XS'6” CAS BEDROOM 3 B-M13. 2056 CAS - 2'0"X5’6” CAS BEDROOM 2 B-720. 15'X9’ GARAGE DOOR

A.7 LOT B-MAIN RESIDENCE FLOOR PLAN/ROOF PLAN


--- page 92 ---
Daylight Plane has a height limit of 12 feet at each side property line, extends into the parcel at an angle of 45 degrees. os Se
RIDGE 29'-0” TT } P|
~ we
4 N
+ s
UPPER PLATE 247-0” ri OPAQUEGLAZING 3/69 10’ CEILING ;
—_ 7 & | OPAQUE GLAZING B.A OPAQUE GLAZING B-A3 | E 2
MASTER BATH ~ a os —- Z 8
~ z Lol Ee =
~ 5 lia ao | —_
LOT B-ADU ~ 2 —|-F. xz
|-B_|| ys x) {48 GS
Pamikeee a “x @
: amis 8 <5
Xs| % [E> 3 BEDROOM 1 og
| 10’ UPPER CEILING HEIGHT THROUGH-OUT Re, 3 ae
pF hs
2245 FLOOR PLATE 14-0" 2 ar = ¢
1" FLOOR PLATE 5 2 Zz
en ‘| i u — we
—\—}7 2 - S a2 =z
. 4 3 " 209
| 5 wi =
a: | g w le & 2
26 LOT B-MAIN 3 < ; ; | ou
a3 & |S 3 2 % | 3
ae ac ¢ 2 2 Ill [s 8 48
=” 33 g al | rail
3
a 6is 5 2 MASTER BEDROOM
ot A 3 a 8 LIVING ROOM [<1 | |
a i BEDROOM 2 — = 4g ; | -
alii FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0” By | Oo BOs
‘lt Li ged ; s G2°
— | _ 6-6" 2h) ito | MASTER BATH | aug" 3 zo
i. EDI | SIDEYARD GRADE 0’-0” z : a Ss) ae QI - EB a
3 _
SECTION 1 [4’=1’ E-W 200k & WINDOW SCHEDULE gba B-A10 B-A9 PAs ! 22°
26l aW Oo
LOT B — ADU (UPPER FLOOR) +— So S 7 _ | ->Q
NORTH B-A1. 3046 DH — 3’0”X4’6” DH KITCHEN OPAQUE GLAZING
= a4? el
B-A2, 3030 SL—3’0"X30” SLBATH 1 OPAQUE GLAZING LOT B ADU F LOO R PLAN (U PPER) 1/4 = i O° 2 Ss
B-A3. 4046 SL - 4’0”X4’6” SLBEDROOM 1 OPAQUE GLAZING ROOF - COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL - SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS Fe S z
EAST _B-A4, 2056 CAS - 2’0"XS’6” CAS BEDROOM 1 (SCAPEWELL) > Tex
B-AS. 2056 DH — 2’0”X5S’6” DH BEDROOM 1 _— a x n
& oc
B-A6. 2056 CAS — 2'0”K5’6" CAS MASTER BEDROOM ™~ Xe, C > oO
B-A7. 2056 DH — 2’0”X5’6" DH MASTER BEDROOM 79 lo} =
RIDGE 29-0” Ss ey = aa
—— ~ SOUTH B-A8. 4046 SL - 4'0"X4’6” SL MASTER BEDROOM. ~ Oar 4 Co 2
12 B-A9, 3030 SL 3’0"X30” SL MASTER BATH wa Fy i? Zz
B-A10. 2056 CAS — 2'0”X5’6” CAS LIVING O24... S > wn
a Op ata
—— B-A11, 2056 DH ~ 2'0"X5'6” DH LIVING = nl lane t ot 0
; T UPPER PLATE WEST (FRONT)B-A12. 4046 SL-4’0"X4’6” SLLIVING OPAQUE GLAZING = Se ane
__ 410’ UPPER CEILING HEIGHT THROUGH-OUT EAs 2 Dou 2 ecorLoMeteHTRY EOF = UPPER ROOF Na
iv] ~
| ~] B-A14, 3046 SI - 3'0"X4’6” SLKITCHEN OPAQUE GLAZING 2
| ] vots-apu | | | 5
L - Lo |
alt
KITCHEN | LIVING ROOM \ALe
A} | 4
TT LOWER ROOF
my a x 12’ LOWER CEILING HEIGHT THROUGH-OUT
——_ — — F
| 7 ay, —-—— oq T
> 4 J LOT B-MAIN |
,
J | | |
|
FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1'-0” BEDROOM 3 DININC KITCHEN m
GRADE 0’-0” unire
4
— BUILDIN /a’av’ ROOF PLAN 1/4”=1’ |
frre G SECTION 1/4”=1’ N-S

A.8 LOT B-ADU UPPER FLOOR/ROOF PLAN, SECTIONS


--- page 93 ---
Daylight Plane has a height limit of 12 feet at each side property line, extends into the parcel at an angle of 45 degrees. LOT B AD U

RIDGE 29’-0”

OPAQUE GLAZING

OPAQUE GLAZING

OPAQUE GLAZING

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

: z co — — 3
PL t |_| K+ = PL = a
| 4 a. ee 2)
H hd} L__
= i = po
1S FINISH FLOOR OFF wee
SIDEYARD Kicher Cylinder 2 Ught 12" Outdoor Wall Sconce GRADE 0’-0' on
” ?
= UNITB naa
ELEVATION 1/4”=1 N LOT B-MAIN ELEVATION 1/4”=1 E
Windows FF 7.25
-Anderson, 100 series FIBRX exterior * Stucco
~eolor : black 7 -Lower level below Belly band, upper railing FG 6.25 ROOF - COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL — SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS.
-tempered safety glass for gliding patio doors - smooth stucco finish
-opaque glazing (as noted on plan, and N & W elevations for specific location at Lot B- ADU on the “color: exterior fat (low sheen) light gray pat
i ‘ighbors’ rty. « Railings
upper floor) to prevent direct line of sight into neighbors’ property. «nam : cemath ene Fak + Roof - composition shingles  Eaves/ Fascia board

GAF Timberline HDZ (Appalachian sky)

, -and-doors;
naps a ardersenindons com /eindoas and doots! https://www.gaf. com/en-us/roofing-materials/residential-roofing-materials/shingles/timberline-hdz

-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray - color: exterior flat, or low sheen white
« Stairway raliing use James Hardy plank * Siding
-color: exterior flat (low sheen) light gray -James hardie plank, fiber cement siding

- color: exterior flat, or low sheen white

*ecorner trim, window trim
-color: exterior flat (ow sheen) accent white

+ Belly band/Windows sill

-
2
wu
=
a
°
=
Ww
>
a
fa)
i=
F4
ed
3
e
S
a
n
bE
°
=
z
<x
oO
=]
a
oO
n

SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

htt, A shardie.«
oo Kichler Cylinder? light 12" Outdoor Wall Sconce ~ Transition between stucco and siding RIDGE 29’-0” i ’ 4 https://www.jameshardie.com/
29'-0” -color: exterior flat (low sheen) slate/armor grey ——_—_
4:12 —.,
_ a 29-0
_—e UPPER PLATE 24-0”
24-0” ATE 24’ .
24-0"
PAS _TI
WAS OPAQUE GLAZING |]
& st all —
AS
oe
<3
[oy
~~ 1° FLOOR PLATE 14-0”
—- S
~—— 8
14-0” i x
| / we
TT dt i" ? = »
| _ E F 5
[ | > 9
3 a _ — :
4 PLS U J u 2
8 g
omens Hl = 2
Cl : Coco
= | 3G BS
| :
Fe
a | FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0” a [
0'-0' PROPOSED SETBACKS: REAR LOT FRONT -15’ SIDE RIGHT/LEFT -5’ REAR-S’ GRADE" SIDEYARD GARAGE ENTRY . SIDEYARD 0-0"

Gaiilan hea Oma 3 ‘Kichler outdoor pos ight Kichler Cylinder 2 Light 15" Outdoor Wall Sconce
Kichler Cylinder 2 tight 12" Outdoor Wall Seance

ROOF — COMPOSITION SHINGLE, WALL - SIDING WITH STUCCO/STONE VENEER (OPTIONAL WAINSCOT), VINYL WINDOWS WwW LOT B-MAIN S AS
A.9 LOT B (HOUSE/ADU) ELEVATIONS N, S, E, W


--- page 94 ---
UPPER ROOF (FLOOR AREA) AL

|
RIDGE 5 z
DOOR & WINDOW SCHEDULE ae
LOT A - EXISTING HOUSE ROOF x
Yo
15" WEST A1. 2626 SL — 2’6”X2’6” SL BATH & ©
A2. 4026 SL — 4’0"X2’6” SL FAMILY | [o} az
15"NORTH —A3. 6068 SL - 6'0”X6’8” FMAILY = Fai
‘AA. 3-10/30 SL ~ 3'10”X3’0” SL FAMILY NX r &
AS. 8068 SL - 8'0"X6’8” SL DINING \ G 2
AG. 4030 SL — 4’0"X3’0” SL KITCHEN ‘\ LOWERRGOF S S$
1S™SOUTH _A7. 8070 SL - 8'0”X7’0" GARAGE DOOR “a | ¥ z
AB. 6640 FIX /CAS - 6’6"X4’0” FIX /CAS LIVING | |
A9. 3-0 DOOR — 3’0”DOOR LIVING (ENTRY DOOR) HIP ROOF
1™SOUTH A110. 7-10/3-0 FIX/CAS — 7'10"X3’0” FIX/CAS BEDROOM 1
28° WEST A11. 2626 SL — 2’6"X2’6” SL MASTER BATH ROOF SLOPE 4:12
A12. 3030 SL - 3’0”X3’0” SL MATER BEDROOM N
2” NORTH A113. 5030 SL - 5’0”X3’0” SL MASTER BEDROOM ey |

2N° EAST

A14. 2-10/30 SL ~ 2’10"X3'0" SL HALL
A15. 40/2-10 SL - 4'0"X2’10" SL BEDROOM 1
A16. 2-10/30 SL - 2’10"X3’0” SL BEDROOM 1

—N

EXISTING HOUSE- COMPOSITION SHINGLE ROOF (BLACK)/STUCCO WALL (WHITE) - NO CHANGE

LOT A MAIN

7
F-4
wi
=
a
fo}
pa
w
>
iy
a)
=
=
?
3
5
a
a
7)
=
fo}
=
2
=<
a
4
E]
a
a
n

SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG

1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

Go
N __ a3 " _ por _ +— N
r if a
nN 130" WA wo fe S : —_
. S<— 72 FLOOR #S AS As
—_ =A a —-
| V4 4 I lL]
- | MASTER BEDROOM J | lo] ]
| NN RIDGE | |
- / \\pprt OF | 7 or |
/ UPPER RO & DINING KITCHEN
= |
at il St ON | T
_ N\ 4:12 |
LOWER ROOF / | 8
> —— 2
. RIDGE . 8 5
i 8
NL | g
\ep, LIVING ROOM | " R
ROOF SLOPE 4:12 % | a iN
|
x GARAGE
Isto"
| EXISTING HOUSE 1610 SQFT (HOUSE)/253 SQFT (GARAGE)/TOTAL 1863 SQFT } ~ — a |
| a | '
| | | |e
} ~ : + - —__-—;
Al0 S AS
ST r
EXISTING 1°" FLOOR PLAN 1/4”=1’

| A10

EXISTING UPPER FLOOR & ROOF PLAN 1/4”=1’

A.10 EXISTING HOUSE (LOT A) /FLOOR & ROOF PLAN/ELEVATIONS


--- page 95 ---
RIDGE 22’-0”

/ —

_UPPER PLATE 19’-0”

FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0”

EXISTING HOUSE- COMPOSITION SHINGLE ROOF (BLACK)/STUCCO WALL (WHITE) — NO CHANGE

GRADE 0’-0”
RIDGE 22’-0”
- —
UPPER PLATE 19’-0' —
_———
—
=
is

—_—
157 FLOOR PLATE 9’-6”

FINISH FLOOR OFF GRADE 1’-0”
——|

A
fore EXISTING HOUSE- COMPOSITION SHINGLE ROOF (BLACK)/STUCCO WALL (WHITE) - NO CHANGE
ery alevarTie N Ww
DOOR & WINDOW SCHEDULE

LOT A ~ EXISTING HOUSE

ASTWEST 1.2626 SL- 2'6"X2’G” SL BATH

A2. 4026 SL — 4'0"X2’6” SL FAMILY
15" NORTH A3. 6068 SL - 6'0"X6’8” FMAILY
AA. 3-10/30 SL — 3'10"X3’0” SL FAMILY
AS. 8068 SL — 8'0”KG’8” SL DINING
A6. 4030 SL — 4’0"X3’0” SL KITCHEN

1TSOUTH A7. 8070 SL - 8'0"X7'0” GARAGE DOOR

‘ag, 6640 FIX /CAS ~ 6'6"XA'Q" FIX /CAS LIVING

‘Ag, 3-0 DOOR - 3'0”DOOR LIVING (ENTRY DOOR)
4™SOUTH ig, 7-10/3-0 FIX/CAS ~ 7°10°X3'0” FIX/CAS BEDROOM 1
2" WEST 34.2626 SL ~ 2’6”X2’6” SL MASTER BATH

‘12, 3030 SL - 3'0”X3'0” SL MATER BEDROOM

2"° NORTH 13,5030 SL — 5’0”X3/0” SL MASTER BEDROOM

14. 2-10/30 SL — 2'10"X3’0" SL HALL
15. 40/2-10 SL — 4'0"X2’10" SL BEDROOM 1
28° EAST A16. 2-10/30 SL ~ 2'10"X3’0” SL BEDROOM 1

GRADE 0’-0”

zal eleva loN

KENNETH HUO ARCHITECT
PALOALTOARCHITECT@GMAIL.COM

SB 9 URBAN LOT SPLIT/ TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SHEVA QIHUA HU/STEVEN WONG
1825 NASH DR, SAN MATEO, CA 94401

EXISTING HOUSE- COMPOSITION SHINGLE ROOF (BLACK)/STUCCO WALL (WHITE) - NO CHANGE SIDE PROPERTY

EXISTING ELEVATION 1/4”=1’ Ss



--- page 96 ---
1. THE SURFACE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THIS DRAWING HAVE BEEN LOCATED BY FIELD
SURVEY. THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN HAVE BEEN COMPILED FROM RECORDS
OF THE VARIOUS AGENCIES. THE SURVEYOR ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR
INDICATED LOCATION, SIZE, OR TYPE. RECORD UTILITY INFORMATION SHOULD BE

CONFIRMED BY EXPOSING THE UTILITY.

2. SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT WAS SEARCHED NOT FOUND ON SITE. EXISTING
SANITARY SEWER LATERAL LOCATION TO BE VERIFIED BY A SPECIALIST.

ZHEN’S LAND SURVEYING CORP.
WALNUT CREEK, CALIFORNIA
TEL: (415)802-9945

1}, _ i}
i ft GRAPHIC SCALE 31 MAPS 34-37 | a) t*
NA / BLOCK 6 1 | SE
5 / 78 10 es 1 20 0 T _) fo
; / /: / LOT 32
30 (a0 rar )
ese | Wi / 1 inch = 10 ft 4 {
~~ "06°00" , ELEV=3.92'
~~ a / (ah __ N3°06’00"W ; 185.64" . . ae jae 4402
SL / i e om mr LOLTL CREEKS ZOOL OTS m . To
™ | din a Rie eee
~ fe: : |
os / fi
8 n | |
330 He poe
/ foo |
& x 3
ar
/ é «31 MAPS 34-37 og
x - «|
ci wo an] 1/8 8 he
one e 7
s , 8
sa hae ’ By 42
— 3 ¥ ewer’ ine” EAZS
j BIE PRS PIY oa Gee
2 N3‘08/00"W PUR 80.42) PI
oh nl *
Liao 3 IQ)>
hw
| I |
|
\ A |
: \ 2
ST MAPS 34-370 ‘ 31 MAPS 34-37
BLOCK 6 b ' i
LOT 36 Bone ! 1
\ LOT 35 31 MAPS 34-37 |
\ BLOCK 6 (|
LOT 34
\ ! oy
\ I | fo
\ Se
ABBRI ) VD LEGEND
BOW BACK OF WALK 8 SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
cB CATCH BASIN STORM DRAIN MANHOE
EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT a eee LINE
a FINISH FLOOR —OH— OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL LINE ”
uD GAS METER —¢ — CAS LINE LOT 33, IN BLOCK 6, AS SHOWN ON "MAP
HR BANDICAP, RAMP —SP— STORM DRAIN LINE NO. 9 SHORE VIEW TRACT SAN MATEO
oe SC RUTY EASEMENT COUNTY CALIFORNIA”, BOOK 31 OF MAPS AT
SPP SEARCH FOR NOT FOUND PAGE 34-37, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.
re TELEPHONE APN 033-381-490
—--— BOUNDARY LINE (1825 NASH DRIVE)
—o—o— EXISTING FENCE LINE
T2777 EXISTING BUILDING OUTLINE
(0) FOUND STANDARD CITY MONUMENT CITY OF SAN MATEO SAN MATEO COUNTY CALIFORNIA
Cd) INDICATES REFERENCE MAP NUMBER
SCALE: 1°=10" JULY, 2023
(1) DATE OF FIELD SURVEY: JULY, 2023
(2) ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS SHOWN ARE IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF UNLESS
OTHERWISE NOTED.
(3) BUILDING OUTLINE WAS MEASURED AT BUILDING EXTERIOR FINISH WALL SURFACE
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
(4) VERTICAL DATUM: NAVD 88. ELEVATIONS WERE ESTABLISHED WITH GNSS OBSERVATIONS Hon
(5) TREE SPECIES TO BE VERIFIED WITH ARBORIST. 07/24/2023
ZHEN WANG DATE

VICINITY MAP
NO SCALE

ZHEN'S LAND SURVEYING CORP.
168 DEL MONTE DR, WALNUT CREEK, CA 94595
(415)802-9945 | INFOOZHENSLANDSURVEYING.COM

1Z11, BUILDING LOCATION ADDED ON|LOT 34
12/04/2024) ADDED TREES IN LOT 36

7
T

TENTATIVE MAP
(FOR A TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION)
EXISTING TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY

CALIFORNIA

1825 NASH DRIVE

SAN MATEO

Date

08/02/2023

Scale

1" = 10’

Sheet No.
1 OF 2

File No.
2023-153



--- page 97 ---


--- page 98 ---
TYP. NO. 8, 88, OR 8 AGGREGATE IN OPENINGS
‘CONCRETE PAVERS MIN. 3 1/8 IN. (80 MM) THICK
FOR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC (ASPECT RATIO <3)

(CURB/EDGE RESTRAINT WITH CUT-OUTS

FOR OVERFLOW DRAINAGE (CURB SHOWN}
BEDDING COURSE 2 IN. (50 MM) THICK
(TYP. NO. 8 AGGREGATE)
j— 4 IN. (100 MM) THICK NO. 57 STONE

OPEN-GRADED BASE
MIN. 6 IN. (150 MM) THICK NO. 2 STONE SUBBASE

_— NON-PERFORATED OUTLET PIPES SPACED
AND SLOPED TO DRAIN STORED WATER TO
CATCH BASIN OR WATER COURSE

| — GEOTEXTILE ON SIDES OF
SURBASE AND UNDER CURR

|__ OPTIONAL GEOTEXTILE ON SUBGRADE
PER DESIGN ENGINEER

PERFORATED, SLOPED UNDERDRAINS

EMBED PIPE INNO. 57 STONE
‘SOIL SUBGRADE SLOPED TO DRAIN

NOTES:
4. 23/8 IN. (60 MM) THICK PAVERS NAY BE USED IN PEDESTRIAN AND RESIDENTIAL APPLICATIONS.

2. NO.2 STONE SUBBASE THICKNESS VARIES WITH DESIGN.
CONSULT ICPI PERMEABLE INTERLOCKING CONCRETE PAVEMENT MANUAL.

3._NO.2 STONE MAY BE SUBSTITUTED WITH NO.3 OR NO 4 STONE.

REVISIONS BY

PERMIT SET
07/23, aa
P.W. COMMENTS

1 01/24 PA
P.W, COMMENTS

2 06/24 PA

TYP. PERMEABLE PAVER DETAIL

NOT TO SCALE

GCCGCGCGCEGGCCCECGCECECECECCECECEECECECECY(

ecece oe.

W—W—W_W_W—W_W_W_W_W_W_W_W_W_W_ WWW WWW WWW WWW WWW

/ Be / GRAPHIC SCALE S| ke a o/ AEE soul t
/ / 10 e 5 40 LOT 32 id fw bo | soe
/ ay / a a | . FOR STORM DRAN i \ |
/ AY / CN FEET ) ‘ |
i #8 1 inch 5
T
CBT! pega YIN ze
zi |
N3"06’00"W ads ~  \/\ 185.64" RSH ESS Hae MOSMALE Seo.08 is t |< Be Oe sa ”
A sistent mies are } a
aN |
‘s re 5
2 > to </>
call ome
Bey |
meal } me
(E) HOUSE 3 |} ia
(e884 ve 1.302 5) , i y | | = 3|
yl’ . ‘ eh H | 3S . |
wid TIE Wi \ i) Sie
w—— ag dH | 8 \o
Slo } sey
N3:06'00" 0.64" xk ;
| fa
| a 5
ot — REPLACE (EJLOONCRETE
lew 7 Sew Ws avo,
— RES SEF | al 5 ae
7 Be a 7 J Se a ‘CITY DETAIL 4s
\ a tf Wap \ hood "
dl} | 2
d :
Ta 31 MAPS 34-37 ca ca.
can 7 BLOCK 6 Sg I] 3 1g
LOT 36 LOT 35 31 MAPS 34-37 13 | | § id H
= woe BosMae, SEE ETAL 1/62 BLOCK 6 q nia A
LOT 34 id ine i §
ire ‘ sf = .
= EARMEN sWALE, SEE DETAL 2/02 | 3 5 fro
yar 2 'g = UHe
Gee et ea Vue oF IT © 09 id a
VOLUME OF IMPORT = 240 CUL YA. Yo. id 1
PERFORATED P.V.C., SEE DETAIL 4/C2 H d =
d |
= // precast concer Pavers wnt SITE GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN z g x
PRECUT ORIVABLE GRASS (BY SOL 49 g ' =
RETENTON OR EQUAL): SEE PERVEABLE SCALE: 1” = 10 2 id i
PAYER DETAL-A d =

32108 Alvarado Blvd, #293, Union City, CA 94587
Phone (510) 386-5899 E-mail: jparafiles@aol.com

JAIME P. ARAFILES, PE

SITE GRADING AND
DRAINAGE PLAN

SB-9 URBAN LOT SPLIT
TWO UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SHEVA HU/STEVEN WONG
1825 NASH DRIVE
SAN MATEO CA 94401

JA

JPA

JULY 10, 2023

AS NOTED

22336038

C1



--- page 99 ---


--- page 100 ---


--- page 101 ---


--- page 102 ---


--- page 103 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7000

November 7, 2024

Kenneth Huo

220 Village Ln

Foster City, CA 94404
paloaltoarchitect@gmail.com

Subject: PA-2023-082, 1825 Nash Dr., Single Family Dwelling Desing Review, Two-Unit Development, Urban Lot
Split, Tentative Parcel Map, Site Development Planning Application
1825 Nash Dr., APN 033-381-490

Dear Kenneth Huo:

This letter is a follow up to your Planning Application submittal of November 20, 2023, as referenced above. Enclosed is
a copy of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the application as well as applicable Conditions of Approval.
This approval by the Zoning Administrator is final unless appealed within ten (10) calendar days of the date of this
approval. You will be contacted if an appeal is filed.

Any required Building Permits can be submitted online at www.cityofsanmateo.org/onlinepermitcenter. In accordance
with Municipal Code section 27.08.085, this Planning Application approval is valid for two years. If this approval expires,
a new Planning Application must be resubmitted subject to all codes and policies in effect at the time of the new
submittal. Please also note that the time within which judicial review may be sought is governed by Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6. In addition, the time within which the imposition of fees, dedications, reservations, or other
exactions may be challenged is governed by Government Code Section 66020. Please contact me at (650) 522-7206 or

via email at egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org for any questions.
Sincerely,
Liz Gagliardi, Assistant Planner

Enclosure: Decision of the Zoning Administrator and Conditions of Approval

Cc: Property Owners: Sheva Quhia Hu & Steven Wong (Email Distribution shevahu@gmail.com)
Architect: Kenneth Huo (Email Distribution paloaltoarchitect@qmail.com)
"Interested Parties who Submitted Written Comments" : (Email Distribution)
Project Planner (Email Distribution)
Development Review Board Members (Email Distribution)
Planning Manager (Email Distribution)
Zoning Administrator (Email Distribution)
City Clerk (Email Distribution)
Bcc: Planning Commission (Email Distribution)


--- page 104 ---
330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7000

CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

DECISION OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
PA#: PA-2023-082
PA NAME: PA-2023-082, 1825 Nash Dr., SFDDR, TUD, ULS, Tentative Parcel Map, SDPA
ZONING CLASSIFICATION: R1C (One-Family Dwellings)
ADDRESS/APN: 1825 Nash Dr., 033-381-490
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The project includes a ministerial Urban Lot Split (ULS) and Tentative Parcel Map for
the subdivision of an 11,233 sq. ft. lot to create two new lots (5,842 sq. ft. Lot A and 5,391 sq. ft. Lot B). Two-
Unit Development (TUD) and discretionary Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) are proposed to
retain the existing single-family dwelling and construct a 1,200 sq. ft. accessory dwelling unit (ADU) on Lot A

and a new 2,400 sq. ft. single-family dwelling with an 800 sq. ft. ADU on Lot B. The request also includes Site
Development Planning Application (SDPA) for removal of major vegetation.

PLANNING APPLICATION APPROVALS:

X | SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW
X | URBAN LOT SPLIT & TENATIVE PARCEL MAP
X

TWO-UNIT DEVELOPMENT
X | SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION

PROJECT PLANNER: Liz Gagliardi, Assistant Planner

APPROVAL DATE: 11/7/2024


--- page 105 ---


--- page 106 ---


--- page 107 ---


--- page 108 ---


--- page 109 ---


--- page 110 ---


--- page 111 ---
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION:

X | APPROVED CEQA CLEARANCE: §15303 EXEMPTION

FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION OF SMALL
STRUCTURES

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL: See Attached.

SIGNATURE Vhanera SanLher

Manira Sandhir, AICP, Zoning Administrator

DATE: 11/07/2024

* This decision is final unless appealed in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the

above date.


--- page 112 ---


--- page 113 ---


--- page 114 ---


--- page 115 ---


--- page 116 ---


--- page 117 ---


--- page 118 ---


--- page 119 ---


--- page 120 ---


--- page 121 ---


--- page 122 ---


--- page 123 ---


--- page 124 ---


--- page 125 ---
APPLICATION FOR APPEAL Date Filed, NOV
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20% Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403 Office Use Only

File #:

TO: City Council ; ; Fee:
ommissio ALE Lif [GDI Tentative Hearing Date:

Appeals to the City Council of a decision are subject to a fee of $565 in fiscal year 2024-25.
Per the San Mateo municipal code, appeals must be filed within 10 days of the decision being appealed.

Daytime Phone:

APPELLANT | Email

Address:
Zip Code

Project Being Appealed:

SUBJECT

Address / Location:

State Reasons for Appeal and Particular Areas of Concern (if an appeal of Planning Applications conditions of approval,
please list each condition appealed and the dbenaen eal): ' ssa oo © = a i
Bel RADVOS TO Re OAL

Ree SOS 7 CuoloT Canklo7 :
aie crs 4 De®S TT = RUG Races Ove¢
he Na Posun S$ Pecpanah thoy

S Maes THAnl) rw

Added Comments or Proposal (if any):

ise ZBeviele AfMolEe) THC PBS A ACES
)i the Ova7 Dass My) Bssue CnpyHe Map SAD #2 aopaert

Sodio Mj B24
Appellant's Signature Da

(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Please refer to Comprehensive Fee Schedule for appeal filing fees.


--- page 126 ---
Coyote Point
‘County Park

ex

TCLINTONDR &  E3RB AVE
Ue
ill
i
i
— i]
i
|
Bay Marshes
!
\.

IS
S
IE iy
c

Ze HB cITYOF *
, x i T au FOSTER CITY
XQ / nt ¢ )
WN OF HILLSBOROUGH .
See sats ’ a
3
eo .
SS Coy
‘s 7
ay he Ks? a a :
Ly = :
— Le Ss i |
& CT ion?
if = Ne
“a 1 4 4 gi
SA H a 4
\ /
See Inset 3 <N ee °
ee Ss % : SS
7 > cy &
/ a : : if
SEED WH
| RES
——
x See Inset SO . ~
/ILLSBOROUGH \
< Nf ee seo
Ae $ [Fs rea Inset 6)
is
Ss /
im
seal 4
or ;
~ &
a
Oy s s ‘ :
ly « SJ inountin I
S } 7
See Inset 5 / CITY OF BELMONT
& A “
5 iy re “
eet
Tl
Ye ai
%o, c Bono mark
a7 ‘Sus if
puntain
CITY OF
BELMONT
LEGEND N
Half Mile Radius of L__] San Mateo City Limits
. . || San Francisco Bay & Lagoon w E
Public Transit Stops | gccessor Parcels
s
H TI it St
City of San Mateo ° Half mil radius from public transit stops 0 0.25 05 0.75 1
p i a a Miles

(includes stops for SamTrans, AC Transit, Caltrain)

Dated Sept 2021, created by DoIT/GIS


--- page 127 ---
1825 Nash Drive
Appeal of SFDDR for SB9 Two-Unit 
Development
(PA-2023-082)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 25th, 2025
Liz Gagliardi, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 128 ---
PRESENTATION OVERVIEW
• Project Background
• Code and Policy Review
• Reasons for Appeal
• Recommendation to Planning Commission 
2

--- page 129 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting
• November 15, 2023 - Applicant hosted Neighborhood 
Informational Meeting 
• Formal Planning Application
• December 8, 2023 - Planning Application submitted for 
Development Review Board (DRB) Review
• Zoning Administrator Decision 
• November 7, 2024 - Following duly noticed public 
review period, Zoning Administrator approved the 
Planning Application
• Appeal Filed
• November 18, 2024 – Appeal filed by Nicholas Colucci 
(Appellant)
Project History
Location
Project Description
3

--- page 130 ---
Location – Project Site
•
1825 Nash Drive
•
1 Existing Parcel (11,233 sq.ft.)
•
Existing Single-Family Residence
•
1,863 sq. ft. 
•
Two-story
•
General Plan Land Use –  Residential Very Low
•
Zoning District – R1-C
4
Project Site

--- page 131 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5
•
Urban Lot Split to create two new lots
•
Two Unit Development on each lot 
•
Lot A:
•
Maintain existing two-story single 
family residence (1,863 sq.ft.)
•
New detached ADU (1,200 sq.ft.)
•
Lot B:
•
New two-story residential 
building. 
•
First floor includes an SB9 Primary 
Unit with attached two-car garage 
(2,340 sq.ft. total)
•
Second floor includes attached 
ADU (800 sq.ft)

--- page 132 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6
•
Urban Lot Split to create two new lots
•
Two Unit Development on each lot
•
Lot A:
•
Maintain existing two-story single 
family residence (1,863 sq.ft.)
•
New detached ADU (1,200 sq.ft.)
•
Lot B:
•
New two-story residential 
building. 
•
First floor includes an SB9 Primary 
Unit with attached two-car garage 
(2,340 sq.ft. total)
•
Second floor includes attached 
ADU (800 sq.ft)

--- page 133 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
7
•
Urban Lot Split to create two new lots
•
Two Unit Development on each lot 
•
Lot A:
•
Maintain existing two-story single 
family residence (1,863 sq.ft.)
•
New detached ADU (1,200 sq.ft.)
•
Lot B:
•
New two-story residential 
building. 
•
First floor includes an SB9 Primary 
Unit with attached two-car garage 
(2,340 sq.ft. total)
•
Second floor includes attached 
ADU (800 sq.ft)

--- page 134 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8
Existing Home (Lot A)
Proposed ADU (Lot A)
Lot A
•
Frontage along Nash Drive
•
No changes to existing home
•
New 1200 sq.ft. ADU proposed at 
rear 
Parking
•
Existing one-car garage to remain
•
No parking required for ADU
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
•
2,263 sq.ft. of total FAR proposed 
(max. allowed is 2,921 sq.ft.)
•
800 square feet of ADU 
area is exempt from total 
FAR

--- page 135 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
9
Proposed SB9 Primary 
Unit and ADU (Lot B)
Lot B
•
Flag Lot configuration – Lot B is behind 
Lot A, with an access easement provided 
for driveway access to Nash Dr. 
•
Proposed new two-story residential 
structure, consisting of an SB9 Primary 
Unit and attached ADU
Parking
•
Two-car garage provided, exceeds the 
one stall required for the SB9 Unit
•
No parking required for ADU
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
•
2,340 sq.ft. of total FAR proposed (max. 
allowed is 2,695 sq.ft.)
•
800 square feet of ADU area is 
exempt from total FAR

--- page 136 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
Senate Bill 9 (SB9)
• Applicable in all single-family residential 
zoning districts
• Requires ministerial approval of urban lot 
split into two new lots (not subject to 
appeal)
• Requires ministerial approval of up to two 
new residential units, up to 800 square feet 
in size, on each newly created lot
*Ministerial project approvals are not subject 
to appeal
State Law
Discretionary Review
General Plan, Zoning Code, and Design 
Review
Environmental Review
10

--- page 137 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
Discretionary Review
• San Mateo Municipal Code provides 
“Discretionary Review as Alternative to 
Ministerial Approval” for SB9 projects that 
include SB9 units over 800 square feet.
• Project included discretionary review for 
Zoning Code Compliance and Single Family 
Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for 
consistency with Single-Family Dwelling 
Design Guidelines.
State Law
Discretionary Review
General Plan, Zoning Code, and Design 
Review
Environmental Review
11

--- page 138 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
12
• General Plan Land Use – Residential Very Low
• R1-C (One Family Dwellings)
• Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines
• Compatible with Existing Home
• Compatible with Neighborhood
• View and Privacy Concerns Mitigated
LOT A
LOT B
Proposed
Maximum
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
0.39
0.5
0.43
0.5
Square Footage
2,263 sf
2,921 sf
2,340 sf
2,695 sf
Building Height
12’ plate
17’6” peak
16’ plate
24’ peak
24’ plate
29’ peak
24’ plate
32’ peak
Units
2
2
2
2
Setbacks
LOT A (new ADU)
LOT B
Proposed
Minimum
Proposed
Minimum
Front
Meets. Min.
15’
23’
15’
Left Side
19’6”
4’
5’
4’
Right Side
5’
4’
4’7”
4’
Rear
5’
4’
5’
4’

--- page 139 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
Environmental Review
• Project is categorically exempt from CEQA
• Class 3, Section 15303(b) – New Construction 
or Conversion of Small Structures
State Law
Discretionary Review
General Plan, Zoning Code, and Design 
Review
Environmental Review
13

--- page 140 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Parking
• A minimum of one (1) standard off-street parking stall 
is required for each SB9 Primary Unit
• ADUs are exempt from minimum parking requirements 
when located within ½ mile of a bus stop
• Lot A – Existing one-car garage satisfies minimum 
parking requirements
• Lot B – Proposed two-car garage exceeds minimum 
parking requirements
Circulation
• Vehicles may back out of parking stalls onto Nash Drive 
from both Lots A and B
• No additional turning radius is required
• Adequate space is provided on Lot B for a vehicle to 
make a three-point turn and exit the driveway facing 
forwards
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Density
14

--- page 141 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Parking
• A minimum of one (1) standard off-street parking stall 
is required for each SB9 Primary Unit
• ADUs are exempt from minimum parking requirements 
when located within ½ mile of a bus stop
• Lot A – Existing one-car garage satisfies minimum 
parking requirements
• Lot B – Proposed two-car garage exceeds minimum 
parking requirements
Circulation
• Vehicles may back out of parking stalls onto Nash Drive 
from both Lots A and B
• No additional turning radius is required
• Adequate space is provided on Lot B for a vehicle to 
make a three-point turn and exit the driveway facing 
forwards
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Density
15

--- page 142 ---
PARKING AND SITE CIRCULATION

(0001 SHON DE PETIVEIED MD OF eReTepTED OF MERU par IMT PHUTLTU WOM LUNPTT YETI UNA! | Meer

Arctostophyion edtmendsll Carmel Sur’ or ‘Big Sei’) It: |/tevtin yyukain nuryery.enre2ATcDSeag on: 7
edtnanitsé camel -eatrshe Doteta Arne Aconafenotavs Tame Sf Cena Ware Cama ar anit LSI Zoe: Zones 8 Sinus ing Ges | /
= 1 Sunset Zone: Zowes 6%, 24» 24 Mature Height: 1 foot Mature Widths 4» oneal” Fitered Su, Martial PROPOSED SETBACKS: REAR LOT FRONT -15' SIDE RIGHT/LEFT -5' REAR-S’ /

Sun Pari Shae Shae Water New: Low, Monerate / ee LOT “BY (5391 S.F.) ~Q)
N3"06'00"W-.- on vB _ MUCH AND rn on
80.27 HON

haere cnsanuron (sina /

Red Horsechestnut (Aesculusx comes) =
N3”06'00"W
2

wer /
/

‘TS 0’ sivevaao'

flr “je avn WORE a
on — 148.00". NS'34/39"W

Mosmariews affichs Callrgwond Ingrem') 0 see

nownip row sery Com roenarinus atticina bie

a Ai

| yrs | webs | Ane Shasta Wauiede: batahas dined, Gnepectnget megee wale tania aa Tinea U
} (sans Coble qervod Ingran Mouernany Collygmoad bygram Rewerrary LCM Zone: Zone A ~ 17 Sunwet Zone: Zones 4. 26, WI, W2 Mature EXISTING 5 PUE
A Loruscag a9 x30 Helge: 23 feet Mare Wath: 14 feet Light Neh: Ful San Woter Need: Low, Moderate [sinus / Ht

—— CITY OF

(185,64! 3H

i y
5.0’
| : 4/ Lf teu PARKING yf
° ry/4 riz iht CON oe
° rath || i
wy \\ noor nose a4 | 8
gt aad proven ‘ en x 5 wi
laa || | wi
3 & | > , |
a|-3 | : Mme |
oak ay : a s/: Bg] | DRIVE (50’ WIDE) |
F#7.00 a EXISTING 2 STORY TO REMAIN, | at “] 8
| 4 | a4 — “
Se t =a — 2 lenge. feet l| 3 ty b |
KAP -& apventay 7 < {| k o an
Mayer lemon (Citrus « meyer) 1560 8 | i ® | 0 | |
eb Wadia tt ascven UNE | | \ 2 |) at
ven arent =< 55 ra 6 jae an: SS Pn - |
; fy i EXISTING 5' PUE Ma CL ai fone OY oe » (ANG — cay neecr ea afi iie 10!
PAPER Le et. at = ea Halle) fiat yen! © Gistng and propeced driveways and walkways + Fel | |
is \ ie 3 mary 04’ HEDGE AN THES HME YANO, 60.42" PERMEABLE PAVING wonve

\ /MAMEING YOUR ENTITY MOG WELCOMING & ALSO A LANDCARE ORRORTTUNITY. CHANGING THE PATTEM OH
"") avive WAAPRHALS OR GEERT CHW DIME PME PONY AIM CER ETI A LANG AAS

nell White tage (Salvis aplanay htm. //de ninguntminnyryers cony iowa -aplgryey Sctarical Marne Sebvte apear Canrrren Name

DES | Ana Whee age. Sage USDA Zone: Zones 9 ~ 11 Sunset Zone: Zones 79, 11, 19-24 Mature Height: 2 5 feet Moture
With: 2 - § fowt Light Needs: Full Sut, Filter Son, Murtiot Sum Wotey Needs: Low, Mederate

vant
i

Provide an imnaginaty inne betwwan twe bultdings on each lot to clurtly both) Suiebrg meets (ire separation eistance box well

projections, opening, ete gar CHC $02.2/1) or 102.2/2), Show dimmesion of the enaginary ine on elevation ples vhost to whew the eave

nd wal tre distance. Any rated wall Or eave fie dhslance requirerartts ewed Lu provide Wagumd ur callout the fre rating.

PROPOSED LOT “A"(5842 S.F)
FPING
WHOA PING TREES DEFINE occ

~~ N3'06'00"W
CALCOE UNNOSCAPL FLANEVIVG AS PANT DF TE PARR OLUTION USE LANDSCAPE TO REDUCE Soe

VOGLAL IMPACT OF PANNE. /HCUL/OE LOW PONCE, S*RLING FOR SCREW), LD) SADE TREES 10 Baca SITE FURNISHING |

a | SITE PLAN 1/8"=1'

nie SCREEN FENCE

B11 Ie HP AA ome due 2...



--- page 143 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Density
17

--- page 144 ---
REASONS FOR 
APPEAL
PROJECT DENSITY
• Under SB9, a total of up to four (4) units may be 
developed on an existing single-family lot.
• When a lot split is proposed, each lot created may 
include up to two (2) units.
• This project proposes a total of four (4) residential 
units, in compliance with SB9
• 2 units on Lot A (existing single-family home + 1 
detached ADU)
• 2 units on Lot B (attached SB9 Primary Unit and ADU)
*Up to 4 units are allowed by-right under SB9. The 
number of units allowed is not subject to appeal.
Parking Impacts and Site Circulation
Density
18

--- page 145 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision to approve the Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR), 
Two-Unit Development (TUD), Urban Lot Split (ULS), Tentative Parcel 
Map (TMP), and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) at 1825 
Nash Drive 
19