source: packet.pdf
sha256: 584c3fa1401e965e64d8ef130942357da77097e8657462176230cd5362500e57
pages: 538
ocr_pages: 73
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
October 28, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Klafter, Vice Chair
Caiti Busch
Maxwell Schaumkel
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 28, 2025 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 885 0101 2209     Passcode: 780845
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission 2026 Regular Meeting Calendar – Adoption
Adopt the Planning Commission Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2026.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those

--- page 2 ---
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
430 Station Park Circle - Station Park Green Specific Area Plan Amendment (PA-2025-048)
Recommend to the City Council adoption of a resolution to amend the Station Park Green Specific Plan and
Station Park Green Design Guidelines to change the mix of floor area allowed for retail and office uses, and adopt
an addendum to the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration pursuant to California Environmental Quality
Act Sections 15162 and 15164, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
CEQA: A Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) for the Station Park Green Specific Plan was certified by the City
Council on January 28, 2011. An addendum to the MND was provided for the application that was approved in 2014
(PA-2014-055). The findings for approval for this project include environmental findings that rely on the previously
certified MND, which tiered off of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan)
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) (certified in 2010). 
The amendments to the Specific Plan will not result in any new impacts or increase the severity of any impacts
previously identified in the MND because the updated use ranges allowed for the ground floor of Building MU-1 are
within the ranges for office and retail uses that were originally studied and allowed in the Specific Plan adopted in
2011. Therefore, no additional environmental documentation is necessary pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section
15162 and 15164 because there are no substantial changes in the project; no new information of substantial
importance, which was not known and could not have been known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the
time the previous IS/MND was certified; or no substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been
substantial changes with respect to the circumstances under which the project is undertaken. As such, an Addendum
to the MND has been prepared (Attachment 11). The proposed changes are not substantial in scope under CEQA
Sections 15162 and 15164 as determined by the lead agency in accordance with CEQA Section 15064(f)7.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Planning Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is
open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation,

--- page 3 ---
with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the
presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to
planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the
Planning Division at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make
reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10547
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 28, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission 2026 Regular Meeting Calendar – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the Planning Commission Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2026.
BACKGROUND:
Attached is the proposed calendar for Regular Planning Commission meetings, which are held on the second and fourth 
Tuesdays of each month. Due to conflicts with City Council’s September calendar, the Planning Commission meetings will 
be held on September 15, 2026 and September 29, 2026. The schedule outlines that the second November and December 
meetings may be subject to cancellation due to holidays.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Regular Meeting Calendar for 2026
STAFF CONTACT
Holeva Finau, Administrative Assistant
hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 5 ---
2026 Planning Commission
Planning Commission Regular Meetings: 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of the Month at 7pm
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS:
Tuesday, January 13, 2026
Tuesday, January 27, 2026 
Tuesday, February 10, 2026
Tuesday, February 24, 2026
Tuesday, March 10, 2026
Tuesday, March 24, 2026
Tuesday, April 14, 2026
Tuesday, April 28, 2026
Tuesday, May 12, 2026
Tuesday, May 26, 2026
Tuesday, June 9, 2026
Tuesday, June 23, 2026
Tuesday, July 14, 2026
Tuesday, July 28, 2026 
Tuesday, August 11, 2026 
Tuesday, August 25, 2026 
Tuesday, September 15, 2026 
Tuesday, September 29, 2026 
Tuesday, October 13, 2026
Tuesday, October 27, 2026
Tuesday, November 10, 2026 
Tuesday, November 24, 2026 – (May be Subject to Cancellation due to Holidays)
Tuesday, December 15, 2026 
Tuesday, December 22, 2026 – (May be Subject to Cancellation due to Holidays)

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-3111
File ID: 25-10525
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 28, 2025 
SUBJECT:
430 Station Park Circle - Station Park Green Specific Area Plan Amendment (PA-2025-048) 
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council adoption of a resolution to amend the Station Park Green Specific Plan and Station Park 
Green Design Guidelines to change the mix of floor area allowed for retail and office uses, and adopt an addendum to the 
Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act Sections 15162 and 15164, 
based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
In 2011, the City Council approved the Station Park Green Specific Plan and the Station Park Green Design Guidelines, and 
adopted an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (PA-2007-030).  In 2014, the City Council approved a Specific Plan 
amendment and a formal application for a Site Plan & Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Permit (SDP), and 
Parcel Map to modify this mixed-use development (PA-2014-055).  Additionally, a modification to the previously approved 
SPAR application was approved in 2020 in order to remove stairs within a required PG&E easement (PA-2020-061). 
The Station Park Green Specific Plan is a transit-oriented mixed-use development, located in the San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Zoning District near the Hayward Park Caltrain Station. The site is approximately 12-
acres (521,396 square feet)  and includes four buildings with 599 residential units, a 3,000 square-foot community room and 
36,000 square feet of office and retail uses, and a 2.3-acre park. Building MU-1, which is located at the corner of S. Delaware 
Street and Concar Drive, is the only mixed-use building with four upper stories of residential uses and 36,058 square feet of 
ground-level space (excluding parking and mechanical areas) for office and retail uses. 
Since project completion in 2018, the property owner has reported that the retail spaces in the MU-1 building have been  
challenging to lease.  The last operating business (a sandwich shop) located at the corner of S. Delaware Street and Concar 
Drive closed recently, and most retail spaces have never been occupied. The applicant stated that for seven years they have 
worked with brokers to find tenants for the retail spaces, but have not been able to find prospective businesses. Thus, the 
applicant is requesting an amendment to the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines to allow these ground floor retail spaces 
to be occupied with office uses.  The Draft Resolution with the requested amendments to allow for ground floor office uses 
is included in Attachment 1.
Project Description and Modifications
The project proposes amending the existing Specific Plan and Design Guidelines to convert the majority of existing ground 
floor retail spaces into office space within MU-1 Building. The current Specific Plan and Design Guidelines encourage active 
retail uses and have a minimum requirement of 25,000 square feet of retail/services/restaurant use. The reduction of retail 
requires an amendment to the program (see table below with calculations of existing and proposed retail and office space

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
square footage).  The proposed project consists of interior modifications to ground floor uses as detailed in the table below.
Table 1 – Proposed square footage by use
Type
Existing Square 
Footage Range
Proposed Square 
Footage Range
Existing Floor Area 
Ratio
Proposed Floor Area 
Ratio
Office
10,000 – 15,000
10,000 – 35,000
0.1
0.2
Retail
25,000 - 30,000
3,000 - 30,000
0.2
0.1
Amenity (Community Room)
3,034
3,122
No change
No change
Building MU-1 is bounded by S. Delaware Street, Concar Drive, Station Park Circle, and Green Way.  The building is five levels 
and consists of retail and office space on the ground floor with four levels of residential apartment units above. The applicant 
proposes relocating the community room and retail spaces to the southeast side of the building along Concar Drive, with 
office spaces placed along the other three sides of the building to improve connectivity and tenant circulation.  The proposed 
plans are included as Attachment 3 and the plans from the previous amendment in 2014 are included as Attachment 4.   The 
building’s total square footage would remain the same. A location map showing the project site, its vicinity, and adjacent 
zoning designations is included as Attachment 5. 
The applicant also proposes minor exterior site improvements, including new furniture, lighting, and landscaping along the 
project’s street frontages on Concar Drive and S. Delaware Street, and design and landscaping improvements to the plaza 
space at the corner of Concar and Delaware to make it more inviting and accessible for pedestrians. 
To support these requested changes in uses, the applicant has provided a retail viability report prepared by the Econic 
Company (Attachment 2), which outlines the significant challenges in finding retails tenants for these existing spaces, 
including a lack of retail synergy with the immediate area, wider economic factors (such as online shopping) and the lack of 
clearly visible storefront parking. The applicant cites these issues as reasons why potential retail tenants do not open shops 
in Station Park Green, even with rental concessions. The City’s retail consultant, Retail Real Estate Resources (RRER), also 
reviewed this application and provided input and recommendations (Attachment 6).  Generally, RRER agreed that these 
attributes have had a negative impact on rental feasibility, but recommends that the existing restaurant space (Space I on 
the plan set) that has had infrastructure installed be preserved for retail uses along with the adjacent space to create retail 
synergy, as well as improving the visibility of storefront signage.  RRER recommends that the majority of the ground floor 
spaces be allowed to be used as office space, or quasi-retail for a non-profit or similar use, to support its ability to be 
occupied.  To support longer-term economic development strategies and to avoid losing all of this retail space to office uses, 
the City has included a requirement that a minimum of 3,000 square feet of floor area be preserved for retail uses. Condition 
of Approval #3 requires the applicant to commit to investments that make the space more viable for businesses to lease 
these spaces and to rent reductions.
While the mix of uses on the ground floor of MU-1 will change, the existing on-and-off-street parking layout with 932 parking 
spaces will not change. Since office space requires less parking than retail, the proposed project will be providing more 
parking than is required. Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. provided a trip generation report stating that the 
proposed conversion from retail to office uses would generate up to 197 fewer daily trips (Attachment 7). Additionally, as 
the project is within one-half mile of Hayward Park Caltrain Station, additional parking for residential and commercial uses 
is not required pursuant to Assembly Bill (AB) 2097.  The project also does not impact bicycle parking, as sufficient short- 
and long-term bike parking spaces are provided for the office and retail uses.    
Additionally, as part of this application, the applicant has offered to provide a community benefit in the form of a $50,000 
contribution toward neighborhood park improvements at Concar Park and Sunnybrae Park.  Additional information about 
this contribution is included in the Applicant Cover Letter in Attachment 2. These funds will support the City’s efforts to 
enhance public parks and community amenities.
Attachment 8 provides comprehensive tables that list proposed modifications to the Station Park Green Specific Plan and 
Design Guidelines. The previously approved Specific Plan and Design Guidelines are included as Attachment 9. Details on the

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
findings for approval are included in the Draft Resolution (Attachment 1).
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Zoning Map Amendment
The General Plan 2040 Land Use Map designates the project site as Mixed-Use Medium II. The Mixed-Use Medium II land 
use designation was established to provide for medium-density mixed-use buildings that provide a variety of commercial, 
office, and/or residential uses within the same site or building. Since General Plan 2040 land use designation of Mixed-Use 
Medium II allows for offices, the proposed amendment would be consistent with the General Plan. 
The property is in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Zoning District. Furthermore, the site is 
within the Hayward Park Station TOD Overlay Zone. This zone allows for multi-family residential development with 
community-serving ground floor retail uses. The intention of the ground floor retail in this area is to provide shops, 
restaurants, and personal services for commuters and neighborhood. The Hayward Park TOD Overlay Zone also allows for 
some office, but with a preference for ground floor retail and services. The proposed amendment would expand the amount 
of office space permitted in the zone, in particular on the ground floor. 
In the Station Park Green Specific Plan and Design Guidelines, ground floor retailers are encouraged in Building MU-1 to face 
the streets (S. Delaware Street and Concar Drive) as well as the public plaza and greenway. Offices are a permitted land use 
under the Specific Plan, and the Design Guidelines state that offices (along with retail/services/restaurants) shall be the 
primary use in Building MU-1; however, the increase in offices would affect the program requirement of maintaining a 
minimum of 25,000 square feet of retail space. 
The specific plan amendment is consistent with state housing laws, and there is no net loss in residential capacity. The 
proposed specific plan amendment also does not involve a decrease in the allowable building height, maximum allowable 
density, or floor area ratio (FAR); nor would it increase requirements for lot size, setbacks, or other development 
requirements or standards that would lessen the intensity of housing.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal Neighborhood Informational Meeting on March 19, 2025. The applicant’s summary of the 
neighborhood meeting is included as Attachment 10. The meeting was attended by 18 guests. 
Under the provisions of Government Code Section 65352.3, Tribal Consultation Notices were sent on July 23, 2025, with a 
deadline to respond by October 19, 2025. No tribal consultation requests were received. 
NEXT STEPS:
Following a Planning Commission recommendation on the proposed Specific Plan and Design Guidelines Amendments, the 
project will be scheduled for a City Council public hearing for formal action on this Planning Application.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) for the Station Park Green Specific Plan was certified by the City Council on January 
28, 2011. An addendum to the MND was provided for the application that was approved in 2014 (PA-2014-055).  The findings 
for approval for this project include environmental findings that rely on the previously certified MND, which tiered off of the 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) Environmental Impact Report (EIR) (certified in 
2010).  
The amendments to the Specific Plan will not result in any new impacts or increase the severity of any impacts previously 
identified in the MND because the updated use ranges allowed for the ground floor of Building MU-1 are within the ranges 
for office and retail uses that were originally studied and allowed in the Specific Plan adopted in 2011. Therefore, no 
additional environmental documentation is necessary pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 and 15164 because there 
are no substantial changes in the project; no new information of substantial importance, which was not known and could 
not have been known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous IS/MND was certified;  or no 
substantial evidence in the record revealing that there have been substantial changes with respect to the circumstances

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
under which the project is undertaken.  As such, an Addendum to the MND has been prepared (Attachment 11).  The 
proposed changes are not substantial in scope under CEQA Sections 15162 and 15164 as determined by the lead agency in 
accordance with CEQA Section 15064(f)7. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code sections 65090 and 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing
requirements, posted in three public facilities, and noticed to the following parties at least 10 days in advance of Planning 
Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local utilities, 
media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list accordance.
Staff received one public comment at the time of the publication of the agenda report included as Attachment 12. Any 
additional public comments submitted after agenda publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal 
as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings and Conditions 
Att 2 – Applicant Cover Letter, Use of Space Terms and Retail Viability Report
Att 3 – PA-2025-048 – Proposed Project Plans
Att 4 – PA-2014-055 – Approved Plans
Att 5 – Location Map
Att 6 – Retail Review Memo, Retail Real Estate Resources
Att 7 – Trip Generation Report
Att 8 – Table of Changes to the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines 
Att 9 – 2014 Station Park Green Specific Plan and Design Guidelines
Att 10 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 11 – CEQA Addendum
Att 12 – Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Steven Lizzarago, Assistant Planner
slizzarago@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 10 ---
Attachment 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT RESOLUTION 
RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF AN AMENDMENT TO THE 
STATION PARK GREEN SPECIFIC PLAN AND STATION PARK GREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES (PA-2025-048) TO 
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF REQUIRED RETAIL SPACE AND INCREASE THE AMOUNT OF REQUIRED OFFICE SPACE 
AT 430 STATION PARK CIRCLE (APN 035-200-180 AND 035-200-060)
WHEREAS, on January 18, 2011, the City Council approved Planning Application (PA) 2007-030 for a 
Specific Plan, Design Guidelines, and Development Agreement to allow for the construction of 599 residential 
units, 10,000 to 45,000 square feet of office uses, and 25,000 to 60,000 square feet of retail uses within the 
Hayward Park Station Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Area in the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan at 430 Station Park Circle (APN 035-200-180 and 035-200-060); and 
WHEREAS, on February 2, 2015, the City Council approved PA 2014-055 for a Specific Plan amendment, 
amendments to the Design Guidelines, a Site Plan and Architectural Review for a mixed-use development, site 
development approval, a vesting tentative parcel map, and an Addendum to the Original Mitigated Negative 
Declaration; and 
WHEREAS, the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines amendments required a minimum of 25,000 square 
feet for retail/service/restaurant uses and a maximum of 15,000 square feet for office uses; and
WHEREAS, the site is currently developed with four five-story buildings, with Building MU-1 containing 
residential, commercial, and retail uses; and
WHEREAS, in recent years the property owner has been unsuccessful in finding and maintaining retail 
tenants at this location; and
WHEREAS, on May 29, 2025, the applicant submitted PA 2025-048 to change the Specific Plan and 
Design Guidelines to decrease retail space (from 25,034 square feet to 7,298 square feet), increase office space 
(from 7,991 square feet to 25,639 square feet), and increase of amenity space (from 3,031 square feet to 3,122 
square feet); while not modifying the overall structure square footage, height, setbacks, lot size, or parking of 
Building MU-1; and
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other applicable 
codes and policies; and 
WHEREAS, on October 28, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, at which 
time the Commission _____.

--- page 11 ---
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND RESOLVES THAT:
1.
The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council finds on the basis of the whole record 
before it that there is no substantial evidence that the Project will have a significant effect on the 
environment. In accordance with CEQA Section 15162.b, subsequent environmental review is not 
required because the project is consistent with the development density established by the City’s 
General Plan 2040 policies for which an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) was certified on March 18, 
2024. The Addendum to the Mitigated Negative Declaration, originally adopted on February 2, 2015, 
is still accurate because there are no proposed addition or exterior modification to the existing 
structures; there are no project specific effects which are peculiar to the project or its site; there are 
no project specific impacts which the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; 
there are no potentially significant off-site and cumulative impacts which the General Plan EIR failed 
to evaluate; and there is no substantial new information which results in more severe impacts than 
anticipated by the general plan EIR. Furthermore, any future development of the site would be subject 
to a project specific environmental assessment consistent with the CEQA statues and guidelines in 
effect at that time. 
 
2.
The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council approve the project based on findings 
and subject to the conditions of approval attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by 
reference is upheld.  
3.
The Station Park Green Specific Plan and Design Guidelines (PA-2025-048) is recommended for 
approval based on the analysis of the Project as a whole and substantial evidence in the record, and 
based upon the findings and conditions of approval included in Exhibit A, attached hereto and 
incorporated by reference.
4.
The project conforms to the following Land Use Policies and Community Design and Historic Resources 
Policies of the City’s General Plan 2040: 
a.
Policy LU 3.2 Commercial Development. Encourage development that builds on the strengths 
and unique qualities of existing neighborhoods and provides appropriate transition in terms of 
intensity of use, height, bulk, and design. Require commercial development adjacent to 
residential areas to appropriately address circulation, traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling, noise, 
visual impacts, public safety, hazardous materials storage, fire safety, air pollutant emissions, and 
odors in a way that minimizes impacts on neighboring uses. 
b.
Policy LU 3.10 Office Park Evolution. Support the transition of single-use office parks into mixed-
use districts that include residential, retail, office, services, and/or parks and open space. Within 
an office site that is redeveloping as mixed-use, locate offices and commercial space closest to 
high-volume roadways and locate new residential uses and outdoor spaces as far as possible from 
high-volume roadways.

--- page 12 ---
c.
Policy LU 3.9 Workplaces. Develop office buildings and business parks to facilitate transit, 
pedestrian, and bicycle commutes. Provide compact development, mixed uses, and connectivity 
to transit to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT). 
d.
Policy CD 8.2 Human-Scale Design. Cultivate pedestrian activity in commercial and mixed-use 
areas by providing adequate sidewalk widths, activating ground-floor street façades with active 
uses, windows, plantings, and awnings, using high-quality construction materials, and including 
human-scale details and architectural features. 
The project conforms to these policies in that the proposed office spaces is within an existing 
structure, does not increase negative impacts to adjacent residential uses, and is located next to busy 
roadways. The offices are located within a half-mile of the Hayward Park Caltrain station, and the 
development already provides sufficient vehicle and bicycle parking for employees. The proposed 
modifications to the public plazas will enhance pedestrian activity on the site. The project is located 
in the San Mateo TOD zoning district and Mixed-Use Medium II area per the General Plan’s Land Use 
Plan and is consistent with the applicable subdivision and zoning code standards, including minimum 
lot sizes, building height, and floor area ratio, as outlined in the findings above. In addition to the new 
conditions placed upon the application, all other conditions in the prior Planning Application remain 
in effect.

--- page 13 ---


--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2025-048, 430 STATION PARK CIR., SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT
430 STATION PARK CIR, SAN MATEO, 94402-2650 CA
 PARCEL # 035-200-220
APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON __, 2025 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of any BUILDING PERMITS, or prior to 
the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 ACTIVE CORNER – The applicant shall submit a plan to enhance the corner plaza as an 
active space for pedestrians and visitors. The plan shall provide details that shows how the 
site will engage with the adjacent building and surrounding neighborhood, and include 
elevations showing the interaction between the modified walls, windows and doors 
adjacent to the plaza. The plaza design is subject to review and approval by Planning staff 
as part of the building permit. 
2
3
COMMUNITY ROOM – The Applicant shall develop, operate, and maintain a community 
space of at least 3,000 square feet that is available to the City community free of charge by 
reservation and subject to availability. The Community Room shall meet the requirements 
listed in the Condition of Approval from PA-2014-055 (Condition 57.d), include signage that 
meets the standards in the Station Park Green Storefront Guidelines, and maintain a 
reservation/booking system to support community access consistent with City 
requirements. The Community Room design is subject to review and approval by Planning 
staff as part of the building permit.
BUILDING MU-1 GROUND FLOOR USES – The ground floor of the MU-1 Building is 
approved for 40,794 square feet of non-residential space. A minimum of 3,000 square feet 
of this ground floor area shall be limited to retail uses and 3,000 square feet for the 
Community Room. The remaining 34,794 square feet of floor area can be used for retail 
and/or office uses.
4 RETAIL SPACES – In Building MU-1, Suites A, I and J are identified for retail uses, and shall 
be improved and occupied as outlined in this condition and in the “Use of Spaces” 
document contained in Attachment 2:
a. Suites I and J – These spaces can be occupied by retail, restaurant and/or 
commercial uses. To support the viability of these spaces for business occupancy, 
the owner shall contribute to the tenant improvements and provide lease

--- page 15 ---
enhancements, including reduced rent, as outlined in the “Use of Spaces” 
document. 
b. Suite A – This space can be occupied by retail, restaurant, commercial and/or non-
profit office uses. To support the viability of these spaces for business occupancy, 
the owner shall contribute to the tenant improvements and provide lease 
enhancements, including reduced rent, as outlined in the “Use of Spaces” 
document. 
c.
For all three spaces, the applicant shall pre-wire the exterior storefront canopies to 
support exterior commercial signage.  
 
5 COMMUNITY BENEFITS – As stated in the letter to the Planning Commission dated 
September 26, 2025, the owner will voluntarily contribute $50,000 as a community benefit 
toward upgrades and improvements to nearby neighborhood parks (Concar Park and 
Sunnybrae Park). The use and dispersion of the funds shall be administered by the San 
Mateo Parks and Recreation Department. 
Building Division (PA)
6 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. 
6 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
7 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Building Division (PA)

--- page 16 ---
8 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)

--- page 17 ---
11 00 Pa rk Pl ace    Su ite 20 0    Sa n M at eo,  Ca l ifo rnia 9 44 03    t elep hone 65 0 655 78 00    facsi m ile 65 0 6 55 78 10  
www. es sex. c o m  
 
 
Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
CC: Zachary Dahl, Elaine Ling, Simin Zakavand – Community Development Department 
 
 
September 26, 2025 
 
RE: StaƟon Park Green Speciﬁc Plan Amendment ApplicaƟon – Allow some exisƟng retail space to be 
used as oﬃce 
 
Dear Planning Commission Members, 
 
My name is Chris Kober, and I am the Vice President of Redevelopment for Essex.  I am wriƟng to you 
today to both explain our applicaƟon that is coming to your Commission and to ask for your support of 
it. 
 
In 2018 our company completed the construcƟon of StaƟon Park Green, a new community located 
adjacent to the Hayward Park CalTrain staƟon.  There are 599 apartment homes at the community, 
arranged around a nice public park.  The residenƟal community has been home to thousands of San 
Mateo residents over these years and is in high demand as it is consistently occupied at 95% or higher.   
By contrast, the ground ﬂoor retail porƟon of the community has not succeeded. The extensive eﬀorts to 
ﬁnd tenants for the retail spaces at SPG have not been successful in the 7-year life of the community. As 
a result, the majority of the retail spaces are vacant and have never been occupied. Numerous retail 
brokers have been working to ﬁnd businesses to occupy the retail, but despite reaching out to over 1,400 
potenƟal users, the site has proven to not be a suitable one for most users. The vacant retail (along 
Delaware and Concar) has created an empty and “closed” feeling within the greater community and 
along the pedestrian pathways (including those leading to the train staƟon). Professional retail brokers 
with the Econic Company and Newmark Realty have been working on this project for years.  They 
produced a report of the inability to have sustainable retail here at this project. The city staﬀ engaged 
their own retail expert, and they conﬁrmed the diﬃculƟes of having that much retail space at SPG. 
 
As a result, this project applicaƟon seeks to amend the Speciﬁc Plan and the Design Guidelines to allow 
some of the exisƟng long-vacant retail space to be used instead as oﬃce space. That new oﬃce use will 
house a new corporate headquarters oﬃce for our company, Essex Property Trust (the owner of SPG). 
Essex, a Fortune 500 public company, is currently headquartered in San Mateo. Our current space lease 
is coming to an end. Essex wants to conƟnue in San Mateo (and not move to another city) and have our 
oﬃces be relocated to SPG. No new space will be created with this project. The applicaƟon is to merely 
change the allowable use of a porƟon of the already exisƟng building. Once that use is allowed, some 
tenant improvement work will be conducted to ﬁt out our new oﬃce. Our headquarters oﬃce will have 
capacity of up to 75-100 Essex employees, although the actual occupancy on any given day will be less 
than that, as many Essex employees are out in the ﬁeld working. All the necessary parking already exists 
in oﬀ-street parking garages.   The retail expert hired by the city came to the same conclusion that a 
reducƟon in retail space was the right direcƟon.

--- page 18 ---
11 00 Pa rk Pl ace    Su ite 20 0    Sa n M at eo,  Ca l ifo rnia 9 44 03    t elep hone 65 0 655 78 00    facsi m ile 65 0 6 55 78 10  
www. es sex. c o m  
 
 
 
We are keeping some of the exisƟng neighborhood-serving retail spaces that already exist and taking 
steps to help them succeed into the future.   The retained retail will be along the pedestrian corridor 
parallel to Concar Drive. These are the spaces with the most retail potenƟal as they have good walk-by 
traﬃc and street visibility.   Speciﬁcally, the plan will have: 
 
One retail space at the corner of Delaware and Concar.  This retail use will have outside dining 
potenƟal in the exisƟng public plaza.  To help support that retail, the corner plaza will be 
enhanced to really accentuate it as a gateway to the community.  New seaƟng and string lighƟng 
will help promote longer retail hours for the beneﬁt of the train commuters and community at 
large.  The landscape will be updated so the plaza is nicely appointed, yet sƟll visible to the 
community at large.  The retail and building entries that adjoin the plaza will be enhanced to 
emphasize the pedestrian connecƟons between the plaza and the uses inside. 
 
Another retail space along Concar at the signalized intersecƟon of Concar and the Highway 92 
ramps.  This corner retail locaƟon will have great visibility to street traﬃc and also will serve 
those pedestrians on the path to the train staƟon. 
 
Between these two retail spaces we will have the Community Room, which is available for all 
San Mateo residents to host events or group meeƟngs.  This public amenity can be reserved by 
any member of the public (or the city for its own meeƟngs) by wriƟng 
staƟonparkgreen@essex.com.   
 
The posiƟoning of these retail and community areas will create a block of community acƟvity in 
one locaƟon.  This remaining retail will also be supported by the new Essex employees that 
come to work each day and help with the retailers’ breakfast and lunch operaƟons. 
 
Special eﬀort and outreach will be conducted to aƩract local business operators to these spaces 
to provide desirable food and retail uses that best serve the neighborhood. 
 
In an eﬀort to ensure that retail users are aƩracted to the spaces and thrive in their operaƟon, 
economic concessions (in the form of rent reducƟons or speciﬁc tenant improvement funds) will 
be oﬀered to prospecƟve users. 
 
Beneﬁts of the Project 
 
 
Currently vacant ground ﬂoor spaces will be occupied, creaƟng a more vibrant environment. The 
retail spaces have been vacant for 7 years and would likely conƟnue that way into the future 
without a change in use. Having people in these spaces will acƟvate the street scene and make 
the pedestrian pathway experience to the train staƟon more enjoyable. Speciﬁcally, the sidewalk 
areas along Delaware and Concar will receive upgrades with benches, landscaping and lighƟng. 
 
The exisƟng pedestrian pathway from Delaware to the public park inside SPG will be enhanced. 
Landscape upgrades, seaƟng and string lights will provide a pleasant route throughout the day, 
inviƟng more community to use the park. 
 
The newly located Community Room within SPG will be available for San Mateo resident use for 
funcƟons and meeƟngs free of charge. There will be furnished conference and meeƟng spaces as 
well as a kitchen area for group use. The space can be reserved for use by contacƟng 
staƟonparkgreen@essex.com. 
 
The presence of oﬃce employees will help support the neighborhood retail spaces such as food 
and coﬀee shop uses. The hope is that the increased customer base will allow the retailers to be 
open for longer hours and be more successful.

--- page 19 ---
11 00 Pa rk Pl ace    Su ite 20 0    Sa n M at eo, Ca l ifo rnia 9 44 03    t elep hone 65 0 6 55 78 00    facsi m ile 650 6 55 78 10  
www. es sex.c o m  
 
 
In recogniƟon of Essex’s ongoing commitment to San Mateo, as part of this applicaƟon we will 
be making a contribuƟon of $50,000 for potenƟal upgrades to the neighborhood parks (Concar 
and Sunnybrae).  These funds will allow the city to provide those items most desired by the local 
neighborhoods to enhance their parks. 
 
The proximity of our oﬃces to the train staƟon will allow even more of our employees to uƟlize 
public transportaƟon each day for their commute. 
 
We at Essex, have long been a part of the San Mateo community.  We own residenƟal 
communiƟes here that are home to thousands.  We are headquartered here and want to keep 
our roots here.  So, we ask for your support in our eﬀorts to change the whole vibrancy of the 
SPG community and make it a true mixed-use success. 
We would be happy to answer any quesƟons you might have about us or the proposal.  We can 
meet in person via email to address any issues, leading up to our hearing with you.  We thank 
you for your support and look forward to our upcoming meeƟng. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Chris Kober 
Vice President - Redevelopment

--- page 20 ---
Uses of Spaces (Suites A, I and J) at Station Park Green 
October 16, 2025 
 
Retail 
In an effort to help attract neighborhood serving retailers, and to support their ongoing 
success, the Owner will work with prospective retailers to help them to locate at Station 
Park Green.  The intent is to emphasize coffee and light food retailers, whose hours of 
operation (throughout the workday) are supportive of the train station commuters and 
office workers in the area as well as the residents in the surrounding neighborhoods.  It is 
further desired to have experienced retailers, with previous operating experience, good 
credit and liquidity, with the goal that the retail succeeds and stays in business.  The Owner 
will assist potential retail tenants in suites A, I and J with tenant improvement funds and 
discounted rent according to the attached Exhibit A. 
Non-Proﬁt Office Space (Suite A only) 
For suite A, the space could be considered for use as a non-proﬁt organization’s office 
space, instead of retail.   Local non-proﬁts struggle to ﬁnd affordable space within the 
community to operate, and this transit adjacent location could potentially be a good ﬁt for 
that use.  If the City desires to have this suite used in this fashion, the Owner will work with 
the non-proﬁt office user to provide tenant improvement funds and discounted rent 
according to the attached Exhibit A.

--- page 21 ---
Exhibit A – Speciﬁc Incentives to Promote Retail (or Non-proﬁt Use) 
 
Retail (Suites A, I and J) 
• Work with the City and Economic Development Department to solicit the type of 
retailers that will best suit the community and have a reasonable chance of 
success. 
• Offer Tenant Improvement funds on a one-time basis on a standard lease term (10 
years) to assist the start-up of those desired retailers: 
o Depending upon use, up to $80/ square foot for the currently unﬁnished and 
never occupied spaces (suites A and I) 
o Depending upon use, up to $60/ square foot for the previous Starbuck’s 
space which has some improvements already (suite J) 
o Provide 6 months of free rent to help get the retailers established and 
develop their customer base 
• These incentives are conditioned upon retailers complying with the community’s 
standard lease, insurance and credit requirements. 
 
Non- Proﬁt Office Use Alternative (for Suite A only) 
• Work with the City to identify speciﬁc non-proﬁt(s) that would be most desirable for 
space that do not conﬂict with the existing residential community  
• Would dedicate a limited amount of reserved parking (5 spaces in ground ﬂoor 
garage) for office users, with heavy reliance on public transit for workers 
• Offer Tenant Improvement funds on a one-time basis on a standard lease term to 
assist the start-up of the desired non-proﬁt: 
o Depending upon use, up to $30/ square foot  
o Provide 6 months of free rent to help get the non-proﬁt established (with an 
average lease in the $21/ foot range) 
• These incentives are conditioned upon a non-proﬁt complying with the community’s 
standard lease, insurance and credit requirements.

--- page 22 ---
1 
 
Address:
Station Park Green
430 Station Park Circle #100 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
APN:
035-200-220
 
Application:
Speciﬁc Plan and Design Guidelines Amendments
 
Date:
September 26, 2025
 
Project Description 
 
Community 
 
Station Park Green (SPG) is a mixed-use community in San Mateo that contains 599 homes, a 
public park and ground ﬂoor retail and oƯice spaces. The community is adjacent to the Hayward 
Park CalTrain station. SPG was constructed in 2018, and its development was covered by the 
Station Park Green Speciﬁc Plan and the Station Park Green Design Guidelines, which were 
enacted by the City Council in 2011. The Speciﬁc Plan was in keeping with the broader San Mateo 
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (the “Rail Corridor Plan”), which was approved by 
the City Council on June 6, 2005. As part of that approval in 2011, the city certiﬁed in 2010 an Initial 
Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration that tiered oƯ the Rail Corridor Plan EIR. 
 
Failure of Retail 
 
After the construction was complete the residential portion of SPG has successfully operated and 
been home to thousands of San Mateo residents. By contrast, the retail portion of the community 
has not succeeded. The extensive eƯorts to ﬁnd tenants for the retail spaces at SPG have not been 
successful in the 7-year life of the community. As a result, the majority of the retail spaces are 
vacant and have never been occupied. Numerous retail brokers have been working to ﬁnd 
businesses to occupy the retail, but despite reaching out to over 1,400 potential users, the site has 
proven to not be a suitable one for most users. The vacant retail (along Delaware and Concar) has 
created an empty and “closed” feeling within the greater community and along the pedestrian 
pathways (including those leading to the station). Professional retail brokers with the Econic 
Company and Newmark Realty have been working on this project for years.  They produced a report 
of the inability to have sustainable retail here at this project. That report is being submitted as part 
of the application. 
 
Proposed Project to Revitalize Vacant Retail into New OƯice 
 
As a result, this project application seeks to amend the Speciﬁc Plan and the Design Guidelines to 
allow some of the long-vacant retail space to be used as oƯice space. That new oƯice use will 
house a new corporate headquarters oƯice for Essex Property Trust (the owner of SPG). Essex, a 
Fortune 500 public company, is currently headquartered in San Mateo. The current space lease is 
coming to an end. Essex wants to continue in San Mateo and have its oƯices be relocated to SPG. 
No new space will be created with this project. The application is to merely change the allowable 
use of a portion of the already existing building. Once that use is allowed, some tenant

--- page 23 ---
2 
 
improvement work will be conducted to ﬁt out the new oƯice. That headquarters oƯice will have 
capacity of up to 75-100 Essex employees, although the actual occupancy on any given day will be 
less than that, as many Essex employees are out in the ﬁeld working. All the necessary parking 
already exists in oƯ-street parking garages.  
 
Remaining Retail 
 
Some of the existing neighborhood serving retail space will be retained along the pedestrian 
corridor parallel to Concar Drive. These are the spaces with the most retail potential as they have 
good walk by traƯic and street visibility.   Speciﬁcally the plan will have: 
 
One retail space at the corner of Delaware and Concar.  This retail use will have outside 
dining potential in the existing public plaza.  To help support that retail, the corner plaza will 
be enhanced to really accentuate it as a gateway to the community.  New seating and string 
lighting will help promote longer retail hours for the beneﬁt of the train commuters and 
community at large. 
 
Another retail space along Concar at the signalized intersection of Concar and the Highway 
92 ramps.  This corner retail location will have great visibility to street traƯic and also will 
serve those pedestrians on the path to the train station. 
 
Between these two retail spaces we will relocate the Community Room, which is available 
for all San Mateo residents to host events or group meetings. 
 
The positioning of these retail and community areas will create a block of community 
activity in one location.  This remaining retail will also be supported by the new Essex 
employees that come to work each day and help with the retailers’ breakfast and lunch 
operations. 
 
Special eƯort and outreach will be conducted to attract local business operators to these 
spaces to provide desirable food and retail uses that best serve the neighborhood. 
 
Beneﬁts of the Project 
 
 
Currently vacant ground ﬂoor spaces will be occupied, creating a more vibrant 
environment. The retail spaces have been vacant for 7 years and would likely continue that 
way into the future without a change in use. Having people in these spaces will activate the 
street scene and make the pedestrian pathway experience to the train station more 
enjoyable. Speciﬁcally, the sidewalk areas along Delaware and Concar will receive 
upgrades with benches, landscaping and lighting. 
 
The existing pedestrian pathway from Delaware to the public park inside SPG will be 
enhanced. Landscape upgrades, seating and string lights will provide a pleasant route 
throughout the day, inviting more community to use the park. 
 
The newly located Community Room within SPG will be available for San Mateo resident 
use for functions and meetings free of charge. There will be furnished conference and 
meeting spaces as well as a kitchen area for group use. The space can be reserved for use 
by contacting the community. 
 
The presence of oƯice employees will help support the neighborhood retail spaces such as 
food and coƯee shop uses. The hope is that the increased customer base will allow the 
retailers to be open for longer hours and be more successful.

--- page 24 ---
3 

As part of Essex’s ongoing commitment to San Mateo, as part of this application we will be
working with the City and the Mayor’s oƯice on a contribution for potential upgrades to the
neighborhood parks (Concar and Sunnybrae).
Speciﬁc Plan Amendment Process and Speciﬁcs 
A Speciﬁc Plan Amendment and Design Guidelines Amendment application is being ﬁled with the 
City of San Mateo, and those amendments must be approved by the Planning Commission and the 
City Council through public hearings. A requirement of submitting the application for an 
amendment is to hold a Neighborhood Meeting with the neighboring residents of SPG. We held that 
Public Meeting via Zoom on March 19th, 2025. The recording of that meeting, including questions 
raised and participants, is part of the application. We expect to process the amendments during 
2025. 
What Will Change in the Speciﬁc Plan and Design Guidelines 
The amendment will modify some speciﬁc language in the Speciﬁc Plan and the Design Guidelines 
as to the minimum and maximum amounts of space that may be used for retail and for oƯice. 
EXISTING SQUARE FOOTAGE 
TYPE
AREA
OFFICE
7,991 SF
RETAIL
25,033 SF
AMENITY (COMMUNITY ROOM)
3,034 SF
36,058 SF
PROPOSED SQUARE FOOTAGE 
TYPE
AREA
OFFICE
25,639 SF
RETAIL
7,297 SF
AMENITY (COMMUNITY ROOM)
3,122 SF
36,058 SF
What Will Not Change with the Amendments 

No new space is being allowed or is being constructed with the project. This is allowing a
viable use into existing space so it does not sit vacant.

The Residential Homes will not change in any way.

The central Public Park will remain as it is:  available for use and enjoyment by any member
of the public.

The existing Community Room in the building will be relocated but will remain and be
available for use and enjoyment by any City of San Mateo resident via reservation.

--- page 25 ---
4 
 
Parking Impact of Change of Use 
 
The parking for the oƯice use already exists within the project inside of parking garages. It was 
originally built for retail customers, and now will be used by oƯice employees instead. The spaces 
that exist far exceed the required number of parking spaces within the City’s parking regulations. 
The tables below show the existing parking situation as well as the scenario after the conversion of 
the space. To validate the parking situation, the professional transportation ﬁrm of Hexagon will 
conduct a parking analysis as part of the application. 
 
EXISTING PARKING REQUIRED - RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE) 
GRAND TOTAL
779
MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3
(TOTAL REQUIRED (E) RESIDENTIAL PARKING FOR (E) RESIDENTIAL UNITS)  
 
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE) 
LEVEL
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN ACC.
TOTAL
ACCESS 
REQ’D 
576
180
27
19
802
37.8
(MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3 (ALL LEVELS)
 
EXISTING PARKING REQUIRED – NON-RESIDENTIAL 
TYPE
AREA
PARKING RATIO
PARKING REQ’D
AMENITY
3,034 SF
0.32/1000
0.8
OFFICE
7,991 SF
0.85/1000
2.6
RETAIL
25,033 SF
2.06/1000
51.6
36,058SF
55
 
PROPOSED PARKING REQUIRED – NON-RESIDENTIAL 
TYPE
AREA
PARKING RATIO
PARKING REQ’D
AMENITY
3,122 SF
0.32/1000
1.00
OFFICE
25,639 SF
0.85/1000
8.20
RETAIL
7,297 SF
2.06/1000
15.03
36,058SF
24.23
 
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - NON-RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE) 
LEVEL
USE
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN 
ACC. 
TOTAL
ACCES 
REQ’D 
STREET
CAR-SHARE
5
0
0
0
5
STREET
LOADING
12
0
0
0
12
STREET
UNASSD.
47
0
0
0
47
LEVEL 1
NON-RES
29
5
5
1
46
LEVEL 2
OFFICE
15
0
0
0
20
TOTAL
108
16
5
1
130
5

--- page 26 ---
5 
 
 
Total Parking Required: 804 
 
Total Parking Provided: 932 
 
Parking Summary: Provided parking space complies with the Station Park Green Speciﬁc Plan 
requirement, exceeding it by 128 stalls. 
 
TraƯic Impact of Change of Use 
 
As part of the original design and construction of SPG, the third-party traƯic consultant, Hexagon 
produced a traƯic study which encompassed all the residential, retail and oƯice uses. For this 
application, once the City’s Transportation Engineer conﬁrms the work scope, Hexagon will be 
producing an updated traƯic study showing retail space conversion to oƯice. The major points 
related to traƯic are: 
 
There were more traƯic trips anticipated with retail use than the proposed oƯice use. 
 
The location of SPG adjacent to the Highway 92 ramps allows for easy commuter ingress 
and egress without disruption to neighborhood streets. 
 
Essex employees already utilize CalTrain for commuting purposes, and this new proximity 
will enhance that usage, reducing car trips.

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo 
Via Email 
Re: 
Ground Floor Commercial Space 
Station Park Green 
430 Station Park Circle 
San Mateo, CA 
To whom it may concern, 
 
We are the leasing team assigned with procuring tenants for the ground floor commercial spaces located 
within the Station Park Green project.  The Econic Company is a specialized retail real estate firm 
focusing on bringing our expertise to both landlords and tenants against an ever-changing retail and 
economic landscape. We have decades of market specific experience representing landlords in San 
Mateo County, and have been very active with similar mixed-use projects.  We have represented many of 
the major multifamily companies including Essex Property Trust, Fairfield Residential, Prometheus, 
Avalon Bay, Equity Residential, Brookfield and a variety of local and regional groups.  Many of these 
projects have been leased to 100% occupancy and have successful retail components. 
 
My team and I have been working on leasing these spaces since 2017, the first six years under 
Newmark, and the past two years under The Econic Company.  Through both brokerage firms, our 
leasing team has struggled greatly to attract any interested tenants for the ground floor spaces.     
 
The biggest hurdle to achieving successful retail at this property is the lack of retail synergy in the 
immediate area.  Most retailers look for clusters of co-tenancy to provide proven sales records and 
existing customer traffic.  As the retail world has become increasingly more difficult over the last ten years 
due to the rise of online sales, retail tenants are more cautious than ever and have been reluctant to enter 
unproven trade areas.  The presence of nearly 600 residential units on site certainly does provide some 
level of customer base, but it is almost insignificant in the eyes of retailers who are looking at the total 
demographics within a 3 to 5 mile radius of the project.  We have had several tenants who’ve had active 
requirements in San Mateo in the past, and ultimately decided to locate either downtown San Mateo or 
along El Camino Real in the area surrounding Hillsdale Shopping Center.  One such tenant was 
Clayroom, a pottery studio company based in San Francisco that had 3 locations in 2022 and was looking 
to expand into San Mateo.  Essex was willing to drop their rent to 50% of previous targets for this tenant, 
but ultimately there were no economic concessions that could overcome the tenant’s concerns over the 
attributes of the project.  They signed a lease at Bay Meadows, surrounded by hundreds of thousands of 
square feet of existing retail and restaurants, ensuring strong customer traffic. 
 
In addition to major constraints surrounding the location of the project in relation to existing clusters of 
retail and consumer traffic, there are physical challenges that have hampered leasing efforts to date.  
There are no convenient street front parking spaces available directly in front of the majority of the retail 
units.  In addition there are not open surface parking lots in front of any of the retail, which is another key 
to success with many retailers.  In a denser market like San Francisco this is less of an issue, but in a 
suburban neighborhood it is a major impediment to retail leasing.  Visibility and street presence are also 
key to retail success.  This site suffers from many issues along these lines.  Some spaces have next to no 
visibility, and signage is very limited as well.

--- page 28 ---
We have paid a premium to upgrade our online listing presence for Station Park Green on LoopNet, 
CoStar, Crexi and the other major commercial real estate listing platforms.  In addition to the broad 
marketing efforts which include regular outreach to commercial real estate brokers throughout the bay 
area, we have reached out individually to over 1,400 local and regional tenants specifically for Station 
Park Green.  The list of retail users we have approached is attached to this letter.  The tenant community 
has voiced their concerns over the viability of a wide range of tenant categories at this project.  We have 
offered very aggressive economic terms and still have been unable to attract interested retail and service 
businesses.  Starbucks signed a ten year lease for this site and ended up closing their café permanently 
after trying to find success here.  They opened in 2019 and closed permanently in 2021.  I Love 
Kickboxing opened in 2019 and closed their doors permanently in 2023.   
 
We feel strongly that there are inherent problems with the retail layout that cannot be remedied as we 
outlined above.  These issues have led to the vacancy ever since the project opened in 2018.  As such, 
the long vacant retail would likely remain empty into the future.  The best solution to the ongoing vacancy 
issues at this project would be to retain the two retail/restaurant units at the hard corner of Delaware & 
Concar, as these could find users, but to convert the other shell spaces into another use such as office.  
This would activate the entire ground floor of the project and bring much needed foot traffic to support the 
existing deli and a future coffee or restaurant tenant in the former Starbucks space.  This would achieve a 
much more stable balance between office and retail at the project and would allow ownership to focus on 
supporting the reduced retail which would have the hard corner visibility to hopefully thrive in the future.   
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
 
Matt Sweeney  
 
 
 
Sean O’Carroll  
Executive Director 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
Lic #01746896  
 
 
 
Lic #01058587 
msweeney@theeconiccompany.com  
socarroll@theeconiccompany.com 
D 408.863.1444 
 
 
 
D 408.863.1447

--- page 29 ---
Station Park Green| 430 Station Park Cir. #100 San Mateo, CA
Category
Tenant / Group
Closest Location
Prospects
QSR ‐ TBD 
Cafe Group
San Francisco
TBD 
TBD 
TBD 
Service ‐ Optometry
Optometry Group
TBD 
Service ‐ Barber
Alex's Deluxe Barbers
236 East 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Barber
Peoples Barber & Shop
318 2nd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Barber
Genteel Society
1207 Capuchino Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Barber
Handcrafted the barbershop
1336 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Service ‐ Barber
Royal Cutz Barbershop
2115 BroadwayStudio 15,Redwood City,CA 
94063
Service ‐ Barber
California Blendz Barbershop
Sola Studios2115 Broadway St , Ste 
29,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Barber
Community Barbers
2066 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Barber
Captain's Barbers on Broadway
2066 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Barber
Redwood Barber
841 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Barber
Philgood Cuts
1027 Airport Blvd,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Service ‐ Barber
Illusions Barber Shop
1047 Terra Nova Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Barber
Bay Area Hair Institute
1133 El Camino RealSte 1,South San 
Francisco,CA 94080
Service ‐ Barber
Sharp Images Hair Care
830 Newbridge St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Barber
President Barbershop
490 University Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Barber
18/8 Fine Men's Salons ‐ Palo Alto
855 El Camino RealBldg 1, Ste 3,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
Service ‐ Barber
The Cutlery Barber Shop
417 Gellert BlvdSte 417,Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Barber
Stanford Hair
520 Lagunita DrSte 3,Stanford,CA 94305
Service ‐ Barber
Supreme Clientele Barber Lounge
7800 El Camino RealSte C,Colma,CA 94014
Service ‐ Barber
California Barber Shop
441 Cambridge Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Barber
Urban Style Barber Shop
719 Colorado Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Barber
Barber Van Gogh
Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Barber
Salon Inclusion
2732 San Bruno Ave,San Francisco,CA 94134
Service ‐ Barber
Hashtag HairGame
1 Southland DrSte 104,Hayward,CA 94545
Service ‐ Barber
The Academy Barber College
998 Geneva Ave,San Francisco,CA 94112
Service ‐ Barber
The Barberhood
5242 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94123
Service ‐ Barber
Trendz Eastbay
15251 Hesperian Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Barber
Handsome Hooligans Barber Lounge & 
Shave Spa
2256 Washington Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Barber
3 Mil Wil Hair Salon & Barber Shop
4077 19th Ave,San Francisco,CA 94132
Service ‐ Barber
Phat Fades Barbershop
15976 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Barber
Richie's Barber Shop
1377 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Barber
KJ's Barbershop Presents: Divine Hair 
Designz
632 E14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Barber
Cutting it Close
22126 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Barber
KJ's Barber & Hair Creationz
22126 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Barber
MC Deluxe
484 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Barber
Dogpatch Barber and Shave South
2632 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Barber
MGX Barbers
934 A St,Hayward,CA 94541

--- page 30 ---
Service ‐ Barber
Moler Barber College
22425 Main St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Barber
Smoov Cutz
22425 Main St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Barber
King Of Kutz Barbershop
27659 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94544
Service ‐ Barber
Gents Barber Club
3041 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Barber
Blendsville Barbershop
2341 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Barber
Dogpatch Barber and Shave North
2341 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Barber
the DAPPERY Barber Shop
16360 Foothill Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Barber
It'll Do
2516 Santa Clara AveUnit A,Alameda,CA 
94501
Service ‐ Barber
Refine Men's Salon of Mountain View
565 San Antonio RdSte 24,Mountain View,CA 
94040
Service ‐ Barber
KJ's Barber & Hair Creationz
36616 Newark BlvdSte A,Newark,CA 94560
Service ‐ Barber
Frank Logan Barbershop
928 A Central Ave,Alameda,CA 94501
Service ‐ Barber
The Refinery Grooming Club
2589 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Barber
20th Salon and Barber
2737 20th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Barber
Moe's Barber and Beauty
4008 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
Steel & Strand
1038 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Barber
Three Weeks Barbershop
1913 BroadwaySte A,Alameda,CA 94501
Service ‐ Barber
Caken' Cuts Barbershop
615 Portola Dr,San Francisco,CA 94127
Service ‐ Barber
Hamilton's Barber & Beauty Supplies
6104 International Blvd,Oakland,CA 94621
Service ‐ Barber
Great Image Salon
2009 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Barber
Daddy's Barbershop
4102 19th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
Style Vs Substance
561 Castro St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
The Barber Lounge at Bryan Roberts
561 Castro St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
The District Barbers ‐ Design District
897 Brannan St,San Francisco,CA 94103
Service ‐ Barber
Shaibaan's Hot Lather Barber Services
380 Sanchez St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
Rj styles
428 11th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
Service ‐ Barber
Bus Stop Barbershop
428 11th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
Service ‐ Barber
Mark‐Jason Solofa Men's Grooming
3372 Village Dr,Castro Valley,CA 94546
Service ‐ Barber
Louies Barbershop
422 Castro St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
Barber Bark Pet Grooming Salon
3558 Somerset Ave,Castro Valley,CA 94546
Service ‐ Barber
Peoples Barber & Shop
321 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94103
Service ‐ Barber
East Bay & South Counties Barber & 
Cosmetology Apprenticeship
2061 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Barber
The Academy Barber Salon
2166 Market St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
Beli Sf
190 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94114
Service ‐ Barber
People's Barber & Shop
133 Townsend St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Barber
Nils Griffin Barbering
60 Rausch StSte 205,San Francisco,CA 94111
Service ‐ Barber
Board Shredder Barbershop & Salon
8040 Archibald Ave,San Francisco,CA 91730
Service ‐ Barber
Estetica La Bonita Unisex
1940 Fruitvale AveFl 2,Oakland,CA 94601
Service ‐ Barber
Prince's Barber Shop
37477 Fremont BlvdSte C,Fremont,CA 94536
Service ‐ Barber
The District Barbers ‐ Soma District
333 3rd StSte 201,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Barber
Church Barber & Apothecary
524 Octavia St,San Francisco,CA 94102
Service ‐ Barber
Shorty Maniace At J P Kempt
351 Divisadero St,San Francisco,CA 94117
Service ‐ Barber
Eblendz Da Barber
2126 Newpark MallSte 123Phenix Salon 
Suites,Newark ,CA 94560
Service ‐ Barber
Debonair Barber & Shave Parlor
1342 Haight St,San Francisco,CA 94117
Service ‐ Barber
United Grooming
180 3rd St,Oakland,CA 94607
Service ‐ Barber
Manny's Barbershop
1051 W El Camino Real,Mountain View,CA 
94040
Service ‐ Barber
Three Kings Lifestyle Boutique & 
Barber Shop
1093 Newpark Mall,Newark,CA 94560

--- page 31 ---
Service ‐ Barber
Kingsmen Grooming Parlor
461 2nd St,Oakland,CA 94607
Service ‐ Barber
Fco Barbershop
30 Mason StSte C101,San Francisco,CA 94102
Service ‐ Barber
The Em's Barber Shop
342 Jones St,San Francisco,CA 94102
Service ‐ Barber
Little Sparrow Salon & Barber
1714 Hayes St,San Francisco,CA 94117
Service ‐ Barber
Dapper Down Barber Lounge
207 Powell StFl 4,San Francisco,CA 94102
Service ‐ Barber
Fruitvale Barbers
2672 Fruitvale Ave,Oakland,CA 94601
Service ‐ Barber
MACHETE
441 O&apos;Farrell St,San Francisco,CA 
94102
Service ‐ Barber
Bespoke Hair
660 Market StSte 213,San Francisco,CA 94104
Service ‐ Barber
London Pope Barber & Spa
305 Grant AveSte 6,San Francisco,CA 94108
Service ‐ Barber
Francesco Black
555 Sutter StFl 4, Ste 402,San Francisco,CA 
94102
Service ‐ Barber
Details Barbershop and Grooming 
Lounge
555 Sutter St
Service ‐ Barber
The Red Fox Salon & Barber
808 Post St,San Francisco,CA 94109
Service ‐ Barber
Barber Walter's Mobile Service
San Francisco,CA 94109
Service ‐ Barber
Locals Barbershop
1118 Polk St,San Francisco,CA 94109
Service ‐ Barber
Art's Hair Salon
1414 Sutter St,San Francisco,CA 94109
Service ‐ Barber
Christina's Barber Studio
520 Montgomery StSte 106V Studio 
Salons,San Francisco,CA 94111
Service ‐ Barber
Benny Adem Grooming Parlor
408 14th St,Oakland,CA 94612
Service ‐ Barber
Brogan and Son
425C Battery St,San Francisco,CA 94111
Service ‐ Barber
Quality Men's Haircuts
80 W El Camino Real,Mountain View,CA 
94040
Service ‐ Barber
East Lake Barber Shop
2345 Park Blvd,Oakland,CA 94606
Service ‐ Barber
Dax Lee's Barber & Apothecary
1707 Webster St,Oakland,CA 94612
Service ‐ Barber
Megah Brown's
1733 Jefferson St,Oakland,CA 94612
Service ‐ Barber
Patrick Barber ‐ Compass
San Francisco,CA 94109
Service ‐ Barber
James at Button Down
3415 Sacramento St,San Francisco,CA 94118
Service ‐ Barber
Kinship Salon & Barber
253 Clement St,San Francisco,CA 94118
Service ‐ Barber
People's Barber & Shop
2337 BroadwaySte 101,Oakland,CA 94612
Service ‐ Barber
DapprDan's BarberLoft
2355 BroadwaySte 305,Oakland,CA 94612
Service ‐ Barber
The Barberhood
3248 Scott St,San Francisco,CA 94123
Service ‐ Barber
North37
43473 Boscell RdSte 2Salons by 
JC,Fremont,CA 94538
Service ‐ Barber
Ajeet Mundan & Barber Shop
40792 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94538
Service ‐ Barber
Moler Barber College
3815 Telegraph Ave,Oakland,CA 94609
Service ‐ Barber
HOMME
4125 Piedmont AveSte 9,Piedmont,CA 94611
Service ‐ Barber
Kids Mundan Specialist
3843 Carol Ave,Fremont,CA 94538
Service ‐ Barber
HIM Barbershop
4612 Martin Luther King Jr Way,Oakland,CA 
94609
Service ‐ Barber
K‐Studio Haircuts for Men
200 W McKinley AveSte 110,Sunnyvale,CA 
94086
Service ‐ Barber
Temescal Alley Barber Shop
470 49th StSte B,Oakland,CA 94609
Service ‐ Barber
Legacy studio
680 N Fair Oaks Ave,Sunnyvale,CA 94085
Service ‐ Barber
Extravagant Grooming Lounge
5243 College Ave,Piedmont,CA 94618
Service ‐ Barber
Yessica Lozano
560 S Murphy AveSte 69,Sunnyvale,CA 94085
Service ‐ Barber
Right Angle Hair Design
5257 College Ave,Oakland,CA 94618
Service ‐ Barber
Bruce's Barbershop
6001 Shellmound StSte 140,Emeryville,CA 
94608

--- page 32 ---
Service ‐ Salon
V&D Nails Salon
420 S Ellsworth Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Renovate Kids Cuts and More
315 E 4th Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
L Salon & Color Group
223 S San Mateo Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Peoples Barber & Shop
318 2nd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Parlour 151
151 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Maison Deux
25 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Water Nails
2950 S Norfolk St,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Biotherapy Esthetics
300 N San Mateo Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Service ‐ Salon
Annie's Nail Studio
Sola Salon Studio4060 S El Camino Real, Ste 
100,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Sweet Sassy Fingers Hair Care Salon
4060 S El Camino RealSte A‐18Sola Salons 
Studio&apos;s,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Paint With Rae Hair Studio
4060 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Top Image Salon
4060 S El Camino RealSte ASola Salon 
Studios,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Sur La Rue
11 41st Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Valentino's Salon
1305 Bayswater Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Avenue Styles by France
1307 Bayswater Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Rachel & Co.
1307 Bayswater,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Nicole at Epic Artistry
936 Howard AveEpic Artistry,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Service ‐ Salon
PRIMP Hair & Makeup Design
936 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Tamika Nails & Spa
1129 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Maison
1100 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
BRIA
1100 Howard AveSte C,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty by Jessie Hoang
1200 Howard AveSte 103,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Stilo
1200 Howard AveSte 105,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Service ‐ Salon
Caroline Tolentino
1200 Howard AveSte 103,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Service ‐ Salon
Just Kids Cuts & Beauty Market
1200 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Bark Station Pet Salon
217 West Ln,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
XL Salon
222 Lorton Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Reconnect Hair Design
256 Lorton Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Mia Bella Boutique Salon
1375 Burlingame AveSte 288‐
B,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Nicole Lilles Salon & Color Lounge
1419 Burlingame AveSte T,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Service ‐ Salon
Avenue Pet Salon
1427 Burlingame Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
H E R Beauty Lounge
118 De Anza Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94402
Service ‐ Salon
Didi Salon
1221 Donnelly Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Brittany Masters
319 Primrose RdSte A,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Les Amis Salon et Spa
113 De Anza BlvdCrystal Springs Village,San 
Mateo,CA 94402
Service ‐ Salon
First Impression of Belmont
870 Ralston Ave,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
First Impression of Belmont
870 Ralston Ave,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Revel
401 Primrose RdSte G,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Realta
1022 6th Ave,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Essence
2040 Ralston AveSte B,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Laura Evanchik Hair Design
1201 6th Ave,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Grove Studio
1008 Oak Grove,Burlingame,CA 94010

--- page 33 ---
Service ‐ Salon
Slate Salon
1075 Alameda De Las Pulgas,Belmont,CA 
94002
Service ‐ Salon
Salon 1322
1322 El Camino Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Kavai Salon
1497 Beach Park BlvdBeach Park Plaza,Foster 
City,CA 94404
Service ‐ Salon
Marvelous Nails & Spa
1485 El Camino Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Stone Foxx
1501 El Camino RealSte B,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Maia Beauty
Palo Alto ,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Sasha Salon
58 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Euro Nail Spa
1155 California DrSte F,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Aria Beauty Bar
1365 Broadway,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Pawsitively Groomed Pet Salon
1427 Broadway,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Dylan Salon
1199 Chula Vista Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Cosmo Nails and Beauty Spa
1359 Broadway Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Vickie Rocks My Locks
1200 Capuchino Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Hype Salon
1202 Capuchino Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Quick Grooming Pet Salon
Hillsborough,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Paloma
538 El Camino RealSte A,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Alpha Grooming Pet Salon
1325 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Panache2 Hairdressing
1506 Adeline Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Laurel Street Salon
868 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Allen Tai ‐ Hair Specialist
1506 Adeline Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Swoon A Boutique Salon
1224 Arroyo Ave,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Ziba Salon
1111 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty Queen Salon & Beauty Supply
1197A Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Studio V
1313 Laurel StSte 106B,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Hyatt's Hair Studio
1349 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Eleen's Salon
1357 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
Silouette Salon
1852 Magnolia Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Silhouette Salon
1852 Magnolia Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Service ‐ Salon
Just Vanity Salon
1648 S El Camino RealSte C,San Carlos,CA 
94070
Service ‐ Salon
Angela Dog Grooming Salon
Burlingame,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Hair Friends Salon
1750 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Service ‐ Salon
EM Beauty Nail Spa
11 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Service ‐ Salon
Chiquis Hair Design
337 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Service ‐ Salon
Sunny Daze Tanning Salon & Boutique
9 Civic Center Ln,Millbrae,CA 94030
Service ‐ Salon
Natalie's Salon
2606 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
J Vincent Hair Loft
2637 Broadway St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Aura lash & wax
810 Middlefield Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Aura Nail & Bar
810 Middlefield Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Suite AJ
2115 BroadwaySte 32,Redwood City,CA 
94063
Service ‐ Salon
Moreno Hair Design
2115 Broadway St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Amor Salon
2115 Broadway StSte 24,Redwood City,CA 
94063
Service ‐ Salon
Dazzling
1367 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Service ‐ Salon
Art + Gold Salon
1076 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Radiantly Curly Studio
2115 Broadway StSte 17Sola Salon 
Studios,Redwood City,CA 94063

--- page 34 ---
Service ‐ Salon
Rouge, The Salon on Main
980 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Bellezza Day Spa
1590 El Camino RealSte F,San Bruno,CA 
94066
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty & Elegance Academy‐Redwood 
City
1402 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Makeover Galore
San Mateo,CA 94403
Service ‐ Salon
Languren Susana
1752 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Terrificuts
289 El Camino RealSte B,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Spa Day
320 El Camino Real,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Radiant Nails Spa
437 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Dreams Hair & Beauty Salon
508 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Mahrz Salon
615 Woodside Rd,Redwood City,CA 94061
Service ‐ Salon
Woodside Nail Spa
703 Woodside Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Service ‐ Salon
Salon 725
574 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Mane Destiny Hair Studio
2115 BroadwaySte 31,Redwood City,CA 
94066
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Maher
753 Kains Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Service ‐ Salon
Glammface
1391 Woodside RdSte 203,Redwood City,CA 
94061
Service ‐ Salon
Jessica Miani
1391 Woodside RdSte 203,Redwood City,CA 
94062
Service ‐ Salon
Image Perfection
1310 El Camino RealSte G,San Bruno,CA 
94066
Service ‐ Salon
Cuts & Colours by Lennie
140 Brentwood Dr,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Service ‐ Salon
Zink Salon
1800 El Camino RealSte A,Menlo Park,CA 
94025
Service ‐ Salon
Razors N Scissors Salon
215 Maple Ave,South San Francisco,CA 94080
Service ‐ Salon
Olive Hill Salon
3040 Woodside Rd,Woodside,CA 94062
Service ‐ Salon
Hair by Lily Valencia
3040 Woodside Rd,Woodside,CA 94028
Service ‐ Salon
J Moore Salon
576 Kelly Ave,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Service ‐ Salon
Gina Arnest
1009 Terra Nova Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Bamboo Hair + Body
799 Main StSte B,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Service ‐ Salon
CTG Salon
1183 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Nimpa Nunn Hair Design
1148 Crane St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Natalie Nguyen Hair Design
812 Santa Cruz Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Zink Salon
812 Santa Cruz Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Dj's Hair Design By Mary Truong
814 Santa Cruz AveDJ&apos;s Hair 
Design,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
The Industry Hair Artists
1140 University Dr,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Jeanne Gitzen
1030 Curtis StJasko Schroeder,Menlo Park,CA 
94025
Service ‐ Salon
Vanessa Garcia Hair Design
4530 Balfour RdUnit HFourth &amp; Rose 
Hair Studio,Brentwood,,CA 94513
Service ‐ Salon
Jasko Schroeder Salon
1030 Curtis St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Anna Draganova Hair
1030 Curtis StrJASKO SCHROEDER 
SALON,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Hair By Galen ‐ Jasko Schroeder Salon
1030 Curtis St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Ujuva Spa & Salon
455 Ave Alhambra,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019

--- page 35 ---
Service ‐ Salon
Lyna's Beauty Salon
515 El Camino RealSte 160,Menlo Park,CA 
94025
Service ‐ Salon
Wiyanna Rose Hair & Makeup
441 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Shayla Rae Hair
441 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
Skin Body Zen
277 San Francisco AveUnit A,Brisbane,CA 
94005
Service ‐ Salon
LaBelle Day Spas & Salons
36 Stanford Shopping Ctr,Stanford,CA 94304
Service ‐ Salon
Sterling Artchitech Salon
156 Reina Del Mar Ave,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Drybar ‐ Palo Alto
180 El Camino RealSte 385a,Palo Alto,CA 
94304
Service ‐ Salon
Habibi's salon
110 Gilbert Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Service ‐ Salon
LuAnn White Everything Hair
412 Florence StVoila Hair Design,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
Service ‐ Salon
Stardust Salon
412 Florence St,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Salon
Rita Keleta Hair Design ‐ Albert Anhar 
Salon
412 Florence St,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Salon
Like! Hair Salon
444 Kipling St,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Salon
Vizavoo Salon
174 University Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Salon
Paul Strom Salon
450 Dondee WaySte 8,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Obsessions
1345 Linda Mar Ctr,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
18/8 Fine Men's Salons ‐ Palo Alto
855 El Camino RealBldg 1, Ste 3,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
Service ‐ Salon
Labelle Day Spas & Salons
855 El Camino RealSte 95,Palo Alto,CA 94301
Service ‐ Salon
Shear Breeze Salon
2316 Palmetto Ave,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Pacific Coast Hair Salon
1713 Palmetto Ave,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Junio Hair Salon
421 Gellert Blvd,Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Salon
Stanford Hair
520 Lagunita DrSte 3,Stanford,CA 94305
Service ‐ Salon
Briana Ledesma Hair
1670 Francisco Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Service ‐ Salon
Hairdo or Dye
126 Serramonte CtrSuite 766 Studio 14,Daly 
City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Salon
Body, Soul and Spirit Salon
222 Leland Ave,San Francisco,CA 94134
Service ‐ Salon
Ivy's Nails
3130 Alpine RdSte 320,Portola Valley,CA 
94028
Service ‐ Salon
Glossi Nail Bar
13 Colma Blvd,Colma,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Glossy Nail Salon & Spa
2180 W Bayshore RdSte 110,Palo Alto,CA 
94303
Service ‐ Salon
Tiptop Nails & Hairs
2254 Marina Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Classy Salon Spa
458 Cambridge Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
Opus Arcade
460 Cambridge Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
Julian Chase Salon
2343 Birch St,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
Simply Nails by Lisa
2617 Oliver Dr,Hayward,CA 94545
Service ‐ Salon
The HairGeek Salon
6283 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94124
Service ‐ Salon
Leo's Hair Studio
101 California AveSte D100C,Palo Alto,CA 
94306
Service ‐ Salon
SK3 Beauty Spa
101 California AveSte D100A,Palo Alto,CA 
94306
Service ‐ Salon
Kash Lace Wigs
Palo Alto,CA 94303
Service ‐ Salon
Jonathan David Salon
2426 Park Blvd,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
June Wilson Designer & Colorist
2426 Park Blvd,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
Hair By April Ann at Mitos For Hair
30803 Union City Blvd,Union city,CA 94587
Service ‐ Salon
MC Styles
24241 Hesperian Blvd,Hayward,CA 94545

--- page 36 ---
Service ‐ Salon
Cosmo Glam
30803 Union City Blvd,Union City,CA 94587
Service ‐ Salon
Mitos For Hair
30803 Union City Blvd,Union City,CA 94587
Service ‐ Salon
Kixx Hair Excellence
31088 Union City Blvd,Union city ,CA 94587
Service ‐ Salon
1 Salon
34 San Pedro Rd,Daly City,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Crown Glory Extensions
2950 Merced StSte 218,San Leandro,CA 
94578
Service ‐ Salon
Monica Foster Salon
2699 Middlefield Rd,Palo Alto,CA 94306
Service ‐ Salon
Cecy's Beauty Salon
758 Bockman Rd,San Lorenzo,CA 94580
Service ‐ Salon
Pure Culture Hair
Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Salon
Loving My Hair
5266 Third St,San Francisco,CA 94124
Service ‐ Salon
The Nume Spa
24305 Southland Dr,Hayward,CA 94545
Service ‐ Salon
Salon Inclusion
2732 San Bruno Ave,San Francisco,CA 94134
Service ‐ Salon
Creative Eyebrow Threading Salon
699 Lewelling BlvdSte 110,San Leandro,CA 
94579
Service ‐ Salon
Selina's Bridal Shop
295 89th StSuite202,Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Salon
9s Nail Salon
31879 Alvarado Blvd,Union City,CA 94587
Service ‐ Salon
Mama Africa Hair Braiding
6817 Mission St,Daly City,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Bay Farm Nail Spa
883 Island DrSte B1,Alameda,CA 94502
Service ‐ Salon
Le'Bou Beauty
San Francisco,CA 94016
Service ‐ Salon
African Braids By Lima
6077 Mission St,Daly City ,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Ms Sarah's Creations of Beauty
1712 Ocean Ave,Daly City,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Hilltop Beauty School Salon
6317 Mission St,Daly City,CA 94014
Service ‐ Salon
Lets Get Cute Salon
4907 Mission StSte B,San Francisco,CA 94112
Service ‐ Salon
TheHQWay
17 E Lewelling BlvdChair 2,San Lorenzo,CA 
94580
Service ‐ Salon
Jazzy Hair & Nails
15401 Hesperian BlvdSte B,San Leandro,CA 
94578
Service ‐ Salon
Osbelia's Hair Salon
4699 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94112
Service ‐ Salon
Velvet nails
4699 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94112
Service ‐ Salon
M2 Salon
14393 Washington AveSte C,San Leandro,CA 
94578
Service ‐ Salon
Antonio Cremona Salon
104 Portola Rd,Portola Valley,CA 94028
Service ‐ Salon
Perfect Hair & Nails
30069 Industrial Pkwy SW,Hayward,CA 94544
Service ‐ Salon
Classy Creations
205 Ocean Ave,San Francisco,CA 94112
Service ‐ Salon
Nefertiti's Hair Studio
2084 Alvarado St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Lacquer Studios
798 Castro St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Black Magic Beauty Lounge
15215 Hesperian Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
Structure Hair Design
40 Park Plaza Dr,Daly City,CA 94015
Service ‐ Salon
Sandra's Salon & Spa
300 A St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Handsome Hooligans Barber Lounge & 
Shave Spa
2256 Washington Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
The Beauty Secret Store
250 Jackson St,Hayward,CA 94544
Service ‐ Salon
Renown Premium Hair
15555 E 14th StUnit 127Bayfair Center,San 
Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
Kim Hair & Nails
15036 Hesperian Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
Lovely Beauty Salon
35149 Newark Blvd,Newark,CA 94560
Service ‐ Salon
Shiva Beauty Salon
5753 Jarvis Ave,Newark,CA 94560
Service ‐ Salon
3 Mil Wil Hair Salon & Barber Shop
4077 19th Ave,San Francisco,CA 94132
Service ‐ Salon
La Riviera Salon
14895 E 14th StSte 110,San Leandro,CA 
94578

--- page 37 ---
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty and Elegance Academy
14895 E 14th StSte 460,San Leandro,CA 
94578
Service ‐ Salon
Christina Nails
35130 Newark Blvd,Newark,CA 94560
Service ‐ Salon
Annabelle Salon and Spa
3918 Middlefield RdSte A,Palo Alto,CA 94303
Service ‐ Salon
Moods & Attitudes
14883 E14th St,San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
Sofia African Hair Braiding
15208 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Antidote Salon
2235 S Shore Ctr,Alameda,CA 94501
Service ‐ Salon
Bossy Nail Salon
2298 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Nikita's Beauty Bar
2244 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Fabulous Me Salon
2162 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Style & Color Hair Salon
133 Pelton Center Way,San Leandro,CA 
94577
Service ‐ Salon
Tiffany's Beauty Lounge
1936 E14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Glory Hair
1476 E14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Jessa Dee
San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
She Who Darez
San Leandro,CA 94578
Service ‐ Salon
Blanca's Hair Design
3309 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Salon
Passion Salon
34119 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94555
Service ‐ Salon
Luz Hair Salon
21001 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Hair Design by Peige Stevens at Pepe 
Studio
3285 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Salon
Delane's Natural Nail Care
333 Estudillo AveSte 205,San Leandro,CA 
94577
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty Makes Cents
333 W Estudillo Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Plush Nails Spa
1791 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94131
Service ‐ Salon
Miva Salon
21473 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Flex Beauty Box
22171 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Crime Lab
1369 Rhode Island St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Salon
Dutton Nails
18 Dutton Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Miva Salon
828 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
MC Deluxe
484 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94577
Service ‐ Salon
Sue's Cuts & Perms
24277 Mission Blvd,Hayward,CA 94544
Service ‐ Salon
Beauty Secret Salon
924 A St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Groomed by Cesar
935 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
MGX Barbers
934 A St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Janet Mariscal Makeup + Hair Artist
San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Salon
Nancy Heath Hair
San Francisco,CA 94110
Service ‐ Salon
LynnHMP
967 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
AnnabelleRoseBeauty
967 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Barrow Salon
2475 3rd StSte 303,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Salon
Flo Professional Braiding
20985 Foothill Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Scissors N' Soul Hair Salon
20987 Foothill Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
Service ‐ Salon
Starbaby Studio
1309 Park St,Alameda,CA 94501
Service ‐ Salon
Damia Salon
1504 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94131
Service ‐ Salon
Stephanie Eastman
1322 El Camino Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Service ‐ Salon
Blendsville Barbershop
2341 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
Service ‐ Salon
Megan's Nails Salon
1087 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
Fitness 
Traditional Chen Taiji School
2645 Alameda De Las Pulgas,San Mateo,CA 
94403
Fitness 
G‐8 Fitness by Nico Abaya
115 E 4th Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Proper Player Development
San Mateo,CA 94403

--- page 38 ---
Fitness 
Sheepdog Fitness & Defense
San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Motion Arts Center
525 East 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Motion Arts Center
217 S Claremont St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Ralph Gracie Jiu Jitsu San Mateo
223 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Heartcore
219 S San Mateo Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Holly Roser Fitness
120 Second Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
barre3 ‐ San Mateo
116 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Coach Junior
178 W Hillsdale Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Dd Pilates
San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Eclipse All Body
San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Ferox Yoga
San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
GG Fitness
San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Siren Song Enterprises
251 Baldwin Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
L.I.T. Fitness
23 S Railroad Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Apex Performance
1810 Gateway DrSte 110,San Mateo,CA 
94404
Fitness 
Michelle Swing Dance
100 N B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Treadmill Outlet
20 N Railroad Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
San Mateo Zen Community
100 N Ellsworth Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Balanced Hart
San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Coach Yola Fitness Trainer
San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
Charles Gracie Jiu‐Jitsu Academy
3718 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Aqua Sports Swim Academy
212 San Mateo DrSte 3,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
King's Swim Academy
57 E 40th Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
All Stars Martial Arts
1200 W Hillsdale Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Cyrillo Padilha
1200 W Hillsdale BlvdAll Stars Martial 
Arts,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Peninsula Small Circle Jujitsu
1200 W Hillsdale Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Keolalaulani Halau Olapa O Laka
1206 W Hillsdale BlvdSte D,San Mateo,CA 
94403
Fitness 
Snap Fitness San Mateo
1232 W Hillsdale BlvdLaurelwood Shopping 
Center,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Soulful Pilates
1212 W Hillsdale BlvdSte B,San Mateo,CA 
94403
Fitness 
Kathy McConnell
327 N San Mateo DrSte 5,San Mateo,CA 
94401
Fitness 
Pilates Instructor Training & PMA 
Certification
4060 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Pilates V San Mateo
4060 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
CrossFit Burlingame
345 N Amphlett Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Ayurbliss Integrative Wellness Center
407 N San Mateo Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
NicFit
Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Love Heal Thrive
San Carlos,CA 94002
Fitness 
Emily Steffen, CMT
San Mateo,CA 94404
Fitness 
Tat Wong Kung Fu Academy
25 43rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
San Mateo Athletic Club
1700 West Hillsdale BlvdBldg 5College of San 
Mateo,San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
Dance Vita Ballroom
85 W 43rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
Studio Anthurium
55 W 43rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
Fitness 
RS Tennis Academy
506 North Delaware St,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Movement
100 El Camino Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Split Step Tennis
Foster City,CA 94404

--- page 39 ---
Fitness 
Bay Area Jiu Jitsu Academy
210 El Camino RealSte B,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Up The Middle Core Batting and 
Fitness
201 Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Brien Shamp's Coaching, Nutrition & 
Fitness
201 Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Studio Anthurium Yoga&Fitness
999 Edgewater BlvdUnit E,Foster City,CA 
94404
Fitness 
Gold Medal Martial Arts
999‐A Edgewater Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
Fitness 
Butterfly Yoga
1 Plaza View Ln,Foster City,CA 94404
Fitness 
Motivated Fitness
801 N San Mateo Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
PJCC ‐ Peninsula Jewish Community 
Center
800 Foster City Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
Fitness 
PJCC Swim School
800 Foster City Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
Fitness 
Adriana G Mireles ‐ Total Body Motion
851 N San Mateo DrSte G,San Mateo,CA 
94401
Fitness 
Gold Medal Family Center
866 N Delaware Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Strength Athlete Rehab
403 Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Rise Above Performance Training
403 Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Bay Area Capoeira Jiu Jitsu
409A Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Burlingame Fitness
16 Park Rd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Boscarino Fitness
16 Park Rd,Hillsborough,CA 94010
Fitness 
Premiere Softball Academy
521 Marine ViewSte G,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
1v1 Training
519 Marine View AveSte J &amp; 
H,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
GymClass
501 Old County RdSte E,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Run With The Jets
1701 Coyote Point Dr,San Mateo,CA 94401
Fitness 
Pump Personal Fitness Studio
204 Myrtle Rd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
WestCore Studio
190 Primrose Rd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Basecamp Fitness ‐ Burlingame
251 California Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Megha Tiwari Coaching + Yoga
San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
Epic Dance
Redwood City,CA 94002
Fitness 
Ericka Montana Yoga + Personal 
Training
San Francisco,CA 94104
Fitness 
Trimm‐Way Weight Loss & Nutrition 
Center
1419 Burlingame AveSte Y,Burlingame,CA 
94010
Fitness 
Traditional Chen Taiji
Washington ParkBurlingame Ave &amp; 
California Dr,Burlingame,CA 94011
Fitness 
Scoop Studio Pilates
401 Primrose RdSte A,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
HeartBeat Dance Academy
1835 Belburn Dr,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Jazzercise Belmont
1835 Belburn Dr,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Lore Fitness
San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
HeartBeat Dance Academy
774 Polhemus Rd,San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
Burlingame Aquatic Center
1 Mangini Way,Burlingame,CA 94012
Fitness 
Courage Performance
248A Harbor Blvd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Broadway Babies and Kids
1314 Old County Road,Belmont,CA 94402
Fitness 
Bravissimo Dance Studio
1314 Old County Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Evolution Performance
23 Karen Rd,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Infinite Body Health
2100 Carlmont DrSte 3Infinite Body 
Health,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Body Studio For Fitness
2001 Winward WaySte 102,San Mateo,CA 
94404
Fitness 
Kennedy Club Fitness
789 El Camino Real,Burlingame,CA 94010

--- page 40 ---
Fitness 
Twin Dragon Kung Fu Academy
151 Old County RdSte D,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
YogaYely
1601 El Camino Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Spiritual Alignment
23581 Hwy‐49,Sierra City,CA 96125
Fitness 
Eric Shaw
Prajna Yoga And Healing Arts1601 El Camino 
Real,Belmont,CA 94002
Fitness 
Lauren Olesh Yoga
Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Advanced Sports Performance
505 Quarry Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Mr Peter's Golf Camp
250 Anza Blvd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Villain Barbell
285 Old County RdSte 8,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
HomeGrown AthletX
551 Taylor WayUnit 5,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Core Total Fitness
112 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
The Personal Cycling Pro
San Mateo,CA 94402
Fitness 
FLEXX Studios Burlingame
1300 Broadway,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Bay Club Redwood Shores
200 Redwood Shores Pkwy,Redwood City,CA 
94065
Fitness 
Miggy's Dance & Fitness Studio
406 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Bruno Escalante
883 E San Carlos Ave,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
barre3 ‐ San Carlos
617 Old County Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Reach Corporate Fitness
1235 Radio RdSte 120,Redwood City,CA 
94065
Fitness 
Fitwize 4 Kids
638 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Yoga Health Center
677 Laurel StSte 200,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Melodic Remedy Dance Studio
767 Industrial Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Bintang Badminton Burlingame
1524 Rollins Rd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Tower Personal Training
San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
iLIVING
860 Mahler Rd,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Palladino Personal Training
San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
San Carlos Boot Camp
828 Chestnut St,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Hart for Health
837‐A Industrial Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Mercy Center
2300 Adeline Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Ascend Aerial Arts
836 Brittan Ave,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
IMPACT Kickboxing Fitness
836 Brittan Ave,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Fullsterkur Barbell Club
1100 Industrial RdSte 18,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
King's Camps and Fitness
1100 Industrial RdSte 13,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Evolve Movement Collective
1100 Industrial RdSte 11B,San Carlos,CA 
94070
Fitness 
King's Swim Academy ‐ San Carlos
1119 Industrial Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Studio Physical Therapy
1160 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Healstrength
1352 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
Peninsula Health Care District Health & 
Fitness Center
1875 Trousdale Dr,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Being Yoga
1863 El Camino Real,Burlingame,CA 94010
Fitness 
Jazzercise San Carlos Center
1656 El Camino Real,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
OnBalance Massage & Bodywork
1748 Laurel StRadiance Sanctuary Day 
Spa,San Carlos,CA 94070
Fitness 
VENNU Yoga Studio
227 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
West Coast Dance Conservatory
237 Broadway Ave,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Peninsula Swim School
1602 Stafford St,Redwood City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Wedding and Dance
560 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Lilian Dance Studio
512 Magnolia Ave,Millbrae,CA 94030

--- page 41 ---
Fitness 
Cervix Whisperer ‐ Prenatal Fitness 
and Birthing classes
2900 Whipple AveSte 135,Redwood City,CA 
94062
Fitness 
Precision Martial Arts and Fitness
380 Convention Way,Redwood city,CA 94063
Fitness 
Undisputed Boxing Gym
380 Convention Way,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Yenis Dance Body and Soul
623 Magnolia Ave,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Elevate Performance + Physical 
Therapy
643 Bair Island RdSite 103,Redwood City,CA 
94063
Fitness 
Treadmill Outlet
665 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
One Martial Arts
979 BroadwaySte 116,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Charles Gracie Jiu‐Jitsu Academy
701 Arguello St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Athos
201 Arch St,Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
Grace Yoga
1060 Broadway Ave,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Obstacourse Fitness
2636 Broadway St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Peacebank Yoga Studio
2603 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Gladys Wong, CMT, MIM
499 Seaport CtSte 101Many Lives Chinese 
Medicine,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Snap Fitness Redwood City
3209 Oak Knoll Dr,Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
F45 Training Redwood City
2065 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Mambo Groovin' Latin Dance Theatre
2047 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Studio S Broadway Academy of Dance
2047 Broadway St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Amin Wu Tai Chi
1395 El Camino RealUnit E,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Robin Jaffe Yoga
Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
Happy Science
525 Clinton St,Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
Inkosi Fitness
Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Heartcore
930 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Tutu School Redwood City
960 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
California Kungfu & Taichi Institute
1436 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Lily Lau Eagle Claw Kung Fu School
1651 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Eastern Art Studio
1699 El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
Fitness 
Bagha Man Human Optimization 
Systems
San Francisco,CA 94122
Fitness 
Dianna Butterfield
Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Monarch CrossFit
413 Lathrop StUnit B,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Ready Ex Go
413 Lathrop StSte A,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Peninsula Community Center
3623 Jefferson Ave,Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
MY SWING STUDIO
1516 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Woodside Pilates
835 Mohican Way,Redwood City,CA 94062
Fitness 
Team Rahsaan Fitness 3.0
2149 Roosevelt AveSte 2149,Redwood 
City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Sequoia YMCA
1445 Hudson St,Redwood City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Omine Karate Dojo
115 El Campo Dr,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Emerald Hills Golf Course
938 Wilmington Way,Emerald Hills,CA 94062
Fitness 
Menlo Pilates & More
2600 Spring St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Academy of American Ballet
2555 Middlefield Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Hula Halau â€˜O Makalapua Marama 
Te Mafatu Nui
426 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066

--- page 42 ---
Fitness 
All Star Karate Center
2699 Spring St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Training Space
880 Hurlingame Ave,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
MH Well and Fit
880 Hurlingame Ave,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Fenix Dance
Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
La Petite Baleen Swim Schools
434 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Wild & the Barre
2504 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Peninsula Self Defense Training 
Academy
2766 Bay Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Tiger Taekwondo
2537 A El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 
94061
Fitness 
Inspiration Studios
2682 Middlefield Rd, Unit N &amp; 
O,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Tosetti Institute of MMA & Fitness
816 Warrington Ave,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Dojo USA
548 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Peninsula Boxing & Fitness
2860 Spring StUnit 1,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Gladiators Boxing Gym
2860 Spring StSte 1,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Sharpened Fitness & Nutrition
588 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Dancel's Academy of Tae Kwon Do
589 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Cahill's Judo Academy
635 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Mike De Jesus Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
635 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Get Zen With Jen
Redwood City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Committed HP
Redwood City,CA 94061
Fitness 
Aikido West
3164 Bay Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
NCFIT ‐ Redwood City
3151 Edison Way,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Trans4ormFitness
1376 Park Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
UFC GYM San Bruno
751 B Camino Plz,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
La Petite Baleen Swim Schools
60 Fifth Ave,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
Vulnerable Heart Meditation
San Francisco,CA 94110
Fitness 
Lawler's Tae Kwon Do
851 Cherry AveSte 13,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Bay Area Ballet Conservatory
275 Wattis Way,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Rahiti Polynesian Dance
220 S Linden AveUnit E,South San 
Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
Studio K‐Fit
3708 Florence St,Redwood City,CA 94063
Fitness 
CareFol Yoga
San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
FullGrip Barbell
1387 Lowrie Ave,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Edmunds Golf School
2101 Sneath Ln,San Bruno,CA 94066
Fitness 
Bayfront Fitness
161 Constitution Dr,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Reboot Health
161 Constitution Dr,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Spark of Creation Studio
1 S Linden AveUnit 1,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
SPARTA Performance Science
165A Constitution Dr,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Chajinel Home Care Services
208 Cypress Ave,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Gymtowne Gymnastics SSF
389 Oyster Point BlvdSte 5,South San 
Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
Bill Grossman's School of Kenpo Karate
114 Hazelwood Dr,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Coastside Yoga Collective
101 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
Snap Fitness Half Moon Bay
20 Stone Pine Rd,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019

--- page 43 ---
Fitness 
BalanCenter Wellness ‐ Half Moon Bay
210 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
Solis Boxing
387 Grand Ave,South San Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
QPD Fitness
387 Grand Ave,South San Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
Animotus
330 Main StSte 103,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
Kateetak Studios
80 Cabrillo Hwy NSte C,Half Moon Bay,CA 
94019
Fitness 
Private Yoga Silicon Valley
Silicon Valley,CA 94027
Fitness 
Pro Yoga Club
South San Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
KinergyFlowâ„¢ Fitness
South San Francisco,CA 94080
Fitness 
Bulldog Sports & Fitness
1610 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
GenesisFIT
2 Tower PlSte 200,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Coast Pilates & Fitness
225 Cabrillo Hwy SSte 106B,Half Moon 
Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
G. David Fitness
634 El Camino Real,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Raul Castillo Martial Arts
765 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
April's Yoga & Pilates Studio
1009 Terra Nova Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Fitness 
La Petite Baleen Swim Schools
775 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
Coastal Aquatic Fitness
775 Main StLa Petite Baleen Swim 
Schools,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
Fitness 
Fitness Therapy
634 El Camino Real,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Evolve Training Center
647 El Camino Real,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
Fitness 
Cave Academy
1037 Terra Nova Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Fitness 
Babyface Boxing
1021 Terra Nova Blvd,Pacifica,CA 94044
Fitness 
Vb Personal Training
530 Oak GroveSte 105,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Tobias Physical Therapy
1225 Crane StSte 105,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Lift Studio
1185 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Elementus
887 Oak Grove AveSte B,Menlo Park,CA 
94025
Fitness 
MPA Karate
1131 Chestnut St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
First Principles Strength and 
Conditioning
El Granada,CA 94018
Fitness 
360 Fitness Superstore ‐ Menlo Park
707 Santa Cruz Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
AXIS Personal Trainers
550 Ravenswood Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
SBM Fitness
1019 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
SBM Group Fit
1011 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
barre3 ‐ Menlo Park
989 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Zen Heart Sangha
920 Peninsula Way,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Seiwakai Karate Silicon Valley
700 Alma St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Menlo Fit Boot Camp
600 Alma StArrillaga Family 
Gymnasium,Menlo Park,CA 94025
Fitness 
Arrillaga Family Gym
600 Alma St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Palette Tea Garden
48 Hillsdale Mall,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Three Bees Coffee House
224 E 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cha Express
212 E 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Heere Tea
253 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401

--- page 44 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Backhaus
32 E 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bliss On Tap
18 E 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
iJava Cafe
951 Mariners Island Blvd,San Mateo,CA 
94404
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Estate Coffee
16 E 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
3 Bees Cafe
55 W 3rd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Urban Ritual
140 South B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Fiero Caffe
106 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bobabia
271 Baldwin Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Super Cue Cafe
2986 S Norfolk St,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Kingston Cafe
19 N Kingston St,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Jill's Coffee
3721 S El Camino Real,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cookiez By Sara
969A Edgewater Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Penelope's Coffee and Tea
3 Plaza View LnSte N,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Poppies Bistro
711 Thayer Ln,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
KitchenTown
1007 Howard Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mints & Honey
1166 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tiny Tea Co.
1115 Burlingame Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Maison AlyzÃ©e
1208 Burlingame Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Leland Tea Company
1223 Donnelly Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Neal's Coffee Shop
114 De Anza Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94402
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Majestea
346 Lorton Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ya‐Ua Yogurt & Boba Tea
1090 Alameda de Las Pulgas,Belmont,CA 
94002
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cup of Tea Tutoring
Palo Alto,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
il Piccolo Caffe
1219 Broadway,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tiger Tea & Juice ‐ Burlingame
1803 El Camino Real,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
La Matcha Cafe
1828 El Camino RealSte 102,Burlingame,CA 
94010
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Papachay Peruvian Coffee
1431 Old County Rd,San Carlos,CA 94070
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Grapeholic
102 S El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Social Eatery
102 S El Camino Real,Millbrae,CA 94030
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Fina's Cafe
1665 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Equator Coffees & Teas
SFO Airport Terminal 2,South San 
Francisco,CA 94128
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Roasting Plant Coffee
780 S Airport BlvdInternational Terminal A 
Gates ‐ South,San Francisco,CA 94128
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Emerald Hills Cafe & Roastery
3203 Oak Knoll Dr,Emerald Hills,CA 94062
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Red Giant Coffee
2400 Broadway StSte 110,Redwood City,CA 
94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bobalicious
2202 Broadway St,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Guava & Java
San Francisco,CA 94128
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe Marston
695 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cyclismo Cafe
871 Middlefield Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coffeebar
2020 Broadway,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lovejoy's Tea Room
901 Main St,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Chez Nous Cafe
2159 Roosevelt Ave,Redwood City,CA 94061
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Masala Desi Cafe ‐ Redwood City
2137 Roosevelt Ave,Redwood City,CA 94061
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Summit Cafe
2137 Roosevelt Ave,Redwood City,CA 94061
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Aqua Club Dessert & Beverage
440 San Mateo AveSte N1,San Bruno,CA 
94066
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Never Too Latte Cafe
486 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066

--- page 45 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Treudan San Bruno
500 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Connoisseur Coffee
2801 Middlefield Rd,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Kava Bar
630 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Briggo Coffee Haus ‐ Sfo Terminal 3
780 S Airport BlvdGate F4Terminal 3,San 
Francisco,CA 94128
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
S'Bastians Coffee
1725 Woodside RdSte C,Redwood City,CA 
94061
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ten Ren Tea Company
419 Eccles Ave,South San Francisco,CA 94080
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coffeebar ‐ Menlo Park 2.0
150 Independence Dr,Menlo Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
High Tea Photography
Belmont,CA 94002
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
The Cake Queen & Coffee Bar
132 Brentwood Dr,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
AJ's Coffee
198 San Mateo Rd,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Granola's Coffee House
116 N Cabrillo Hwy,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Dead Eye Coffee Bar
415 Grand AveSte 100,South San 
Francisco,CA 94080
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Las Hijas Del Gallo Bakery
615 Linden Ave,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe Society
522 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
SWEET55 ‐ Swiss Chocolates & 
Confections
225 S Cabrillo HwySte 104C,Half Moon 
Bay,CA 94019
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
El Granada Hardware & Cafe
85 Avenue Portola,El Granada,CA 94018
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coffeebar
1149 Chestnut St,Menlo Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tea It Up
993 El Camino Real,Menlo Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Madhouse Coffee
402 Visitacion Ave,Brisbane,CA 94005
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Simple One Cafe
2025 Gellert BlvdSte 202,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
P‐Town Coffee & Tea
152 Reina Del Mar Ave,Pacifica,CA 94044
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Seattle Coffee Gear
87 Stanford Shopping Ctr,Palo Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Wanpo Tea Shop
660 Stanford Shopping CtrSte 721,Palo 
Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
ZERO&
660 Stanford Shopping CtrSte 198,Palo 
Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Macy's Taste Bar
300 Stanford Shopping Ctr,Palo Alto,CA 
94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mademoiselle Colette
499 Lytton Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
tÅno coﬀee project
369 Lytton Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
ZoomCaffe
211 Quarry Rd,Palo Alto,CA 94303
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
ZoomCaffe
875 Blake Wilbur Dr,Palo Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe Venetia
419 University Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lovey's Tea Shoppe
4430 Coast Hwy,Pacifica,CA 94044
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sprout Cafe
168 University Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Killiney Kopitiam
552 Waverley St,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
ZoomCaffe
300 Pasteur Dr,Palo Alto,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coco3
117 Hickey Blvd,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
The Perk Coffee shop
300 Pasteur Dr,Palo Alto,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe ‐ Y2E2
473 Via Ortega,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bytes Cafe
350 Serra Mall,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tin Pot Creamery
855 El Camino RealSte 121,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lovely Tea Parties
Menlo Park,CA 94025

--- page 46 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Intertwine Cafe
1926 Palmetto Ave,Pacifica,CA 94044
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Alumni Cafe
326 Galvez St,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe ‐ Green Library
571 Escondido Mall,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Stanford Bookstore Cafe
519 Lasuen Mall,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Stanford Law School Cafe
559 Nathan Abbott Way,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bobaville
346 Gellert Blvd,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe ‐ GSB
655 Knight Way,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Aroma Buena Cafe
2155 Bayshore Blvd,San Francisco,CA 94134
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Brewja Coffee
1432 Via Lacqua,San Lorenzo,CA 94580
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Pop Tea Bar
456 Cambridge Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Backyard Roasting
444 California Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Izzy's Brooklyn Bagels
477 S California Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94306
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Blue Tiger Coffee Service
1171 Quesada Ave,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Joyride Coffee Distributors
1485 Yosemite Ave,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Peter James Coffee
1964 Republic Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Hippies Brew
3900 Smith St,Union City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
OMG Tea
2891 San Bruno Ave,San Francisco, CA 94134
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Boba Nation
1 Southland DrShop 114,Hayward,CA 94545
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
TrueBean Coffee
3130 Hansen Way,Palo Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
It's A Grind Coffee House
1933 Davis St,San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Four Barrel Coffee
2 Burrows St,San Francisco,CA 94134
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Hey Neighbor Cafe
2 Burrows StPortola Garden District,San 
Francisco,CA 94134
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coffee and Tea Traders
883 Island DrSte B2,Alameda,CA 94502
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
DuckFace Bubble Tea
699 Lewelling BlvdSte 182,San Leandro,CA 
94579
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sam's Sandwiches & Coffee
301 87th St,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Churros Mexicanos Plus
488 Lewelling Blvd,San Lorenzo,CA 94580
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe
3215 Porter Dr,Palo Alto,CA 94304
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tallio's Coffee & Tea
4732 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafecito Latino
888 Geneva Ave,San Francisco,CA 94112
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Associated
600 McCormick St,San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Rickshaa! Cloud Kitchen
25125 Santa Clara StSte F,Hayward,CA 94544
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Westlake Coffee Shop
1901 Junipero Serra BlvdSte D,Daly City,CA 
94015
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ritual Coffee Roasters
1634 Jerrold Ave,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Craftsman Coffee
1634 Jerrold Ave,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sunday Gather
4100 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coffee Magic
46 Vienna St,San Francisco,CA 94112
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Excelsior Coffee
4495 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94112
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Vasquez Coffee Company
50 Mendell StSte 1,San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Truedan Westlake
500 Westlake Ctr,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ada's Cafe
3700 Middlefield Rd,Palo Alto,CA 94303
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Martha & Brothers Coffee
745 Cortland Ave,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sudden Coffee
2200 Jerrold AveUnit O,San Francisco,CA 
94124
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Joe's Pho
15070 Hesperian Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94578
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Pinhole Coffee
231 Cortland Ave,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Destination Baking Company
598 Chenery St,San Francisco,CA 94131
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cuppa
2810 Diamond St,San Francisco,CA 94131
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mumbai Chowk
35144 Newark Blvd,Newark,CA 94560

--- page 47 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Belrose Coffee
7901 Oakport StSte 3850,Oakland,CA 94621
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mochinut San Leandro
185 Pelton Center Way,San Leandro,CA 
94577
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Who's Tea
35284 Newark Blvd,Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe St. Jorge
3438 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe Seventy8
78 29th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Fog Lifter Cafe
1901 Ocean Ave,San Francisco, CA 94127
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Fanale Drinks
790 Sandoval Way,Hayward,CA 94544
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Daily Driver
2535 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
The Early Bird Coffee
926 B StThe Dirty Bird Lounge,Hayward,CA 
94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Julie's Coffee and Tea Garden
1223 Park St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Vivoz
926 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Snappy's Cafe
978 A St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mama Papa Lithuania Restaurant
1241 Park St,Alameda, CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Honeybear Boba
801 22nd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Piccino Restaurant
1001 Minnesota St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Martha & Bros Coffee Company
1551 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94131
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Dynamo Donut & Coffee
2760 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Bon Mange
1007 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
La Stazione Coffee + Cannoli
701 Pennsylvania Ave,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Gigabite
Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Atlas Coffee & Sandwiches
1075 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Anthony's Cookies
1417 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Little Sweet ‐ Mission Bay
555 20th StSte 1,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Jolt â€˜n Bolt
2325 3rd StUnit 100,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tommy's Doughnuts
21863 Foothill Blvd,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
La Reyna Bakery & Coffee Shop
3114 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Wooly Pig
2295 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Happy Cow Creamery & Tea
2291 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Black Medicine
513 Independent RdUnit 13,Oakland,CA 
94621
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Silverstone Cafe
3278 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lovejoy's Attic
1351 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lovejoy's Tea Room
1351 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Beloved Cafe
3338 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Needles and Tea
2447 Santa Clara AveSte 209,Alameda,CA 
94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe Rosso
1600 Holloway Ave,San Francisco,CA 94132
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Zocalo Coffeehouse
645 Bancroft Ave,San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
The Little Spot Cafe
1199 S Van Ness Ave,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Estrellita Mexican Bistro
971 N San Antonio Rd,Los Altos,CA 94022
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Top Up
650 Central AveSte G,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Neptune's
630 Central Ave,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Marigold CafÃ©
2681 21st St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Grand Coffee
2663 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe 4
20600 John Dr,Castro Valley,CA 94546
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Cafe Murano
2301 Bryant St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Malaya Tea Room
920 Central Ave,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Lazybird Coffee
930 Central Ave,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
UpForDayz Coffee, Tea & Juice
1198 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110

--- page 48 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Coupa Cafe ‐ Colonnade
4748 El Camino Real,Los Altos,CA 94022
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Buddy
3115 22nd St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Martha & Brothers Coffee
3868 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Farley's
1315 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
The Preacher's Daughter
1629 Park St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
La Boulangerie de San Francisco
3898 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Reborn Coffee
3251 20th Ave,San Francisco,CA 94132
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
America's Best Coffee Roasting 
Company
600 50th Ave,Oakland,CA 94601
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Grand Coffee Too
2544 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Linea Caffe
1125 Mariposa St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sightglass Coffee
3014 20th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Simple Tea House
2620 Ocean Ave,San Francisco,CA 94132
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Caffe Central
490 Illinois St,San Francisco,CA 94158
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Wescafe
1518 Webster St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ritual Coffee Roasters
1050 Howard St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ritual Coffee Roasters
1026 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Kahnfections
3321 20th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Farmhouse Kitchen Thai Cuisine
710 Florida St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Taproot
409 Illinois St,San Francisco,CA 94158
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Poki Lab
2661 Blanding AveSte E,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Yoji Tea House
3515 20th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Alameda Island Savoy Market
1200 Lincoln Ave,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tokyo Futon & Tea
924 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
La Lucha Coffee Bar
1600 17th St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tartine Manufactory
595 Alabama St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Little Heaven
2348 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Ballast Coffee
329 W Portal Ave,San Francisco,CA 94127
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Hedge Pop‐Up at Front Cafe
498 Alabama St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Hedge Coffee
498 Alabama St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Front
498 Alabama St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Jah‐Making‐Coffee
500 Terry Francois StFl 6th,San Francisco,CA 
94158
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Chuck's Takeaway
3332 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Craftsman and Wolves
746 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Fox and Lion Bread
3350 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Le Dix‐Sept Patisserie
3376 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Linea Caffe
3417 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Brew Cha
3420 18th StUnit 001,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
District Tea
2154 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Virtual TeaKup SF
601 Mission Blvd N,San Francisco,CA 94158
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Neighbor's Corner
499 Douglass St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Boba Pink
3176 17th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Faye's Coffee
3614 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mosley's Cafe
2099 Grand St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Stonemill Matcha
561 Valencia St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Spike's Coffees & Teas
4117 19th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Chile Lindo Empanadas
2944 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Le Marais Bakery
498 Sanchez St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Stanza Coffee
3126 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Foodhall
3100 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94103

--- page 49 ---
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Morning Due Cafe
3698 17th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tea Hut
1541 Sloat Blvd,San Francisco,CA 94132
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Knudsen's Restaurant‐Ice Creamery
3323 Castro Valley Blvd,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Guatemaya Cafe
4428 International Blvd,Oakland,CA 94601
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Tea So
20669 Santa Maria Ave,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Five Star Truffles Co.
4251 A 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Boba Guys ‐ Los Altos
201 1st St,Los Altos,CA 94022
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sweet Diplomacy
209 1st St,Los Altos,CA 94022
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Mr Szechuan
890 Taraval St,San Francisco,CA 94116
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Jenjon's Cafe
1704 Decoto Rd,Union City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
L'acajou Bakery & Cafe
498 9th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
U :Dessert Story
3489 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
San Francisco Coffee Company
70 13th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Weaver's Coffee & Tea
2301 Market St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Coffee/Tea
Sana Tea & Dessert
36476 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94536
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Heere Tea
253 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Beard Papa's Sweets Cafe
365 2nd Ave,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Lolita Artisanal Bakery
Sixty 31st AveUpper LevelHillsdale Shopping 
Center,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Uji Time Dessert
106 S B St,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Super Cue Cafe
2986 S Norfolk St,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Romolo's Cannoli
81 37th Ave,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Simple Delights
1226 W Hillsdale Blvd(Laurelwood Shopping 
Center),San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Britt Bakes
887 W Hillsdale Blvd,San Mateo,CA 94403
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Oven Heaven Homemade
Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Butter and Rose
Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Cookiez By Sara
969A Edgewater Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Penelope's Coffee and Tea
3 Plaza View LnSte N,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Beurre Pastry Shop
1000 N Idaho St,San Mateo,CA 94401
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Park & Howard Bistro
1300 Howard Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Honey Dessert
1066 Foster City Blvd,Foster City,CA 94404
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Copenhagen Bakery & Cafe
1216 Burlingame Ave,Burlingame,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Anya's Cakes
Belmont,CA 94002
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Cleo Sweets
San Mateo,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Stamp Bar & Grill
773 Laurel St,San Carlos,CA 94070
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sarah Lindsay Cakes of San Francisco
Peninsula,CA 94070
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
888 Ristorante Italiano
888 Laurel StSte 3951,San Carlos,CA 94070
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Kakiyuki
979 Broadway,Ste 106,Millbrae, CA 94030
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
BiteSize Baking
Redwood City,CA 94062
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Chez Nous Cafe
2159 Roosevelt Ave,Redwood City,CA 94061
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Aqua Club Dessert & Beverage
440 San Mateo AveSte N1,San Bruno,CA 
94066
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Never Too Latte Cafe
486 San Mateo Ave,San Bruno,CA 94066
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
La Biscotteria
2747 El Camino Real,Redwood City,CA 94061
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Gourmet Xpress
360 Harbor Way,South San Francisco,CA 
94030
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Marque Foods
322 Littlefield Ave,South San Francisco,CA 
94080

--- page 50 ---
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tiffany's Cake Poppery
San Bruno,CA 94066
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Eva Sweets
3716 Florence St,Redwood City,CA 94063
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Churreria SF
South San Francisco,CA 94080
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Wildflour Bakeshop
South San Francisco,CA 94080
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
British Bankers Club
555 Santa Cruz Ave,Menlo Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Fish Wife Sweets
329 Main St,Half Moon Bay,CA 94019
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Simple One Cafe
2025 Gellert BlvdSte 202,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Butterscotch On The Go
60 Middlefield RdThe Willows Market,Menlo 
Park,CA 94025
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Magnolia Ice Cream & Treats
3573 Callan Blvd,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Minamoto Kitchoan
180 El Camino RealSte 1160,Palo Alto,CA 
94304
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sprinkles Palo Alto
393 Stanford Shopping Ctr,Palo Alto,CA 
94304
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Chantal Guillon Macarons & Teas
444 University Ave,Palo Alto,CA 94301
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Coco3
117 Hickey Blvd,South San Francisco,CA 
94080
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mrs. Field's Cookies
300 Pasteur Dr,Palo Alto,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Bytes Cafe
350 Serra Mall,Stanford,CA 94305
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tin Pot Creamery
855 El Camino RealSte 121,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Penny Ice Creamery
855 El Camino RealSte 121,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Penny Ice Creamery
855 El Camino RealSte 121,Palo Alto,CA 
94301
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Amausaan Uji Matcha
3 Serramonte Ctr,Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Artistic Bites
Fremont,CA 94579
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Crackin' Cookie
Daly City,CA 94014
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
La Vie Douce Design
San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Layers
Dublin,CA 94580
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Stop Bakery
Union City Blvd &amp; Horner St,Union 
City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Artisan Gourmet French Macaron
San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Pink n Moist
San Francisco,CA 94124
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Black Kings Catering
27211 Sleepy Hollow Ave,Hayward,CA 94545
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
OMG Tea
2891 San Bruno Ave,San Francisco, CA 94134
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Condesa
Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
MiGoodies BakeSale
Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mister Artisan Cheesecake
Daly City,CA 94015
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
QT Cake
562 Lewelling Blvd,San Leandro,CA 94579
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Reinas Restaurant
5479 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94112
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Doughweime
31858 Alvarado Blvd,Union City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Felix the Cook
San Francisco,CA 94127
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tula Bakeshoppe
San Francisco,CA 94016
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Salty Sweet Cookies
San Francisco,CA 94016
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Golden Eight Distribution Systems
28976 Hopkins StSte I,Hayward,CA 94545
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Pineapples
296 Ocean Ave,San Francisco,CA 94112
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Cake Coquette
1501 Cortland Ave,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Little Nepal
925 Cortland Ave,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Parker's Crazy Cookies
1273 Industrial Pkwy WSte 160,Hayward,CA 
94544

--- page 51 ---
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Baked East Bay
San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Karla's Cakes
Hayward,CA 94544
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Dabao Singapore
1661 Tennessee StSte 2k,San Francisco,CA 
94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sugar Addicts Sweets and Treats
Oakland,CA 94603
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
YoYo Treats
16395 E 14th St,San Leandro,CA 94578
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Oh Sho Sweet
San Leandro,CA 94578
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Delights By Lisa
1767 Church St,San Francisco,CA 94131
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Marley's Treats
838 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Niles Pie Company
32990 Alvarado‐Niles RdSte 960,Union 
City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mary's Bakery
34370 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94555
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Yoly's Sweets
Union City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
When Butter Met Sugar
San Francisco,CA 94131
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Simply Mochi
San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Alfajores Narciso
San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Colette Macaron
San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Casita Vegana SF
699 John Muir Dr,San Francisco,CA 94132
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Clairesquares
2948 Folsom StLa Cocina Community 
Kitchen,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
A Girl Named Pinky Cake Boutique
2948 Folsom St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweets Collection
2948 Folsom Street Comercial Kitchen,San 
Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Reuschelle's Cheesecakes
974 A St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Stirred, Not Shaken
San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Orchid
34460 Fremont BlvdSte D,Fremont,CA 94555
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Acqua e Farina
22622 Main St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
La Stazione Coffee + Cannoli
701 Pennsylvania Ave,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
V's Sweet Treats
Newark,CA 07076
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweetlicious
Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Magical Box Bakery
Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Rockit Char Grill
1057 B St,Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Gerhard Michler Fine European 
Desserts
948 Illinois StSte 100,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tucker's Ice Cream
1349 Park St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Cakes by the POUND ‐ Bay Area
Hayward,CA 94544
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Chilly & Munch
2101 Showers Dr,Mountain View, CA 94040
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Space Cadet Baking Company
San Francisco,CA 94127
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Wooden Table Baking
910 81st AveSte 19,Oakland,CA 94621
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
As Kneaded Bakery
585 Victoria Ct,San Leandro,CA 94577
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Superhero Desserts
1449 Webster St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Golden Morsels
San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Raydiant Vybes
710 Haight AveAlameda Farmers 
Market,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Peasant Pies Noe Valley
4108 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sue, Especially For You Custom 
Desserts
1519 Grand St,Alameda,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Firefly Restaurant
4288 24th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Filipino Asian Corner
5632 Thornton AveInside 76 
Station,Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Whole Cakes
1000 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94107

--- page 52 ---
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
vypassetti cake pops
Hayward,CA 94541
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Shaws San Francisco
122 W Portal Ave,San Francisco,CA 94127
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
El Toreador Restaurant
50 W Portal Ave,San Francisco,CA 94127
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Hey, Cookie!
San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Play Full Moon
San Mateo,CA 94010
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Namaskar Foods
7130 International Blvd,Oakland,CA 94621
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Good Good Culture Club
3560 18th St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tartine Bakery
600 Guerrero St,San Francisco,CA 94110
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Three Babes Bakeshop
2797 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Che‐Lo
1767 Decoto Blvd,Union City,CA 94587
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Paper Rock Fork Bakery
Anita Court,Castro Valley,CA 94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Seven Hills Baking Co
3295 Castro Valley Blvd,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Tea So
20669 Santa Maria Ave,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sixth Course
1544 15th St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Milk & Cookie Bar
18911 Lake Chabot Rd,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Shumi Ramen
18911 Lake Chabot RdSte 1,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Lake Chabot Public Market
18911 Lake Chabot Rd,Castro Valley,CA 
94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
GIO Gelati
Oakland,CA 94601
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Gold Mirror Italian Restaurant
800 Taraval St,San Francisco,CA 94116
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Two Chicks in the Mix
Oakland,CA 94501
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Karin Johnson Specialty Cakes and 
Pastries
20865 Redwood Rd,Castro Valley,CA 94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Hot Cookie
407 Castro St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
U :Dessert Story
3489 16th St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Geli's Bakery
Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Aldo Los Altos
388 Main St,Los Altos,CA 94022
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sana Tea & Dessert
36476 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94536
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Marco Polo Italian Ice Cream
1447 Taraval St,San Francisco,CA 94116
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Jane H Cookies
San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Nubocha Dairy Free Gelato
2353 E 12th St,Oakland,CA 94601
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
L'Ardoise Bistro
151 Noe St,San Francisco,CA 94114
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Bliss Pops
60 Morris St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Underdogs Cantina
128 King St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Ketosexxx
60 Morris St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
California Mochi
570 N Shoreline Blvd,Ste B,Mountain View, 
CA 94043
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Coffee Cultures
1301 Mission St,San Francisco,CA 94103
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Chalos
2240 Taraval St,San Francisco,CA 94116
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Flour & Branch
493 3rd St,San Francisco,CA 94107
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Uhuru Pies
7911 MacArthur Blvd,Oakland,CA 94605
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
More Please
Oakland,CA 94605
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Organic Sweet Desserts
Oakland,CA 94605
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Choux
248 Fillmore St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Littlejohn's Candies
1422 Market St,San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Wing Wings
422 Haight St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
De Afghanan Kabob House
37405 Fremont Blvd,Fremont,CA 94536
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Loquat
198 Gough St,San Francisco,CA 94102

--- page 53 ---
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Grace & Gusto Cakes and Confections
205 Frederick St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Super Chunk
Hayward,CA 94542
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Powder
260 Divisadero St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Christopher Elbow Chocolates
401 Hayes St,San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Q Tea Monster
39181 Cedar Blvd,Newark,CA 94560
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Farmhouse Kitchen Thai Cuisine
336 Water St,Oakland,CA 94607
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Little Gem
400 Grove St,San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Minx Cakes
San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
RT Rotisserie
302 Broderick St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mojo Bakes! SF
San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Vada Pav
856 W El Camino Real,Mountain View,CA 
94040
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Masala Dosa
1375 9th Ave,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Nopa
560 Divisadero St,San Francisco,CA 94117
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Baiano Pizzeria
1330 9th Ave,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Laney Bistro
900 Fallon St,Oakland,CA 94607
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Kara's Cupcakes Karavan
San Francisco,CA 94105
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Deliciously Vegan SF
San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Testa Fiore Chocolate Fountains
San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Kathy's Kakes
San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mili Wine Bar
110 Folsom St,San Francisco,CA 94105
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Paper Rock Fork Bakery
Castro Valley,CA 94546
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Whole Cakes
100 1st StSte GB01,San Francisco,CA 94105
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Million Thai Restaurant
385 Taylor St,San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sip Tea Room
721 Lincoln Way,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Le Moose Crepe Cafe
5014 Mowry Ave,Fremont,CA 94538
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
DayDream Cake Shop
1788 32nd Ave,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Thonglor
420 Geary St,San Francisco,CA 94102
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Alice Street Bakery CafÃ©
251 10th St,Oakland,CA 94607
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Joy's Place
611 Post St,San Francisco,CA 94109
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Nicole's KitChin
San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Ping Yang Thai Grill & Dessert
955 Larkin St,San Francisco,CA 94109
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Baby Cafe
358 11th St,Oakland,CA 94607
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
OH Dessert Cafe
1919 Irving St,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Wonderful Dessert & Cafe
2035 Irving St,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Polly Ann Ice Cream
3138 Noriega St,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Meryienda
San Francisco,CA 94108
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
State Bird Provisions
1529 Fillmore St,San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Uji Time Dessert
22 Peace PlzSte 440,San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Norte 54
1 Ferry Building,San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
CheeseQuakes!
1 Ferry Building,San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Humphry Slocombe Ice Cream
483 Sacramento St,San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Kissako Tea
1581 Webster StSte 195,San Francisco,CA 
94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Crumble & Whisk
4104 MacArthur Blvd,Oakland,CA 94619
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Batter Bakery
1517 Pine St,San Francisco,CA 94109
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Yasukochi's Sweet Stop
1790 Sutter St,San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Papa Mak's Burgers
3755 Noriega St,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
City Pop Cafe
1494 California St,San Francisco,CA 94109
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Toyose
3814 Noriega St,San Francisco,CA 94122
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Fillmore Bakeshop
1890 Fillmore St,San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Specialty's
645 Ellis St,Mountain View,CA 94043

--- page 54 ---
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Trestle
531 Jackson St,San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Yahshi Bakes
1721 BroadwaySte 201,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sift Dessert Bar
2411 California St,San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Simurgh Bakery
San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sugar Dealer
San Francisco,CA 94115
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Hot Cookie
1817 Polk St,San Francisco,CA 94109
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Aubrey's Treat Lab
Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Flavor Brigade
3540 Fruitvale Ave,Oakland,CA 94602
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Seismic Joint
ExploratoriumPier 15,San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Caffe Greco
423 Columbus Ave,San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Silver Dahlia Baking
Oakland,CA 94602
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mollie Rose Baking Company
2145 Broadway,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Lush Gelato
520 Columbus Ave,San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Edith's Pie
412 22nd St,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Shades of Sugar Bakeshop
Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mela Bistro
35 Grand Ave,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
TECO Tea & Coffee Bar
39030 Paseo Padre Pkwy,Fremont,CA 94538
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Rize Up Bakery
San Francisco,CA 94118
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Chez Pay
San Francisco,CA 94118
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Gregory's Gourmet Desserts
285 23rd St,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Toy Boat By Jane
401 Clement St,San Francisco,CA 94118
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Wooden Table Cafe
2300 BroadwaySte A,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Frutiko
Greenwich St 120,San Francisco,CA 94111
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Schubert's Bakery
521 Clement St,San Francisco,CA 94118
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Humphry Slocombe ‐ Oakland
2335 Broadway,Oakland,CA 94612
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sushi On North Beach ‐ Katsu
745 Columbus Ave,San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Nature's Organic Ice Cream
37597 Niles Blvd,Fremont,CA 94536
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Italian Homemade Company
1919 Union St,San Francisco,CA 94123
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sweet Surprise Bay Area
Oakland,CA 94602
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Cocoabanana
San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Bake Sum
3249 Grand Ave,Oakland,CA 94610
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Golden Edge Pizza
5351 Geary Blvd,San Francisco,CA 94121
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
The Tea Zone & Fruit Bar
805 E El Camino Real,Ste F,Mountain View, 
CA 94040
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Candicake
San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Mama's Cookies
San Francisco,CA 94133
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Milkcow
5625 Auto Mall Pkwy,Fremont,CA 94538
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Kara's Cupcakes
3249 Scott St,San Francisco,CA 94123
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Purple Kow
3620 Balboa St,San Francisco,CA 94121
QSR ‐ Dessert/Tea
Sugar Butter Flour
669 S Bernardo Ave,Sunnyvale,CA 94087

--- page 55 ---
OWNER:  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC
CONTACT:  CHRIS KOBER
ARCHITECT:  HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON
CONTACT:  LISA MACALUSO
PHONE:  (650) 263-9656
EMAIL: CKOBER@ESSEX.COM
PROJECT ADDRESS: 
430 STATION PARK CIR#100 (CORNER OF S. DELAWARE ST AND CONCAR DRIVE)
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PROPOSED USE:
M, B, A-2, A-3, S-2, R-2
OCCUPANCY:
M, B, A-2, A-3, S-2, R-2 
MIXED OCCUPANCY: 
YES
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION:
GARAGES, TYPE IA - CAST IN CONCRETE AND CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS ON DRILLED DISPLACEMENT COLUMNS
SUPERSTRUCTURE, TYPE VA - WOOD STUD CONSTRUCTION W/ TJI FLOOR AND ROOF FRAMING.
PROJECT INFORMATION
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  
THE SUBJECT OF APPLICATION IS AN AMENDMENT TO THE SPECIFIC PLAN AND THE DESIGN GUIDELINES 
PROPOSAL FOR THE GROUND FLOOR THAT INCLUDES:
-CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY USE FROM RETAIL TO OFFICE, OFFICE TO RETAIL AT THE GROUND FLOOR.
-RELOCATION OF OFFICE, RETAIL, AND REC/COMMUNITY ROOMS. (SQ FT OF REC/COMMUNITY ROOM IS NOT LESS 
THAN EXISTING)
*INTERIOR DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION IS NOT A PART OF THIS APPLICATION. INTERIOR TENANT 
IMPROVEMENTS WILL BE UNDER A SEPARATE APPLICATION.
*MINOR EXTERIOR SITE IMPROVEMENTS IS NOT A PART OF THIS APPLICATION. MINOR EXTERIOR SITE 
IMPROVEMENTS WILL BE UNDER A SEPARATE APPLICATION. NO TREES SHALL BE REMOVED.
PROJECT NAME: STATION PARK GREEN, SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN GUIDELINES AMENDMENTS
CONTACT INFORMATION
PHONE:  (408) 213-8219
EMAIL: LMACALUSO@HGA.COM
CONSULTANT:  KAMANGAR CONSULTING, LLC
CONTACT:  KATIA KAMANGAR
PHONE:  (650) 815-8521
EMAIL: KATKAMANGAR@GMAIL.COM
1
1
2022 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE:
PART 5, TITLE 24, CCR; BASED ON THE 2021 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE (UPC)
2022 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CMC): 
PART 4, TITLE 24, CCR;BASED ON THE 2021 UNIFORM MECHANICAL CODE (UMC)
2022 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE (CEC):
PART 3, TITLE 24, CCR; BASED ON THE 2020 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE (NEC)
2022 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CBC): 
PART 2, TITLE 24, CCR; BASED ON THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC)
2022 CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE (CAC)
PART 1, TITLE 24, CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS (CCR)
COUNTY OF: 
SAN MATEO
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION:
SAN MATEO
SIGN CODE: 
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT ( ADA), CBC (TITLE 24), & UFC (TITLE 19)
2022 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE(CFC):
PART 9, TITLE 24, CCR, BASED ON THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE (IFC)
ENERGY CODE: 
2022 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE - PART 6, TITLE 24, CCR
ACCESSIBILITY CODE:
CHAPTER 11/11B, 2016 CBC AND 2010 ADA (28 CFR PART 36)
LIFE SAFETY CODE: 
2000 NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE
CODE INFORMATION
APN:
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA INFORMATION
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
LOT SIZE (SQ. FT):
# OF STORES:
TOTAL FLOOR AREA FOR PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
TOTAL COVERED PARKING STALLS:
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS:
TOTAL AREA OF NEW AND REHABILITATED 
LANDSCAPE AREA (SQ. FT):
035-200-220
TOD DISTRICT
(TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT PER 
SAN MATEO MUNI. CODE SEC 27.90)
SITE AREA: 11.97 ACRES (521,397 SF)
5 STORIES
224,969 SF (ALL 5 STORIES TOTAL)
1
868
64
N/A (FUTURE UNDER SEPARATE PERMIT)
C
COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
STATION PARK GREEN
430 STATION PARK CIR#100
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
HGA COMMISSION NUMBER:
MAP:
NOTE: RENDERING NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION USE
84 W SANTA CLARA ST, SUITE 200
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA 95113
TELEPHONE: 408.286.0851
9/23/2025 5:40:23 PM
STATION PARK GREEN
A000.
5288-002-00
430 STATION PARK
CIR#100
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
SEPTEMBER 24, 2025
DRAWING INDEX - PLANNING
REV #
NUMBER
SHEET NAME
1-PLANNING
A000 - GENERAL
2
A000.
COVERSHEET
A020.
AERIAL PLAN
A021.
EXISTING SITE PLAN
A022.
ENLARGED EXISTING SITE PLAN
1
A023.
PROPOSED SITE UPGRADES (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
A030.
EXISTING PARKING SUMMARY
2
A031.
PROPOSED PARKING SUMMARY
1
.GEN-3.1.2
MU-1 - LEVEL 2 & 3 USE AND EGRESS (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
.GEN-3.1.3
MU-1 - LEVEL 4 USE AND EGRESS (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
.GEN-3.1.4
MU-1 - LEVEL 2 & 3 USE AND EGRESS (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
A040.
EXISTING OCCUPANCY AND USE
1
A041.
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY AND USE
1
A060.
EXISTING ELEVATIONS (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
A070.
ENLARGED PLANS & ELEVATIONS (REFERENCE ONLY)
1
A071.
ENLARGED PLANS & ELEVATIONS (REFERENCE ONLY)
Grand total: 15
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMENDMENTS
STATION PARK GREEN
1
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 56 ---
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:23 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A020.
AERIAL PLAN
Author
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 57 ---
16
A022.
SUBJECT OF 
APPLICATION
S DELAWARE ST
CONCAR DR
3
PROPERTY LINE
4
2
1
1
A023.
EXISTING
1
EXISTING SITE PLAN
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:24 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A021.
EXISTING SITE
PLAN
Author
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 58 ---
S DELAWARE ST
CONCAR DRIVE
GREEN WAY
1
2
4
3
1
ENLARGED EXISTING PLAN LEGEND
EXISTING SITE PHOTOGRAPHS
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:28 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A022.
ENLARGED
EXISTING SITE
PLAN
Author
1/16" = 1'-0"
16
ENLARGED EXISTING SITE PLAN
EXISTING CORNER PLAZA
1
VIEW ALONG S. DELWARE ST
2
PEDESTRIAN PROMANADE
3
PEDESTRIAN PROMANADE
4
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 59 ---
S DELAWARE ST
CONCAR DRIVE
1
A071.
16
A070.
3
A071.
S3
S3
S3
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S2
S2
S2
S2
1
2
3
4
1
NOTE TO REVIEWER:
THE CONCEPTS, SITE FURNISHINGS, AND PROGRAMMING DEPICTED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY. PRELIMINARY AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS THE DESIGN DEVELOPS. 
FINAL DESIGN AND PERMITTING SHALL BE THROUGH CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC WORKS AT A LATER 
DATE.
THERE SHALL BE NO CHANGE IN PAINT FINISH OF THE BUILDING.
NO TREE REMOVAL IS PROPOSED AS PART OF THIS PROJECT.
THERE WILL BE NO NEW OR REPLACEMENT IMPERVIOUS AREA IN THIS PROJECT. ALL (E) DRAINAGE 
PATTERN WILL REMAIN.
*ALL SITE MODIFICATIONS ARE NOT PART OF THIS SUBMITTAL AND WILL BE UNDER A SEPARATE 
APPLICATION. ALL MODIFICATIONS ARE SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NO CHANGES ARE 
PROPOSED IN THIS SUBMITTAL.
1
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:31 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A023.
PROPOSED SITE
UPGRADES
(REFERENCE
ONLY)
Author
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
S1 - MODULAR PEDESTRIAN BENCHES
S3 - STRING LIGHTS INSTALLED ABOVE
S2 - MOVEABLE STOWABLE CAFE CHAIRS 
AND TABLES
NEW ACTIVATED PLAZA
EXISTING ART STRUCTURE TO REMAIN 
1
NEW OFFICE & WALKWAY
2
NEW ENHANCED PASSAGEWAY
3
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
NEW OFFICE & RETAIL @ CONCAR DR.
4
1
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 60 ---
(E) SHORT TERM 
BICYCLE PARKING (32)
(E) VAN ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD 
ACCESSIBLE STALL
1
1
PARKING LEGEND:
UNASSIGNED PARKING
EV PARKING
SHARED PARKING
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING
UNASSIGNED 
PARKING (10)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/24/2025 1:06:03 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A030.
EXISTING
PARKING
SUMMARY
Author
1" = 40'-0"
1
EXISTING PARKING SUMMARY
GRAND TOTAL 
779
EXISTING PARKING REQUIRED - NON-RESIDENTIAL
TYPE
AREA
PARKING 
RATIO
*PARKING 
REQUIRED
AMENITY (COMMUNITY/REC.ROOM)
OFFICES
RETAIL
3,034 SF
7,991 SF
25,033 SF
36,058SF
0.32/1000
0.8
2.6
51.6
55
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - RESIDENTIAL
PARKING REQ'D -
ACCESSIBLE (RES)
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
ACCESS RREQ'D
MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3 (ALL LEVELS) 
576
180
27
19
802
37.8
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - NON RESIDENTIAL
PARKING REQ'D -
ACCESSIBLE (RES)
LEVEL 
USE
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
ACCESS RREQ'D
VAN ACCESSIBLE
STREET 
CAR-SHARING 
5
0
0
0
5
STREET 
LOADING 
12
0
0
0
12
STREET 
UNASSIGNED 
47
0
0
0
47
LEVEL 1 NON-RESIDENTIAL
29
11
5
1
46
LEVEL 2 
OFFICE
15
5
0
0
20
GRAND TOTAL 
130
108
16
1
5
ACCESSIBLE 
PARKING SPACE = 5
NOTE:  EXISTING PARKING SUMMARY PARKING RATIOS ARE APPROVED UNDER PERMIT #BD-2015-255980
NON-RESIDENTIAL AREAS REFLECTS MOST CURRENT AS-BUILT CONDITIONS.
0.32/1000
2.06/1000
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
2
SPA PCR 2
09/24/25
MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3 
(TOTAL REQUIRED (E) RESIDENTIAL PARKING FOR (E) RESIDENTIAL UNITS)
EXISTING PARKING REQUIRED - RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE) 
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 61 ---
(E) VAN ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD 
ACCESSIBLE STALL
1
1
PARKING LEGEND:
(E) UNASSIGNED PARKING
(E) EV PARKING
(E) SHARED PARKING
(E) SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING
(E) LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING
UNASSIGNED 
PARKING (10)
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/24/2025 1:06:04 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A031.
PROPOSED
PARKING
SUMMARY
Author
1" = 40'-0"
1
MU-1 PROPOSED PARKING SUMMARY
*YELLOW HATCH INDICATES CHANGE OF EXISTING PARKING SUMMARY
*TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED : 
(RESIDENTIAL + NON-RESIDENTIAL)
779 + 24.23 =  *803.23
TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED :
(RESIDENTIAL + NON-RESIDENTIAL)
802 + 130 = 932
PARKING SUMMARY: 
PROVIDED PARKING SPACE COMPLIES WITH SAN MATEO ZONING REQUIREMENT, EXCEEDING BY 128.77 TOTAL STALLS
EXISTING PARKING REQUIRED - RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE) 
PROPOSED PARKING REQUIRED - NON-RESIDENTIAL
TYPE
AREA
PARKING 
RATIO
*PARKING 
REQUIRED
AMENITY (COMMUNITY/REC.ROOM)
OFFICES
RETAIL
3,122 SF
25,639SF
7,297 SF
36,058SF
.32/1000
1.00
8.20
15.03
24.23
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE)
PARKING REQ'D -
ACCESSIBLE (RES)
LEVEL 
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
ACCESS RREQ'D
EXISTING PARKING PROVIDED - NON-RESIDENTIAL (NO CHANGE)
PARKING REQ'D -
ACCESSIBLE (RES)
LEVEL 
USE
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
ACCESS RREQ'D
VAN ACCESSIBLE
STREET 
CAR-SHARING 
5
0
0
0
5
STREET 
LOADING 
12
0
0
0
12
STREET 
UNASSIGNED 
47
0
0
0
47
LEVEL 1 NON-RESIDENTIAL
29
11
5
1
46
LEVEL 2 
OFFICE
15
5
0
0
20
GRAND TOTAL 
130
108
16
1
5
ACCESSIBLE 
PARKING SPACE = 5
.32/1000
2.06/1000
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
2
SPA PCR 2
09/24/25
GRAND TOTAL 
779
MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3 (ALL LEVELS) 
576
180
27
19
802
37.8
MU-1, RE-1, RE-2, AND RE-3 
(TOTAL REQUIRED (E) RESIDENTIAL PARKING FOR (E) RESIDENTIAL UNITS)
1
1
PROPOSED BIKE PARKING REQUIRED
OFFICES
RETAIL
25,639 SF
7,297 SF
6.84
0.73
67.47
1/3,750
1/10,000
1
1
1
*PER APPROVED TDM PROGRAM, EMPLOYEE LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SHALL 
BE PROVIDED AT A RATE OF 1 SPACE PER 10,000 SF OF RETAIL OR 1 SPACE PER 3,750 
SQ FT OF OFFICE AREA. RESIDENTIAL LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING SHALL BE 
PROVIDED AT A RATE OF 1 SPACE PER 10 UNITS.
RESIDENTIAL
599 UNITS
59.9
1/10
LONG TERM BIKE PARKING
(E) BIKE PARKING PROVIDED
BUILDING MU-1
RESIDENTIAL:
NON-RESIDENTIAL:
52
8
LONG TERM BIKE PARKING
BUILDING RE-2
50
BUILDING RE-3
50
BUILDING RE-4
52
204
TOTAL
53
SHORT TERM PARKING
BIKE PARKING SUMMARY: 
PROVIDED LONG TERM BIKE PARKING SPACE COMPLIES WITH THE APPROVED TDM 
PROGRAM, EXCEEDING BY 136.53.
1
MU-1
40
5
4
1
50
LEVEL 1
38
7
1
1
47
LEVEL 2
36
13
2
1
52
LEVEL 3
39
13
2
1
55
LEVEL 4
15
16
1
1
33
LEVEL 5
168
54
10
5
237
1
OFFICES
RETAIL
25,639 SF
7,297 SF
1.28
3.65
43.58
1/20,000 SF
1/2,000 SF
RESIDENTIAL
1 BEDROOM + STUDIO:
2 BEDROOMS:
3 BEDROOMS:
430
164
5
21.5
16.4
0.75
0.05/1
0.10/1
0.15/1
SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING
2
2
2
2
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 62 ---
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
(12) LONG TERM BIKE PARKING
*NOTE LEVEL 02 AND LEVEL 03 ARE SIM.
LEVEL 02 GARAGE:
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING: (12)
UNASSIGNED SHARED PARKING FOR OFFICE USE: (20)
UNASSIGNED SHARED PARKING FOR RESIDENTIAL USE: (27)
LEVEL 03 GARAGE:
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING: (12)
UNASSIGNED SHARED PARKING FOR RESIDENTIAL USE: (52)
(E) VAN ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL
1

--- page 63 ---
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
1
(12) LONG TERM BIKE PARKING
(E) VAN ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL
LEVEL 04 GARAGE:
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING: (12)
UNASSIGNED SHARED PARKING FOR RESIDENTIAL USE: (55)

--- page 64 ---
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
LEVEL 05 GARAGE:
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING: (12)
UNASSIGNED SHARED PARKING FOR RESIDENTIAL USE: (33)
1
(12) LONG TERM BIKE PARKING
(E) VAN ACCESSIBLE STALL
(E) STANDARD ACCESSIBLE STALL

--- page 65 ---
3,034 SF
(E) COMMUNITY/REC.
ROOM
4,019 SF
(E) OFFICE B
3,972 SF
(E) OFFICE A
2,126 SF
(E) RETAIL I
1,819 SF
*(E) RETAIL G
2,466 SF
*(E) RETAIL C
4,111 SF
*(E) RETAIL A
2,264 SF
*(E) RETAIL B
25,129 SF
(E) GARAGE
(E) OCCUPANCY TYPE
A-3
B
M
S-1
S-2
ALL (E) CONSTRUCTION TO REMAIN. INTERIOR DEMOLITION AND 
CONSTRUCTION IS NOT PART OF THIS APPLICATION.
FUTURE INTERIOR TI WILL BE UNDER SEPARATE SUBMITTAL.
SEE A041. FOR PROPOSED OCCUPANCY AND USE
1,189 SF
(E) RETAIL J
3,133 SF
(E) RETAIL K
2,180 SF
(E) RETAIL H
1,663 SF
*(E) RETAIL F
2,364 SF
*(E) RETAIL E
1,719 SF
*(E) RETAIL D
317 SF
(E) GARAGE TRASH
2,205 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
652 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
275 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
302 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
282 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
918 SF
(E) ELECTRICAL
OCCUPANCY AREAS, TYPE, AND USE SHOWN IN THIS PLAN IS 
CURRENT AS BUILT CONDITION.
USE
SQ FT
TOTAL LOT SF
FAR
MAX FAR 
(PER 2025 SPECIFIC PLAN)
RETAIL
OFFICE
COMM. RM
7,297
25,639
3,122
521,397 
0.014
0.049
0.006
0.1
0.2
N/A
521,397 
521,397 
PROPOSED FAR TABLE
USE
SQ FT
TOTAL LOT SF
FAR
MAX FAR 
(PER 2014 SPECIFIC PLAN)
RETAIL
OFFICE
COMM. RM
25,033
7,991
3,034
521,397 
0.048
0.015
0.006
0.2
0.1
N/A
521,397 
521,397 
EXISTING FAR TABLE
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:34 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A040.
EXISTING
OCCUPANCY
AND USE
Author
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - EXISTING OCCUPANCY USE
MU-1 LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - PROPOSED OCCUPANCY
NAME
OCCUPANCY
AREA
COMMENTS
*COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
A-3
3,122 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL J AND K" M
OCCUPANCY
(E) OFFICE B.1
B
4,019 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
*OFFICE B.2
B
3,034 SF
PREVIOUSLY A-3 OCCUPANCY
*OFFICE C
B
4,185 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL C AND D" M
OCCUPANCY
*OFFICE D
B
4,111 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL A" M OCCUPANCY.
*OFFICE E
B
2,264 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL B" M OCCUPANCY.
*OFFICE F
B
8,026 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL E, F, G, H" M
OCCUPANCY
(E) RETAIL I
M
2,126 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL J
M
1,200 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
*RETAIL A
M
3,972 SF
PREVIOUSLY "OFFICE A" B OCCUPANCY
(E) ELECTRICAL
S-1
918 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
282 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
302 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
275 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
652 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
2,205 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE TRASH
S-1
317 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE
S-2
25,129 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
66,137 SF
MU-1 LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - EXISTING OCCUPANCY
NAME
OCCUPANCY
AREA
COMMENTS
(E) COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
A-3
3,034 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) OFFICE A
B
3,972 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) OFFICE B
B
4,019 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL H
M
2,180 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL I
M
2,126 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL J
M
1,189 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL K
M
3,133 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE G" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL A
M
4,111 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE D" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL B
M
2,264 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE E" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL C
M
2,466 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE C" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL D
M
1,719 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE C" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL E
M
2,364 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL F
M
1,663 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL G
M
1,819 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
(E) ELECTRICAL
S-1
918 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
2,205 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
652 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
275 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
302 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
282 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE TRASH
S-1
317 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE
S-2
25,129 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
66,137 SF
*INDICATES CHANGE OF EXISTING OCCUPANCY TYPE. 
REFER TO SHEET A040. FOR EXISTING OCCUPANCY.
REFER TO SHEET A041. FOR PROPOSED OCCUPANCY.
TYPE IA, GROUP A-3, B, AND M
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
LEVEL 01 OF BUILDING 1 IS CLASSIFIED AS NON-SEPARATED OCCUPANCY MIXED USE PER SEC 508.3 AS FOLLOWS:
COMMUNITY/REC ROOM: 
A-3 OCCUPANCY
OFFICE:
B OCCUPANCY
RETAIL:
M OCCUPANCY
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 66 ---
3,034 SF
*OFFICE B.2
PROPOSED OCCUPANCY TYPE
A-3
B
M
S-1
S-2
4,019 SF
(E) OFFICE B.1
3,972 SF
*RETAIL A
2,126 SF
(E) RETAIL I
1,200 SF
(E) RETAIL J
4,185 SF
*OFFICE C
2,264 SF
*OFFICE E
4,111 SF
*OFFICE D
25,129 SF
(E) GARAGE
8,026 SF
*OFFICE F
317 SF
(E) GARAGE TRASH
282 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
302 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
275 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
2,205 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
652 SF
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
918 SF
(E) ELECTRICAL
3,122 SF
*COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
ALL (E) CONSTRUCTION TO REMAIN. INTERIOR DEMOLITION AND 
CONSTRUCTION IS NOT PART OF THIS APPLICATION.
FUTURE INTERIOR TI WILL BE UNDER SEPARATE SUBMITTAL.
SEE A041. FOR PROPOSED OCCUPANCY AND USE
OCCUPANCY AREAS, TYPE, AND USE SHOWN IN THIS PLAN IS 
CURRENT AS BUILT CONDITION.
1
1
1
1
PRIMARY ENTRY
GARAGE ENTRY
GARAGE ENTRY (UPPER LEVELS)
SECONDARY ENTRY
1
1
1
OFFICE B ENTRY
RETAIL A ENTRY
REC. ROOM
ENTRY
RETAIL J 
ENTRY
RETAIL I 
ENTRY
OFFICE F 
ENTRY
OFFICE F 
2ND ENTRY
OFFICE E 
ENTRY
OFFICE D 
ENTRY
1
1
1
1
USE
SQ FT
TOTAL LOT SF
FAR
MAX FAR 
(PER 2025 SPECIFIC PLAN)
RETAIL
OFFICE
COMM. RM
7,297
25,639
3,122
521,397 
0.014
0.049
0.006
0.1
0.2
N/A
521,397 
521,397 
PROPOSED FAR TABLE
USE
SQ FT
TOTAL LOT SF
FAR
MAX FAR 
(PER 2014 SPECIFIC PLAN)
RETAIL
OFFICE
COMM. RM
25,033
7,991
3,034
521,397 
0.048
0.015
0.006
0.2
0.1
N/A
521,397 
521,397 
EXISTING FAR TABLE
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:36 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A041.
PROPOSED
OCCUPANCY
AND USE
Author
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - PROPOSED OCCUPANCY
MU-1 LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - PROPOSED OCCUPANCY
NAME
OCCUPANCY
AREA
COMMENTS
*COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
A-3
3,122 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL J AND K" M
OCCUPANCY
(E) OFFICE B.1
B
4,019 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
*OFFICE B.2
B
3,034 SF
PREVIOUSLY A-3 OCCUPANCY
*OFFICE C
B
4,185 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL C AND D" M
OCCUPANCY
*OFFICE D
B
4,111 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL A" M OCCUPANCY.
*OFFICE E
B
2,264 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL B" M OCCUPANCY.
*OFFICE F
B
8,026 SF
PREVIOUSLY "RETAIL E, F, G, H" M
OCCUPANCY
(E) RETAIL I
M
2,126 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL J
M
1,200 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
*RETAIL A
M
3,972 SF
PREVIOUSLY "OFFICE A" B OCCUPANCY
(E) ELECTRICAL
S-1
918 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
282 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
302 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
275 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
652 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
2,205 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE TRASH
S-1
317 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE
S-2
25,129 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
66,137 SF
MU-1 LEVEL 01 (GRADE) - EXISTING OCCUPANCY
NAME
OCCUPANCY
AREA
COMMENTS
(E) COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
A-3
3,034 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) OFFICE A
B
3,972 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) OFFICE B
B
4,019 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL H
M
2,180 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL I
M
2,126 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL J
M
1,189 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) RETAIL K
M
3,133 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE G" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL A
M
4,111 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE D" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL B
M
2,264 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE E" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL C
M
2,466 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE C" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL D
M
1,719 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE C" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL E
M
2,364 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL F
M
1,663 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
*(E) RETAIL G
M
1,819 SF
CHANGE TO "OFFICE F" B OCCUPANCY
(E) ELECTRICAL
S-1
918 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
2,205 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
652 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
275 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
302 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE ELECTRICAL
S-1
282 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE TRASH
S-1
317 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
(E) GARAGE
S-2
25,129 SF
NO CHANGE. EXISTING TO REMAIN.
66,137 SF
*INDICATES CHANGE OF EXISTING OCCUPANCY TYPE. 
REFER TO SHEET A040. FOR EXISTING OCCUPANCY.
REFER TO SHEET A041. FOR PROPOSED OCCUPANCY.
TYPE IA, GROUP A-3, B, AND M
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
LEVEL 01 OF BUILDING 1 IS CLASSIFIED AS NON-SEPARATED OCCUPANCY MIXED USE PER SEC 508.3 AS FOLLOWS:
COMMUNITY/REC ROOM: 
A-3 OCCUPANCY
OFFICE:
B OCCUPANCY
RETAIL:
M OCCUPANCY
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
1
1
1
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 67 ---
1
A071.
PROPOSED
4
A071.
PROPOSED
18
A070.
PROPOSED
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:38 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A060.
EXISTING
ELEVATIONS
(REFERENCE
ONLY)
Author
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
(EXISTING) SOUTH ELEVATION - CONCAR DRIVE
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
(EXISTING) NORTH ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
(EXISTING) WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
(EXISTING) EAST ELEVATION - S. DELAWARE
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 68 ---
________________
A070.
18
1
LEVEL 01
102' - 3"
LEVEL 02
117' - 3"
T.O. ROOF STRUCTURE
168' - 6"
LEVEL 03
127' - 2"
LEVEL 04
137' - 1"
LEVEL 05
147' - 0"
POOL
158' - 6"
T.O. TOWER
176' - 9"
STRING LIGHTS INSTALLED 
ON HSS POSTS AND (E) 
BUILDING FACADE
12'-0"H 6"X3" HSS POST. 
POWDER COATED BLACK.
MODULAR PEDESTRIAN 
BENCH
MODULAR PEDESTRIAN BENCH
(E) CONCRETE CAST 
SEATING
STRING LGIHT 
INSTALLED ON (E) 
BUILDING FACADE
NEW LANDSCAPE AND 
FOLIAGE. TBD.
NOTE TO REVIEWER:
THE CONCEPTS, SITE FURNISHINGS, AND PROGRAMMING DEPICTED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY. PRELIMINARY AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS THE DESIGN DEVELOPS. 
FINAL DESIGN AND PERMITTING SHALL BE THROUGH CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC WORKS AT A LATER 
DATE.
THERE SHALL BE NO CHANGE IN PAINT FINISH OF THE BUILDING.
NO TREE REMOVAL IS PROPOSED AS PART OF THIS PROJECT.
THERE WILL BE NO NEW OR REPLACEMENT IMPERVIOUS AREA IN THIS PROJECT. ALL (E) DRAINAGE 
PATTERN WILL REMAIN.
*ALL SITE MODIFICATIONS ARE NOT PART OF THIS SUBMITTAL AND WILL BE UNDER A SEPARATE 
APPLICATION. ALL MODIFICATIONS ARE SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NO CHANGES ARE 
PROPOSED IN THIS SUBMITTAL.
1
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:40 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A070.
ENLARGED
PLANS &
ELEVATIONS
(REFERENCE
ONLY)
Author
1/8" = 1'-0"
16
ENLARGED ENHANCED PASSAGEWAY
S2
S2
S2
S1
S1
S1
S1
S1
S3
S3
S4
S4
S5
S5
S5
S5
S6
S6
S6
S6
S6
S7
S7
S7
S8
S8
PROPERTY LINE
1/8" = 1'-0"
18
ELEVATION - WEST (ENHANCED PASSAGEWAY)
KEYNOTES - ENLARGED ENHANCED PASSAGEWAY
#
DESCRIPTION
S1
MODULAR PEDESTRIAN BENCHES.
S2
MOVEABLE STOWABLE CAFE CHAIRS AND TABLES.
S3
DASH LINE INDICATES STRING LIGHTS ABOVE.
S4
REPLACE (E) LANDSCAPING WITH NEW. PLANT AND FOLIAGE SPECIES TBD. ALL (E) TREES TO
REMAIN.
S5
BLACK POWDER COATED 12' H 6"X3" HSS POST INSTALLED TO EDGE OF EXISTING LANDSCAPING.
STRING LIGHTS TO BE ATTACHED TO THE HSS COLUMN. INSTALLATIION AND DETAILS TBD.
S6
INSTALL STRING LIGHT TO EXISTING BUILDING FACADE ABOVE. INSTALLATION AND DETAILS TBD.
S7
(E) ART STRUCTURE INSTALLATION TO REMAIN.
S8
(E) CONCRETE CASTED SEATING TO REMAIN.
NEW ENHANCED PASSAGEWAY
1
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
*NO CHANGES TO EXISTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS. ELEVATIONS FOR REFERENCE ONLY.
1
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 69 ---
S3
S4
S5
S2
TYP.
S5
S5
S5
S5
SETBACK LINE
S6
S7
S8
________________
A071.
2
S6
S6
S6
S6
S6
TYP.
1
LEVEL 01
102' - 3"
LEVEL 02
117' - 3"
T.O. ROOF STRUCTURE
168' - 6"
LEVEL 03
127' - 2"
LEVEL 04
137' - 1"
LEVEL 05
147' - 0"
POOL
158' - 6"
T.O. TOWER
176' - 9"
(E) ART STRUCTURE INSTALLATION TO REMAIN
NEW STRING LIGHTS INSTALLED ON HSS 
POSTS AND (E) BUILDING FACADE
12'-0"H 6"X3" HSS POST. POWDER COATED BLACK.
NEW LANDSCAPING AND FOLIAGE. TBD
REPLACE (E) WOODEN CURB WITH NEW
NOTE TO REVIEWER:
THE CONCEPTS, SITE FURNISHINGS, AND PROGRAMMING DEPICTED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY. PRELIMINARY AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS THE DESIGN DEVELOPS. 
FINAL DESIGN AND PERMITTING SHALL BE THROUGH CITY OF SAN MATEO PUBLIC WORKS AT A LATER 
DATE.
THERE SHALL BE NO CHANGE IN PAINT FINISH OF THE BUILDING.
NO TREE REMOVAL IS PROPOSED AS PART OF THIS PROJECT.
THERE WILL BE NO NEW OR REPLACEMENT IMPERVIOUS AREA IN THIS PROJECT. ALL (E) DRAINAGE 
PATTERN WILL REMAIN.
*ALL SITE MODIFICATIONS ARE NOT PART OF THIS SUBMITTAL AND WILL BE UNDER A SEPARATE 
APPLICATION. ALL MODIFICATIONS ARE SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NO CHANGES ARE 
PROPOSED IN THIS SUBMITTAL.
1
SETBACK LINE
S1
S DELAWARE ST
________________
A071.
4
2
LEVEL 01
102' - 3"
LEVEL 02
117' - 3"
T.O. ROOF STRUCTURE
168' - 6"
LEVEL 03
127' - 2"
LEVEL 04
137' - 1"
LEVEL 05
147' - 0"
POOL
158' - 6"
MODULAR PEDESTRIAN BENCHES
HGA NO:
DATE:
NO DESCRIPTION
DATE
STATION PARK 
GREEN
430 STATION 
PARK
CIR #100
© COPYRIGHT HAMMEL, GREEN AND ABRAHAMSON, INC.
ISSUANCE HISTORY - THIS SHEET
SPECIFIC PLAN & DESIGN 
GUIDELINES AMMENDMENT
MAY 9, 2025
5288-002-00
9/23/2025 5:40:42 PM
C:\Users\sjandresc\Documents\Revit Local Files\A25_Essex_5288-002-00_sjandresc.rvt
A071.
ENLARGED
PLANS &
ELEVATIONS
(REFERENCE
ONLY)
Author
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED ACTIVATED PLAZA PLAN
KEYNOTE - ENLARGED SITE PLAN.
#
Keynote Text
S1
MODULAR PEDESTRIAN BENCHES.
S2
MOVEABLE STOWABLE CAFE CHAIRS AND TABLES.
S3
DASH LINE INDICATES STRING LIGHTS ABOVE.
S4
REPLACE (E) LANDSCAPING WITH NEW. PLANT AND FOLIAGE SPECIES TBD. ALL (E) TREES TO
REMAIN.
S5
BLACK POWDER COATED 12' H 6"X3" HSS POST INSTALLED TO EDGE OF EXISTING LANDSCAPING.
STRING LIGHTS TO BE ATTACHED TO THE HSS COLUMN. INSTALLATIION AND DETAILS TBD.
S6
INSTALL STRING LIGHT TO EXISTING BUILDING FACADE ABOVE. INSTALLATION AND DETAILS TBD.
S7
(E) ART STRUCTURE INSTALLATION TO REMAIN.
S8
(E) CONCRETE CASTED SEATING TO REMAIN.
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED ELEVATION - SOUTH (ACTIVATED PLAZA)
1/8" = 1'-0"
3
ENLARGED EAST BUILDING WALKWAY
1/8" = 1'-0"
4
ENLARGED ELEVATION - EAST (WALKWAY)
NEW ACTIVATED PLAZA
EXISTING ART STRUCTURE TO REMAIN
1
NEW OFFICE & WALKWAY
2
SPECIFIC PLAN
& DESIGN
GUIDELINES
AMENDMENTS
05/09/25
1
SPA PCR 1
08/06/25
1
*NO CHANGES TO EXISTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS. ELEVATIONS FOR REFERENCE ONLY.
1
1
*NO CHANGES TO EXISTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS. ELEVATIONS FOR REFERENCE ONLY.
1
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
2
REN.9-30-
No. C-20117
A
I
F
E
O
N
T
R
A
O
L
F
I
T
C
S
A
T
C
E
H
I
C
C
R
A
D
E
N
E
I
L
T
S
S
C
O
T
T
R
.
C
O
L
S
N
O
257

--- page 70 ---
OWNER:
EBL&S DEVELOPMENT
803 LAUREL AVE., APT. 1
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
ALAN TALANSKY
650.796.1700
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT:
GLS LANDSCAPE / ARCHITECTURE
2677 MISSION STREET #200
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
GARY STRANG
415.285.3614
ARCHITECT:
MVE & PARTNERS
1900 MAIN STREET, 8TH FLOOR
IRVINE, CA 92614
DARIN SCHOOLMEESTER
949.809.3388
WWW.MVE-ARCHITECTS.COM
LIGHTING:
STUDIO K1
15231 LAGUNA CANYON ROAD, SUITE
100
IRVINE, CA 92618
EILEEN THOMAS
949.751.5800
CIVIL ENGINEER:
ARUP
560 MISSION STREET, SUITE 700
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
GRANT MCINNES
415.946.0594
PROJECT SITE
HAYWARD PARK
CALTRAIN STATION
HWY 101
EL CAMINO REAL
DOWNTOWN
SAN MATEO
SR 92
CALTRAIN
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
A.P.N.s:
035-200-180 & 035-200-060
ZONING:
TOD DISTRICT (TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT PER SAN MATEO MUNI. CODE SEC. 27.90)
PROJECT ADDRESS:
TBD (CORNER OF SOUTH DELAWARE STREET AND CONCAR DRIVE)
PROJECT SUMMARY:
THE PROJECT CONSISTS OF FOUR INDIVIDUAL BUILDINGS ON A ~12 ACRE SITE. OF THE FOUR
BUILDINGS, ONE IS A MIXED-USE BUILDING WITH RETAIL AND OFFICE SPACE ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND FOUR STORIES OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS ABOVE. THE REMAINING THREE
BUILDINGS ARE COMPOSED ENTIRELY OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS. THE PROJECT PROVIDES
STUDIO, 1-BEDROOM, 2-BEDROOM AND 3-BEDROOM UNITS FOR A TOTAL UNIT COUNT OF 599.
EACH BUILDING CONTAINS A CONCEALED PARKING GARAGE CORE OF TYPE 1A
CONSTRUCTION AROUND WHICH THE RESIDENTIAL PORTIONS (OF TYPE IIIA AND VA
CONSTRUCTION) ARE "WRAPPED." OVER TWO ACRES OF PARK OPEN SPACE ARE INCLUDED
IN THE PROJECT.
SITE AREA:
11.97 ACRES (521,396 SF)
OPEN SPACE:
2.3 ACRES (102,292 SF)
DENSITY:
599 UNITS / 11.97 ACRES = 50 DU/AC
F.A.R.:
2.3
STRUCTURAL SYSTEM:
GARAGES, TYPE IA - CAST IN PLACE CONCRETE AND CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS ON A MAT
FOUNDATION.
RETAIL/ OFFICE, TYPE IA - CONCRETE COLUMNS AND PODIUM DECK SUPPORTING LEVELS
ABOVE, WHERE APPLICABLE.
RESIDENCES, TYPE VA AND IIIA - WOOD STUD BEARING WALLS, POSTS AND BEAMS. FIRE-
RETARDANT-TREATED WOOD USED WHERE REQUIRED FOR TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION.
MIXED USE:
IN ADDITION TO 599 RESIDENTIAL UNITS, THE PROJECT CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING USES:
OFFICE SPACE:
10,755 S.F.
RETAIL SPACE:
27,784 S.F.
AMENITIES SPACE:
7,649 S.F.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Parcel One:
Parcel 1 as shown on the Parcel Map entitled "Parcel Map No. 93 being a resubdivision of the properties of
Concar Ranch and Enterprises, Inc., San Mateo, California, being a portion of Parcel "B" as recorded in
Parcel Map Book 16 at Page 21, Official Records of San Mateo County, being also a portion of the lands
conveyed to Concar Ranch Enterprises, Inc., by Deed recorded in Volume 3249 of Official Records of San
Mateo County at Page 703, which said Parcel Map was recorded June 13, 1973 in Parcel Map Book 21 at
Page 8 in the Office of the Recorder of County of San Mateo, State of California.
Excepting Therefrom all that portion of the herein described property described in the Deed from Concar
Enterprises, Inc., to the City of San Mateo dated May 30, 1974 and recorded August 28, 1974 in Book 6688,
Page 133 (77494-AA), Official Records.
Excepting Therefrom all that portion of the herein described property described in the Deed from Concar
Enterprises, Inc., to the City of San Mateo dated December 1, 2001 and recorded February 6, 2003 as
Document No 2003-029396, Official Records.
JPN: 035-020-200-14A
APN: 035-200-180
Parcel Two:
Beginning at a point on the centerline of South Delaware Street, as shown on that certain map entitled
"Nineteenth Avenue Park Unit No. 1" which map was filed in the office of the Recorder of the County of San
Mateo, State of California on April 6, 1955 in Book 42 of Maps at Pages 1, 2, 4 & 4, said point of beginning
being marked on the ground by an iron pipe monument set in a hand hole at the intersection of said
centerline with the centerline of the alley between Block 6 and 7, as shown on said map; thence from said
point of beginning Northwesterly along the centerline of South Delaware Street, as shown on said map on
the arc of a curve to the left,  having a radius of 1000 feet and a central angel of 1*46'33", an arc distance of
30.99 feet; thence continuing along said centerline North 41*28' West 30.88 feet to a point thereon; thence
leaving said centerline of South Delaware Street South 46*32' West 40.00 feet to the True Point of
beginning, for the Parcel to be described herein; thence from said true point of beginning South 41*28' East
21.51 feet; thence tangent to the preceding course on the arc of a curve to the right having a radius of 15.00
feet and a central angel of 93*40'17", an arc distance of 24.52 feet to a line parallel with and distant 37.00
feet Northwesterly, measured at right angles for the "DP Line of the Department of Public Works' Survey for
the State Freeway in the City of San Mateo, Road IV-SN-105-SM; thence tangent to the preceding curve and
Southwesterly along said parallel line South 52*12'17" West 125.05 feet; thence leaving said parallel line
North 41*26' West 163.25 feet; thence North 52*37' East 141.11 feet; to a point on the Northwesterly line of
said South Delaware Street, thence Southeasterly along the Northwesterly line of said Street South 41*28'
East 125.00 feet to the true point beginning.
JPN: 035-020-200-14A
APN: 035-200-060
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A0-0.0
COVER SHEET -
PROJECT DATA
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DIRECTORY
VICINITY MAP
A4-2.1
RE-4 - EAST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A4-2.2
RE-4 - SOUTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A4-2.3
RE-4 - WEST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A4-3.0
RE-4 - SECTIONS
A5-0.0
UNIT PLANS
A5-0.1
UNIT PLANS
A5-0.2
UNIT PLANS
A5-0.3
UNIT PLANS
A6-1.0
GENERAL CODE SUMMARIES
A6-2.1
ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA
A6-2.2
ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA
A6-2.3
ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA
A6-2.4
ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA
A6-3.1
USE AND EGRESS - LEVEL 1
A6-3.1.1
USE AND EGRESS - LEVEL 2
A6-3.2
USE AND EGRESS
A6-3.3
USE AND EGRESS
A6-3.4
USE AND EGRESS
A6-4.0
ACCESSIBILITY SITE PLAN
A6-4.1
ACCESSIBILITY
A6-4.2
ACCESSIBILITY
A6-4.3
ACCESSIBILITY
A6-4.4
ACCESSIBILITY
A0-0.0
COVER SHEET - PROJECT DATA
A0-1.0
SITE PLAN
A0-2.0
PARKING
A0-3.0
SUN/ SHADE STUDIES
A0-4.0
PRELIMINARY GREEN CHECKLISTS
A0-5.0
FACADE MATERIALS KEY
A0-5.1
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 1
A0-5.2
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 2
A0-5.3
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 3
A0-5.4
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 4
A0-5.5
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 5
A0-5.6
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 6
A0-5.7
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 7
A0-5.8
FACADE MATERIALS - STYLE 8
A1-1.1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
A1-1.2
MU-1 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
A1-1.3
MU-1 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
A1-1.4
MU-1 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
A1-1.5
MU-1 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
A1-1.6
MU-1 - ROOF PLAN
A1-2.0
MU-1 - NORTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A1-2.1
MU-1 - EAST  ELEVATION & VIEWS
A1-2.2
MU-1 - SOUTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A1-2.3
MU-1 - WEST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A1-3.0
MU-1 - SECTIONS
A2-1.1
RE-2 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
A2-1.2
RE-2 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
A2-1.3
RE-2 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
A2-1.4
RE-2 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
A2-1.5
RE-2 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
A2-1.6
RE-2 - ROOF PLAN
A2-2.0
RE-2 - NORTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A2-2.1
RE-2 - EAST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A2-2.2
RE-2 - SOUTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A2-2.3
RE-2 - WEST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A2-3.0
RE-2 - SECTIONS
A3-1.1
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
A3-1.2
RE-3 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
A3-1.3
RE-3 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
A3-1.4
RE-3 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
A3-1.5
RE-3 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
A3-1.6
RE-3 - ROOF PLAN
A3-2.0
RE-3 - NORTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A3-2.1
RE-3 - EAST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A3-2.2
RE-3 - SOUTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
A3-2.3
RE-3 - WEST ELEVATION & VIEWS
A3-3.0
RE-3 - SECTIONS
A4-1.1
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
A4-1.2
RE-4 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
A4-1.3
RE-4 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
A4-1.4
RE-4 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
A4-1.5
RE-4 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
A4-1.6
RE-4 - ROOF PLAN
A4-2.0
RE-4 - NORTH ELEVATION & VIEWS
PROJECT INFORMATION
CIVIL
C0.0
(R)
TITLE SHEET
C0.1
NOTES
C1.0
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C2.0
(R)
DEMOLITION PLAN
C3.0
(R)
ROADWAY PLAN
C3.1
ROADWAY SECTIONS
C3.2
(R)
CONCAR MULTI-USE PATH
C4.0
(R)
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
C5.0
UTILITY PLAN
C6.0
DETAILS
V1.0
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
V1.1
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
LANDSCAPE
L-0.1 (R)
SITE KEY PLAN
L-0.2 (R)
TREE REMOVAL PLAN
L-1.1 (R)
PARK CORRIDOR LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.2 (R)
EASTERN PLAZA, MATERIAL AND 
GRADING PLAN
L-1.3 (R)
PARK CONNECTION AND PAVILION
LAYOUT, MATERIAL AND GRADING
PLAN
L-1.4 (R)
LAWN LAYOUT, MATERIAL AND 
GRADING PLAN
L-1.5 (R)
WESTERN PLAZA LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.6 (R)
STATION CORRIDOR LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.7 (R)
GATEWAY PARK LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.8 (R)
COMMUNITY PARK LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.9 (R)
COMMUNITY PARK LAYOUT, 
MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
UNIT MIX SUMMARY
NAME
TYPE
COUNT
AREA
UNIT MIX
1 BEDROOM
UNIT B
1 BEDROOM
98
73543 SF
16%
UNIT C
1 BEDROOM
51
38622 SF
9%
UNIT C.1
1 BEDROOM
25
20935 SF
4%
UNIT D
1 BEDROOM
78
53279 SF
13%
UNIT E
1 BEDROOM
30
23523 SF
5%
UNIT E.1
1 BEDROOM
10
6838 SF
2%
UNIT F.1
1 BEDROOM
2
1456 SF
0%
UNIT G.1
1 BEDROOM
8
6270 SF
1%
UNIT K
1 BEDROOM
10
6907 SF
2%
312
312
231373 SF
52%
2 BEDROOM
UNIT F
2 BEDROOM
70
72325 SF
12%
UNIT G
2 BEDROOM
37
37871 SF
6%
UNIT G.2
2 BEDROOM
13
14039 SF
2%
UNIT H
2 BEDROOM
25
27970 SF
4%
UNIT I
2 BEDROOM
5
6412 SF
1%
UNIT J
2 BEDROOM
13
13271 SF
2%
163
163
171889 SF
27%
3 BEDROOM
UNIT L
3 BEDROOM
5
5936 SF
1%
5
5
5936 SF
1%
STUDIO
UNIT A
STUDIO
119
74536 SF
20%
119
119
74536 SF
20%
Grand total: 599
599
483733 SF
100%
GROSS BUILDING AREA
BUILDING AREA
AREA*
OCCUPANCY
MU-1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2255 SF
A-3
2255 SF
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
10755 SF
B
10755 SF
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
27784 SF
M
27784 SF
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
43718 SF
R-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
44471 SF
R-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
33469 SF
R-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
33469 SF
R-2
155126 SF
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
24625 SF
S-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
24478 SF
S-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
23725 SF
S-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
23630 SF
S-2
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
23630 SF
S-2
120089 SF
MU-1
316009 SF
RE-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2500 SF
A-3
2500 SF
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
44342 SF
R-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
46423 SF
R-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
46058 SF
R-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
46051 SF
R-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
44259 SF
R-2
227132 SF
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
24965 SF
S-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
24965 SF
S-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
24965 SF
S-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
24965 SF
S-2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
24965 SF
S-2
124827 SF
RE-2
354459 SF
RE-3
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2894 SF
A-3
2894 SF
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
40676 SF
R-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
42447 SF
R-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
44787 SF
R-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
44798 SF
R-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
44188 SF
R-2
216897 SF
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
22986 SF
S-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
22986 SF
S-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
22986 SF
S-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
22986 SF
S-2
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
22986 SF
S-2
114929 SF
RE-3
334719 SF
RE-4
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
30125 SF
R-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
31294 SF
R-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
31123 SF
R-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
25235 SF
R-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
25059 SF
R-2
142836 SF
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
18404 SF
S-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
18416 SF
S-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
18406 SF
S-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
18570 SF
S-2
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
18570 SF
S-2
92365 SF
RE-4
235201 SF
Grand total
1240389 SF
LIGHTING
LT-0.0    (R) FIXTURE SELECTIONS
LT-0.0.1 (N) SAN MATEO CITY POST TOP
LT-1.0    (R) OVERALL SITE LIGHTING PLAN
LT-1.0P  (R) OVERALL SITE PHOTOMETRIC 
LIGHTING PLAN
UNIT COUNT BY BUILDING
NAME
TYPE
AREA
MU-1
UNIT A
STUDIO
19713 SF
UNIT B
1 BEDROOM
43486 SF
UNIT D
1 BEDROOM
1637 SF
UNIT F
2 BEDROOM
20560 SF
UNIT H
2 BEDROOM
11143 SF
UNIT I
2 BEDROOM
5252 SF
UNIT J
2 BEDROOM
8269 SF
121
110060 SF
RE-2
UNIT A
STUDIO
32034 SF
UNIT B
1 BEDROOM
6833 SF
UNIT C
1 BEDROOM
3050 SF
UNIT C.1
1 BEDROOM
12650 SF
UNIT D
1 BEDROOM
37447 SF
UNIT E
1 BEDROOM
15694 SF
UNIT F
2 BEDROOM
27106 SF
UNIT F.1
1 BEDROOM
725 SF
UNIT G
2 BEDROOM
5199 SF
UNIT H
2 BEDROOM
5527 SF
199
146265 SF
RE-3
UNIT A
STUDIO
17329 SF
UNIT B
1 BEDROOM
23224 SF
UNIT C
1 BEDROOM
16702 SF
UNIT D
1 BEDROOM
3280 SF
UNIT E
1 BEDROOM
7829 SF
UNIT E.1
1 BEDROOM
6838 SF
UNIT F
2 BEDROOM
24659 SF
UNIT F.1
1 BEDROOM
731 SF
UNIT G
2 BEDROOM
9243 SF
UNIT H
2 BEDROOM
8981 SF
UNIT J
2 BEDROOM
5002 SF
UNIT K
1 BEDROOM
6907 SF
UNIT L
3 BEDROOM
5936 SF
172
136661 SF
RE-4
UNIT A
STUDIO
5460 SF
UNIT C
1 BEDROOM
18869 SF
UNIT C.1
1 BEDROOM
8285 SF
UNIT D
1 BEDROOM
10916 SF
UNIT G
2 BEDROOM
23429 SF
UNIT G.1
1 BEDROOM
6270 SF
UNIT G.2
2 BEDROOM
14039 SF
UNIT H
2 BEDROOM
2319 SF
UNIT I
2 BEDROOM
1160 SF
107
90747 SF
Grand total: 599
483733 SF
DESCRIPTION
DATE
(MIXED USE)
(RESIDENTIAL)
(RESIDENTIAL)
(RESIDENTIAL)
SHEET INDEX
* PER CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
NOTE:
SHEETS WITH AN (R) SUFFIX HAVE BEEN REVISED.
SHEETS WITH AN (N) SUFFIX HAVE BEEN ADDED
L-1.10 (R)
GREENWAY POCKET PARKS LAYOUT,
MTRL. AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.11 (R)
GREENWAY POCKET PARKS LAYOUT,
MTRL. AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.12 (R)
DELAWARE AND CONCAR PLAZA
LAYOUT, MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.13
ROOFTOP TERRACE AT MU-1
LAYOUT, MATERIAL AND GRADING PLAN
L-1.14 (R)
CONCAR LOBBY LAYOUT, MATERIAL AND
GRADING PLAN
L-1.15 (N)
CONCAR AND EVAE LAYOUT, MATERIAL
AND GRADING PLAN
L-2.0
SECTIONS
L-2.1 (R)
SECTIONS
L-3.0 (R)
PLANTING PLAN
L-3.1
PLANTING LEGEND AND NOTE
L-4.0 (R)
MATERIAL PRECEDENTS
L-4.1 (R)
BIKE PARKING LAYOUT
L-4.2
FENCE DETAIL
L-4.3 (R)
SEATING PLAN
L-4.4 (N)
RECREATION DIAGRAM
L-4.5 (N)
LOOP TRAIL DIAGRAM
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(N)
(N)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(N)
(N)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(N)
(N)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(N)
(N)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(R)
(N)
(N)
(N)
(N)
(N)

--- page 71 ---
5'-1"
UP
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
CONCAR DRIVE
GREEN WAY
GARVEY WAY
STATION PARK CIRCLE
BUILDING MU-1
BUILDING RE-2
BUILDING RE-3
BUILDING RE-4
LOBBY
LOBBY
LOBBY
LOBBY
LOBBY
LOBBY
VEHICLE
ENTRY
VEHICLE
ENTRY
VEHICLE
ENTRY
VEHICLE
ENTRY
7
3
8
6
7
3
7
5
4
9
VEHICLE
ENTRY.
LOBBY
STATION PARK CIRCLE
OS-9
OS-5
OS-8
OS-6
OS-12
OS-11
OS-10
OS-7
LOBBY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
ENTRY
LOBBY
LOBBY
EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS EASEMENT
ENTRY
17' - 8"
385' - 9"
189' - 11"
352' - 0"
132' - 0"
123' - 0"
64' - 9"
173' - 5"
21' - 8"
103' - 1"
249' - 10"
120' - 7"
333' - 7"
R 15' - 0"
R 45' - 2 3/16"
NEW PARCEL LINE
PER VTM
NEW PARCEL LINE
PER VTM
NEW PARCEL LINE
PER VTM
NEW PARCEL LINE
PER VTM
24' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
BETWEEN RE-2 & RE-3)
62' - 6"   (DISTANCE
10'x18' TRASH BIN
STAGING FOR MU-1
10'x18' TRASH BIN
STAGING FOR RE-2
10'x18' TRASH BIN
STAGING FOR RE-3
10'x18' TRASH BIN
STAGING FOR RE-4
NOTES:
1.
THE SPECIFIC PLAN AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR STATION PARK GREEN DO NOT REQUIRE TRADITIONAL SETBACKS FROM THE PROPERTY
LINE. INSTEAD, THE INTERFACE BETWEEN EACH BUILDING AND STREET IS CONTROLLED BY A "BLOCK LINE" SET AT THE BACK OF THE
SIDEWALK. WHERE A BUILDING DOES NOT FRONT ON A STREET (NORTH OF BUILDING RE-4 AND ALONG THE EVAE), THE SPECIFIC PLAN DOES
NOT REQUIRE A SETBACK, THOUGH BUILDINGS ARE HELD A REASONABLE DISTANCE AWAY FROM THE PROPERTY LINE.
2.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS NUMBERED AND NAMED ON THIS SITE PLAN AND THE "BLOCKS" DESIGNATED IN THE SPECIFIC
PLAN AND DESIGN GUIDELINES IS AS FOLLOWS:
BLOCK 1 = BUILDING MU-1
BLOCK 2 = BUILDING RE-2
BLOCK 3 = BUILDING RE-3
BLOCK 4 = BUILDING RE-4
3.
PER VESTING TENTATIVE MAP INCLUDED AS SHEET V 1.0 IN THIS PLAN PACKAGE, THE PROPERTY IN QUESTION CURRENTLY CONSISTS OF TWO
PARCELS, APNs 035-200-006 AND 035-200-180. THE PROJECT PROPOSES TO MERGE THE TWO PARCELS AND RE-PARCEL THE ENTIRE ~11.97
ACRES OF LAND INTO 4 PARCELS, DESIGNATED AS PARCELS 1 THROUGH 4 ON THE PROPOSED VESTING TENTATIVE MAP ON SHEET V 1.1.
206' - 11"
SETBACK/BLOCK LINE
SETBACK/BLOCK LINE
SETBACK/ BLOCK LINE
SETBACK/BLOCK LINE
SETBACK/BLOCK LINE
SETBACK/BLOCK LINE
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
*SETBACKS / BLOCK LINES:
LOCATION
MU-1 NORTH (STATION PARK CIRCLE)
MU-1 EAST (S. DELAWARE ST.)
MU-1 SOUTH (CONCAR DRIVE)
MU-1 WEST (GREEN WAY)
RE-2 NORTH (STATION PARK CIRCLE)
RE-2 EAST (GREEN WAY)
RE-2 SOUTH (CONCAR DRIVE)
RE-2 WEST (EVAE @ TRAIN STATION)
RE-3 NORTH (EVAE/ GARVEY CUL-DE-SAC)
RE-3 EAST (GARVEY WAY EXTENSION)
RE-3 SOUTH (STATION PARK CIRCLE)
RE-3 WEST (EVAE @ TRAIN STATION)
RE-4 NORTH (PROPERTY LINE @ AAA BUILDING)
RE-4 EAST (S. DELAWARE ST.)
RE-4 SOUTH (STATION PARK CIRCLE)
RE-4 WEST (GARVEY WAY EXTENSION)
1. *SEE NOTE #1 ABOVE REGARDING SETBACKS AND BLOCK LINES PER THE STATION PARK GREEN SPECIFIC PLAN.
2. TYPICALLY, THE BLOCK LINE IS LOCATED AT THE BACK OF THE SIDEWALK. WHERE A SIDEWALK IS NOT PROVIDED, OR
WHERE THE GROUND FLOOR OF THE BUILDING IS OCCUPIED BY NON-RESIDENTIAL FUNCTIONS, THE BLOCK LINE IS
CONSIDERED TO BE AT THE FACE OF THE BUILDING.
REQUIRED BY SPECIFIC PLAN
0' @ GROUND FLOOR RETAIL / OFFICE
0' @ GROUND FLOOR RETAIL / OFFICE
0' @ GROUND FLOOR RETAIL / OFFICE
0' @ GROUND FLOOR RETAIL / OFFICE
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
UNSPECIFIED
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
VARIES FROM 1' TO 10'
ACTUAL VARIATION
0'
1’-4” to 5’-4”
1’-5” to 10’-0”
0'
0’ to 8’-9”
2’-10” to 10’-0”
up to 27’
up to 40’
18’-0” to 20’-0”
2’-4” to 5’-2”
INTERNAL BLOCK LINE
INTERNAL BLOCK LINE
INTERNAL BLOCK LINE
INTERNAL BLOCK LINE
INTERNAL BLOCK LINE
24' - 11 1/2"
24' - 11"
24' - 9 1/2"
25' - 0"
12' - 5"
13' - 3"
11' - 2"
7' - 9"
10' - 0"
4' - 8"
72' - 2"
(DISTANCE BETWEEN RE-3 & RE-4)
127' - 2"
(DSTANCE BETWEEN MU-1 & RE-2)
97' - 11"
(DISTANCE BETWEEN MU-1 & RE-4)
76' - 8"
17' - 0"
17' - 0"
29' - 0"
17' - 0"
24' - 0"
8' - 3"
9' - 10"
15' - 1"
5' - 11"
16' - 0 1/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1" = 30'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A0-1.0
SITE PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
1
SITE PLAN
0'
15'
30'
60'
120'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 72 ---
5'-1"
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
BUILDING RE-4
BUILDING MU-1
BUILDING RE-3
BUILDING RE-2
7
3
7
4
9
7
3
8
6
5
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (3)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (6)
SHARED
PARKING (2)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (1)
LOADING (3)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (22)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (3)
LOADING (3)
LOADING (3)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (13)
LOADING (3)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (2)
SHARED
PARKING (3)
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
RESIDENTIAL
PARKING
NON-RESIDENTIAL
PARKING (50)
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (5)
5
NOTE: UNASSIGNED
PARKING FOR OFFICE USE
ON LEVEL 2: (20 SPACES)
18' - 0"
42' - 0"
43' - 6"
18' - 0"
102' - 7"
24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
18' - 0"
1' - 4"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
18' - 0"
170' - 10"
28' - 6"
24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
12' - 10"
18' - 0"
24' - 2"
18' - 0"
TYP.
9' - 0"
TYP.
9' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
18' - 0"
TYP.
9' - 0"
24' - 0"
R 24' - 0"
27' - 2"
24' - 2"
17' - 0"
1' - 2"
18' - 0"
24' - 2"
18' - 0"
LONG TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (10
@ EA. LEVEL)
LONG TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (10
@ EA. LEVEL)
LONG TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (10
@ EA. LEVEL)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (2)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (8)
SHORT TERM
BICYCLE
PARKING (12)
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
UNASSIGNED
PARKING (1)
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1" = 30'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A0-2.0
PARKING
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
1
PARKING
PARKING REQUIRED - RESIDENTIAL
UNIT TYPE
QUANTITY
PARKING
RATIO
PARKING
REQUIRED
MU-1
1 BEDROOM
56
1.3
73
2 BEDROOM
41
1.5
62
STUDIO
24
1
24
121
158
RE-2
1 BEDROOM
105
1.3
137
2 BEDROOM
37
1.5
56
STUDIO
57
1
57
199
249
RE-3
1 BEDROOM
92
1.3
120
2 BEDROOM
46
1.5
69
3 BEDROOM
5
1.8
9
STUDIO
29
1
29
172
227
RE-4
1 BEDROOM
59
1.3
77
2 BEDROOM
39
1.5
59
STUDIO
9
1
9
107
144
Grand total
599
778
PARKING REQUIRED - NON-RESIDENTIAL
NAME
AREA*
PARKING
RATIO
PARKING
REQUIRED
COMMUNITY/REC.
ROOM
2207 SF
0.32/1000
0.7
OFFICE
9047 SF
0.32/1000
2.9
RETAIL
25964 SF
2.06/1000
53.5
37219 SF
57.1
0'
15'
30'
60'
120'
PARKING PROVIDED - RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
MU-1
LEVEL 2
9
0
1
1
11
LEVEL 3
39
11
2
0
52
LEVEL 4
40
11
2
0
53
LEVEL 5
35
5
2
0
42
123
27
7
1
158
RE-2
LEVEL 1
48
0
1
1
50
LEVEL 2
48
0
2
0
50
LEVEL 3
49
0
2
0
51
LEVEL 4
49
0
2
0
51
LEVEL 5
46
0
2
0
48
240
0
9
1
250
RE-3
LEVEL 1
24
8
1
1
34
LEVEL 2
48
3
2
0
53
LEVEL 3
48
3
2
0
53
LEVEL 4
48
3
2
0
53
LEVEL 5
34
0
1
0
35
202
17
8
1
228
RE-4
LEVEL 1
26
2
0
1
29
LEVEL 2
25
3
1
0
29
LEVEL 3
25
3
1
0
29
LEVEL 4
25
3
1
0
29
LEVEL 5
25
3
1
0
29
126
14
4
1
145
Grand total
691
58
28
4
781
PARKING NOTES:
Consistent with the Rail Corridor Plan, Station Park Green will be a transit-oriented development. During the first phase of Station Park Green,
the goal is to create 25% fewer new vehicle trips than would be expected using standard Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
projections. (Conditions of Approval & Mitigation Monitoring Program, pp. 21-22.) At full build-out, the target is a 26% to 36% trip reduction
from ITE standards. (Id., p. 22.)
Parking:
The Applicant proposes to provide off-street parking for the various uses at Station Park Green collectively at the site. This means that some
parking spaces used by dwelling units, or non-residential tenants, may not necessarily be located within the same block as the user to which
it is assigned.
As to residential parking, the Applicant proposes to provide one (1) assigned parking space per dwelling unit within the same block as that
unit.  All other residential parking spaces will be pooled.  Each lease for a dwelling unit will include only one assigned parking space.
Residents may, if they wish, enter into a separate agreement to reserve additional parking spaces from the pool.  The total number of
residential spaces (both those assigned to specific units, and pooled) is 781, and they are provided and highlighted in YELLOW on this
parking plan per the table labeled "Parking Provided - Residential."
Each lease to non-residential tenants will include only as many parking spaces as must be assigned to such tenant based upon parking
standards set by the Specific Plan.  In total, 131 parking spaces will be provided for non-residential uses, and they are provided and
highlighted in VIOLET on this parking plan per the table labeled "Parking Provided - Non-Residential (All)."
Shared Parking:
These 131 non-residential spaces will be used by the non-residential tenants (including 20 office space tenants), and, as analyzed in a
shared parking study by the City’s consultant, will also be made available for use by residential visitors.  It is anticipated that these spaces will
be used by residential visitors primarily during non-business hours.
During SPAR, the City may consider allowing required off-street parking stalls serving any uses, whether residential or non-residential, to be
space-efficient, without the need for a variance. (Specific Plan, p. 119.) Space-efficient could mean stackers, valet, compact spaces, or
other methods. At this time, the Applicant is not proposing any space-efficient parking, pending further review and refinement of its
application.
Car Sharing:
The Applicant plans to provide at least one car-sharing stall for every 230 required off-street motor vehicle parking stalls. “Car-sharing” means
a service that provides an integrated network of neighborhood-based automobiles available only to members by reservation for periods as
short as one hour. (Design Guidelines, p. 107.) Proposed locations for five (5) car-sharing stalls are provided and highlighted in BLUE on
this parking plan per the table labeled "Parking Provided - Non-Residential (All)."
Loading:
Loading facilities will comply with Sections 27.64.310 through 27.64.390 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. However, during SPAR, the City
may consider allowing required loading facilities to be located on-street, without the need for a variance. (Specific Plan, p. 119.) Loading
facilities are provided and highlighted in GREEN on this parking plan per the table labeled "Parking Provided - Non-Residential (All).".
Bicycles:
Station Park Green encourages pedestrians and bicyclists, and provides non-motorized access to all parts of the Plan Area. (Design
Guidelines, p. 105.) To support bicyclists, the Applicant proposes to provide bicycle parking facilities in an amount equal to at least five
percent (5%) of the required number of off-street motor vehicle parking stalls, as required by the Specific Plan. The total required number of
such spaces is 42 (778 + 57 = 835 *.05), and 43 spaces are provided, labeled "Short Tem Bicycle Parking" and highlighted in RED on this
parking plan per the table labeled "Bicycle Parking - Non-Residential." These spaces are designated for public use, and are distributed
around the site as shown. In addition, the owner intends to provide additional secured bicycle storage for Tenant use in each of the building
garages.
PARKING PROVIDED - NON-RESIDENTIAL (ALL)
LEVEL
USE
STANDARD
COMPACT
ACCESSIBLE
VAN ACCESSIBLE
TOTAL
STREET LEVEL CAR-SHARING
5
0
0
0
5
STREET LEVEL LOADING
12
0
0
0
12
STREET LEVEL UNASSIGNED
44
0
3
0
47
LEVEL 1
1
0
0
0
1
LEVEL 1
UNASSIGNED
36
8
1
1
46
LEVEL 2
OFFICE
12
8
0
0
20
110
16
4
1
131
BICYCLE PARKING -  NON-RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL
USE
NUMBER OF STALL
STREET LEVEL BICYCLE RACK
37
LEVEL 1
BICYCLE RACK
6
43
BICYCLE PARKING - RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING
USE
NUMBER OF STALL
1
BICYCLE RACK
54
54
2
BICYCLE RACK
50
50
3
BICYCLE RACK
50
50
4
BICYCLE RACK
50
50
204
DESCRIPTION
DATE
* PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE

--- page 73 ---
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1" = 160'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A0-3.0
SUN/ SHADE
STUDIES
SPAR SUBMITTAL
SUMMER SOLSTICE 0900
SUMMER SOLSTICE 1100
SUMMER SOLSTICE 1300
SUMMER SOLSTICE 1500
SUMMER SOLSTICE 1700
FALL/ SPRING EQUINOX 0900
FALL/ SPRING EQUINOX 1100
FALL/ SPRING EQUINOX 1300
FALL/ SPRING EQUINOX 1500
FALL/ SPRING EQUINOX 1700
WINTER SOLSTICE 0900
WINTER SOLSTICE 1100
WINTER SOLSTICE 1300
WINTER SOLSTICE 1500
WINTER SOLSTICE 1700
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 74 ---
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
2013-10187
11/20/14
A0-4.0
PRELIMINARY
GREEN
CHECKLISTS
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
GREEN POINT RATED
CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE

--- page 75 ---
ra 4

4 “ale

SEE AO-5.8 STYLE 7 - SEE AO-5.7 STYLE 5 - SEE A0-5.5

2 TT

1

|

CALIFORNIA

ks

ail I on} Soy mg YE = gg Oe ae a ae,
lil = he is ui i a to ee f; AT it: -. - 4 Ce LP so ‘pe Sie ead r a . —_
ah 71 arm — , rf " F 7 34 ue) : ih a

a
meri,
a

SAN MATEO,

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

"Building colors represent a diversity of both —
- architectural building typology as well as
= architectural vernacular (style). Architectural style for
«Station Park Green is envisioned to be urban and |
=" ~~ modern in character. Individual buildings, blocks, and —
— neighborhoods within the framework are expressed
in unique ways within the modern aesthetic.
a | Dich § | REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

{queso —hege

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS KEY

SHEET NUMBER | 2013-10187

A050

pen.

Perseott ty BL
7 oH crs 9 | za

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS iG
AND (S FURNISHED WW CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALLIATICW,
REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
DUCED OF OSCLOSED TO

AA'Y OTHER PURPOSE ANG MAY WOT BE REPRO OTHERS

WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IWC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED. & COPYRIGHT 2011.

oe a A ng ‘ ~
i j a ae
He oS Sb a,
4

j a eo i [ — = 1 pete = Eegenst | — et ig! <5 - a 4 c ise fi i
: : | i. Sel ==. Sake Ay! fe ' ms - 2 - [ee “ig ‘ rig Ae i a Sc | & . = ke c ; “= t E ly | _—__eeeesesSsSsSsSFSSSFSFSFSFSFSFFFTTTTTTTTOTOTOCOO....
Tr 1)? Sal «aaa eat Sail ‘ald “ Fi i 0 — =< ihe «Se : cha “|! 2 4 oF ae a |
ine 4 ‘ Hee bs Fy! 7 aa fi am 8 | CUI | ‘in = = 4 ge ical - 1 = a See — | - bel ' “ ' re 2 oe ch i f met “he
Se As i, Td = at 5 “4 he ee . = I fi ene hl Lo ad ey i et yt ae j afte Vee Ss rae ey J 4 ae o Fee : : Soe oe iT. | a Sl on Ay + h a gd M -
: , ~ ‘ oe - i a A "| =
ne : ee. a \ 4 ane. 1) aes i AU gre are nT ee . oi a wee oes, an! h led | oie
— ‘ “a a r € eo — =

STYLE 4 - SEE AO-5.4 STYLE 3 - SEE AO-5.3 STYLE 2 - SEE AO-5.2 STYLE 1 - SEE AO-5.1 949.809.3388

F,

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 76 ---
DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

ACCENT COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES AND BASE

STUCCO / DEC733 SOLAR WIND

SECONDARY COLOR FOR TRIM,
RECESSED ELEMENTS AND CORNICES

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR

STUCCO / DEW337 GARDENIA

ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE
RECESSED ELEMENTS AND VOIDS

STUCCO / DE5487 SPRING MARSH

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE -
RENOLIT FX

=

es’

aor

KEY DIAGRAM

STYLE 1 EXAMPLE VIEW

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

DESCRIPTION

REVISIONS

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -
STYLE 1

SHEET NUMBER | 2013-10187

AVS1 =

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS iG
AND /S FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALLATIOW,
BIDOIWG OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NWOT BE REPRODUCED OR OSCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTWERS ING. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED. & COPYRIGHT 2011.

11/20/14

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 77 ---
1 | st

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO
COORDINATE WITH RAIN SCREEN
[SEE SHEET A1-2.3]

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF
ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE -
VESUV 302

STUCCO / DEA156 CHERRY COLA

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR
RESIDENTIAL FACADE
[LOCATED IN MU-1 COURTYARD, NOT CAPTURED IN ELEVATION]

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS,
RAILINGS, AND METAL ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

STUCCO / DE6376 LOOKING GLASS

KEY DIAGRAM

PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL

FRAMES AND FIELD WINDOW FRAME COLOR

STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR

RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND BASE SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND
COOKIE

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - FLINT 921

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP are LL Ls
FLOOR PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ~~ tee
ACCENTS 3 esis] |

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS
OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES
[SEE SHEET A1-2.0]

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT -
GRAPHITE 922

a aenearemerioreris
= nl
coe

a eed be eT ee ad oe ei
Pia baa a ee =
:

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RETAIL BASE
[SEE SHEET A1-2.0]

STUCCO / DE6122 DRY CREEK STYLE 2 EXAMPLE VIEW

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

<
a
L
a
=
O
—
<L
—
WY)

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

| STYLE 2 |

SHEET NUMBER ais i0ie7

A052 =

AT CONTAINS INFORMA

| THIS DOCLIME, TION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS IG
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALLATIOW,

BIDOING OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR

ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NWOT BE REPRODUCED OR OCLOSED TO OTHERS

WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTWERS ING. ALL RIGHTS
SERVED, & COPYRIGHT 2071.

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 78 ---
DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS

METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD
BROWN

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL
ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

STUCCO / DE6120 TEA BISCUIT

PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR

STUCCO / DE6214 PIGEON GRAY

ACCENT COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS
[SEE SHEET A3-2.2]

STUCCO / DE5816 SEAL PUP

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND -
RENOLIT FX

wal =
r ANU i i

ACCENT COLOR FOR STOOPS
[SEE SHEET A3-2.2]

STUCCO / DE6132 BIG STONE BEACH

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE
ELEMENTS AND BASE

STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE

KEY DIAGRAM

STYLE 3 EXAMPLE VIEW

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

f
ad
UO

EBL

DEVELOPMENT

Bevis! ONS
DATE

A
zy
rs
i ss
FS rs
Ss
CS es ns
rs
es ee
Os es
re ee
pe _____dt|__sd

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

JOB NO.
DATE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO OWVE & aay (eR i
AAD (IS FURNISHED WW CONFIDENCE FOR THE LINITED PURPOSE OF EV
BIDDING OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS COWTENTS MAY NOT BE SED FoR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY WOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
VITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MWE & BARTWERS ING ALL AKSHTS
RESERVED, OCOPYRIGHT 207

+ PARTNER S

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
rs sine, a Caurernite 92

614

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 79 ---
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS,
RAILINGS, AND METAL ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR

STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE
ELEMENTS AND BALCONIES

STUCCO / DE6364 CAVERNOUS

ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL
ELEMENTS, WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM

STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR

} ae

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / TROMPET -
RENOLIT FX

ACCENT METAL COLOR

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
XL COPPER CANYON

NOTE: 4F NO LONGER A PART OF THE MATERIAL PALETTE.

7 ine _e a i

ast

IMUM Ce pits He

4

ALN

POE UEU ULE Lt) th

KEY DIAGRAM

STYLE 4 EXAMPLE VIEW

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

Aisin

A
zy
rs
i ss
FS rs
Ss
CS es ns
rs
es ee
Os es
re ee
pe _____dt|__sd

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

JOB NO.
DATE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE 2 PARTNERS ING
ANOS PURATEAED WW GOMFIDENCE FOR TARE LOWITED PURPOSE OF EVALLIA TION,
BIDDING OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS COWTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY WOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
VITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MWE & BARTWERS ING ALL AKSHTS
RESERVED, OCOPYRIGHT 207

+ PARTNER S

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92
949 809.3388

www.mve-architects.com

2014

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 80 ---
ACCENT MATERIAL AT BASE
[SEE SHEET A2-2.2]

ACCENT FOR PATTERNING AND
TEXTURE ON INSET PANELS

SIDING / DES5901 OCEAN NIGHT RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - WALNUT

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

ACCENT COLOR AT BASE
[SEE SHEET A2-2.2]

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL
ELEMENTS AND ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

STATION PARK

STUCCO / DE5308 BUTTERMILK STUCCO / DE6132 BIG STONE BEACH

KEY DIAGRAM

DEVELOP

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR
PATTERNING ON HORIZONTAL PANELS

STUCCO / DE5381 SUMMERTIME

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS,
RAILINGS, AND METAL ACCENTS

DESCRIPTION

P|

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

E

HT:

DDD PD>

Ayo
AJ

WINDOW FRAME COLOR Fo a ee

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -
STYLE 5

WINDOW COLOR / LIGHT IVORY -
RENOLIT FX

ial

gH

THE H
1
ai OOo e

JOB NO.
2013-10187
DATE
11/20/14

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE E PARTNERS ING
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONADENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BODOG OF REVIEY THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED AOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY MOT BE REPROOUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS

THOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS ING ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, @ COPYRIGHT 2011

PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH BASE

RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA

+ PARTNERS

ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE TOP ELEMENT i on cede i

t)
0

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 81 ---
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS
WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE

LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS /
TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, RIVA COLOR

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST
ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR
RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE

COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS
AND METAL ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND -
RENOLIT FX

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH TOP
ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DE6206 DESERT SUEDE

———

id ZY

. Re

ag nae
ofa 1 e 4
aT. i
I i br - . ai eps * at
i, ‘ea Race el D at ie
feat b= | ee a =
a yn , 7 4 q
“
hi 4 e 7 aa
t a _ ie? ey Pie |
i A act te pe a 3
‘ q a ' =
1 hea | = “0

NIN

\

i

KEY DIAGRAM

ara si. HL

a ec ila = fer

STYLE 6 EXAMPLE VIEW

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S$

DEVELOPMENT

Bevis! ONS
DATE

A
zy
rs
i ss
FS rs
Ss
CS es ns
rs
es ee
Os es
re ee
pe _____dt|__sd

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

201310867
11/20/14

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO OWVE & aay (eR i
AAD (IS FURNISHED WW CONFIDENCE FOR THE LINITED PURPOSE OF EV
BIDDING OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS COWTENTS MAY NOT BE SED FoR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY WOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
VITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MWE & BARTWERS ING ALL AKSHTS
RESERVED, OCOPYRIGHT 207

+ PARTNER S

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, Gaur nia 92614

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 82 ---
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH
HORIZONTAL TEXTURE

LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL

TEXTURE, RIVA WASH COLOR

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING
ARCHITECTURAL FORMS

STUCCO / DEW316 POWDERED

ACCENT FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE
BASE AND ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES

STUCCO / DE6055 WILD WEST

SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE
ELEMENTS AND BALCONIES

STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS
AND METAL ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR
ECLIPSE GRAY

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN -
RENOLIT FX

PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH PORCH
SURROUNDS ON CONCAR

RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA -
JAVA

PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH PORCH
SURROUNDS & CORNER TOWER ON DELAWARE
[SEE SHEET A4-2.1]

RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA -
BURMA

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BUILDING BASE
[SEE SHEET A4-2.1]

STUCCO / DE5887 ADMIRAL BLUE

ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK

—— y :

KEY DIAGRAM

STYLE 7 EXAMPLE VIEW

DESCRIPTION

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EB

DEVELOPMENT

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

| STYLE 7 |

SHEET NUMBER ais icie7

| THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC
AND IS FURNISHED iV CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,

BIDOIWG OR REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT SE REPRODUCED OF OISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTWERS IWC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED. © COPYRIGHT 2017,

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California ‘

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 83 ---
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF
ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL
POINT CORNER AND RETAIL PASEO

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT METRO -
NAPLES 116

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR INSET OF
ARCHITECTURAL FRAME

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT -
ADOBE 946

PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL
FRAME AT FOCAL POINT CORNER

RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - BURMA

PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL
FRAME AT FOCAL POINT CORNER

STUCCO / DEW382 FADED GRAY

PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAME

STUCCO / DE6211 LIGHT BEIGE

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR BASE

SIDING / DE5325 REGENCY CREAM

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR
RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DES796 BEFORE THE
STORM

_ -
ae ee
ri

awe:
- Sie 2

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS,
RAILINGS, AND METAL ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF
ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL
POINT CORNER

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - SAND 911

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

STUCCO / DE6221 FLINTSTONE

SECONDARY METAL COLOR FOR
ACCENTS

METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD BROWN

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

WINDOW COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX

yl? et i a i <i

BSD aL

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

KEY DIAGRAM

STATION PARK

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

[SEE SHEET A1-2.1] EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT
STUCCO / DE6220 POROUS STONE

ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK

Aisin
DATE
Fe
Ss
2
es
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH a
RETAIL SURROUNDS AND TOWER 2 rs
AS t—“—~srYSC‘izS
AL i| ~~+|
RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - a
_
VESUV 302 Cs
AL i| +

SHEET TITLE

FACADE
MATERIALS -

JOB NO.
DATE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE 2 PARTNERS ING
ANOS PURATEAED WW GOMFIDENCE FOR TARE LOWITED PURPOSE OF EVALLIA TION,
BIDDING OF REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS COWTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY WOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
VITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MWE & BARTWERS ING ALL AKSHTS
RESERVED, OCOPYRIGHT 207

+ PARTNER S

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92
94° 7 809.2 3. ct 88

2014

STYLE 8 EXAMPLE VIEW www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 84 ---
UP
1
A1-2.3
2
A1-2.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
3823 SF
OFFICE
4478 SF
RETAIL
4933 SF
RETAIL
6446 SF
RETAIL
2137 SF
RETAIL
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-2.1
1
A1-3.0
2207 SF
COMMUNITY/REC.
ROOM
5225 SF
OFFICE
0"
0"
336 SF
STAIR G1-2
325 SF
TRASH G1-1
448 SF
LOBBY G1-1
147 SF
LOBBY G1-2
841 SF
STAIR G1-1
Redundant
Room
MAIL G1-1
60' - 6"
42' - 3"
102' - 7"
44' - 6"
866 SF
LOBBY 1-3
697 SF
LOBBY G1-3
333 SF
STAIR 1-1
LINE OF
BUILDING
ABOVE (TYP.)
GARAGE
ENTRY
GARAGE
ENTRY
275 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
198 SF
MAINTENANCE
9' - 0"
7" 9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0" 7"
7970 SF
RETAIL
5' - 3 3/8"
58' - 11"
229' - 8 3/8"
8 1/4"
9' - 11 7/8"
111' - 7 3/8"
90' - 8 3/8"
65' - 3 1/8"
3' - 9"
67' - 5 3/8"
35' - 0 3/4"
127' - 10 1/4"
24' - 0"
64' - 0 1/8"
322' - 1 1/2"
151' - 0 1/2"
25' - 3 5/256"
106' - 9 187/256"
1' - 11 3/8"
36' - 4 3/4"
10' - 3 1/2"
72' - 2 3/4"
162' - 0 1/8"
13.7%
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 85 ---
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A1-2.3
2
A1-2.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
1031 SF
UNIT J
586 SF
UNIT A
1039 SF
UNIT J
981 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
918 SF
UNIT B
756 SF
UNIT A
756 SF
UNIT A
748 SF
UNIT A
590 SF
UNIT A
1126 SF
UNIT H
3746 SF
UNIT A
832 SF
UNIT B
834 SF
UNIT B
704 SF
UNIT B
1313 SF
UNIT I
743 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
1018 SF
UNIT F
1030 SF
UNIT F
760 SF
UNIT B
1103 SF
UNIT H
1055 SF
UNIT F
1038 SF
UNIT F
1116 SF
UNIT F
818 SF
UNIT D
749 SF
UNIT B
738 SF
UNIT B
736 SF
UNIT B
735 SF
UNIT B
732 SF
UNIT B
1114 SF
UNIT H
917 SF
UNIT B
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-2.1
1
A1-3.0
336 SF
STAIR G1-2
284 SF
LOBBY G1-1
117 SF
LOBBY G1-2
380 SF
STAIR G1-1
174 SF
LOBBY G1-3
321 SF
STAIR 1-1
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
102' - 7"
44' - 6"
6' - 11"
9' - 10"
146 SF
LOBBY G1-3
5.0%
5.0%
6' - 0"
409 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
160 SF
DOG WASH
5.0%
13.7%
15' - 0"
15' - 0"
9' - 11 7/8"
LOW WALL
10' - 3 1/2"
3' - 8 3/4"
67' - 5 1/4"
35' - 0 3/4"
127' - 10 1/4"
24' - 0"
64' - 5 7/8"
322' - 6 7/8"
10' - 3 1/2"
161' - 6 5/8"
120' - 11 3/4"
282' - 6 3/8"
122' - 5 3/4"
104' - 11 7/8"
19' - 0 1/8"
37' - 3"
283' - 9"
78' - 2 1/2"
21' - 11"
196' - 7"
27' - 0 1/2"
323' - 9"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.2
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 86 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A1-2.3
2
A1-2.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-2.1
1
A1-3.0
4.9%
4.9%
5.0%
24' - 11"
24' - 11"
29' - 11"
29' - 11"
756 SF
UNIT A
756 SF
UNIT A
748 SF
UNIT A
590 SF
UNIT A
918 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
981 SF
UNIT B
1126 SF
UNIT H
742 SF
UNIT A
1282 SF
UNIT F
836 SF
UNIT B
834 SF
UNIT B
704 SF
UNIT B
1313 SF
UNIT I
743 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
1015 SF
UNIT F
1030 SF
UNIT F
1030 SF
UNIT J
586 SF
UNIT A
1028 SF
UNIT J
760 SF
UNIT B
1103 SF
UNIT H
1055 SF
UNIT F
1038 SF
UNIT F
1116 SF
UNIT F
818 SF
UNIT D
748 SF
UNIT B
738 SF
UNIT B
736 SF
UNIT B
735 SF
UNIT B
732 SF
UNIT B
1114 SF
UNIT H
409 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
336 SF
STAIR G1-2
284 SF
LOBBY G1-1
334 SF
TRASH G1-1
146 SF
LOBBY G1-3
174 SF
LOBBY G1-3
380 SF
STAIR G1-1
323' - 2 1/4"
160' - 11 3/8"
120' - 11 3/4"
281' - 11 1/8"
121' - 10 1/2"
104' - 11 7/8"
19' - 0 1/8"
37' - 3"
283' - 9"
77' - 7 1/4"
21' - 11"
196' - 7"
27' - 0 1/2"
323' - 1 3/4"
3' - 8 3/4"
67' - 4 3/4"
35' - 0 3/4"
217' - 0"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.3
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN

--- page 87 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A1-2.3
2
A1-2.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-2.1
1
A1-3.0
5.0%
4.9%
4.9%
34' - 10"
34' - 10"
39' - 10"
39' - 10"
981 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
918 SF
UNIT B
756 SF
UNIT A
756 SF
UNIT A
748 SF
UNIT A
590 SF
UNIT A
1126 SF
UNIT H
742 SF
UNIT A
1282 SF
UNIT F
836 SF
UNIT B
834 SF
UNIT B
704 SF
UNIT B
1313 SF
UNIT I
743 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
1018 SF
UNIT F
1030 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT J
586 SF
UNIT A
1031 SF
UNIT J
760 SF
UNIT B
1103 SF
UNIT H
1055 SF
UNIT F
409 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
336 SF
STAIR G1-2
334 SF
TRASH G1-1
284 SF
LOBBY G1-1
380 SF
STAIR G1-1
174 SF
LOBBY G1-3
146 SF
LOBBY G1-3
323' - 2 1/4"
121' - 10 1/2"
104' - 11 7/8"
19' - 0 1/8"
37' - 3"
283' - 9"
323' - 9 157/256"
3' - 8 3/4"
67' - 4 3/4"
35' - 6 1/2"
216' - 6 1/4"
161' - 6 5/8"
82' - 11 3/4"
39' - 4"
283' - 10 3/8"
LOWER ROOF
LOWER ROOF
LOWER ROOF
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.4
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN

--- page 88 ---
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A1-2.3
2
A1-2.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
2"
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-2.1
1
A1-3.0
1031 SF
UNIT J
586 SF
UNIT A
1039 SF
UNIT J
981 SF
UNIT B
917 SF
UNIT B
918 SF
UNIT B
756 SF
UNIT A
756 SF
UNIT A
748 SF
UNIT A
590 SF
UNIT A
1126 SF
UNIT H
741 SF
UNIT A
836 SF
UNIT B
834 SF
UNIT B
704 SF
UNIT B
1313 SF
UNIT I
743 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
709 SF
UNIT B
1018 SF
UNIT B
1030 SF
UNIT F
760 SF
UNIT B
1103 SF
UNIT H
1055 SF
UNIT F
917 SF
UNIT B
336 SF
STAIR G1-2
284 SF
LOBBY G1-1
117 SF
LOBBY G1-2
380 SF
STAIR G1-1
174 SF
LOBBY G1-3
315 SF
STAIR 1-1
60' - 6"
61' - 6"
42' - 3"
102' - 7"
44' - 6"
146 SF
LOBBY G1-3
6' - 0"
4.9%
LOWER ROOF
LOWER ROOF
310 SF
POOL EQUIP.
ROOM
VOID SPACE
UNDER
POOL
4' - 11 3/8"
429 SF
WOMEN
CHANGING/RESTROOM
465 SF
MEN
CHANGING/RESTROOM
1282 SF
UNIT F
EDGE OF DECK
39' - 10"
39' - 10"
44' - 9"
44' - 9"
409 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
323' - 2 1/4"
121' - 10 1/2"
104' - 11 7/8"
19' - 0 1/8"
37' - 5 5/8"
283' - 11 5/8"
323' - 9 157/256"
3' - 8 3/4"
67' - 4 3/4"
35' - 6 1/2"
216' - 6 1/4"
161' - 6 5/8"
82' - 4 1/2"
39' - 4"
283' - 3 1/8"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.5
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 89 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A1-2.3
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.6
1.7
1.A
1.B
1.C
1.D
1.E
1.F
1.G
1.H
1.J
1.5
1
A1-2.2
1
A1-3.0
MECHANICAL
PLANTER
POOL
SPA
ELEVATOR
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
STAIR 1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
LOWER ROOF
LOWER ROOF
LOWER ROOF
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A1-1.6
MU-1 - ROOF
PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - ROOF PLAN
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 90 ---
sii

s. - ae
i

* re telaheaeeds Wt

PU he
wameeeae

AT LI

| a

~] iH r ih
i —— cp z fi fall e 4 ~ eat H Far | v5 iit

ee re

be
Va |e

a’ ce

cy

.——vcom yf

tf

Ls]

NARS

OR ,

=, ~

a cy ee
—— el
alee re
it & a er er

Py ae

STYLE 1 STYLE 2 STYLE &
® METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY METAL FINISH / PPG-DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY €& RESYSTA PANELS / RESYSTA - BURMA
DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL
ACCENTS POINT CORNER
STUCCO / DEC733 SOLAR WIND 20) STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
ACCENT COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES AND BASE PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS
STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - GRAPHITE
SECONDARY COLOR FOR TRIM, RECESSED ELEMENTS, AND SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL © RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - SAND 911
CORNICES FRAMES PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAME
STUCCO / DEW337 GARDENIA @Q STUCCO / DE6122 DRY CREEK BT ROCAL ONT SORER
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RETAIL BASE @ WINDOW COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR
@ STUCCO / DE5487 SPRING MARSH @ STUCCO / DEA156 CHERRY COLA
ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE RECESSED ELEMENTS AND SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO COORDINATE WITH RAIN
VOIDS SCREEN
WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE RENOLITFX  @) WINDOW COLOR/ MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR
STYLE 8 STYLE 2 STYLE 1 |

=a ey mers cg | ee eee ee Eee a ee a

7176-9" ric

“fm MU-1 - T.0. ROOFTOP STRUCTURE
“ 168" - 6"

‘HEIGHT LIMIT PER SP_ @>

— / 2. ee a ee ee ee

| +162.00 ~
“je MU-1 - T.O. PLATE

/455'- 11 1/4" a
x © ie z
o MU A “LEVEL 5 __ _i| 6dLLd| lll ll li UU ll ld) Lhe el CU UC ello SC ge eye Et < HEIGHT LIN. DELAWARE ST) a
+139.70 ~
wm MU-1-LEVEL4 | 3 le aa ge eA LR E | [J — @ a “Cg 5 RE ea af
7137-1" =o | . =a 2
mm MU-1 - LEVEL 3(1.0. PLATE) ~ © 2/4 & x Pe le
r es LEVEL i perce m fia
sae come, a3
ee =u otha
/ 417-3" : o8 “t __ ——a eee a ot | —_— Mh | ) Pn OY ae i ABLISHED GRADE @»
rc = ; | at + ies SIRs +107.00
gh MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE) = 5 =
aed — oh ee eee ee NE IE(S. DELAWARE ST) a»
. Ky ee a z ae +104.70 \
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

a —————— es wr

0 8 16' 32!

MU-1 - NORTH ELEVATION | 16-10"

64'

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

“REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

_ SHEET TITLE

MU-1 - NORTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING MU-1

SHEET NUMBER ois tots

1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC
ANOS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LMWTED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OF REWEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY WOT BE USEO FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 91 ---
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
ae
<L
al
=
O
-
<
—
VY)

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

== i=
as Dome
id

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION |

STYLE 8
@ © RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT METRO - NAPLES 116 SIDING / DES325 REGENCY CREAM 8k) METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD BROWN

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAME SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR BASE SECONDARY METAL COLOR FOR ACCENTS
AT FOCAL POINT CORNER AND RETAIL PASEO
RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - ADOBE 946 €© STUCCO / DES796 BEFORE THE STORM @ WINDOW COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAME SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS WINDOW FRAME COLOR

€ RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - BURMA 8H] METAL FINISH / PPG-DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY 3M) STUCCO / DE6220 POROUS STONE
PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS AND METAL SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE
POINT CORNER ACCENTS

DB STUCCO / DEW382 FADED GRAY @) RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - SAND 911 @) STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAME ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM
POINT CORNER AT FOCAL POINT CORNER

@3 STUCCO / DE6211 LIGHT BEIGE @®) STUCCO / DE6221 FLINTSTONE @® RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - VESUV 302 SHEET TITLE
Seay Coen Cae ere Pea HUAI RWEIEL EA COLOIREGH LIPPER CATIGE SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH RETAIL M U 1 E AST

SURROUNDS AND TOWER = =

aie ELEVATION &

fh MU-1-T.0. TOWER

ae ~~ a Ce eee ey a Si | VIEWS

BUILDING MU-1

fm MU-1 - T.0. ROOFTOP STRUCTURE
~ 168" - 6"

a? HEIGHT LIMIT PER SP g>

E +162.00 ~ SHEET NUMBER oni naar

| DATE

A1-2.1

“fe MU-1 - T.O. PLATE if

“ 455'- 11 1/4"

em MU-1-LEVEL5 32 116" = 1-0"
“ 447'-0" = 4 o -IGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE ST) a (THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC. |
¥ Q Oo 4139.70 ~ AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
a we ayever 4a = Cy oar ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
>? te " nes | o ai TW Leer PARTNERS (NC. ALL RIGHTS
<m MU-1 - LEVEL 3(T.O. PLATE) F x - o
7 136-1 1/4" =)
cm MU-1 -LEVEL 370 elas = 5
 427"=2" s 3
wm MU-1 - LEVEL 2 { a in 6
-m MU-1-LEVEL1(GRADE) #& ! val a ¢ a) oat +107.00 \P
7 102-3" Ss ¥ Sr ae ae if = et &S ASL —(S. DELAWARE ST) @>
ere + PARTNERS
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

> ESTYEY  §eeomA-Oo«ON>rHNON*NHWY- Irvine, California 92614

0 8 16' 32! 64'
El www.mve-architects.com

MU-1 - EAST ELEVATION | 161-0"

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 92 ---
a |

iba

Fe |

Bh)

Lg
oy oa

fee i

\q Em i FT| || po ) Soe

wai (] i

te

STYLE 1 STYLE 2

® METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY @ RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - VESUV 302

DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL
FRAMES
@D STUCCO / DEW337 GARDENIA @ stucco / DEW380 WHITE
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD
(B STUCCO /DE5487 SPRING MARSH @®) STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND

ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE RECESSED ELEMENTS AND

STYLE 3 STYLE &

METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD BROWN 8A) RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT METRO - NAPLES 116

DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAME
AT FOCAL POINT CORNER AND RETAIL PASEO

STUCCO / DE6120 TEA BISCUIT @ STUCCO / DEW382 FADED GRAY
® PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ARCHITECTURAL PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAME AT FOCAL
SHaNEE POINT CORNER
METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
& STUCCO / DE621 4 PIGEON GRAY SH METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

coins BASE PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR ae
i STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
© bl Pacey hi areas el aa RENOIISS ® SECONDARY FIELD COLORTO EMPHASIZE THETOP FLOOR +8) STUCCO / DE5816 SEAL PUP @) sTUCCO/ DE6221 FLINTSTONE

PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS ACCENT COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

@ WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE-RENOLIT FX 7
WINDOW FRAME COLOR € window coLor/ BURNT ALMOND-RENOLIT Fx @B WINDOW COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX

WINDOW FRAME COLOR
€}) STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM
STYLE 3 STYLE 2 STYLES STYLE 8

MU-1 - T.O. TOWER ee wan UE gD YO eed BF BE ee SP ere Ol ee ey 2 a Pe 9g ee OT A a ee ed A.” ee Cee on ee ee en FO Af

MU-1-T.0. ROOFTOP STRUCTURE, | mat 2
168"-6" i Ds =”) | Waser sh Sts pore cs ky era pe

ee ‘ ee eee ee . 7 - r

i
E

| ‘a =|

RADE

A

jj sm
eel

Qn
unall

B
if

AWARE ST.
: sts

Figg GRADE TO OP

i=. ,.= ae a ae }

mF A nb ial tin Unvinail l

PROPOSED HEIGHT

Steet

|

tn

= sas
a ce)

HEIGHT LIMIT PER SP
+162.00 °

HEIGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE ST) 4,
+139.70

|

PER SPECIFIC PLAN

D

ry

35'- 0" A
ALONG S. DELAWARE ST.

ESTABLISHED GRADE ,
ake cae +107.00
STABLISHED GRADE (S. DELAWARE ST)
> a +104.70 4,

PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

, =

0 8 16' 32!

MU-1 - SOUTH ELEVATION | sro | 4

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION |

_ SHEET TITLE

MU-1 - SOUTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING MU-1

SHEET NUMBER ois tots

1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC

a, ni Sechdok ah IN Lalit FOR THE LIMITED Fe aacias ae Figs
UMENT OR ITS CONTENTS
avy OTF THER PURPOSE AN AND M MA te rs i BE REPRODUCED OR! DISCLOSED TOC OTHERS
SENT OF MVE 4 PARTNERS INC ALL AAGH

pled “4 pode atid ae ‘a

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614
949.809.3388

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 93 ---
tae
a

sear

Biya I

cm

mies aH 41)

ee

‘tL ate = 4 int ais: pw e\ wall ,
7 ih i ome a i J gs is bs Fr ay ;
3 a

i rr ia

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
‘ad
<
O
z=
O
=
<
=
Y)

= .a- HH

] Sm ‘ “ey . iL
aS CE = aire pat | he 7 :
= j = pe i ‘4 |
| =
oy 1
t t i) | l 1

at a 2. a nt me
- a

AC ie
JSS i

iz]
4

Was

li mes

STYLE 1 STYLE 2 STYLE-3
METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY & METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD BROWN
DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS -REVISIONS

ACCENTS DESCRIPTION

STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE &@ STUCCO / DE6120TEA BISCUIT
PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ARCHITECTURAL

STUCCO / DEC733 SOLAR WIND
ACCENT FOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES AND BASE

FRAMES
STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
@ Aiea team roe Bee eis ‘any @ SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR & STUCCO / DE6214 PIGEON GRAY
postal PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR
RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - GRAPHITE STUCCO / DES816 SEAL PUP
@® STUCCO /DEW337 GARDENIA @ SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSET OF ARCHITECTURAL ACCENT COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FRAMES
STUCCO / DE6122 DRY CREEK WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX
@ STUCCO / DE5487 SPRING MARSH OG SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RETAIL BASE & WINDOW FRAME COLOR
ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE RECESSED ELEMENTS AND
VOIDS & STUCCO / DEA156 CHERRY COLA & STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO COORDINATE WITH RAIN SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
@ WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE- RENOLIT FX SCREEN BASE
elle ida liensi ss @) WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX )
WINDOW FRAME COLOR SHEET TITLE

MU-1 - WEST

STYLE 2 | SPYUE STYLE 3
ELEVATION &
MU-1-T.0.TOWER _ re esl rpc ee nee So TAS eee Ms ace RR eH UEC NTIS CMIIA SOc VEE eR ako ee Te a VIEWS
” 176'- 9" 7.
MU-1 - T.0. ROOFTOP STRUCTURE _ Reeee ee ten! fs So i nA ee ( re Pe eeR ere ee ree Re ee Te ae rah re ad tales eer BUILDING MU-1
~ 168" - 6" i Wade — RAS
Sippel ti<‘COCOSOCOCSC™C:C:C:*:”:*:”:*;C:*C*C*C*C*i Se ee Pe eee, Gee £8 = @2 2828 =e Pe HEIGHT LIMITPERSP @\ ,
Hl +162.00 © 408 NO.
MU-1 - T.O. PLATE 3 ~ # ' ai SHEET NUMBER el
| i A1 -2. 3 41/20/14
ee ee Se Ss = ee ee < 1/16" = 1'-0"
4 ; | i = o +4 3070 oP AND ni FURNISHED IN cat dioyeiptae a THE LAWTED Fe aacias ae Figs
ew 1G FEVEL A i a avy OTHER ER PURPOSE AND Nth MAW NOT BE DE REPRODUCED OF DIO DISCLOSED "Or OTHERS
137'- 4" I he _— _— io 1A i —<—<—<— «ss || ————————_ SS —s — ene ef Stonibasiilal iy icici adams
136" - |
_MU-1 - | ig
r
ji ESTABLISHED GRADE
we +107.00 *
oN "a ESTABLISHED GRADE (S. DELAWARE ST) “, ee
aes +104.70
+ PARTNERS
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

—F- 4] dt ] Irvine, California 92614

o 8 416 32 64 749.809.3388

WWW.IMVe-a)'c a itects com
MU-1 - WEST ELEVATION | ween | 4

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 94 ---
BLOCK LINE
+ BLOCK LINE

seneneeeeee BLOCK LINE
— soon — son r=

CALIFORNIA

RESIDENTIAL
! ere | 20-0" EVAE !
RESIDENTIAL | eb. * Ing
ed ee
: a gd! -
i ec - Seal
i i ae or |
: mee
RETAIL ”
OFFICE
‘ :

STATION PARK

a ; Phy
H h f bh
cs | a , 5, a {4
tS | ary
| 1 pie 1
o = | eS en a ae a
= ao hy F m ches ty a a clry
= =i de otk : P Jo of
5 = |, ir oh, Ba ee | | do ee ee
= i = lt = oa Mn hy va a a rr Ea oF “| . sf a] i Pee =.
ie] mil li Bd “| = | “{ | fel |
:| = BOL e Ol Bie Ok ted! t DEVELOPMENT
im | ! a i - ) — ot iy
oor 10-0" re | = | sy = <
South Delaware Street ROW > = a 2 = ¢
a) i =)
an a — = |= EB a w
— se Varies a a $$ —
| o-oo | so" | gar a'-0" i Zr" a-0" go | sr Gateway Park ll
i 400" Curb to curb | ii 14 I
(“— Ne t 67-0" ROW c= i
[ | {
— I! en I}
= |

MU-1 - STREET SECTION - EAST] 222-10" MU-1 - STREET SECTION - WEST) 322-1
el Sn] ——

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

MU-1 SECTIONS

tm MU-1-T.0.ROOFTOP STRUCTURE
~ 168" - 6"
“jy MU-1 - T.0. PARAPET
“ 45r-411 Fie ier ene
; MU-1 - T.0. PLATE

HEIGHT LIMIT PER SP
+162.00 -

BUILDING MU-1

SHEET NUMBER oats tora

6 oe ae ee oi ies ATE
147°-0 Thor , ey A1-3 0 11/20/14
MU-1 - LEVEL 4 | A / ee ee! Ss So sa HEIGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE $ 1 SCALE

Bra [x Fee 9 y = J ~~ #490 70 Ag indicated

TALS GOS WME OOATAS ORS TG PRO SSIETAGY TO ME & RATERS ire
AAS EURMSHED iW COMDEMCE FOS THE LM TES OLA LSe ier EAL td Towel
BUDS OF ROWE THs SUES T OAS OWENS Mar MOT 82 USED Poe
44) OTTER PURSE AND Ma OT Bo FEPROOCED OF DSCLOSED TO OTHErS
FATHOUIT THE PRUOF WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE 4 PART VERS WW. ALL RUGATS
SEO Oo Coat oe

+ PARTNERS

Irvine, California 97614

MU-1 - BUILDING SECTION FS ine=ro] 4

Bet"

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 95 ---
UP
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
UP
UP
UP
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
1052 SF
UNIT F
666 SF
UNIT D
666 SF
UNIT D
666 SF
UNIT D
666 SF
UNIT D
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
751 SF
UNIT C
1105 SF
UNIT H
725 SF
UNIT F.1
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
674 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
1040 SF
UNIT G
1283 SF
AMENITIES A
1115 SF
AMENITIES B
683 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
674 SF
UNIT D
838 SF
UNIT C.1
846 SF
UNIT C.1
682 SF
UNIT B
685 SF
UNIT B
988 SF
UNIT F
784 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
562 SF
UNIT A
787 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
988 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
846 SF
UNIT C.1
332 SF
STAIR 2-1
280 SF
STAIR 2-2
270 SF
STAIR 2-3
6' - 5"
6' - 5"
4.9%
5.0%
6.4%
2' - 0"
2' - 0"
0"
8' - 0"
109 SF
LOBBY G2-3
156 SF
LOBBY G2-1
397 SF
STAIR G2-1
163 SF
LOBBY G2-2
320 SF
STAIR G2-2
18' - 4"
42' - 2"
18' - 2"
24' - 0"
18' - 4"
6' - 11 3/8"
26' - 0"
32' - 0"
111' - 4"
30' - 0"
1052 SF
LOBBY
577 SF
LOBBY
221 SF
TRASH G2-2
384 SF
TRASH G2-1
GARAGE
ENTRY
201 SF
MAIL
201 SF
MAINTENANCE
97 SF
DOG WASH
260 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
1
A2-2.1
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
(2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY)
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
352' - 10 1/4"
179' - 2"
19' - 10"
153' - 10 1/4"
126' - 6"
202' - 2 3/4"
71' - 7 1/2"
58' - 8 1/2"
71' - 10 3/4"
215' - 0 3/4"
52' - 2 1/4"
66' - 4 5/8"
14' - 1 7/8"
347' - 9 1/2"
157' - 5"
162' - 9 1/2"
7' - 5 1/4"
327' - 7 3/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.1
RE-2 - LEVEL 1
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 96 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
DN
UP
UP
UP
DN
DN
UP
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1052 SF
UNIT F
687 SF
UNIT D
686 SF
UNIT D
687 SF
UNIT D
686 SF
UNIT D
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
766 SF
UNIT C
1105 SF
UNIT H
996 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
674 SF
UNIT D
569 SF
UNIT A
688 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
1040 SF
UNIT G
1009 SF
UNIT F
989 SF
UNIT F
681 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
674 SF
UNIT D
838 SF
UNIT C.1
846 SF
UNIT C.1
562 SF
UNIT A
682 SF
UNIT B
685 SF
UNIT B
988 SF
UNIT F
784 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
562 SF
UNIT A
787 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
988 SF
UNIT F
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
562 SF
UNIT A
846 SF
UNIT C.1
251 SF
STAIR 2-1
280 SF
STAIR 2-2
270 SF
STAIR 2-3
6' - 5"
6' - 5"
4.9%
5.0%
6.4%
13' - 0 7/8"
13' - 0 7/8"
11' - 0 7/8"
6.1%
109 SF
LOBBY G2-3
156 SF
LOBBY G2-1
360 SF
STAIR G2-1
163 SF
LOBBY G2-2
320 SF
STAIR G2-2
7' - 0"
18' - 4"
24' - 0"
18' - 2"
6' - 11 3/8"
27' - 0"
32' - 0"
111' - 4"
30' - 0"
6' - 10"
7' - 0"
221 SF
TRASH G2-2
84 SF
TRASH G2-1
317 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
1
A2-2.1
11' - 0 7/8"
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
352' - 3"
178' - 5 3/4"
19' - 11"
153' - 10 1/4"
126' - 6"
202' - 2 3/4"
71' - 1 1/4"
59' - 2 3/4"
71' - 10 3/4"
214' - 5 1/2"
52' - 8 1/2"
65' - 10 3/8"
13' - 6 5/8"
346' - 7"
157' - 5"
162' - 9 1/2"
7' - 7 1/8"
327' - 9 5/8"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.2
RE-2 - LEVEL 2
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 97 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
1
A2-2.1
20' - 11 7/8"
22' - 11 7/8"
22' - 11 7/8"
20' - 11 7/8"
19' - 0 7/8"
6.1%
4.9%
5.0%
5.0%
6.4%
17' - 5 7/8"
17' - 5 7/8"
1052 SF
UNIT F
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
766 SF
UNIT C
1105 SF
UNIT H
996 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
674 SF
UNIT D
569 SF
UNIT A
688 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
1040 SF
UNIT G
1009 SF
UNIT F
989 SF
UNIT F
681 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
674 SF
UNIT D
838 SF
UNIT C.1
846 SF
UNIT C.1
562 SF
UNIT A
682 SF
UNIT B
685 SF
UNIT B
988 SF
UNIT F
784 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
562 SF
UNIT A
787 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
988 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
846 SF
UNIT C.1
251 SF
STAIR 2-1
280 SF
STAIR 2-2
270 SF
STAIR 2-3
109 SF
LOBBY G2-3
156 SF
LOBBY G2-1
392 SF
STAIR G2-1
163 SF
LOBBY G2-2
320 SF
STAIR G2-2
221 SF
TRASH G2-2
84 SF
TRASH G2-1
317 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
352' - 3"
126' - 6"
202' - 2 3/4"
71' - 1 1/4"
59' - 2 3/4"
71' - 10 3/4"
214' - 5 1/2"
52' - 8 1/2"
65' - 10 3/8"
13' - 6 5/8"
346' - 7"
157' - 5"
162' - 9 1/2"
7' - 7 1/8"
327' - 9 5/8"
180' - 2"
172' - 8 1/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.3
RE-2 - LEVEL 3
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 98 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
DN
UP
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
1
A2-2.1
27' - 4 7/8"
27' - 4 7/8"
28' - 11 7/8"
28' - 11 7/8"
30' - 10 7/8"
30' - 10 7/8"
32' - 10 7/8"
32' - 10 7/8"
6.1%
4.9%
5.0%
5.0%
6.4%
1047 SF
UNIT F
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
766 SF
UNIT C
1105 SF
UNIT H
996 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
674 SF
UNIT D
569 SF
UNIT A
688 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
1040 SF
UNIT G
1009 SF
UNIT F
989 SF
UNIT F
681 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
674 SF
UNIT D
838 SF
UNIT C.1
846 SF
UNIT C.1
562 SF
UNIT A
682 SF
UNIT B
685 SF
UNIT B
988 SF
UNIT F
784 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
562 SF
UNIT A
787 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
988 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
846 SF
UNIT C.1
317 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
251 SF
STAIR 2-1
270 SF
STAIR 2-3
280 SF
STAIR 2-2
221 SF
TRASH G2-2
156 SF
LOBBY G2-1
320 SF
STAIR G2-2
392 SF
STAIR G2-1
163 SF
LOBBY G2-2
84 SF
TRASH G2-1
109 SF
LOBBY G2-3
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
352' - 10 1/4"
126' - 6"
202' - 2 3/4"
71' - 1 1/4"
59' - 2 3/4"
71' - 10 3/4"
214' - 5 1/2"
52' - 8 1/2"
65' - 10 3/8"
13' - 6 5/8"
346' - 7"
157' - 5"
162' - 9 1/2"
7' - 7 1/8"
327' - 9 5/8"
180' - 2"
172' - 8 1/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.4
RE-2 - LEVEL 4
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 99 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
DN
DN
DN
DN
DN
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
1052 SF
UNIT F
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
688 SF
UNIT D
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
1109 SF
UNIT H
996 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
562 SF
UNIT A
674 SF
UNIT D
687 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
1040 SF
UNIT G
1009 SF
UNIT F
989 SF
UNIT F
680 SF
UNIT D
680 SF
UNIT D
674 SF
UNIT D
838 SF
UNIT C.1
846 SF
UNIT C.1
562 SF
UNIT A
682 SF
UNIT B
685 SF
UNIT B
988 SF
UNIT F
784 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
562 SF
UNIT A
787 SF
UNIT E
784 SF
UNIT E
988 SF
UNIT F
562 SF
UNIT A
846 SF
UNIT C.1
251 SF
STAIR 2-1
280 SF
STAIR 2-2
270 SF
STAIR 2-3
4.9%
5.0%
6.4%
42' - 9 7/8"
40' - 9 7/8"
40' - 9 7/8"
109 SF
LOBBY G2-3
156 SF
LOBBY G2-1
392 SF
STAIR G2-1
163 SF
LOBBY G2-2
320 SF
STAIR G2-2
18' - 4"
42' - 2"
6' - 11 3/8"
26' - 0"
143' - 4"
30' - 0"
7' - 0"
221 SF
TRASH G2-2
84 SF
TRASH G2-1
317 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
1
A2-2.1
42' - 9 7/8"
40' - 9 7/8"
38' - 10 7/8"
38' - 10 7/8"
37' - 3 7/8"
37' - 3 7/8"
6.1%
5.0%
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
352' - 10 1/4"
126' - 6"
202' - 2 3/4"
71' - 0 1/4"
59' - 3 3/4"
71' - 10 3/4"
214' - 5 1/2"
52' - 9 1/2"
65' - 9 3/8"
13' - 6 5/8"
346' - 7"
136' - 6 3/4"
20' - 10 1/4"
162' - 9 1/2"
7' - 7 1/8"
327' - 9 5/8"
38' - 4 1/2"
34' - 7 1/2"
107' - 2"
172' - 8 1/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.5
RE-2 - LEVEL 5
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 100 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.4
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
2.F
2.G
2.H
2.J
1
A2-2.2
1
A2-2.3
1
A2-2.0
1
A2-3.0
0
A6-2.2
1
A2-2.1
STAIR 2-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 2-2
2-HOUR EXIT
ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 2-3
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
STAIR G2-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
STAIR G2-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A2-1.6
RE-2 - ROOF
PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - ROOF PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 101 ---
re

oe
Lg

|
call \
Pod
ing
cae
—— ae

\
I

cy | ts gl
cd ‘1 afi Loos sail fl

WN
a |

TT

if

of
|

veal BL

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

+

ima.
ie

a 4 ! | a
2 - - f
‘1

pays ae SL a |

it Se ee oe

a be

i

Reread!

<= or =m — eR
7 ee |

i aS

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

Se
=

a UT) batter
ill VTE |

_——

STYLE 2 STYLE 4 STYLE 6 | DESCRIPTION
METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY @® METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY 6A) LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE,
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL RIVA COLOR
ACCENTS ACCENTS SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE
@@ STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE @ STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK @) stucco / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE
PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD PRIMARY FIELD COLOR PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS
STUCCO /DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE @@ STUCCO / DE6364 CAVERNOUS STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS
BASE BALCONIES
@3_ STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK @®) STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR @ STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS, COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS
PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM
@ WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX @ WINDOW COLOR / TROMPET - RENOLIT FX @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR cc FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
CCENTS ;
@ WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX SHEET TITLE
WINDOW FRAME COLOR RE-2 - NORTH

ee a cnshaieitpe cower ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-2

STYLE 4 STYLE 6 STYLE 2

ea

]
e tare “5 7/8 a el wa Ta OT ie Sart ao. nO ey ae, es 7 te a : { JOB NO. |
i gaaee 24 ae Ss “ES A ae 1 SS | == = vi emia
> thes immid . aan ==
c2- FEN Pe Le a eee SP a {GSE g C i

a
=
*

ANY OTF THER PURPOSE AND MA YNOT BE Fi REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
| RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

BLDG-2=
’ 437'- 107 A

oo ---4 i

'
@
= Ly

a BEDG 2 -(E) :
118'- 0 Te roof

en” + PARTNERS

PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

| i gQ CO

em BL @-2=
Se il

malic A. 2 a ee

i — g

PROJECT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

i 55! - 0" ALLOWED THROUGHOUT

an | fa

C | {one -
i ig LS E ; —* —— ' Dc ee) Se pe ae) AD

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

a Irvine, California 92614

0.6 68 16 32! 64" 949.809.3388

www.mve-architects.com
RE-2 - NORTH ELEVATION Janome | 1

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 102 ---
poll ill

eit line

aid

jlo oe : ;

ie

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

Ss 4— IRIE ll |
ox ‘nen " ne DEVELOPMENT
z&.

Fn AUHFTU TALIM iMMLNIL

= r SP] P i = co Tet i, z : f i
OD Of | i Sot elena eet = a... —

ra - +8 4 7 ate, a | Se
7 Sol

STYLE 2 STYLE 4 STYLE 7 REVISIONS

WINDOW FRAME COLOR RE-2 ™ EAST

RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - FLINT 921
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL

FRAMES ELEVATION &
STYLE 7 STYLE 4 STYLE 2 | Vi EWS

BUILDING RE-2

@) RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - VESUV 302 @) METAL FINISH / PPG-DURANARECLIPSEGRAY @) STUCCO / DEW316 POWDERED

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING ARCHITECTURAL

FRAMES ACCENTS FORMS
@ METAL FINISH /PPG-DURANARECLIPSEGRAY  @ STUCCO/DEC714 FRIAR TUCK @ lara sorcerer}

METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL PRIMARY FIELD COLOR

STUCCO /DE6364 CAVERNOUS 2

STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE @ SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
@ PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD son essy FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND BALCONIES
2D) STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE @® STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS, METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

BASE WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM ACCENTS
@3 STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK @B WINDOW COLOR /TROMPET - RENOLIT FX @ WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR

PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS STUCCO / DE POINTED BOCK

6363 |

@) WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE- RENOLIT FX 7) ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM SHEET TITLE

BLDG_2-T.0.PARAPET _

~ 167'- 5 7/8"

HT LIMITPERSP @> | SHEET NUMBER nme

+162.00 -

DATE

11/20/14
= ' a
1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC
a, ni Sechdok ah IN Lilia fete THE LAWTED Fe aacias ae Figs
OF ITS CONTEN
avy OTF THER PURPOSE AN AND M MA ms No T, BE REPRODUCED ‘ORE DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
SENT OF MVE & PARTNERS ING ALL RIGH'

BLDG 2-T.0. BEATE ane i s z o"

’ 456'- 9 1/8"

BLDG_2-LEVEL5

© 147'-9 7/8"

OTOP O a be

pled “4 pode atid ae ‘a

BLDG_2- LEVEL 4

437 - 10 718"

aie

BLDG _2-LEVEL3

haa $4 7a"

rii<=s
<i se

i a
teak

. a. aoa

, BLDG _ 2 - LEV@iaaaes
~ 118'- 0 7/8"

+
hy a =
}

BLDG_2- LEVEL 1 (GRADE i.
7~407'- 0"

:

+ PARTNERS

PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
— EE Irvine, California 92614

o. 0608's 16' 32' 64' 949.809.3388

www.mve-architects.com
BUILDING 2 - EAST ELEVATION fine | 4

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 103 ---
ani | 7

emmel

——

——_

th
— 2 ob.
| oe y

Y

= vii ni a G

=|

ES =

—

Falla:

aaa:

fi f }
= ee
eT
SS

Wak

ee ee 8

STYLE 5 STYLE 6 STYLE 7
SIDING / DES901 OCEAN NIGHT LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, @® LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITINAL
ACCENT FOR PATTERNING AND TEXTURE ON INSET PANELS RIVA COLOR TEXTURE, RIVA WASH COLOR
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL
G) STUCCO / DES308 BUTTERMILK TEXTURE
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS AND
ASCLITEC TURAL FRAMES STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE @ STUCCO / DEW316 POWDERED

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING ARCHITECTURAL

€ STUCCO / DE5381 SUMMERTIME STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE FORMS

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR PATTERNING AND TEXTURE ON SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS STUCCO / DE6055 WILD WEST
RECESSIVE PANELS ACCENT FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BASE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES

SD) METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY 6D) STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD
ACCENTS SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND

WINDOW COLOR / LIGHT IVORY - RENOLIT FX METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY syblcceiile

WINDOW FRAME COLOR METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
ACCENTS METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
5G) STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK ACCENTS
ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE TOP ELEMENT @ WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR @ WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX
RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - WALNUT WINDOW FRAME COLOR
ACCENT MATERIAL AT BASE
© RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA
STUCCO / DE6132 BIG STONE BEACH PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH PORCH
ACCENT COLOR AT BASE SURROUNDS
—
STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM an
STYLE 6 SIYLES STYLE Y em.
—
BLDG 2-T.0.PARAPET = og me ey i ie ee eee nt ae ea me ee we ee es ees = |
467" - 5 7/8" an
Peay eee 6 Se ee oe err oe er eee ae tee Le a HEIGHT

» BLDG 2-7.0. PLATE _

7 156' - 9 1/8" Fr Jt

5 a a ii, ap =

BLDG_2-LEVEL5 Se ee es ll =

/ 447-9 7/8" 5 =
: @ nae SA TT i =

BLDG _2-LEVEL4 o AL <i

* 437" - 10 7/8"

-—
fk
1.
ia. be

BLDG _2-LEVEL3 _ cL ml [uns ann

* =

4“ 427' - 11 7/8" :
BLDG_2-LEVEL2 ; : | . = ae “ie 3 a 4 a = ———- —————- a. — aoe _¥
407'-0" 3 |

PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

7

0 8 16" 32!

RE-2 - SOUTH ELEVATION | «=o | 4

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
ae
<L
al
=
O
-
<
—
VY)

;
ad
UO

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION |

_ SHEET TITLE

RE-2 - SOUTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-2

SHEET NUMBER ois tots

DATE
11/20/14
™ | SCALE

S OOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS [iC
An 6 Sechdok ah IN Lalit FOR THE LATED PURPOSE ae Figs
& OOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY NO
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614
949.809.3388
www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 104 ---
x a 4

—_—_—_

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
‘ad
<
oO
Zz
O
=
<<
=
Y)

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

Lt ED | 55

STYLE? STYLE 6

4
oy al —_ =i s i

oe 4 RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - VESUV 302 LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, REVISIONS
——: PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES RIVA COLOR | DESCRIPTION l
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE =

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY @® STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONT, RAILINGS, AND METAL ACCENTS PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS
2 Fe STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE € STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS
20) STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE 6D) STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS
BASE
STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS ACCENTS
2) WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX OF) WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR |
@ RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - FLINT 921 (@ STUCCO / DE6206 DESERT SUEDE _ SHEET TITLE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL _ SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH TOP ELEMENTS
FRAMES RE-2 - WEST

‘me BLDG _2-T.0. PARAPET | Rg as spate BUILDING RE-2
qe ON eee a _ a 8 7 Se a a ee ee ee a
ESTRUS A Bs ; 2c _ _ 3 m4 rE 7 Z mee) Ee fi Fas © ®) BE ed NTS ee Vey @® L _ _ i — 4 HEIGHT LIMIT PER SP_ > ) veane
: ahi Sa == SSS +162.00 “
om BLDG _2-1.0.PLATE _ pum (2 LS See pa ay = ee et SHEET NUMBER avis icis7

7 156'- 9 1/8"

a a
a ln om

= /-—— 4

——

DATE
A2 2 3 11/20/14
™ ri SCALE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC
ANOS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LAWTED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OF REWEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY WOT BE USEO FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

Gunn

“we BLDG_2-LEVEL5

7447-9 7/8"

-f&m BLDG 2-LEVEL4
7 137" - 10 7/8"

on
>

—

“im BLDG_2-LEVEL3
/ 427° -71 7/8"

|

-m BLDG 2-LEVEL2 ies < ~ aie < Boome a = a . K ma cick |e
; | 1 ba “2 } 1 - ear 1 '? - We is oe Pap; | | | | ™ | r- . ( ga ] | a bi ] id r

/f BLDG_2-LEVEL 1 (GRADE)®

9 1/8" : HT. FROM GRADE TO TOP OF PLATE |

ESTABLISHED GRADE

~ 107'- 0" +107.00 ~ —EEEe——EEE—— EE
+ PARTNERS
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

ee en ee 1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

Oo 68 (16 32' 64" 949.809.3388

Www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL

RE-2 - WEST ELEVATION


--- page 105 ---
RESIDENTIAL

------------------------ BLOCK LINE
BLOCK LINE

RESIDENTIAL

a
=

- a
a
a
*
Fa
— zn aC
ly | E
l
|

]

i

a

a
—=—1

warning paver
planting
dewalk

| ts bike lane

br | +
S PY
= * Varies sa
rie 1 6-0" a-0r o-10-° | ,
Park Curt to curb 1 a” | a
< i at ; iz i. Bo
ROW 34*-0" [
cca 7 ee e :
| eo Peli
Fe 7 ts
nf | ot
— i i sy
‘0 J
a aaa = - 3 - a eee 7
=] } " Lh = % = | Hy lI i
ont © a c a iF
| | = Ge a = (
| | ie 5 a & s a d
[ rl Varies ji
= aa ¥ 10 ae| Varo ear 12" I 1]
oe | - au fr Z Z é thr
ee / - a

RE-2 - STREET SECTION - NORTH  oesvo] 3 RE-2 - STREET SECTION - SOUTH J seevo| 2

‘m BLDG 2-T.O.PARAPET _ ‘th
@ie7 5718"

BLDG 2-T.O. PLATE A
- 156" - 9 1/8"

BLDG _2-LEVEL5 a
= 147° - 9 7/8"

HEIGHT LIMIT PERSP g-

+162.00

rae re ees Ls

aa

rf

:
ih ia

TABLISHED GRAL

O" g 16° 32

oe
RE-2 - BUILDING SECTION | sc =1-0 1

CALIFORNIA

SAN MATEO,

;
ad
U

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

STATION PARK

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

RE-2 SECTIONS

BUILDING RE-2

SHEET NUMBER oats tora

DATE

As indicabed

TALS GOS WME OOATAS ORS TG PRO SSIETAGY TO ME & RATERS ire
AAS EURMSHED iW COMDEMCE FOS THE LM TES OLA LSe ier EAL td Towel
BUDS OF ROWE THs SUES T OAS OWENS Mar MOT 82 USED Poe
44) OTTER PURSE AND Ma OT Bo FEPROOCED OF DSCLOSED TO OTHErS
FATHOUIT THE PRUOF WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE 4 PART VERS WW. ALL RUGATS
SEO Oo Coat oe

+ PARTNERS

Irvine, California 92614

OO er | h itects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 106 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
1960 SF
AMENITIES
684 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
569 SF
UNIT A
731 SF
UNIT F.1
685 SF
UNIT B
625 SF
UNIT A
630 SF
UNIT A
1000 SF
UNIT J
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
755 SF
UNIT C
656 SF
UNIT D
682 SF
UNIT B
683 SF
UNIT B
1022 SF
UNIT F
561 SF
UNIT A
1132 SF
UNIT H
1187 SF
UNIT L
685 SF
UNIT E.1
683 SF
UNIT E.1
781 SF
UNIT E
785 SF
UNIT E
675 SF
UNIT B
740 SF
UNIT C
739 SF
UNIT C
630 SF
AMENITIES
993 SF
UNIT G
663 SF
UNIT K
600 SF
UNIT A
668 SF
UNIT K
7' - 0"
18' - 9"
24' - 0"
18' - 1"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
7' - 0"
12' - 8"
24' - 10"
17' - 0"
130' - 2"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 9 53/64"
5' - 11 37/128"
963 SF
LOBBY
GARAGE
ENTRY
380 SF
MAINTENANCE
9' - 4"
120 SF
DOG WASH
3.3
3.7
427 SF
STAIR G3-2
240 SF
TRASH G3-2
304 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
287 SF
TRASH G3-1
408 SF
STAIR G3-1
372 SF
STAIR 3-1
595 SF
UNIT A
0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
4.8%
3.0%
4.9%
6' - 0"
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
LOBBY
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
2-HR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
38' - 6 1/2"
21' - 0 1/4"
112' - 11 1/2"
14' - 11 3/4"
36' - 8 1/4"
116' - 10"
67' - 10 1/4"
81' - 8 3/4"
46' - 10 7/8"
276' - 6 3/8"
405' - 2"
38' - 4 1/2"
8' - 7 1/4"
23' - 11 1/4"
14' - 11 1/4"
8' - 9"
135' - 1"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
12' - 8"
24' - 3"
105' - 5"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
20' - 7"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
4 1/2"
240' - 11 3/4"
408' - 10 1/2"
229' - 8 1/4"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.1
RE-3 - LEVEL 1
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 107 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
690 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
569 SF
UNIT A
989 SF
UNIT F
685 SF
UNIT B
625 SF
UNIT A
630 SF
UNIT A
1000 SF
UNIT J
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
755 SF
UNIT C
656 SF
UNIT D
682 SF
UNIT B
683 SF
UNIT B
1022 SF
UNIT F
561 SF
UNIT A
1132 SF
UNIT H
1187 SF
UNIT L
685 SF
UNIT E.1
683 SF
UNIT E.1
781 SF
UNIT E
785 SF
UNIT E
675 SF
UNIT B
1072 SF
UNIT G
782 SF
UNIT C
782 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
992 SF
UNIT G
726 SF
UNIT K
600 SF
UNIT A
668 SF
UNIT K
304 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
203 SF
LOBBY G3-1
408 SF
STAIR G3-1
240 SF
TRASH G3-2
372 SF
STAIR 3-1
11' - 0 7/8"
11' - 0 7/8"
4.8%
4.9%
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
12' - 8"
129' - 8"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
7' - 4"
167 SF
LOBBY G3-1
OPEN TO BELOW
427 SF
STAIR G3-2
3.3
3.7
16' - 0 7/8"
16' - 0 7/8"
4.9%
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
595 SF
UNIT A
287 SF
TRASH G3-1
LOBBY
LOBBY
38' - 6 1/2"
21' - 0 1/4"
112' - 11 1/2"
14' - 11 3/4"
36' - 8 1/4"
116' - 10"
67' - 10 1/4"
81' - 8 3/4"
46' - 10 7/8"
276' - 6 3/8"
405' - 2"
38' - 4 1/2"
8' - 7 1/4"
23' - 11 1/4"
14' - 11 1/4"
8' - 9"
134' - 5 3/4"
10' - 3 3/4"
239' - 4 3/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
12' - 8"
24' - 3"
105' - 5"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
20' - 7"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
1' - 0 1/2"
240' - 11 3/4"
408' - 10 1/2"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.2
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 108 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
3.3
3.7
4.7%
4.7%
4.8%
20' - 11 7/8"
20' - 11 7/8"
25' - 11 7/8"
25' - 11 7/8"
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
685 SF
UNIT E.1
683 SF
UNIT E.1
781 SF
UNIT E
785 SF
UNIT E
675 SF
UNIT B
992 SF
UNIT G
1068 SF
UNIT G
782 SF
UNIT C
782 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
1107 SF
UNIT H
690 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
569 SF
UNIT A
685 SF
UNIT B
625 SF
UNIT A
630 SF
UNIT A
595 SF
UNIT A
1000 SF
UNIT J
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
755 SF
UNIT C
656 SF
UNIT D
682 SF
UNIT B
683 SF
UNIT B
1022 SF
UNIT F
561 SF
UNIT A
1132 SF
UNIT H
1187 SF
UNIT L
726 SF
UNIT K
989 SF
UNIT F
600 SF
UNIT A
668 SF
UNIT K
408 SF
STAIR G3-1
287 SF
TRASH G3-1
372 SF
STAIR 3-1
203 SF
LOBBY G3-1
167 SF
LOBBY G3-1
LOBBY
427 SF
STAIR G3-2
LOBBY
38' - 6 1/2"
21' - 0 1/4"
112' - 11 1/2"
14' - 11 3/4"
36' - 8 1/4"
116' - 10"
67' - 10 1/4"
240' - 11 3/4"
81' - 8 3/4"
46' - 10 7/8"
276' - 6 3/8"
405' - 2"
38' - 4 1/2"
8' - 7 1/4"
23' - 11 1/4"
14' - 11 1/4"
8' - 9"
134' - 5 3/4"
10' - 3 3/4"
239' - 4 3/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
12' - 8"
24' - 3"
105' - 5"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
20' - 7"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
408' - 10 1/2"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.3
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 109 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
3.3
3.7
203 SF
LOBBY G3-1
167 SF
LOBBY G3-1
4.7%
4.7%
4.8%
30' - 10 3/4"
30' - 10 7/8"
35' - 10 7/8"
35' - 10 7/8"
1107 SF
UNIT H
690 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
569 SF
UNIT A
685 SF
UNIT B
625 SF
UNIT A
630 SF
UNIT A
595 SF
UNIT A
1000 SF
UNIT J
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
755 SF
UNIT C
656 SF
UNIT D
682 SF
UNIT B
683 SF
UNIT B
1022 SF
UNIT F
561 SF
UNIT A
1132 SF
UNIT H
1187 SF
UNIT L
726 SF
UNIT K
685 SF
UNIT E.1
683 SF
UNIT E.1
781 SF
UNIT E
785 SF
UNIT E
675 SF
UNIT B
992 SF
UNIT G
1072 SF
UNIT G
782 SF
UNIT C
782 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
989 SF
UNIT F
600 SF
UNIT A
668 SF
UNIT K
408 SF
STAIR G3-1
287 SF
TRASH G3-1
372 SF
STAIR 3-1
427 SF
STAIR G3-2
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
LOBBY
LOBBY
408' - 10 1/2"
38' - 6 1/2"
21' - 0 1/4"
112' - 11 1/2"
14' - 11 3/4"
36' - 1"
116' - 10"
68' - 5 1/2"
240' - 11 3/4"
81' - 1"
47' - 6 5/8"
276' - 6 3/8"
405' - 2"
38' - 4 1/2"
8' - 7 1/4"
23' - 11 1/4"
14' - 11 1/4"
8' - 9"
135' - 1"
9' - 8 1/2"
239' - 4 3/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
12' - 8"
24' - 3"
105' - 5"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
20' - 7"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
EQ EQ
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.4
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 110 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
742 SF
UNIT C
690 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
684 SF
UNIT B
989 SF
UNIT F
685 SF
UNIT B
625 SF
UNIT A
630 SF
UNIT A
1000 SF
UNIT J
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
1039 SF
UNIT F
755 SF
UNIT C
656 SF
UNIT D
682 SF
UNIT B
683 SF
UNIT B
1022 SF
UNIT F
561 SF
UNIT A
1132 SF
UNIT H
1187 SF
UNIT L
685 SF
UNIT E.1
683 SF
UNIT E.1
781 SF
UNIT E
785 SF
UNIT E
675 SF
UNIT B
1072 SF
UNIT G
782 SF
UNIT C
782 SF
UNIT C
742 SF
UNIT C
992 SF
UNIT G
726 SF
UNIT K
600 SF
UNIT A
668 SF
UNIT K
4.7%
7' - 0"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
7' - 0"
12' - 8"
24' - 3"
105' - 5"
24' - 1"
18' - 3"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
1107 SF
UNIT H
3.3
3.7
42' - 9 31/64"
39' - 6 1/64"
46' - 4 1/2"
277' - 8 1/2"
406' - 4 1/2"
106' - 4 3/4"
20' - 7 1/2"
113' - 11 1/2"
240' - 11 3/4"
38' - 6 1/2"
20' - 8 1/2"
113' - 3 1/4"
14' - 11 3/4"
36' - 1"
116' - 10"
37' - 9 1/4"
9' - 2 1/2"
23' - 11 1/4"
14' - 11 1/4"
8' - 9"
135' - 1"
6' - 8 1/2"
3' - 0"
239' - 4 3/4"
372 SF
STAIR 3-1
595 SF
UNIT A
203 SF
LOBBY G3-1
167 SF
LOBBY G3-1
(OPEN TO BELOW)
4.7%
40' - 9 7/8"
40' - 9 7/8"
287 SF
TRASH G3-1
408 SF
STAIR G3-1
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
LOBBY
LOBBY
TOP OF RAMP
408' - 10 1/2"
68' - 5 1/2"
20' - 7"
24' - 0"
18' - 9"
18' - 2"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.5
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 111 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
1
A3-2.1
3.A
3.G
3.B
3.C
3.D
3.E
3.F
3.1
3.9
3.8
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.2
1
A3-2.2
1
A3-2.0
1
A3-2.3
1
A3-3.0
3.3
3.7
GARAGE STAIR G3-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 3-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE STAIR G3-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A3-1.6
RE-3 - ROOF
PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - ROOF PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 112 ---
om RE-3 - T.0. TOWER
Pie: 9 IE,

wm RE-3- T.0. PARAPET
~ 165'- 0"

fw RE-3-T.0O. PLATE
“ 158" - 3 1/8"

em RE-3-LEVELS

om RE-3-LEVEL 4
/ 139'- 47/8"

wm RE-3-LEVEL3
/ 429'-5 7/8"

wm RE-3-LEVEL2 |

/ 119'- 6 7/8"

wm RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
7 108' - 6"

PROPOSED HEIGHT

eS ne
~ ees

fies. cakes via oe A 4
Th a |

i a.6 #
, '
-

i. -s

=

STYLE 4 STYLE 5

4A) METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY

@® STUCCO / DE5308 BUTTERMILK
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS AND

ACCENTS ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES
@® STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK SD) METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

ACCENTS
@D STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR
ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS, @ RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA
WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH BASE

<n oes $3 @ WINDOW COLOR /TROMPET - RENOLIT FX ) STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
ee I ae ~~ WINDOW FRAME COLOR: 2 ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE TOP ELEMENT
et a.
if FE Py. +]
Mea = = % EE »
teat hy i? 4 7" —
s A #
1 ro -
We}. | 1 a oe —
“4 OF oC =
aT, 1 >
oa = ———— eee
| oe == it =
c| l
oO =
: | =
= i nn SSS. = =
amb ne
= MON . ——

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

STYLES STYLES

_REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION
LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE,

RIVA COLOR
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE

STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

@ STUCCO / DE6221 FLINTSTONE
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

@ WINDOW COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

6D) STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS

@ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS

G WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

G9 STUCCO / DE6206 DESERT SUEDE
~ SECONDARY FIELD COLORTO DISTINGUISH TOP ELEMENTS

SHEET TITLE

RE-3 - NORTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-3

HEIGHT LIMIT
+162.00 -

JOB NO.
2013-10187

1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TOMVE & PARTNERS INC
ANDUIS FURNISHED IN COMPIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OF REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE 4 PARTNERS ING. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, & COPYRIGHT 2071

- 0" ALLOWED THROUGHOUT
PROJECT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

|

|

|
56

| ESTABLISHED GRADE >
| +107.00 \

+ PARTNER S

PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

FF a] -

0 8 16 32 64'

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL

RE-3 - NORTH ELEVATION


--- page 113 ---
"
z a ma ef

ai

. -

[—|

ie

i ; " 2 “ me f | Eas -
re hg “< : Pe itt . at - a 7 -PLy iy } emt ect -
‘ - : fo de inane “ ame ge (Tit | —— FF :
ne dee i 2 : aa5 2 eae eet 4 : ; | = cas a a= I Jc, tte, La rs 2
3 ee ot |

STYLE 3 STYLE 4 STYLE 6 STYLE 7
38) STUCCO / DE6120 TEA BISCUIT METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE,
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ARCHITECTURAL METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONT, RAILINGS, AND METAL RIVA COLOR RIVA WASH COLOR
FRAMES ACCENTS SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE
€@9 sTUCCO/ DE6214 PIGEON GRAY @ STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK @) sTUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE SI ECO DEW 316 POWDERY
PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR PRIMARY FIELD COLOR PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS ie FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING ARCHITECTURAL
€3 window COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX @@ STUCCO / DE6364 CAVERNOUS @@ STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE @@ STUCCO / DE6055 WILD WEST
WINDOW FRAME COLOR SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS ACCENT FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BASE AND
BALCONIES ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES
® STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR 6D) STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE @ STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD
ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS, COLOR FOR WINDOW’ AND TRIM ELEMENTS SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM BALCONIES
@ WINDOW COLOR / TROMPET - RENOLIT EX @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
WINDOW FRAME COLOR METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS ACCENTS
GQ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR XL COPPER G WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND-RENOLITFX @ WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX
CANYON WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR
ACCENT METAL COLOR

@® STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK

STYLE 4 STYLE 7 STYLE 3 STYLE 6 ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

RE-3 - T.0. TOWER
a hs

RE-3-T.0.PARAPET _

"165! - 0" aie cil | |. _ anes HEIGHT LIMIT
RE-3 - T.0. PLATE ik aan ~-+162.00 °
’ 458" - 3 1/8" wi ro
RE-3-LEVEL5 _ a a el EP) :
’ 449! - 3 7/8" | G 3 S
Ol |e cE} 5 3
RE-3-LEVEL4 | Da | Cones
—-139'- 47/8" ! 1) : fain - iat Tf ee
RE-3 - LEVEL rs
> 429'-5 7/8" Ame + = ;
-3 4G "yy > Sonat = i ; F
9-678" ae aie —- wee
hae: Sian fF di 17 bith me

RE-3 - LEVEE-+- (GRADE

PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN
0 8' 16 32 64'

RE-3 - EAST ELEVATION | se-« | 1

CALIFORNIA

SAN MATEO,

STATION PARK

‘REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

RE-3 - EAST
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-3

SHEET NUMBER xis 0167

A324

1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIE TARY TOMVE & PARTNERS INC.

AND IS FURASHED i CONFIDENCE FOR THE LWITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDONG OF REVIEW dat seal oS iTS dep idiat dt Way hl = ee FoR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE REPROD OF O'S 1ERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRIT TEN ( CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS I ING ri RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011

+PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

949 809.3388
www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 114 ---
ang

Ee iit re:

hid a, "4 UL Ze | area = ; | ? ; r ina

a6!

a
I: ae r te ead
His
wn Hi = c aig i rt a: cag
AY ‘ ‘Ak ‘p
. &

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

ea
rT Pie ¥ me = P
cm
4 | he
ae
: Beall onl

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

_REVISIONS
STYLE 3 STYLE 4 = DESCRIPTION
&) METAL FINISH / PPG - BUCKHEAD BROWN METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
DECORATIVE METAL PANELS AND RAILINGS METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONT, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS
3B) STUCCO / DE6120 TEA BISCUIT
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ARCHITECTURAL ® STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK
my bi ; FRAMES PRIMARY FIELD COLOR
i eT? 3C) STUCCO / DE6214 PIGEON GRAY Ge STUCCO / DE6364 CAVERNOUS
c it ; “i eo: ) a ed PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
Sapte y BALCONIES
ee 3 ie ee STUCCO / DE5816 SEAL PUP -
a. Zh 30) RECENT COLDER EO RECESSIVE ELEMENTS. @) STUCCO /DEA157 CELLAR DOOR
SS Pas + ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS,
SOR oer, Pee °3E) WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM
oe Toe cat ang NOE SANE SOW 8 WINDOW COLOR /TROMPET - RENOLIT FX
Fase 2 ; \ 3F) STUCCO / DE6132 BIG STONE BEACH WINDOW FRAME COLOR
| eh : , 5 nm . Sy Pre att "ACCENT COLOR FOR STOOPS, @ METAL FINISH / PPG- DURANAR XL COPPER SHEET TITLE
ae 4 =; ne : * Dae ey eee ;
pe eee a a 7 | ihe. Pe tie ba pg oa; hee aes CANYON RE-3 - SOUTH
es ae ae ee - ate . weed at Tete “gt is Fal ACCENT METAL COLOR
i : F “y , ; : By, . a or - / a a tay os - ’ fa
ELEVATION &
p RES. =O. TOWER _ wie. Se eS Oo a Ree Py Lees caries (Se eye : Ue oh hire ip SS Sh Sia 1st OS Se ee BN VIEWS
m_RE-3-T.O. PARAPET  —s_ ¢_— | | ban Shes Le EPA Larne, Its f eae pes OI a a et ey pint hee ree macy _
465" - 0" E> = Res st tw A ee ES iG ee = iin — eae we OED eee RUS Ge Yale im 7 ae HEIGHT LIMIT gh ! JOB NO.
‘Re. PLATE _ q: an p 3 z . WwW = | | ‘ eT) | | ee +162.00 ° SHEET NUMBER st hl
158" - 3 1/8" = il i i | | eae a | e
5 adi a a A322 |e
RE-3-LEVEL5 _ a ee = ey | zi . 116" = 1-0"
ag 3 7/8" o ie 3 = S OOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS
a. . , az al | ra AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
_RE-3 - LEVEL 4 o| |e = i 32 avy OTHER PURPOSE AND WAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
3 8 | ® nnn a a:
RE-3 - LEVEL 3 2] (om: At
/ 129' - 5 7/8" 5 15
RE-3 - LEVEL 2 | ‘3 —— Sa [o_o =. eee — Eye ‘ s Bo
"119° - 6 7/8" io = ial ~ cee | | om | | a
; yo 7 Hl ME ie | oe ia 2 | 3D r a | | — TI
pee: LEVEL 1 (GRADE) At eee - - - . = ‘ a i aN Bl = : __ ESTABLISHED | GRADE ——
+107.00 |
+ PARTNERS
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN oe
ee en ee 1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614
0.608’ 16 32" 64' 949.809.3388

www.mve-architects.com
RE-3 - SOUTH ELEVATION fineeeo | 4

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 115 ---
oe E
Oe S00 os

=)

SMTi

Pats

ai

STYLE 3

STUCCO / DE6120 TEA BISCUIT
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ARCHITECTURAL
FRAMES

STUCCO / DE6214 PIGEON GRAY
PRIMARY RECESSIVE FIELD COLOR

STUCCO / DE5816 SEAL PUP
ACCENT COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX

09089080 ©

,
. brome |
E a.

TO,
2 fF |

/-.
TE apm

MM} -

Te |. LL

STYLE 4

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS

@ STUCCO / DEC714 FRIAR TUCK
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR

40) STUCCO / DE6364 CAVERNOUS
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
BALCONIES

4D) STUCCO / DEA157 CELLAR DOOR

To Tot

f- ae

Stitinn 1OEEHT DTN

mn eS ‘alli

said HN We ves | IIA

es Fel
aie

ULLAL (0NNiAN

ANH UNH Mit

-

a he

STYLE 5

SA] SIDING / DE5901 OCEAN NIGHT
ACCENT FOR PATTERNING AND TEXTURE ON INSET PANELS

@ STUCCO / DE5308 BUTTERMILK
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS AND
ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

@@ sTUCCO / DE5381 SUMMERTIME
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR PATTERNING AND TEXTURE ON
RECESSIVE PANELS

@ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY

WINDOW FRAME COLOR ACCENT COLOR APPLIED TO HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS, METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
WINDOW SILLS AND HEADERS, AND TRIM ACCENTS
Pb tieateh Mt Sd altel east le toa @ window coLor /TROMPET - RENOLIT FX € window COLOR / LIGHT IVORY - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR WINDOW FRAME COLOR
G9 RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA
PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH BASE
GQ STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
‘ ACCENT COLORTO ep es ELEMENT
"7 ‘* iis ae ie 7
d ' Mt Z rhs a) ? 3 ae riya: STY! or ii 7 oR
RE-3 - T.0. TOWER SS eae (EE Canty a5
1751" = 2. f g-spot pee Se, Sees AS ees as 2 fF 2 2A> aoa — + = = = 3 ae aa ie aon lpeee
ae ; : : 5 ae Waste = ; “5 = ; NH hae =e hie eee saith
RE-3 - T.O, PARAPET Ta =—o— ie a
— Sree Fa |
RE3-TO PATE eS CO|sCidTsC(‘ié*d’:SC@ nd) 4B) 4 Se oo
158'-3 1/8 2 wd iii (ind Ss Oo |
RE-3-LEVEL5 — ia ‘inn — — fe la
149! - 3 7/8" ic} ili
RE-3-LEVEL4 9.
139'- 4 78" wy ®

129' - 5

RE-3-L
119'-6 7/8"

108' - 6"

YS De Ss 5 SS OD

PROPOSED HEIGHT

a =

sivala 2

a) -e ‘ie...

a od eea Sl td
“ =e ‘
re + 4. 3 " - rr

CALIFORNIA

SAN MATEO,

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

STYLE 6 STYLE 8

LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, (3H) METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
RIVA COLOR METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE ACCENTS

STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE @) STUCCO / DE6221 FLINTSTONE
@ PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

_REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION ]

GB window COLOR / DESERT CLAY - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

@@ sTUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

@® STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS

@ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS

G_ WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

@ STUCCO /DE6206 DESERT SUEDE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH TOP ELEMENTS

SHEET TITLE

RE-3 - WEST
ELEVATION &

BUILDING RE-3

— mE

JOB NO.
2013-10187

SHEET NUMBER

A3-2.3

__ HEIGHT LIMIT
7 bel

SCALE
1/16" = 1'-0"

E FOR THE LIM
BIDDING ‘OR REVIEW. rie DOG UMENT OR ITS CONTENTS Id uAY NOT BE “USED | FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPROOUCED OR DOFSCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS ING. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, @ COPYRIGHT 2077

+ PARTNERS

PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

Se

0 8' 16 32

RE-3 - WEST ELEVATION | sie=1-0 | 4

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614
949.809.3388
www.mve-architects.com

Es peipicuiortet T o ene Lnditeirenint gd riapeials Spl ae ae bs sitio syed ING

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 116 ---
BLOCK LINE

BLOCK LINE
BLOCK LINE

20 EVAE

oS OO CO A
F =

ari EVA

CALIFORNIA

RESIDENTIAL

ey a tee

a ee

SAN MATEO,

ite ts. a ——
ri
“tt St
oe ye]
——— i :
a fy be _ — 1
fd be 4 ——
Fis ag ae ——— fi fh
f .— i irs | Zz =A.
‘7 we ; “sal oy 7H
q 7 “FE ~ rs ‘ig Y & 4
- oy H a i
ie i) ra Sine

STATION PARK

Neal tet
Fite
wf.

planting —
pathway
pathway
planting =
my
all...
—T
¥
=
‘

}

- wor Fa
ol “hf - , Oy ot re
he ae 7 LF cs .
r i

a | f é
# a. ee
e ~
es] @ pe. of J°*, | @ ‘
on ae as ch

DEVELOPMENT

Varios \ 1: a el Ne _
ee 8.5" ¥ | 65° | SO" | IPB Property Wd a aa \ eee | a | Ke

Mi
ra
7k,
oa

1
J
Psu
|
T
]
oT
a. — — i a: — — ae ioe Mae Se eae
. —.
a

sidewalk
parking
lane

lane
planting .|
sidewalk

Veriaa
Oto"

nn
=
at
=
Lif
jm
Varios
ey ao." Te" og Tr fa 4* . iar a e-*
- ar a a ¥- —- ¥ # # : i
Community Park 40-0" Curb to curb
ra

ri
4
a
&
&

+
hs

——— ——_—_—_— ROW Bor ows So =

RE-3 - STREET SECTION - WEST | 327-1 RE-3 - STREET SECTION - EAST | 287-00
ce | a sects 2)

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

RE-3 SECTIONS

a ak | BUILDING RE-3

qb es Jo PAREL i a ee eee ee ee te a ee ee eee ee ee fT ee ye ee ete: Sees en ae 8p OAR Ec ole eee
165'- 0" eee HEIGHT LIMIT

qa Re TO FMTE —__.— Ao a ee ee LS eee ee eee ete! ee EC ole ow ‘ a q Ee ake ie elit toe = po
458" - 3 18 a ae f= Al — SHEET NUMBER soasinias
DATE
a eS ene ee ee eras eg te ee eee te a a A 1204
149° - 37/8 . ial
‘| mee -4 - LEVEL 4 sal | a” 4 [0a i _ — a“) a iF ‘Th ee ee J J THES DOC LUMEN TAS (FORMS Ti PROSIETARY TO ME & AAARTAERLS feo

ANC (> BURNISHED Ww COMFLDENMCE FOS THE LIMITED PLES oe EVAL The

BOOTS OR REWER THiS OOSUMENT OR ITS COWTENTS Mar MOT 82 USED Poe

es: 2 a au a 8=6—ar eS oer GARAGE | GARAGE TT P= e: | ra . y rr £ coy, i nn Sie
/ =" af 2 Phi “a ‘ , L ae 4 L i , Sg ee a a ae 1 4 i =i. ok -

i P ' i : 7S ae , om — ae * y. ~
| ! aie i _ | GARAGE GARAGE oa Poo | 1 0G PR ae w ial a a anal oe
ee a = - oh — — a 7 th ab i | i rer bi ee
: : 4- LEVEL 1 (ADE) |. | ie ay, Te = fod 1 f Si Be oe ae = , | * mM meee eae Corea a ae

ee Be Eg i eS EE

ER SPECIFIC PLAN

ANY OTVER PURPOSE AND MAY MOT 82 FEPROOLCED OF DVSCLOSED TO OTHEyS
ete T THE PRUGA RUTTEN CONSENT OF MLE @ PAS TVEAS WE, ALL RAGS
APS, O COM aeT po

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 974614

Oi rt fo i CH ‘a cris

A 1 6" ra

S
RE-3 - BUILDING SECTION pnemer | 4

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 117 ---
UP
UP
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
792 SF
UNIT G.1
1085 SF
UNIT G.2
1083 SF
UNIT G.2
760 SF
UNIT C
756 SF
UNIT C
752 SF
UNIT C
753 SF
UNIT C
1014 SF
UNIT G
1007 SF
UNIT G
664 SF
UNIT D
668 SF
UNIT D
1025 SF
UNIT G
727 SF
UNIT G.1
758 SF
UNIT C
829 SF
UNIT C.1
829 SF
UNIT C.1
780 SF
UNIT G.1
694 SF
UNIT D
591 SF
UNIT A
588 SF
UNIT A
588 SF
UNIT A
707 SF
UNIT D
1160 SF
UNIT H
154' - 11 5/8"
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
19' - 4"
25' - 7"
157' - 9"
186 SF
LOBBY G4-1
102 SF
LOBBY G4-2.1
310 SF
STAIR G4-1
353 SF
STAIR G4-2
342 SF
TRASH G4-1
275 SF
STAIR 4-1
11.2%
5.0%
LOBBY
GARAGE
ENTRY
114 SF
DOG WASH
321 SF
MAINTENANCE
373 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
197 SF
MECH
254' - 1"
25' - 0"
59' - 5 3/4"
4' - 2 1/2"
296' - 10 1/4"
36' - 0"
51' - 8 1/2"
3' - 7"
45' - 0 1/2"
55' - 3 1/2"
155' - 7 1/2"
4.K
442 SF
STAIR 1-1
2-HR EXIT PASSAGEWAY
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
2-HR EXIT PASSAGEWAY
332' - 10 1/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.1
RE-4 - LEVEL 1
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 118 ---
UP
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DN
FIRE WALL
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1022 SF
UNIT G
792 SF
UNIT G.1
1085 SF
UNIT G.2
1083 SF
UNIT G.2
760 SF
UNIT C
756 SF
UNIT C
752 SF
UNIT C
753 SF
UNIT C
1014 SF
UNIT G
1007 SF
UNIT G
664 SF
UNIT D
668 SF
UNIT D
1025 SF
UNIT G
1015 SF
UNIT G
758 SF
UNIT C
829 SF
UNIT C.1
829 SF
UNIT C.1
1077 SF
UNIT G.2
694 SF
UNIT D
618 SF
UNIT A
615 SF
UNIT A
614 SF
UNIT A
734 SF
UNIT D
1160 SF
UNIT H
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
19' - 4"
25' - 7"
157' - 9"
186 SF
LOBBY G4-1
102 SF
LOBBY G4-2
310 SF
STAIR G4-1
353 SF
STAIR G4-2
149 SF
TRASH G4-1
275 SF
STAIR 4-1
9.9%
5.0%
11' - 0 7/8"
11' - 0 7/8"
11.2%
5.0%
11' - 0 7/8"
373 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
4.K
335 SF
STAIR 4-2
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
6' - 0 5/8"
154' - 11 5/8"
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
252' - 5 3/4"
27' - 0"
58' - 5 3/4"
4' - 2 1/2"
296' - 3"
36' - 7 1/4"
51' - 8 1/2"
2' - 11 3/4"
45' - 7 3/4"
55' - 3 1/2"
155' - 7 1/2"
332' - 10 1/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.2
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 2 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 119 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
4.K
1022 SF
UNIT G
792 SF
UNIT G.1
1085 SF
UNIT G.2
1083 SF
UNIT G.2
760 SF
UNIT C
756 SF
UNIT C
752 SF
UNIT C
753 SF
UNIT C
1014 SF
UNIT G
1007 SF
UNIT G
664 SF
UNIT D
668 SF
UNIT D
1025 SF
UNIT G
1015 SF
UNIT G
758 SF
UNIT C
829 SF
UNIT C.1
829 SF
UNIT C.1
1077 SF
UNIT G.2
694 SF
UNIT D
618 SF
UNIT A
615 SF
UNIT A
614 SF
UNIT A
734 SF
UNIT D
1160 SF
UNIT I
373 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
197 SF
MECH
310 SF
STAIR G4-1
149 SF
TRASH G4-1
335 SF
STAIR 4-2
102 SF
LOBBY G4-2.3
ELEVATOR
353 SF
STAIR G4-2
ELEVATOR
20' - 11 7/8"
20' - 11 7/8"
5.0%
9.9%
5.0%
275 SF
STAIR 4-1
20' - 11 7/8"
9.9%
154' - 11 5/8"
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
337' - 6 1/4"
4' - 2 1/2"
296' - 3"
36' - 7 1/4"
51' - 8 1/2"
2' - 11 3/4"
45' - 7 3/4"
55' - 3 1/2"
155' - 7 1/2"
332' - 10 1/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.3
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 3 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 120 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
4.K
102 SF
LOBBY G4-2.4
792 SF
UNIT G.1
1085 SF
UNIT G.2
1083 SF
UNIT G.2
760 SF
UNIT C
756 SF
UNIT C
752 SF
UNIT C
753 SF
UNIT C
1014 SF
UNIT G
1007 SF
UNIT G
664 SF
UNIT D
668 SF
UNIT D
1025 SF
UNIT G
1015 SF
UNIT G
758 SF
UNIT C
829 SF
UNIT C.1
829 SF
UNIT C.1
1057 SF
UNIT G.2
1047 SF
UNIT G
373 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
197 SF
MECH
310 SF
STAIR G4-1
149 SF
TRASH G4-1
335 SF
STAIR 4-2
LOWER ROOF
5.0%
275 SF
STAIR 4-1
353 SF
STAIR G4-2
9.9%
5.0%
30' - 10 7/8"
30' - 10 7/8"
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
30' - 10 7/8"
9.9%
154' - 11 5/8"
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
302' - 7 3/4"
35' - 3 3/4"
4' - 2 1/2"
296' - 3"
36' - 7 1/4"
51' - 8 1/2"
2' - 11 3/4"
45' - 7 3/4"
55' - 3 1/2"
155' - 7 1/2"
332' - 10 1/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.4
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 4 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'

--- page 121 ---
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
1047 SF
UNIT G
792 SF
UNIT G.1
1085 SF
UNIT G.2
805 SF
UNIT G.1
740 SF
UNIT C
756 SF
UNIT C
752 SF
UNIT C
753 SF
UNIT C
1014 SF
UNIT G
1007 SF
UNIT G
664 SF
UNIT D
668 SF
UNIT D
1025 SF
UNIT G
1013 SF
UNIT G
827 SF
UNIT C.1
829 SF
UNIT C.1
1072 SF
UNIT G.2
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
19' - 4"
183' - 4"
186 SF
LOBBY G4-1
102 SF
LOBBY G4-2
353 SF
STAIR G4-2
149 SF
TRASH G4-1
275 SF
STAIR 4-1
9.9%
5.0%
5.0%
40' - 9 7/8"
40' - 9 7/8"
LOWER ROOF
373 SF
BICYCLE
STORAGE
310 SF
STAIR G4-1
4.K
335 SF
STAIR 4-2
40' - 9 7/8"
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
747 SF
UNIT C
154' - 11 5/8"
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
107' - 9 1/2"
11' - 7 1/2"
183' - 2 3/4"
35' - 3 3/4"
4' - 2 1/2"
296' - 3"
36' - 7 1/4"
51' - 8 1/2"
2' - 11 3/4"
45' - 7 3/4"
55' - 3 1/2"
155' - 7 1/2"
332' - 10 1/4"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.5
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
FLOOR PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 5 FLOOR PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR

--- page 122 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
4.A
4.J
4.1
4.5
4.B
4.C
4.D
4.E
4.F
4.G
4.H
4.2
4.3
4.4
1
A4-2.2
1
A4-2.1
1
A4-2.3
1
A4-2.0
1
A4-3.0
GARAGE STAIR G4-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 4-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE STAIR G4-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
4.K
LOWER ROOF
ELEVATOR
ELEVATOR
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A4-1.6
RE-4 - ROOF
PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - ROOF PLAN
0'
8'
16'
32'
64'
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 123 ---
wil 1, ese
q . = if [} OU a =i

it :
Et | i a bs yee © TES

ie,

Rh Dee

i foe Fe ‘
ai: 2
* ?
ee Ld el E
=e - 2 = = a 8
ey " is ra ' i oe
* 4 = | | f > Se oe
‘ 3 ae rat
. 5
0 re ' ciate ~
bila \ .*
-= em,

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
ae
<L
al
=
O
-
<
—
VY)

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

STYLE 2 STYLE 6 STYLE 7
METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, STUCCO / DEW316 POWDERED
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL RIVA COLOR PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING ARCHITECTURAL REVISION S
ACCENTS SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE FORMS — << -. —
STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD

PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
BASE

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR
PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS

STUCCO / DEA156 CHERRY COLA
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO COORDINATE WITH RAIN SCREEN

STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS

8 @08086 ©

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

ACCENTS
WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

STUCCO / DE6206 DESERT SUEDE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH TOP ELEMENTS

66 6 8 8 6

STYLE 7 STYLE 6 STYLE 2

fe RE-4-T.0. PARAPET na ee ee ee ee eee ease fae 8 ee Og 8 I a Ie ee te OL AE ee ee ee et Oe oe ee eee
/ (a: . as. ee, Py) ©) A De ee en 6D

ow RE4-LEVELS5

/ 145'- 9 7/8" = : : a ——a | ,
wm RE-4-LEVEL 4 | ae | a D “let i | Oe ae See
/ 135! - 10 7/8" ; | 3 oi =
fm RE-4-LEVEL 3(T.OP.
/ {Ste ee
of RE4-LEVEL3
/ (= 14 18

CT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

_m RE-4-LEVEL2 “Se 2 eee pa’ Say. “| = ¢ ca = 16 = ¢

il Es
/ 116'-0 7/8"

P a a
> 3 +, i= ae a - : ———— ; J a5 , = " 7 7 a : j
1 -__ i ’ } s = | | 2 a oe Soe | ‘i Se _ ; —-= pe =—;

io
+, feeelit_e

PROPOSED HEIGHT

0

RE-4 - NORTH ELEVATION

© eo 0 8 ®

COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND BALCONIES

METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS

WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

STUCCO / DE5887 ADMIRAL BLUE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BUILDING BASE

_ SHEET TITLE

RE-4 - NORTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

1 oe Se SEGA LE a
‘ve - SHEET NUMBER JOB
2013-10187
A4-2.0 a
1/16" = 1'-0"
| THIS DOCLMAENT GCONTAINS INFORMATION PAOPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS AURAISHED IN OOMEIDENCE FOR THE LATED PURPOSE OF EVA TROL
a Fan HEIGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE 5 1 fetes ped iich Fe ORCAS GE Te GAP HOT LE TIENT
1 oe 4 39 70) we ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
. WITHOUT THE PRIOR VRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS (WG. ALL RIGHTS
| y RESERVED © COPYRIGHT 207T
ol t
Z a
ran.)

4 ie | Tr
. = ios al CB

+ PARTNERS

PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

— Irvine, California 92614

1900 Main Street, Suite 800

816 32! 64 949.809.3388
www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 124 ---
sim | a

TS

sl =) =

TE Pee eg eB:
Bill! IMs
- 7 ‘ a3 =

(Ca

jh

jodie i geal ‘

STYLE 7 STYLE 8

STUCCO / DE6221 FLINTSTONE
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

SIV) STUCCO / DE6220 POROUS STONE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR UPPER GARAGE

STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

7A) LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITINAL

TEXTURE, RIVA WASH COLOR
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL
TEXTURE

@ WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR

@ RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - BURMA

PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH PORCH
@ STUCCO / DEW316 POWDERED

SURROUNDS AND CORNER TOWER
a, FIELD COLOR FOR PROJECTING ARCHITECTURAL @ STUCCO / DE5S887 ADMIRAL BLUE

SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BUILDING BASE

@ STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

@® STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD
SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND
BALCONIES

@ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS

~ 165'-0 — fs a a ee Se er oe a ee) —— -—_ - —_--+_ -—_- ee aD 00 oP
“wm RE-4-T.O. PLATE :
/ e-918" © PO)
wResevelS | | 38
/ 145'-9 7/8" wi 6/5
ye RE-4-LEVEL4 SS ee ———————— _ _9|@ HEIGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE ST) @-
38410778" 8 S eg +139.70
we RE4-LEVEL3(T.0P.) “0% Se ~ Be 5
/ 434° -11 1/8" Be Els S| gle
-m RE4-LEVEL3 33 25 a» #  _~_ £436 sig
? 425" - 11 7/8" UKE es 38
So ar aif =/8
wm RE-4-LEVEL2 E/o race
/ 116'- 0 7/8" re “ele ee 82
eh REA EVEL 1 (GRADE) Be | | ESTABLISHED GRADE
. Spe = +107.00 ~
2 ‘ESTABLISHED GRADE @ S. DELAWARE ST g>
+104.70 ~
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

7

0 8 16" 32! 64'

RE-4 - EAST ELEVATION

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

“REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION |

_ SHEET TITLE

RE-4 - EAST
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-4

SHEET NUMBER ois tots

A421 2"

11/20/14
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC
ANOS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LAWTED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OF REWEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY WOT BE USEO FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 125 ---
eee fi ol
-, 4 _ |
. . ees a 7
el ee “ a! -
] ‘ad Pe oa
eh ae ih
4 What iE ‘ n
" = i ‘ © a
\ r e Ch idea: Wale
Fy DS ; es ee ha ‘
a - +.
F i. ee ei : J
= a as ue 7 Sale
= i Eh es 7 a A le ' “
thas Y a) ae ‘
i - i iy i F r a
al ae ‘ : rie

UTATESUTTTOEERATAROEUTT

ANNAN

toe

il

x

a

Pe

——
4

“Fertarecoantatnnlneensr

+ *,
wie

STYLE5 STYLE 6 STYLE?

LIMESTONE FOAM PANELS / TRADITIONAL TEXTURE, @ STUCCO / DEC752 BIRCHWOOD

SA] SIDING / DE5901 OCEAN NIGHT
SECONDARY COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND

ACCENT FOR PATTERNING AND TEXTURE ON INSET PANELS RIVA COLOR
SMOOTH ACCENT SPANDREL PANELS WITH HORIZONTAL TEXTURE @ BALCONIES
@ STUCCO / DE5308 BUTTERMILK METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
STUCCO / DEW385 LIGHTHOUSE
PRIMARY’ FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS AND © PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR MOST ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS pedro Si ORES OER SNE ee Les SME) AL.

ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES

SC) STUCCO / DES5381 SUMMERTIME
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR PATTERNING ON HORIZONTAL
PANELS

@ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL

G9 STUCCO / DE6340 CANADIAN LAKE
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS

6D) STUCCO / DEC738 TRAVERTINE
COLOR FOR WINDOWS AND TRIM ELEMENTS

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

(ZB) RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - BURMA
PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH PORCH
SURROUNDS AND CORNER TOWER

ACCENTS @ METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY Gp SA oe AESwLe AGMIRAR GLEE
2 METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
SE) DAO SL? PSL NEY BONGOL ES ACCENTS SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE BUILDING BASE

WINDOW FRAME COLOR

@ RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA @ WINDOW COLOR / BURNT ALMOND - RENOLIT FX 7 STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH BASE WINDOW FRAME COLOR ACCENT COLOR FOR UPPER TRIM

@ STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK GQ STUCCO / DE6206 DESERT SUEDE
ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE TOP ELEMENT SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO DISTINGUISH TOP ELEMENTS

STYLE 5 STYLE 6 STYLE 7
|
7 REW-TO.PARAPET A De BS SIS Oe Pe Ae ae Oe 6 la a i eT Ae a RMSE EN) Cl sie Sok Pere) jg es te a ee PY ee
/“ 465'-0" > FN MMI oe Sims ties Phe Foo oS ee eae oO NE, Se a i, Lan kW eee AT SATE NL TL GrTs 75 Oi ka ite Oe ae HEIGHT LIMIT
ee Se eee Fy ised STs ae Pe

| RE-4 - T.0. PLATE

—
-

“pm RE-4-LEVEL 3
~ 425-11 7/8"

454°. 9 1/8"
ow RE-4-LEVEL5 | er i: aa "# eae ie 3 Es

” 145° - 9 7/8" 7 S/S
-w RE-4-LEVEL 4 | | 3 HEIGHT LIMIT (S. DELAWARE ST) @>
-g RE-4 -LEVEL 3(T.O-P. . ai a a

/ 434-44 18" mimi = | He

mail (ak i if | | I | HE
pe RE4-LEVEL2 _ Seas Gye: | —— | | lene
a4 530 “4.

~ 116'- 0 7/8" =

_—. ESTABLISHED GRADE g>

PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

7

0 8 16" 32! 64'

PROPOSED HEIGHT

RE-4 - SOUTH ELEVATION

@ WINDOW COLOR / CHOCO BROWN - RENOLIT FX

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

~~
ae
<L
al
=
O
-
<
—
VY)

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

“REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION |

_ SHEET TITLE

RE-4 - SOUTH
ELEVATION &
VIEWS

BUILDING RE-4

_ SHEET NUMBER 2013-10187

A4-2.2

SCALE
1/16" = 1'-0"

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC

ANOS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LAWTED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OF REWEW THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY WOT BE USEO FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS IMC ALL RAGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2071

+ PARTNERS

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, California 92614

www.mve-architects.com

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 126 ---
a BOS ei } : A \ ny : on sf ~ 4) Mia
OM rom hee Pt ye EN2R. Sal
\ . t ¥ | i re : = rds a i pes same - ail

ga a facie «=,

—
FY

AN

ee
: ao Be

=

#
td

——

BL blk  emeacd E ET (oA

BY BENG

E = + es

Wii's | Silman

ii
ih

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

inl

cca
to,

STATION PARK

EBL&S

DEVELOPMENT

REVISIONS
STYLE 2 STYLE 5 DESCRIPTION
2A) RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT TRUE - VESUV 302 @ STUCCO / DE5308 BUTTERMILK
PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES PRIMARY FIELD COLOR FOR HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS AND
ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES
METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL METAL FINISH / PPG - DURANAR ECLIPSE GRAY
® ACCENTS ® METAL COLOR FOR STOREFRONTS, RAILINGS, AND METAL
ACCENTS
STUCCO / DEW380 WHITE
@ PRIMARY COLOR FOR ARCHITECTURAL FRAMES AND FIELD @ WINDOW COLOR / LIGHT IVORY - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR
STUCCO / DE5374 ALMOND COOKIE
® SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR RECESSIVE ELEMENTS AND SF) RESYSTA PANEL / RESYSTA - JAVA
BASE PRIMARY FIELD MATERIAL TO DISTINGUISH BASE
@ STUCCO / DEA6363 POINTED ROCK € STUCCO / DE6363 POINTED ROCK
SECONDARY FIELD COLOR TO EMPHASIZE THE TOP FLOOR ACCENT COLOR TO EMPHASIZE TOP ELEMENT
PENTHOUSE ELEMENT AND HORIZONTAL ACCENTS
SHEET TITLE
€@©)_ WINDOW COLOR / MOONDANCE - RENOLIT FX
WINDOW FRAME COLOR RE-4 = WEST
RAIN SCREEN / CEMBRIT CEMBONIT - FLINT 921
STYLE 2 STYLES 2K) SECONDARY FIELD COLOR FOR INSETS OF ARCHITECTURAL E L EVATI O N &
ase se a eS ees ene ee ee nk Vi EWS
wm RE-4 -T.O. PARAPET , |
/ 165'-0" — |, ”s~i(‘(aaé”l”*C”*#é«*RS SSeeeeia ee ee eon aio a 7 7 HEIGHT LIMIT gh BUILDING RE-4
+162.00 ~

5 DATE
cm RE-4-LEVELS 3 11/20/14
/ 4145'-9 7/8" hs 4 z
if A ea é a arr 4 rans \ HEIGHT LIMIT (S. anes 4, THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & RARTNERS INC
y - 6 b iz . BIDDING OF REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
oe REA-LEVELS(T.OP) SE BSE go og gles ean
em RE-4-LEVEL3 gece 3G 28
7125-11 7/8" 6/4 25 ae
so5° eB} ge
wm RE-4-LEVEL 2 tS @ 28
/ 116'-0 7/8" lu BIg
-é - in | sa |
a RE4 LEVEL 1 GRADE eS | 7 7 7 eiads | — & T et mike 5 =— = _ —{s ESTABLISHED GRADE >
ee ar ee es vw a -=: ena re — ‘ae ae 3 | ft 3 +107.00
o> ‘ESTABLISHED GRADE @ S. DELAWARE ST ,
+104.70 ~  —————————  ————
+ PARTNERS
PROPOSED HEIGHT PERMITTED HEIGHT PER SPECIFIC PLAN

1900 Main Street, Suite 800
a a or Irvine, California 92614

o 68 (16 32! 64! 949.809.3388

www.mve-architects.com

RE-4 - WEST ELEVATION

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 127 ---
BLOCK LINE

BLOCK LINE
BLOCK LINE

arr EVA

CALIFORNIA

7 a
ete ee ee L, iat - ——

*

Pl

oe
F

RESIDENTIAL

SAN MATEO,

STATION PARK

Varies
10-0"

Fo
a
=
Ba
°

* -

Meg
“ey
My
ty

|
j
\
i
*,
#
"a
i
mk,
= =
“TT
r
?
2
1
*s, > a
stale: tt me dalabeleletaialaiaiaiabaininiih a. inte shee’ sabelateienaiainiel iain ppiewencceceeaod
Le

4 bh? . i t a of
a oF ait
J i ' a { fr)
a 1 r a z he al ' t i i" r
f ye) _- 1g oe « * -s L> it, Or . |
/ 1 1 hs = 1 I, P
aa ‘ # i # ,
CI 1} | Tog a
® =  mvel ¢e = Ye
i aia = | a —
3 oe Te : " 2 = @
Pa ‘g iy c a a
£ 7, i z
i -

a | oll Us - b ROW 2476" i = ES I & S
ee rail “ —— : | L. Ths 7
Fa f oat
[2s » |2\|% DEVELOPMENT
: t
z: ss £ & 5s 3
s < = 2 2 = < ry
3 & a = a & i
wi 7 a & & = 3 wo
Varios Varios.
creer are" eS ee 27d" vo | oar ry war Fo er er | eo | oar
# - ee et 7 os # # os # a #
GCorncuraty Park ra" Curb io cure
Fs #
ROW arr
# -

ae eo —= reer
bh he “s j
BAL i | Le 1 1]
: a
a = } il aL If
= | lt ees Ba a
eee |

RE-4 - STREET SECTION - WEST | 322-10 RE-4 - STREET SECTION - EAST | 22-10
=a v= [24 Persons

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

RE-4 SECTIONS

& RE-4- T.0. PARAPET couse ELEVATOR LOBBY
S465" - 0"

HEIGHT LIMIT BUILDING RE-4

~ +162.00 *-

ote ee ae

SHEET NUMBER oats tora

DATE
A4-3.0 —
SCALE
HEIGHT LIMIT (S. Bebe a) A . hu denied

ae TALS GOS WME OOATAS ORS TG PRO SSIETAGY TO ME & RATERS ire
AAS EURMSHED iW COMDEMCE FOS THE LM TES OLA LSe ier EAL td Towel
BUDS OF ROWE THs SUES T OAS OWENS Mar MOT 82 USED Poe
44) OTTER PURSE AND Ma OT Bo FEPROOCED OF DSCLOSED TO OTHErS
FATHOUIT THE PRUOF WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE 4 PART VERS WW. ALL RUGATS
SEO Oo Coat oe

m RE4-LEVEL5S ie
@ 145°-9 7/3" a
m RE-4-LEVEL4 9

™  435'- 10 7/8" =

m RE4-LEVEL3(T.OP)~

w 434"- 11 1/8"
m RE-4-LEVEL3

W425" - 11 7/8"

fe

=a.
= if

ST.
GRADE TO TOP OF PLATE

m RE4-LEVEL2
— 416-0 7/8"

OF PLATE @ 8.0
-§ 12": HT. FROM
we

ESTABLISHED GRADE ~
a es a eh a ee
| Sais Ca

a RE-4-LEVEL1(GRADE) “=< : | = a = : - — se = neh =o iS ESTABLISHED GRADE €@ S. DELAWARE ST

a F

+ PARTNERS

Irvine, California 97614

0 a 16 a2 64"
WV TMVve=-art a l t et. I S COM!
RE-4 - BUILDING SECTION user | 4

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 128 ---
- INTERIOR ROUTES OF TRAVEL TO COMPLY WITH CBC 1119A AND 1120A AND 1130A.
- ALL UNITS ARE ACCESSIBLE
- ALL RESIDENTIAL UNIT KITCHENS SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 1133A
- ALL RESIDENTIAL UNIT BATHING AND TOILET FACILITIES TO COMPLY WITH CBC 1134A.
WHERE (2) BATHROOMS ARE PROVIDED BATHROOMS TO COMPLY WITH 1134A.2 - OPTION 2.
ALL BUILDINGS SHALL BE EQUIPPED WITH AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS PER CBC SECTION 903
INCLUDING FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEM IN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH CBC SECTION 907. FIRE
SPRINKLERS SHALL BE FULL NFPA 13 SYSTEMS.
RESIDENTIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS PER APPROVED STATION PARK GREEN SPECIFIC PLAN.
FOR COMPLETE ANALYSIS OF REQUIRED AND PROVIDED PARKING, SEE
CONSTRUCTION AND GRADING ACTIVITIES: MONDAY- FRIDAY 7:00AM-7:00PM.
INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES THAT DO NOT GENERATE ANY AUDIBLE NOISE IMPACTS AT
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES ARE ALLOWED ON SATURDAYS BETWEEN 9:00AM - 5:00PM.
THE FOLLOWING ITEMS ARE DESIGN BUILD SYSTEMS AND WILL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL
BY THE CONTRACTOR AT A LATER DATE.
SUBMITTAL DOCUMENT FOR DEFERRED SUBMITTALS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE
ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER OF RECORD, WHO WILL REVIEW THEM AND FORWARD THEM TO THE
BUILDING OFFICIAL WITH NOTATION INDICATING THAT DEFERRED SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS
HAVE BEEN FOUND TO BE IN GENERAL CONFORMANCE WITH THE DESIGN OF THE BUILDING.
THE SUBMITTAL ITEMS SHALL NOT BE INSTALLED UNTIL THEIR DESIGN AND SUBMITTAL
DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN APPROVED BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
1. STEEL AND PRECAST STAIRS
6. STOREFRONT
2. ROOF TRUSSES
7. POOL/SPA & SURROUNDING FENCES
3. PROJECT AND EXIT SIGNAGE
8. UNDERGROUND FIRE SERVICE
4. FIRE ALARM
9. ELEVATOR
5. FIRE PROTECTION (SPRINKLERS)
10. FIRESTOPPING UL ASSEMBLIES
FIRE RESISTANCE (TYPE VA)
- BEARING WALLS 
- NON-BEARING WALLS
- STRUCTURAL FRAME
- UNIT TO UNIT FIRE BARRIERS
- FIRE WALLS 
- PERMANENT PARTITIONS
- ELEVATOR LOBBIES
- SHAFT ENCLOSURES (3-STORIES OR LESS)
- SHAFT ENCLOSURES (4-STORIES OR PENETRATING
  PODIUM/GARAGE OCCUPANCY SEPARATION
- MAINTANCE EQUIP./STORAGE
1-HOUR
NON RATED
1-HOUR
1-HOUR
2-HOUR W/ 90 MIN DOORS
1-HOUR
1-HOUR W/ 20 MIN DOORS
1-HOUR
2-HOUR
1-HOUR
FIRE RESISTANCE (TYPE IA)
- BEARING WALLS (EXTERIOR) 
- BEARING WALLS (INTERIOR)
- NON BEARING WALLS
- STRUCTURAL FRAME
- PERMANENT PARTITIONS
- SHAFT WALLS THRU PODIUM
- TRASH ROOMS
- ELEVATOR MACHINE ROOM
- ELEVATOR LOBBIES
- GAS METER ROOM
- ELECTRICAL ROOM
- STORAGE ROOM
- OFFICE
- PODIUM SLAB OCCUPANCY SEPARATION
3-HOUR
3-HOUR
1-HOUR LESS THEN 10 FT
3-HOUR
1-HOUR
2-HOUR
2-HOUR W/ 90 MIN. DOORS
1-HOUR
NON RATED
1-HOUR
1-HOUR
1-HOUR
1-HOUR
3-HOUR
OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS (TABLE 508.4)
(HORIZONTAL)
R-2 / A-3, B, M
3-HOUR*
UNIT / UNIT  (R-2/ R-2)
1-HOUR
* REQ'D. 1-HOUR RATING IS SUPERSEDED BY
REQUIREMENTS OF 509.2, SINCE THE HORZ.
SEPARATION IN QUESTION ALLOWS THE
BUILDINGS ABOVE AND BELOW THE SEPARATION
TO BE CONSIDERED AS SEPARATE AND DISTINCT
BUILDINGS.
NOTE: ALL BUILDINGS ARE EQUIPPED WITH
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS IN
ACCORDANCE WITH 903.3.1.1
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION
USE
OCCUPANCY
PARKING GARAGE:
S-2
RESIDENTIAL:
R-2
LEASING:
B
AMENITIES:
A-3
RETAIL:
M
STORAGE:
S-2
TRASH ROOM:
S-2
ELECTRICAL ROOM:
S-2
FAN ROOM:
N/A
BICYCLE STORAGE:
S-2
TENANT STORAGE:
S-2
FIRE RESISTANCE (TYPE IIIA)
- BEARING WALLS 
- NON-BEARING WALLS
- STRUCTURAL FRAME
- UNIT TO UNIT FIRE BARRIERS
- FIRE WALLS 
- PERMANENT PARTITIONS
- ELEVATOR LOBBIES
- SHAFT ENCLOSURES (3-STORIES OR LESS)
- SHAFT ENCLOSURES (4-STORIES OR PENETRATING
  PODIUM/GARAGE OCCUPANCY SEPARATION
- MAINTANCE EQUIP./STORAGE
2-HOUR
NON RATED
2-HOUR
1-HOUR
3-HOUR W/ 180 MIN DOORS
1-HOUR
1-HOUR W/ 20 MIN DOORS
1-HOUR
2-HOUR
1-HOUR
/
1
A0-2.0
USE & OCCUPANCY (CHP. 3)
A-3, B, M, R-2, S-2
BUILDING AREA (SECTION 503)
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.1
RETAIL/ OFFICE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.1
RESIDENCE (TYPE VA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.1
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.1
BUILDING HEIGHT: SECTION 504
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
RETAIL/ OFFICE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL: 
1 STORY
RESIDENCE (TYPE VA)
ALLOWABLE:
4 STORIES, 60' (W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER INCREASE PER 504.2)
ACTUAL:
4 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CHP. 6)
GARAGE
TYPE IA
RETAIL/ OFFICE
TYPE IA
RESIDENCE
TYPE VA
NARRATIVE:
BUILDING MU-1 IS A MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDING COMPRISED OF A TYPE IA 5-STORY GARAGE CORE
WITH A COMBINATION OF RETAIL, RESTAURANT, AMENITY AND OFFICE SPACE OF TYPE IA CONSTRUCTION
ON THE GROUND FLOOR SEPARATED BY A 3-HOUR HORIZONTAL SEPARATION (THE LEVEL 2 FLOOR-
CEILING ASSEMBLY) FROM 4 STORIES OF TYPE VA RESIDENTIAL UNITS ABOVE.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS ARE USED TO ALLOW BOTH HEIGHT AND AREA INCREASES FOR THE TYPE
VA PORTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 504.2.
ALL RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND THE CIRCULATION SPACES SERVING THEM ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC CHP.
11A. ALL NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC CHP. 11B.
3-HR RATED FIRE WALLS ARE USED TO SEPARATE THE GARAGE FROM THE SURROUNDING TYPE VA
RESIDENCE AS WELL AS TO SUBDIVIDE THE RESIDENCE INTO ALLOWABLE AREAS IN COMPLIANCE WITH
TABLE 503.
USE & OCCUPANCY (CHP. 3)
A-3, R-2, S-2
BUILDING AREA (SECTION 503)
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.2
AMENITIES (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.2
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.2
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.2
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.2
BUILDING HEIGHT: SECTION 504
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
5 STORIES, 85' (W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER INCREASE PER 504.2)
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CHP. 6)
GARAGE
TYPE IA
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
NARRATIVE:
BUILDING RE-2 IS A MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDING COMPRISED OF A TYPE IA 5-STORY
GARAGE CORE WRAPPED BY A 5 STORY TYPE IIIA MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS ARE USED TO ALLOW A HEIGHT INCREASE FOR THE TYPE IIIA
PORTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 504.2.
ALL RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND THE CIRCULATION SPACES SERVING THEM ARE ACCESSIBLE
PER CBC CHP. 11A. ALL NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC CHP. 11B.
3-HR RATED FIRE WALLS ARE USED TO SEPARATE THE GARAGE FROM THE SURROUNDING
TYPE IIIA RESIDENCE AS WELL AS TO SUBDIVIDE THE RESIDENCE INTO ALLOWABLE AREAS IN
COMPLIANCE WITH TABLE 503.
USE & OCCUPANCY (CHP. 3)
A-3, R-2, S-2
BUILDING AREA (SECTION 503)
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.3
AMENITIES (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.3
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.3
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.3
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.3
BUILDING HEIGHT: SECTION 504
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
5 STORIES, 85' (W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER INCREASE PER 504.2)
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CHP. 6)
GARAGE
TYPE IA
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
NARRATIVE:
BUILDING RE-3 IS A MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDING COMPRISED OF A TYPE IA 5-STORY GARAGE
CORE WRAPPED BY A 5 STORY TYPE IIIA MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS ARE USED TO ALLOW A HEIGHT INCREASE FOR THE TYPE IIIA
PORTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 504.2.
ALL RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND THE CIRCULATION SPACES SERVING THEM ARE ACCESSIBLE PER
CBC CHP. 11A. ALL NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC CHP. 11B.
3-HR RATED FIRE WALLS ARE USED TO SEPARATE THE GARAGE FROM THE SURROUNDING TYPE
IIIA RESIDENCE AS WELL AS TO SUBDIVIDE THE RESIDENCE INTO ALLOWABLE AREAS IN
COMPLIANCE WITH TABLE 503.
USE & OCCUPANCY (CHP. 3)
R-2, S-2
BUILDING AREA (SECTION 503)
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.4
AMENITIES (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.4
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.4
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
PER CALCULATIONS, SEE A0-2.4
ACTUAL:
SEE A0-2.4
BUILDING HEIGHT: SECTION 504
GARAGE (TYPE IA)
ALLOWABLE:
UNLIMITED
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
RESIDENCE (TYPE IIIA)
ALLOWABLE:
5 STORIES, 85' (W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER INCREASE PER 504.2)
ACTUAL:
5 STORIES, SEE BLDG. ELEVATIONS FOR HEIGHT
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CHP. 6)
GARAGE
TYPE IA
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
NARRATIVE:
BUILDING RE-4 IS A MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDING COMPRISED OF A TYPE IA 5-STORY
GARAGE CORE WRAPPED BY A 5 STORY TYPE IIIA MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLERS ARE USED TO ALLOW A HEIGHT INCREASE FOR THE TYPE IIIA
PORTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 504.2.
ALL RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND THE CIRCULATION SPACES SERVING THEM ARE ACCESSIBLE
PER CBC CHP. 11A. ALL NON-RESIDENTIAL SPACES ARE ACCESSIBLE PER CBC CHP. 11B.
3-HR RATED FIRE WALLS ARE USED TO SEPARATE THE GARAGE FROM THE SURROUNDING
TYPE IIIA RESIDENCE AS WELL AS TO SUBDIVIDE THE RESIDENCE INTO ALLOWABLE AREAS IN
COMPLIANCE WITH TABLE 503.
OCCUPANCY SEPARATION (TABLE 508.4)
(VERTICAL)
UNIT / UNIT  (R-2/ R-2)
1-HOUR
A-3 / R-2
1-HOUR
B/ R-2
1-HOUR
B/ M/ A-3
1-HOUR
S-2/ A-3
3-HOUR**
S-2/ B
3-HOUR**
S-2/ M
3-HOUR**
S-2 / R-2
3-HOUR**
** REQ'D. 1-HOUR RATING IS SUPERSEDED BY
REQUIREMENTS OF TABLE 602, SINCE THE
SEPARATION WALL (FIRE WALL) IN QUESTION
IS A LOAD BEARING WALL OF A TYPE IA
STRUCTURE (PARKING GARAGE).
SECTION 708.13 - REFUSE AND LAUNDRY CHUTES
(LAUNDRY CHUTES NOT PROVIDED. REFUSE AND RECYCLING ONLY)
708.13.1 REFUSE AND LAUNDRY CHUTE ENCLOSURES - "Openings into the shaft, including those from
access rooms and termination rooms, shall be protected... Openings into chutes shall not be located in
corridors."
708.13.3 REFUSE AND LAUNDRY CHUTE ACCESS ROOMS - "Access openings... shall be located in
rooms or compartments enclosed by not less than 1-hour fire barriers... or horizontal assemblies. Openings...
shall be protected by opening protectives... of not less than 3/4-hour."
708.13.4 TERMINATION ROOM - "Refuse and laundry chutes shall discharge into an enclosed room
separated from the remainder of the building by not less than 1-hour fire barriers... or horizontal assemblies.
Openings... shall be protected by opening protectives... of not less than 3/4-hour."
708.13.6 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM - "An approved automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in
accordance with Section 903.2.11.2."
SNAPSHOT:
TABULAR ALLOWABLE AREA (At) = 24,000 SF (NOTE: (At) = (Aa) NO AREA MODIFICATIONS ARE
APPLIED)
TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA = (Aa)x2 (48,000 SF W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 506.4.1)
ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR = 48,000/5 = 9,600 SF
NUMBER OF STORIES = 4 (5 W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 504)
HEIGHT IN FEET = 65' (85' W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 504)
SECTON 503 - GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHT AND AREA LIMITATIONS
SEC 503.1.2 BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT - "Two or more buildings on the same lot shall be regulated as
separate buildings or shall be considered as portions of one building..." THE GARAGE AND RESIDENCE
PORTIONS ARE OF DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION TYPES AND SHALL BE REGULATED AS SEPARATE
BUILDINGS.
TABLE 503 - ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
TYPE IIIA, R-2 OCCUPANCY GROUP: 4 STORIES, 65' HEIGHT & At = 24,000 SF.
SECTION 504 - BUILDING HEIGHT
SEC 504.2 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE - "Where a building is equipped throughout with
an automatic sprinkler system... maximum building height is increased by 20 feet and the maximum number
of stories is increased by one. In other than Group... R occupancies... these increases are permitted in
addition with Section 506.3" AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE IS APPLIED TO BUILDING
HEIGHT AND MAY NOT BE USED TO ALLOW AN AREA INCREASE SINCE THE BUILDING IS OF TYPE
IIIA CONSTRUCTION.
SECTION 506 - BUILDING AREA MODIFICATIONS
SEC 506.2 FRONTAGE INCREASE - NOT USED
SEC 506.3 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE - USED FOR HEIGHT INCREASE
SEC 506.4 (506.4.1) SINGLE OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN ONE STORY - "For Group... R
occupancies... the total allowable area of a single occupancy building with more than one story above grade
plane shall be determined by multiplying the allowable area per story (Aa)... by the number of stories above
grade plan as listed below: 1. For buildings with two or more stories above grade plane, multiply by 2; 2. No
Story shall exceed the allowable building area per story (Aa) as determined in Section 506.1..."  TOTAL
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA IS CALCULATED AS 2x(Aa).
Aa = [At + (At x If) + (At x Is)]
Aa = 24,000 SF + (24,000 SF x 0) + (24,000 SF x 0)]
Aa = 24,000 SF
(Aa)x2 = 48,000 SF
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
SEC 508.2 ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "Accessory occupancies are those occupancies that are
ancilary to the main occupancy of the building or portion thereof." SEE SHEETS A0-3.X FOR OCCUPANCY
CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIVIDUAL SPACES, CALCULATION OF ACCESSORY (508.2) AND
INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES (508.2.5)
SEC 508.2.1 AREA LIMITATIONS - "Aggregate accessory occupancies shall not occupy more than 10
percent of the building area of the story in which they are located..."
SEC 508.2.5 SEPARATION OF INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "The incidental accessory
occupancies listed in Table 508.2.5 shall be separated from the remained of the building or equipped with an
automatic fire-extinguishing system, or both, in accordance with Table 508.2.5"
SEC 508.4 SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES - SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 509.5 - GROUP R-1 AND R-2 BUILDINGS OF TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION
NOT USED
SECTION 602 - CONSTRUCTION CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 601 - FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS - SEE "FIRE-
RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLE 601)," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 706 - FIRE WALLS
SEC 706.1 GENERAL - "Each portion of a building separated by one or more fire walls that comply with the
provisions of this section shall be considered a separate building." THE S-2 GARAGE BUILDING IS
SEPARATED FROM THE R-2 RESIDENCE BUILDING BY FIRE WALLS WHICH ARE ALSO LOAD-
BEARING WALLS AND HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING IN ORDER TO MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF TABLE 602. ADDITIONALLY, THE R-2 PORTIONS OF THE BUILDING ARE
SUBDIVIDED BY FIRE WALLS TO CREATE SEPARATE "BUILDINGS."
SECTION 706.2 STRUCTURAL STABILITY - "Fire Walls shall have sufficient structural stability under fire
conditions to allow collapse of construction on either side without collapse..."
SEC 706.5 HORIZONTAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall be continuous from exterior wall to exterior wall...
Exceptions: 3. Fire Walls shall be permitted to terminate at the interior surface of noncombustible exterior
sheathing where the building on each side of the fire wall is protected by an automatic sprinkler system..."
BUILDINGS SHALL BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
SYSTEM AND FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE INTERIOR SURFACE OF NONCOMBUSTIBLE
EXTERIOR SHEATHING.
SEC 706.6 VERTICAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall extend from the foundation to a termination point at
least 30 inches above both adjacent roofs. Exceptions: 4. In buildings of Type III, IV, and V construction,
walls shall be permitted to terminate at the underside of combustible roof sheathing or decks, provided..."
FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE UNDERSIDE OF COMBUSTIBLE ROOF SHEATHING IN
COMPLIANCE WITH EXCEPTION 4.
SECTION 706.8 OPENINGS - "Each opening through a Fire Wall shall be protected in accordance with
Section 715.4 and shall not exceed 156 square feet. The aggregate width of openings at any floor level shall
not exceed 25% of the length of the wall."
SECTION 707 - FIRE BARRIERS
SEC 707.3.1 SHAFT ENCLOSURES - see 708.4
SEC 707.3.2 EXIT ENCLOSURES - see 1022.1
SEC 707.3.3 EXIT PASSAGEWAY - see 1023.3
SEC 707.3.4 HORIZONTAL EXIT - N/A
SEC 707.3.5 ATRIUMS - N/A
SEC 707.3.6 INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - see 508.2.5
SEC 707.6 OPENINGS - "Openings in a fire barrier shall be protected in accordance with Section 715.
Openings in a fire barrier shall be limited to a maximum aggregate width of 25% of the length of the wall and
the maximum area of any single opening shall not exceed 156 sf. Openings in exit enclosures and exit
passageways shall also comply with Sections 1022.3 and 1023.5, respectively."
SEC 708 (708.2) SHAFT ENCLOSURES - "Openings through a floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected by
a shaft enclosure complying with this section."
SECTION 903 - AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
SEC 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS - "Where the provisions of this code require that a building
or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with this
section, sprinklers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13..." ALL BUILDINGS WILL BE
EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS PER NFPA 13.
SNAPSHOT:
TABULAR ALLOWABLE AREA (At) = UNLIMITED
TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA = UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR = UNLIMITED
NUMBER OF STORIES = UNLIMITED
HEIGHT IN FEET = UNLIMITED
SECTION 406 - MOTOR-VEHICLE RELATED OCCUPANCIES
SEC 406.2.1 CLASSIFICATION - "Parking garages shall be classified as either open... or enclosed..."
GARAGES ARE ENCLOSED PER SEC 406.4.
SEC 406.2.2 CLEAR HEIGHT - "The clear height of each floor level in vehicle and pedestrian traffic areas
shall... comply with Chapter 11A or Chapter 11B, as applicable."
SEC 406.2.5 RAMPS - "Vehicle ramps shall not be considered as required exits unless pedestrian facilities
are provided. Vehicle ramps that are utilized for vertical circulation as well as for parking shall not exceed a
slope of 1:15 (6.67%)"
SEC 406.2.6 FLOOR SURFACE - "Parking surfaces shall be of concrete or similar... The area of floor used
for parking of automobiles... shall be sloped... Exceptions: 2. Floors of S-2 parking garages shall not be
required to have a sloped surface." GARAGE FLOORS WILL BE SLOPED TO CREATE RAMPS AS
ALLOWED IN SEC 406.2.5. SOME FLOOR ARES WILL BE FLAT.
SEC 406.2.7 MIXED OCCUPANCY SEPARATION - "Parking garages shall be separated from other
occupancies in accordance with Section 508.1" TABLE 508.4 WOULD ONLY REQUIRE A 1-HOUR FIRE-
RATED SEPARATION BETWEEN AN S-2 GARAGE AND B, M OR R-2 OCCUPANCIES (WITH FIRE
SPRINKLERS). PARKING GARAGE WALLS SHALL HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING TO
MEET THE MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS OF TABLE 602.
SEC 406.4 ENCLOSED PARKING GARAGES - BUILDINGS WILL BE CLASSIFIED AS ENCLOSED
PARKING GARAGE AND COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SECTION, INCLUDING THE
USE OF THE PERMITTED ROOF PARKING (406.4.1) AND THE PROVISION OF MECHANICAL
VENTILATION (406.4.2).
SECTON 503 - GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHT AND AREA LIMITATIONS
SEC 503.1.2 BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT - "Two or more buildings on the same lot shall be regulated as
separate buildings or shall be considered as portions of one building..." THE GARAGE AND RESIDENCE
PORTIONS ARE OF DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION TYPES AND SHALL BE REGULATED AS SEPARATE
BUILDINGS.
TABLE 503 - ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
TYPE IA, S-2 OCCUPANCY GROUP: UNLIMITED BUILDING HEIGHT, NUMBER OF STORIES AND AREA
SECTION 506 - BUILDING AREA MODIFICATIONS
NOT USED
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
SEC 508.2 ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "Accessory occupancies are those occupancies that are
ancilary to the main occupancy of the building or portion thereof." SEE SHEETS A0-3.X FOR OCCUPANCY
CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIVIDUAL SPACES, CALCULATION OF ACCESSORY (508.2) AND INCIDENTAL
ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES (508.2.5)
SEC 508.2.1 AREA LIMITATIONS - "Aggregate accessory occupancies shall not occupy more than 10
percent of the building area of the story in which they are located..."
SEC 508.2.5 SEPARATION OF INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "The incidental accessory
occupancies listed in Table 508.2.5 shall be separated from the remained of the building or equipped with an
automatic fire-extinguishing system, or both, in accordance with Table 508.2.5"
SEC 508.4 SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES - SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 602 - CONSTRUCTION CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 601 - FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS - THE PRIMARY
STRUCTURAL FRAME, EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR BEARING WALLS FOR A TYPE IA BUILDING MUST
HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING. THIS INCLUDES THE PERIMETER WALL OF THE
GARAGE. OPENINGS IN SUCH WALLS WILL BE LIMITED PER SECTION 706.8 AND PROTECTED PER
715.4. ALSO SEE "FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLE
601)," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 706 - FIRE WALLS
SEC 706.1 GENERAL - "Each portion of a building separated by one or more fire walls that comply with the
provisions of this section shall be considered a separate building." THE S-2 GARAGE BUILDING IS
SEPARATED FROM THE R-2 RESIDENCE BUILDING BY FIRE WALLS WHICH ARE ALSO LOAD-
BEARING WALLS AND HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING IN ORDER TO MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF TABLE 602.
SEC 706.2 STRUCTURAL STABILITY - "Fire Walls shall have sufficient structural stability under fire
conditions to allow collapse of construction on either side without collapse..."
SEC 706.5 HORIZONTAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall be continuous from exterior wall to exterior wall...
Exceptions: 3. Fire Walls shall be permitted to terminate at the interior surface of noncombustible exterior
sheathing where the building on each side of the fire wall is protected by an automatic sprinkler system..."
BUILDINGS SHALL BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
SYSTEM AND FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE INTERIOR SURFACE OF NONCOMBUSTIBLE
EXTERIOR SHEATHING.
SEC 706.6 VERTICAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall extend from the foundation to a termination point at
least 30 inches above both adjacent roofs. Exceptions: 4. In buildings of Type III, IV, and V construction,
walls shall be permitted to terminate at the underside of combustible roof sheathing or decks, provided..."
FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT UNDERSIDE OF COMBUSTIBLE ROOF SHEATHING IN
COMPLIANCE WITH EXCEPTION 4.
SEC 706.8 OPENINGS - "Each opening through a Fire Wall shall be protected in accordance with Section
715.4 and shall not exceed 156 square feet. The aggregate width of openings at any floor level shall not
exceed 25% of the length of the wall."
SECTION 707 - FIRE BARRIERS
SEC 707.3.1 SHAFT ENCLOSURES - see 708.4
SEC 707.3.2 EXIT ENCLOSURES - see 1022.1
SEC 707.3.3 EXIT PASSAGEWAY - see 1023.3
SEC 707.3.4 HORIZONTAL EXIT - N/A
SEC 707.3.5 ATRIUMS - N/A
SEC 707.3.6 INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - see 508.2.5
SEC 707.6 OPENINGS - "Openings in a fire barrier shall be protected in accordance with Section 715.
Openings in a fire barrier shall be limited to a maximum aggregate width of 25% of the length of the wall and
the maximum area of any single opening shall not exceed 156 sf. Openings in exit enclosures and exit
passageways shall also comply with Sections 1022.3 and 1023.5, respectively."
SEC 708 (708.2) SHAFT ENCLOSURES - "Openings through a floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected by
a shaft enclosure complying with this section."
SECTION 903 - AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
SEC 903.2.10 GROUP S-2 ENCLOSED PARKING GARAGES - "An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout buildings... as follows: 1. Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds
12,000 s.f." SEE SHEETS A0-2.X FOR BUILDING FLOOR AREAS
SEC 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS - "Where the provisions of this code require that a building
or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with this
section, sprinklers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13..." ALL BUILDINGS WILL BE
EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS PER NFPA 13.
SNAPSHOT:
TABULAR ALLOWABLE AREA (At) = 12,000 SF
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa) = 36,000 SF ( W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 506.2)
TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA (Aa)x2 = 72,000 SF (W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 506.4.1)
ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR = 72,000/4 = 18,000 SF
NUMBER OF STORIES = 3 (4 W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 504)
HEIGHT IN FEET = 50' (60' W/ MODIFICATION PER SEC 504)
SECTON 503 - GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHT AND AREA LIMITATIONS
SEC 503.1.2 BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT - "Two or more buildings on the same lot shall be regulated as
separate buildings or shall be considered as portions of one building..." THE GARAGE AND RESIDENCE
PORTIONS ARE OF DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION TYPES AND SHALL BE REGULATED AS
SEPARATE BUILDINGS.
TABLE 503 - ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
TYPE VA, R-2 OCCUPANCY GROUP: 4 STORIES, 60' HEIGHT & At = 12,000 SF.
SECTION 504 - BUILDING HEIGHT
SEC 504.2 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE - "Where a building is equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system... maximum building height is increased by 20 feet and the maximum
number of stories is increased by one. For Group R-2 buildings of Type VA construction equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system... the value specified in Table 503... shall not exceed 60 feet
or four stories." AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE IS APPLIED TO BOTH BUILDING
HEIGHT AND ALLOWABLE AREA.
SECTION 506 - BUILDING AREA MODIFICATIONS
SEC 506.2 FRONTAGE INCREASE - NOT USED
SEC 506.3 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM INCREASE - USED FOR HEIGHT AND AREA
INCREASES
SEC 506.4 (506.4.1) SINGLE OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN ONE STORY - "For Group...
R occupancies... the total allowable area of a single occupancy building with more than one story above
grade plane shall be determined by multiplying the allowable area per story (Aa)... by the number of stories
above grade plan as listed below: 1. For buildings with two or more stories above grade plane, multiply by
2; 2. No Story shall exceed the allowable building area per story (Aa) as determined in Section 506.1..."
TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA IS CALCULATED AS 2x(Aa).
Aa = [At + (At x If) + (At x Is)]
Aa = 12,000 SF + (12,000 SF x 0) + (12,000 SF x 2)]
Aa = 36,000 SF
(Aa)x2 = 72,000 SF
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
SEC 508.2 ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "Accessory occupancies are those occupancies that are
ancilary to the main occupancy of the building or portion thereof." SEE SHEETS A0-3.X FOR
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIVIDUAL SPACES, CALCULATION OF ACCESSORY (508.2)
AND INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES (508.2.5)
SEC 508.2.1 AREA LIMITATIONS - "Aggregate accessory occupancies shall not occupy more than 10
percent of the building area of the story in which they are located..."
SEC 508.2.5 SEPARATION OF INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "The incidental accessory
occupancies listed in Table 508.2.5 shall be separated from the remaineder of the building or equipped with
an automatic fire-extinguishing system, or both, in accordance with Table 508.2.5"
SEC 508.4 SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES - SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 509 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SEC 509.2 HORIZONTAL BUILDING SEPARATION ALLOWANCE - "A building shall be considered as
separate and distinct buildings for the purpose of determining area limitations, continuity of fire walls,
limitation of number of stories and type of construction..." A HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY (CONCRETE
PODIUM) HAVING A 3-HOUR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING WILL BE PROVIDED BETWEEN THE TYPE
VA, GROUP R-2 BUILDING AND THE TYPE IA, GROUPS A-3, B & M (MIXED USE) BUILDING BELOW.
THE BUILDING BELOW THE HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY IS NO MORE THAN ONE STORY ABOVE
GRADE PLANE. SHAFT, STAIRWAY, RAMP AND ESCALATOR ENCLOSURES THROUGH THE
HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY SHALL HAVE NOT LESS THAN A 2-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING
WITH OPENING PROTECTIVES PER SEC 715.4. THE BUILDINGS ABOVE AND BELOW THE
HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY SHALL BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT BY AN APPROVED AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 903.3.1.1.
SECTION 602 - CONSTRUCTION CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 601 - FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS - SEE "FIRE-
RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLE 601)," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 706 - FIRE WALLS
SEC 706.1 GENERAL - "Each portion of a building separated by one or more fire walls that comply with
the provisions of this section shall be considered a separate building." THE S-2 GARAGE BUILDING IS
SEPARATED FROM THE R-2 RESIDENCE BUILDING BY FIRE WALLS WHICH ARE ALSO LOAD-
BEARING WALLS AND HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING IN ORDER TO MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF TABLE 602. ADDITIONALLY, THE R-2 PORTIONS OF THE BUILDING ARE
SUBDIVIDED BY FIRE WALLS TO CREATE SEPARATE "BUILDINGS."
SECTION 706.2 STRUCTURAL STABILITY - "Fire Walls shall have sufficient structural stability under fire
conditions to allow collapse of construction on either side without collapse..."
SEC 706.5 HORIZONTAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall be continuous from exterior wall to exterior
wall... Exceptions: 3. Fire Walls shall be permitted to terminate at the interior surface of noncombustible
exterior sheathing where the building on each side of the fire wall is protected by an automatic sprinkler
system..." BUILDINGS SHALL BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC
SPRINKLER SYSTEM AND FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE INTERIOR SURFACE OF
NONCOMBUSTIBLE EXTERIOR SHEATHING.
SEC 706.6 VERTICAL CONTINUITY - "Fire Walls shall extend from the foundation to a termination point at
least 30 inches above both adjacent roofs. Exceptions: 4. In buildings of Type III, IV, and V construction,
walls shall be permitted to terminate at the underside of combustible roof sheathing or decks, provided..."
FIRE WALLS SHALL TERMINATE AT THE UNDERSIDE OF COMBUSTIBLE ROOF SHEATHING IN
COMPLIANCE WITH EXCEPTION 4.
SECTION 706.8 OPENINGS - "Each opening through a Fire Wall shall be protected in accordance with
Section 715.4 and shall not exceed 156 square feet. The aggregate width of openings at any floor level
shall not exceed 25% of the length of the wall."
SECTION 707 - FIRE BARRIERS
SEC 707.3.1 SHAFT ENCLOSURES - see 708.4
SEC 707.3.2 EXIT ENCLOSURES - see 1022.1
SEC 707.3.3 EXIT PASSAGEWAY - see 1023.3
SEC 707.3.4 HORIZONTAL EXIT - N/A
SEC 707.3.5 ATRIUMS - N/A
SEC 707.3.6 INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - see 508.2.5
SEC 707.6 OPENINGS - "Openings in a fire barrier shall be protected in accordance with Section 715.
Openings in a fire barrier shall be limited to a maximum aggregate width of 25% of the length of the wall
and the maximum area of any single opening shall not exceed 156 sf. Openings in exit enclosures and exit
passageways shall also comply with Sections 1022.3 and 1023.5, respectively."
SEC 708 (708.2) SHAFT ENCLOSURES - "Openings through a floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected by
a shaft enclosure complying with this section."
SECTION 903 - AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
SEC 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS - "Where the provisions of this code require that a
building or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
this section, sprinklers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13..." ALL BUILDINGS WILL
BE EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS PER NFPA 13.
SNAPSHOT:
TABULAR ALLOWABLE AREA (At) = UNLIMITED
TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA = UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR = UNLIMITED
NUMBER OF STORIES = UNLIMITED
HEIGHT IN FEET = UNLIMITED
SECTON 503 - GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHT AND AREA LIMITATIONS
SEC 503.1.2 BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT - "Two or more buildings on the same lot shall be regulated as
separate buildings or shall be considered as portions of one building..." THE GARAGE AND RESIDENCE
PORTIONS ARE OF DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTION TYPES AND SHALL BE REGULATED AS SEPARATE
BUILDINGS.
TABLE 503 - ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
TYPE IA, A-3, B & M OCCUPANCY GROUP: UNLIMITED BUILDING HEIGHT, NUMBER OF STORIES
AND AREA
SECTION 506 - BUILDING AREA MODIFICATIONS
NOT USED
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
SEC 508.2 ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "Accessory occupancies are those occupancies that are
ancilary to the main occupancy of the building or portion thereof." SEE SHEETS A0-3.X FOR OCCUPANCY
CLASSIFICATIONS OF INDIVIDUAL SPACES, CALCULATION OF ACCESSORY (508.2) AND INCIDENTAL
ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES (508.2.5)
SEC 508.2.1 AREA LIMITATIONS - "Aggregate accessory occupancies shall not occupy more than 10
percent of the building area of the story in which they are located..."
SEC 508.2.5 SEPARATION OF INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - "The incidental accessory
occupancies listed in Table 508.2.5 shall be separated from the remainder of the building or equipped with
an automatic fire-extinguishing system, or both, in accordance with Table 508.2.5"
SEC 508.4 SEPARATED OCCUPANCIES - SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 509 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SEC 509.2 HORIZONTAL BUILDING SEPARATION ALLOWANCE - "A building shall be considered as
separate and distinct buildings for the purpose of determining area limitations, continuity of fire walls,
limitation of number of stories and type of construction..." A HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY (CONCRETE
PODIUM) HAVING A 3-HOUR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING WILL BE PROVIDED BETWEEN THE TYPE
VA, GROUP R-2 BUILDING AND THE TYPE IA, GROUPS A-3, B & M (MIXED USE) BUILDING BELOW.
THE BUILDING BELOW THE HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY IS NO MORE THAN ONE STORY ABOVE
GRADE PLANE. SHAFT, STAIRWAY, RAMP AND ESCALATOR ENCLOSURES THROUGH THE
HORIZONTAL ASSEMBLY SHALL HAVE NOT LESS THAN A 2-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING WITH
OPENING PROTECTIVES PER SEC 715.4. THE BUILDINGS ABOVE AND BELOW THE HORIZONTAL
ASSEMBLY SHALL BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT BY AN APPROVED AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 903.3.1.1.
SECTION 602 - CONSTRUCTION CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 601 - FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS - THE PRIMARY
STRUCTURAL FRAME, EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR BEARING WALLS FOR A TYPE IA BUILDING MUST
HAVE A 3-HOUR FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING. THIS INCLUDES THE PERIMETER WALL OF THE
GARAGE. OPENINGS IN SUCH WALLS WILL BE LIMITED PER SECTION 706.8 AND PROTECTED PER
715.4. ALSO SEE "FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLE
601)," THIS SHEET.
SECTION 707 - FIRE BARRIERS
SEC 707.3.1 SHAFT ENCLOSURES - see 708.4
SEC 707.3.2 EXIT ENCLOSURES - see 1022.1
SEC 707.3.3 EXIT PASSAGEWAY - see 1023.3
SEC 707.3.4 HORIZONTAL EXIT - N/A
SEC 707.3.5 ATRIUMS - N/A
SEC 707.3.6 INCIDENTAL ACCESSORY OCCUPANCIES - see 508.2.5
SEC 707.6 OPENINGS - "Openings in a fire barrier shall be protected in accordance with Section 715.
Openings in a fire barrier shall be limited to a maximum aggregate width of 25% of the length of the wall and
the maximum area of any single opening shall not exceed 156 sf. Openings in exit enclosures and exit
passageways shall also comply with Sections 1022.3 and 1023.5, respectively."
SEC 708 (708.2) SHAFT ENCLOSURES - "Openings through a floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected by
a shaft enclosure complying with this section."
SECTION 903 - AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
SEC 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS - "Where the provisions of this code require that a building
or portion thereof be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with this
section, sprinklers shall be installed throughout in accordance with NFPA 13..." ALL BUILDINGS WILL BE
EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS PER NFPA 13.
THIS PROJECT SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE PORTIONS OF ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL
CODES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING:
STATION PARK GREEN SPECIFIC PLAN
STATION PARK GREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
2013 CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24:
PART 1 - CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
PART 2 - CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
PART 2.5 - CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
PART 3 - CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
PART 4 - CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
PART 5 - CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
PART 9 - CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
PART 11 - CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE, EXCEPTING SECTIONS LISTED BELOW:
A4.106.5.2, A4.106.5.3, A4.106.10, A4.106.10(1), TABLE A4.106.10
A4.201.1, A4.203.1.1.1, A4.203.1.1.2, A4.203.1.1.3(1), A4.203.1.1.3(4), A4.203.1.2.1, A4.203.1.2.2
A4.204.1.1.1(1), A4.204.1.1.1(1) EXCEPTION 1, A4.204.1.1.1(1) EXCEPTION 2, A4.204.1.1.1(4), A4.204.1.2.1,
A4.204.1.2.1(1), A4.204.1.2.1(2), A4.204.1.2.2, A4.204.1.2.2(1), A4.204.1.2.2(2)
5.106.8 (1), 5.106.8 EXCEPTION 1, 5.410.2 EXCEPTION 4, 5.410.2.1(2), 5.410.2.2(1), (2), & (3)
5.504.5.3 EXCEPTION 1, 5.506.1, 5.506.2
A5.106.11.2.3
A5.203.1.1.1, A5.203.1.2.1, A5.203.1.2.1(1), A5.203.1.2.1(2), A5.203.1.2.2, A5.203.1.2.2(1), A5.203.1.2.2(2)
A5.409.2
A5.601.2.2, A5.601.2.3, A5.601.3.2, A5.601.3.3, TABLE A5.601 SECTION A5.601
PART 12 - CALIFORINIA REFERENCE STANDARDS CODE
2010 CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24:
PART 6 - CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 12" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-1.0
GENERAL CODE
SUMMARIES
SPAR SUBMITTAL
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS
FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLE 601)
BUILDING MU-1 SUMMARY
BUILDING RE-2 SUMMARY
BUILDING RE-3 SUMMARY
BUILDING RE-4 SUMMARY
DEFERRED SUBMITTALS
CONSTRUCTION IMPACT
FIRE SPRINKLER PROTECTION
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS
OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS
REFUSE CHUTES
GENERAL ACCESSIBILITY
CBC NARRATIVE - TYPE IIIA, R-2 OCC.
CBC NARRATIVE - TYPE IA, S-2 OCC.
CBC NARRATIVE - TYPE VA, R-2 OCC.
CBC NARRATIVE - TYPE IA, A-3, B, M  OCC.
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
CODE COMPLIANCE
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 129 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
24625 SF
GARAGE
2152 SF
RETAIL B
5462 SF
RETAIL A
4554 SF
RETAIL C
9040 SF
RETAIL D
6576 SF
RETAIL E
4412 SF
OFFICE A
6343 SF
OFFICE B
2255 SF
COMMUNITY/ REC.
ROOM
GARAGE
TYPE IA
GROUP S-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE VA
GROUP R-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE VA
GROUP R-2
RETAIL
TYPE IA
GROUP M
RETAIL
TYPE IA
GROUP M
3-HR
HORZ.
ASSY.
24478 SF
GARAGE
15301 SF
RES AREA C
14240 SF
RES AREA A
14176 SF
RES AREA B
23725 SF
GARAGE
14240 SF
RES AREA A
14930 SF
RES AREA B
15301 SF
RES AREA C
23630 SF
GARAGE
8101 SF
RES AREA A
14981 SF
RES AREA B
10386 SF
RES AREA C
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-2.1
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
2
MU-1 - LEVEL 1
 1" = 40'-0"
1
MU-1 SECTION DIAGRAM
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
TYPE IA, GROUP A-3, B AND M
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
LEVEL 1 OF BUILDING 1 IS CLASSIFIED AS A SEPARATED OCCUPANCY MIXED USE PER SEC 508.4 AS
FOLLOWS:
COMMUNITY/ REC ROOM = A-3 OCCUPANCY
OFFICE = B OCCUPANCY
RETAIL = M OCCUPANCY
1-HR SEPARATION REQUIRED BETWEEN A-3 AND B OCCUPANCIES PER TABLE 508.4, SEE
"OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," SHEET A0-1.0. SEPARATION BETWEEN B AND M OCCUPANCIES NOT
REQUIRED.
MIXED USE CALCULATION PER CBC 508.4.2 (MODIFICATIONS PER CBC 506 NOT APPLIED)
AS ALL ALLOWABLE TABULAR AREAS IN TYPE IA CONSTRUCTION ARE UNLIMITED, MIXED USE
CALCULATION DOES NOT APPLY.
 1" = 30'-0"
3
MU-1 - LEVEL 2-3
 1" = 30'-0"
4
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
 1" = 30'-0"
5
MU-1 - LEVEL 4-5
TYPE VA, GROUP R-2 RESIDENCE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): 12,000 SF
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: 72,000 SF (W/ SPRINKLER MODIFICATION)
MODIFIED MAX. AREA PER FLOOR/AREA: 72,000/4 = 18,000 SF
BUILDING MU-1 AREA PER CBC (GROUP R-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
A
RES AREA A
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
14240 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
14240 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
8101 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
8101 SF
R-2
44682 SF
B
RES AREA B
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
14176 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
14930 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
14981 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
14981 SF
R-2
59069 SF
C
RES AREA C
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
15301 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
15301 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
10386 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
10386 SF
R-2
51375 SF
BUILDING MU-1 AREA PER CBC (MIXED USE)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
COMMUNITY/ REC.
ROOM
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2255 SF
A-3
OFFICE A
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
4412 SF
B
OFFICE B
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
6343 SF
B
RETAIL A
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
5462 SF
M
RETAIL B
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2152 SF
M
RETAIL C
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
4554 SF
M
RETAIL D
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
9040 SF
M
RETAIL E
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
6576 SF
M
40794 SF
BUILDING MU-1 AREA PER CBC (GROUP S-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPAN
CY
GARAGE
GARAGE
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
24625 SF
S-2
GARAGE
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
24478 SF
S-2
GARAGE
MU-1 - LEVEL 3
23725 SF
S-2
GARAGE
MU-1 - LEVEL 4
23630 SF
S-2
GARAGE
MU-1 - LEVEL 5
23630 SF
S-2
120089 SF
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 130 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
9080 SF
RES AREA A
8586 SF
RES AREA B
7569 SF
RES AREA C
8196 SF
RES AREA E
6961 SF
RES AREA F
24965 SF
GARAGE
3949 SF
RES AREA D
2500 SF
AMENITIES A
9056 SF
RES AREA A
8594 SF
RES AREA B
7574 SF
RES AREA C
8112 SF
RES AREA E
9178 SF
RES AREA F
24965 SF
GARAGE
3909 SF
RES AREA D
GARAGE
TYPE IA
GROUP S-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
9056 SF
RES AREA A
8446 SF
RES AREA B
6427 SF
RES AREA C
7453 SF
RES AREA E
8939 SF
RES AREA F
24965 SF
GARAGE
3938 SF
RES AREA D
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-2.2
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 1
 1" = 30'-0"
2
RE-2 - LEVEL 2-4
 1" = 40'-0"
0
RE-2 SECTION DIAGRAM
 1" = 30'-0"
3
RE-2 - LEVEL 5
BUILDING RE-2 AREA PER CBC (GROUP R-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
A
RES AREA A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
9080 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
9056 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
9056 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
9056 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
9056 SF
R-2
45303 SF
B
RES AREA B
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
8586 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
8594 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
8446 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
8446 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
8446 SF
R-2
42519 SF
C
RES AREA C
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
7569 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
7574 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
7327 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
7327 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
6427 SF
R-2
36224 SF
D
RES AREA D
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
3949 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
3909 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
3934 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
3934 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
3938 SF
R-2
19664 SF
E
RES AREA E
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
8196 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
8112 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
8112 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
8112 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
7453 SF
R-2
39985 SF
F
AMENITIES A
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2500 SF
A-3
RES AREA F
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
6961 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
9178 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
9183 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
9176 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
8939 SF
R-2
45937 SF
BUILDING RE-2 AREA PER CBC (GROUP S-2)
Name
Level
Area
Comments
GARAGE
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE) 24965 SF
S-2
GARAGE
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2
24965 SF
S-2
GARAGE
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 3
24965 SF
S-2
GARAGE
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 4
24965 SF
S-2
GARAGE
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 5
24965 SF
S-2
5
124827 SF
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
TYPE IIIA, GROUP R-2 RESIDENCE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): 9,600 SF
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: 48,000 SF
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
AREA "F" OF BUILDING 2 IS CLASSIFIED AS A SEPARATED OCCUPANCY MIXED USE PER SEC 508.4 AS
FOLLOWS:
AMENITIES A = A-3 OCCUPANCY
RES AREA F = R-2 OCCUPANCY
1-HR SEPARATION REQUIRED PER TABLE 508.4, SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," SHEET A0-1.0.
MIXED USE CALCULATION PER CBC 508.4.2 (MODIFICATIONS PER CBC 506 NOT APPLIED)
ALLOWABLE AREA (A-3, TYPE IIIA): 14,000 SF
ACTUAL AREA (A-3, TYPE IIIA): 2,502 SF
ALLOWABLE AREA (R-2, TYPE IIIA): 24,000 SF
ACTUAL AREA (R-2, TYPE IIIA): 6,667 SF
(2,502 / 14,000) + (6,667 / 24,000) = .18 + .28 = .46 < 1
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 131 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
2894 SF
AMENITIES A
5033 SF
RES AREA B
9195 SF
RES AREA C
4896 SF
RES AREA D
5904 SF
RES AREA A
6947 SF
RES AREA E
8700 SF
RES AREA F
22986 SF
GARAGE
2085 SF
VOID
5842 SF
RES AREA B
9101 SF
RES AREA C
4896 SF
RES AREA D
6914 SF
RES AREA A
6977 SF
RES AREA E
8716 SF
RES AREA F
22986 SF
GARAGE
8147 SF
RES AREA B
9104 SF
RES AREA C
4886 SF
RES AREA D
6917 SF
RES AREA A
6998 SF
RES AREA E
8735 SF
RES AREA F
22986 SF
GARAGE
8154 SF
RES AREA B
8508 SF
RES AREA C
4886 SF
RES AREA D
6925 SF
RES AREA A
6981 SF
RES AREA E
8734 SF
RES AREA F
22986 SF
GARAGE
GARAGE
TYPE IA
GROUP S-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-2.3
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
2
RE-3 - LEVEL 1
 1" = 30'-0"
3
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
 1" = 30'-0"
4
RE-3 - LEVEL 3-4
 1" = 30'-0"
5
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
 1" = 40'-0"
1
RE-3 SECTION DIAGRAM
BUILDING RE-3 AREA PER CBC (GROUP S-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
GARAGE
GARAGE
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
22986 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
22986 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
22986 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
22986 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
22986 SF
S-2
114929 SF
BUILDING RE-3 AREA PER CBC (GROUP R-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
D
RES AREA D
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
4896 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
4896 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
4886 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
4886 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
4886 SF
R-2
24452 SF
E
RES AREA E
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
6947 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
6977 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
6998 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
6998 SF
R-2
RES AREA E
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
6981 SF
R-2
34903 SF
F
RES AREA F
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
8700 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
8716 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
8735 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
8735 SF
R-2
RES AREA F
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
8734 SF
R-2
43619 SF
G
RES AREA A
Not Placed
Not Placed
R-2
0 SF
BUILDING RE-3 AREA PER CBC (GROUP R-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
A
AMENITIES A
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
2894 SF
A-3
RES AREA A
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
5904 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
6914 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
6917 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
6920 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
6925 SF
R-2
36475 SF
B
RES AREA B
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
5033 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
5842 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
8147 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
8154 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
8154 SF
R-2
35330 SF
C
RES AREA C
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
9195 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-3 - LEVEL 2
9101 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-3 - LEVEL 3
9104 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-3 - LEVEL 4
9104 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-3 - LEVEL 5
8508 SF
R-2
45012 SF
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
TYPE IIIA, GROUP R-2 RESIDENCE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): 9,600 SF
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: 48,000 SF
SECTION 508 - MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY
AREA "A" OF BUILDING 3 IS CLASSIFIED AS A SEPARATED OCCUPANCY MIXED USE PER SEC 508.4 AS
FOLLOWS:
AMENITIES A = A-3 OCCUPANCY
RES AREA A = R-2 OCCUPANCY
1-HR SEPARATION REQUIRED PER TABLE 508.4, SEE "OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS," SHEET A0-1.0.
MIXED USE CALCULATION PER CBC 508.4.2 (MODIFICATIONS PER CBC 506 NOT APPLIED)
ALLOWABLE AREA (A-3, TYPE IIIA): 14,000 SF
ACTUAL AREA (A-3, TYPE IIIA): 3,093 SF
ALLOWABLE AREA (R-2, TYPE IIIA): 24,000 SF
ACTUAL AREA (R-2, TYPE IIIA): 4,988 SF
(3,093 / 14,000) + (4,988 / 24,000) = .22 + .21 = .43 < 1
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 132 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DN
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
18404 SF
GARAGE
7697 SF
RES AREA A
7889 SF
RES AREA D
9354 SF
RES AREA B
5185 SF
RES AREA C
8593 SF
RES AREA A
9378 SF
RES AREA B
5415 SF
RES AREA C
7908 SF
RES AREA D
18416 SF
GARAGE
3562 SF
RES AREA A
6968 SF
RES AREA D
5326 SF
RES AREA C
18570 SF
GARAGE
9378 SF
RES AREA B
GARAGE
TYPE IA
GROUP S-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
RESIDENCE
TYPE IIIA
GROUP R-2
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-2.4
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1" = 30'-0"
2
RE-4 - LEVEL 1
 1" = 30'-0"
3
RE-4 - LEVEL 2-3
 1" = 30'-0"
4
RE-4 - LEVEL 4-5
BUILDING RE-4 AREA PER CBC (GROUP R-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
A
RES AREA A
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
7697 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
8593 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
8449 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
3562 SF
R-2
RES AREA A
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
3561 SF
R-2
31862 SF
B
RES AREA B
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
9354 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
9378 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
9378 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
9378 SF
R-2
RES AREA B
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
9350 SF
R-2
46839 SF
C
RES AREA C
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
5185 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
5415 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
5369 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
5326 SF
R-2
RES AREA C
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
5271 SF
R-2
26567 SF
D
RES AREA D
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
7889 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
7908 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
7927 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
6968 SF
R-2
RES AREA D
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
6877 SF
R-2
37569 SF
BUILDING RE-4 AREA PER CBC (GROUP S-2)
NAME
LEVEL
AREA
OCCUPANCY
GARAGE
GARAGE
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 (GRADE)
18404 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-4 - LEVEL 2
18416 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-4 - LEVEL 3
18406 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-4 - LEVEL 4
18570 SF
S-2
GARAGE
RE-4 - LEVEL 5
18570 SF
S-2
92365 SF
TYPE IA, GROUP S-2 PARKING GARAGE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): UNLIMITED
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: UNLIMITED
TYPE IIIA, GROUP R-2 RESIDENCE
ALLOWABLE AREA PER STORY (Aa): 9,600 SF
ALLOWABLE TOTAL BUILDING AREA: 48,000 SF
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1" = 40'-0"
1
RE-4 SECTION DIAGRAM

--- page 133 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UNIT J
UNIT A
UNIT J
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT H
UNIT A
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT I
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT F
UNIT F
UNIT B
UNIT H
UNIT F
UNIT F
UNIT F
UNIT D
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT H
UNIT B
STAIR G1-2
LOBBY G1-1
LOBBY G1-2
STAIR G1-1
LOBBY G1-3
STAIR 1-1
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
102' - 7"
44' - 6"
6' - 11"
9' - 10"
LOBBY G1-3
15' - 0"
9' - 11 7/8"
5.0%
5.0%
6' - 0"
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 138'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 98'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 199'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 48'
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 224'-9"; 1/3 = 74'-11"
(GARAGE)
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 155'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 51'
EXIT DOOR
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 36”
GARAGE EXIT
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
EXIT DOOR
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 36”
EXIT DOOR
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 36”
EXIT DOOR
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 36”
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 201'-6"; 1/3 = 67'-2” (RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 276'-6"; 1/3 = 92'-2"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 258'-2"; 1/3 = 87'-3" (RESIDENCE)
STAIR G1-3
SECTION 1003 - GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
SEC 1003.2 CEILING HEIGHT - "The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6
inches."
SEC 1003.6 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY - "The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall
not be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component..."
SEC 1003.7 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKS - "Elevators... shall not be used as a
component of a required means of egress... Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in
accordance with Section 1007.4" THE BUILDINGS ARE 5 STORIES IN HEIGHT. SELECTED ELEVATORS
SHALL BE USED AS REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS AND SHALL BE SERVED BY EMERGENCY
GENERATORS.
TABLE 1004.1.1 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
THE FOLLOWING SPACES ARE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT:
Accessory Storage Areas, Mechanical Equipment Room:
300 gross
Assembly without Fixed Seats, Unconcentrated
15 net
Business Areas
100 gross
Exercise Rooms
50 gross
Mercantile
60 gross
Parking garages
200 gross
Residential
200 gross
SECTION 1005 - EGRESS WIDTH
SEC 1005.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED EGRESS WIDTH - "The total width of a means of egress in inches shall
not be less than the total occupant load served... multiplied by 0.3 inches per occupant for stairways and 0.2
inches per occupant for other egress components.
SECTION 1007 - ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
1007.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS REQUIRED - "Where more than one means of egress are
required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall
be served by accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or
1021.1.
1007.2.1 ELEVATORS REQUIRED - "In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories
above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator
complying with Section 1007.4." SECTION APPLIES. SEE SECTION 1007.4
1007.3 STAIRWAYS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit access
stairway as permitted by Section 1016.1 or exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches minimum
between handrails and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall
be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
The clear width of 48 inches between handrails is not required... in buildings equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." 3. Areas of refuge are not
required at exit stairways in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. ALL STAIRS ARE MIN. 48" WIDE (HANDRAILS ENCROACH AS
ALLOWED.)
1007.4 ELEVATORS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall
comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A 17.1.
Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 27 and Section 3003. The elevator shall be
accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SECTION 1014 - EXIT ACCESS
SEC 1014.3 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - "In occupancies other than Groups H-1, H-2 and H-3,
the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet. For common path of egress travel in Group A
occupancies... see Section 1028.8. Exceptions: 1. "Common path... in Group B, F and S shall not be more
than 100 feet provided that the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system... 2. Where a tenant
space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30, the length of a common
path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 4. ...in a Group R-2 occupancy shall not be more than
125 feet... with an approved automatic sprinkler system..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH
AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OCCUPANCY
MAX. LENGTH
A (>50 OCC.)
30
A (<50 OCC.)
75
B,S
100
R-2
125
SECTION 1015 - EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS
SEC 1015.1 EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM SPACES - "Two exits or exit access doorways
from any space shall be provided where... 1. The occupant load of the space exceeds one of the values in
Table 1015.1. 2. The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of Section 1014.3."
TABLE 1015.1 - SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
OCCUPANCY
MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD
A, B, M
49
R
10
S
29
SEC 1015.2.1 TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS - "Where two exits or exit access doorways are
required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed a distance
apart... measured in a straight line betwen exit doors... Exception 2: Where building is equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system... the separation distance... shall not be less than one-third of the length of
the maxiumum overall diagonal dimension of the area served."
SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
SEC 1016.1 TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITATIONS - "Exits shall be so located on each story such that the
maximum length of exit access travel... shall not exceed the diatances given in Table 1016.1." DISTANCES TO
NEAREST EXIT NOTED ON PLANS MAY ALSO BE TO NEAREST EXIT ENCLOSURE OR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY.
TABLE 1016.1 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (PER 903.3.1.1)
A, M, R, S-1
250
B
300
S-2
400
SECTION 1021 - NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY
SEC 1021.1 EXITS FROM STORIES - "All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum number
of approved independent exits as specified in Table 1021.1..."
OCCUPANT LOAD
MIN. NUMBER OF EXITS
1-500
2
501-1,000
3
MORE THAN 1,000
4
SECTION 1022 - EXIT ENCLSOURES
1022.1 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED - "Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2
hours where connecting four stories or more... Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than
the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. Exit enclosures shall lead directly to the exterior
of the building or shall be extended... with an exit passageway conforming to the requirements of Section
1023..."
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-3.1.1
USE AND
EGRESS -
LEVEL 2
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 2
CBC NARRATIVE - GENERAL EGRESS
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 134 ---
OFFICE
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
OFFICE
0"
0"
325 SF
TRASH G1-1
448 SF
LOBBY G1-1
147 SF
LOBBY G1-2
Redundant
Room
MAIL G1-1
60' - 6"
42' - 3"
102' - 7"
44' - 6"
866 SF
LOBBY 1-3
697 SF
LOBBY G1-3
333 SF
STAIR 1-1
GARAGE
ENTRY
GARAGE
ENTRY
EXIT 1-1
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
GARAGE EXIT G1-2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 1-1
EXIT 1-2
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
GARAGE STAIR G1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
GARAGE EXIT G1-4
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
GARAGE STAIR G1-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EXIT 1-3
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
LOBBY 1-3
(2-HR EXIT PASSAGEWAY)
GARAGE EXIT G1-3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
GARAGE EXIT G1-1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
STAIR 1-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
EXIT 1-5
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
RETAIL
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 189'-4"; 1/3 = 63'-1" (GARAGE)
182'-3" > 1/3 DIAGONAL DISTANCE
EXIT DOOR
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
GARAGE STAIR G1-3
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
DOES NOT PROVIDE
ROOF ACCESS
SECTION 1003 - GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
SEC 1003.2 CEILING HEIGHT - "The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6
inches."
SEC 1003.6 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY - "The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall
not be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component..."
SEC 1003.7 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKS - "Elevators... shall not be used as a
component of a required means of egress... Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in
accordance with Section 1007.4" THE BUILDINGS ARE 5 STORIES IN HEIGHT. SELECTED ELEVATORS
SHALL BE USED AS REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS AND SHALL BE SERVED BY EMERGENCY
GENERATORS.
TABLE 1004.1.1 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
THE FOLLOWING SPACES ARE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT:
Accessory Storage Areas, Mechanical Equipment Room:
300 gross
Assembly without Fixed Seats, Unconcentrated
15 net
Business Areas
100 gross
Exercise Rooms
50 gross
Mercantile
60 gross
Parking garages
200 gross
Residential
200 gross
SECTION 1005 - EGRESS WIDTH
SEC 1005.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED EGRESS WIDTH - "The total width of a means of egress in inches shall
not be less than the total occupant load served... multiplied by 0.3 inches per occupant for stairways and 0.2
inches per occupant for other egress components.
SECTION 1007 - ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
1007.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS REQUIRED - "Where more than one means of egress are
required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall
be served by accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or
1021.1.
1007.2.1 ELEVATORS REQUIRED - "In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories
above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator
complying with Section 1007.4." SECTION APPLIES. SEE SECTION 1007.4
1007.3 STAIRWAYS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit access
stairway as permitted by Section 1016.1 or exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches minimum
between handrails and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall
be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
The clear width of 48 inches between handrails is not required... in buildings equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." 3. Areas of refuge are not
required at exit stairways in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. ALL STAIRS ARE MIN. 48" WIDE (HANDRAILS ENCROACH AS
ALLOWED.)
1007.4 ELEVATORS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall
comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A 17.1.
Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 27 and Section 3003. The elevator shall be
accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SECTION 1014 - EXIT ACCESS
SEC 1014.3 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - "In occupancies other than Groups H-1, H-2 and H-3,
the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet. For common path of egress travel in Group A
occupancies... see Section 1028.8. Exceptions: 1. "Common path... in Group B, F and S shall not be more
than 100 feet provided that the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system... 2. Where a tenant
space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30, the length of a common
path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 4. ...in a Group R-2 occupancy shall not be more than
125 feet... with an approved automatic sprinkler system..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH
AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OCCUPANCY
MAX. LENGTH
A (>50 OCC.)
30
A (<50 OCC.)
75
B,S
100
R-2
125
SECTION 1015 - EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS
SEC 1015.1 EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM SPACES - "Two exits or exit access doorways
from any space shall be provided where... 1. The occupant load of the space exceeds one of the values in
Table 1015.1. 2. The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of Section 1014.3."
TABLE 1015.1 - SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
OCCUPANCY
MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD
A, B, M
49
R
10
S
29
SEC 1015.2.1 TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS - "Where two exits or exit access doorways are
required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed a distance
apart... measured in a straight line betwen exit doors... Exception 2: Where building is equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system... the separation distance... shall not be less than one-third of the length of
the maxiumum overall diagonal dimension of the area served."
SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
SEC 1016.1 TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITATIONS - "Exits shall be so located on each story such that the
maximum length of exit access travel... shall not exceed the diatances given in Table 1016.1." DISTANCES TO
NEAREST EXIT NOTED ON PLANS MAY ALSO BE TO NEAREST EXIT ENCLOSURE OR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY.
TABLE 1016.1 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (PER 903.3.1.1)
A, M, R, S-1
250
B
300
S-2
400
SECTION 1021 - NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY
SEC 1021.1 EXITS FROM STORIES - "All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum number
of approved independent exits as specified in Table 1021.1..."
OCCUPANT LOAD
MIN. NUMBER OF EXITS
1-500
2
501-1,000
3
MORE THAN 1,000
4
SECTION 1022 - EXIT ENCLSOURES
1022.1 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED - "Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2
hours where connecting four stories or more... Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than
the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. Exit enclosures shall lead directly to the exterior
of the building or shall be extended... with an exit passageway conforming to the requirements of Section
1023..."
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-3.1
USE AND
EGRESS -
LEVEL 1
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1
DESCRIPTION
DATE
CBC NARRATIVE - GENERAL EGRESS

--- page 135 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT G
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT F
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT C
UNIT H
UNIT F.1
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT D
UNIT C.1
UNIT C.1
UNIT A
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT F
UNIT E
UNIT E
UNIT A
UNIT E
UNIT E
UNIT F
UNIT A
UNIT D
UNIT C.1
UNIT D
AMENITIES B
AMENITIES A
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
STAIR 2-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
EXIT 2-1
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 64" CLEAR
GARAGE 2 NORTH
6.4%
5.0%
2' - 0"
EXIT 2-2
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20
REQ'D WIDTH: 4"
PRV'D WIDTH: 64" CLEAR
EXIT 2-3
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20 + 25 = 45
(WITH GARAGE STAIR 2-2)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 64" CLEAR
EXIT 2-4
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20
REQ'D WIDTH: 4"
PRV'D WIDTH: 64" CLEAR
EXIT 2-5
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
EXIT 2-6
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20
REQ'D WIDTH: 4"
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
EXIT 2-7
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20
REQ'D WIDTH: 4"
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
EXIT 2-8
OCCUPANT LOAD: 20
REQ'D WIDTH: 4"
PRV'D WIDTH: 64" CLEAR
EXIT 2-9
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
STAIR 2-2
2-HOUR EXIT
ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
STAIR 2-3
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EXIT SEPARATION: 101'-7" (GARAGE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 208'-4"; 1/3 = 69'-5"
(GARAGE)
GARAGE EXIT 2-3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 2-3
2-HOUR EXIT PASSAGEWAY
STAIR G2-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
STAIR G2-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE EXIT 2-1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
GARAGE EXIT 2-2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 2-1
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
LOBBY 2-2
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
4.9%
[No Slope]
[No Slope]
DRIVEWAY
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 89'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 40.5'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 116'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 40'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 64'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 58'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 93'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 37'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 80'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 75'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 82'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 43'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 90'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 44'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 94.5'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 88.5'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 117'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 89'
GARAGE
ELEVATOR 2-3
BACKUP
POWER
PROVIDED
GARAGE
ELEVATOR 2-1
BACKUP POWER
PROVIDED
GARAGE
ELEVATOR 2-2
NO BACKUP
POWER
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 0"
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 145'-3"; 1/3 = 48'-5" (RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 141'-0"; 1/3 = 47'-0"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 224'-0"; 1/3 = 74'-8"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 102'-6"; 1/3 = 34'-2"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 225'-6"; 1/3 = 75'-2"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 182'-3"; 1/3 = 60'-9"
(RESIDENCE)
18' - 4"
24' - 0"
18' - 2"
28' - 6"
18' - 2"
24' - 0"
19' - 4"
SECTION 1003 - GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
SEC 1003.2 CEILING HEIGHT - "The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6
inches."
SEC 1003.6 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY - "The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall
not be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component..."
SEC 1003.7 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKS - "Elevators... shall not be used as a
component of a required means of egress... Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in
accordance with Section 1007.4" THE BUILDINGS ARE 5 STORIES IN HEIGHT. SELECTED ELEVATORS
SHALL BE USED AS REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS AND SHALL BE SERVED BY EMERGENCY
GENERATORS.
TABLE 1004.1.1 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
THE FOLLOWING SPACES ARE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT:
Accessory Storage Areas, Mechanical Equipment Room:
300 gross
Assembly without Fixed Seats, Unconcentrated
15 net
Business Areas
100 gross
Exercise Rooms
50 gross
Mercantile
60 gross
Parking garages
200 gross
Residential
200 gross
SECTION 1005 - EGRESS WIDTH
SEC 1005.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED EGRESS WIDTH - "The total width of a means of egress in inches shall
not be less than the total occupant load served... multiplied by 0.3 inches per occupant for stairways and 0.2
inches per occupant for other egress components.
SECTION 1007 - ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
1007.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS REQUIRED - "Where more than one means of egress are
required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall
be served by accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or
1021.1.
1007.2.1 ELEVATORS REQUIRED - "In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories
above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator
complying with Section 1007.4." SECTION APPLIES. SEE SECTION 1007.4
1007.3 STAIRWAYS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit access
stairway as permitted by Section 1016.1 or exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches minimum
between handrails and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall
be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
The clear width of 48 inches between handrails is not required... in buildings equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." 3. Areas of refuge are not
required at exit stairways in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. ALL STAIRS ARE MIN. 48" WIDE (HANDRAILS ENCROACH AS
ALLOWED.)
1007.4 ELEVATORS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall
comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A 17.1.
Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 27 and Section 3003. The elevator shall be
accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SECTION 1014 - EXIT ACCESS
SEC 1014.3 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - "In occupancies other than Groups H-1, H-2 and H-3,
the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet. For common path of egress travel in Group A
occupancies... see Section 1028.8. Exceptions: 1. "Common path... in Group B, F and S shall not be more
than 100 feet provided that the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system... 2. Where a tenant
space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30, the length of a common
path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 4. ...in a Group R-2 occupancy shall not be more than
125 feet... with an approved automatic sprinkler system..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH
AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OCCUPANCY
MAX. LENGTH
A (>50 OCC.)
30
A (<50 OCC.)
75
B,S
100
R-2
125
SECTION 1015 - EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS
SEC 1015.1 EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM SPACES - "Two exits or exit access doorways
from any space shall be provided where... 1. The occupant load of the space exceeds one of the values in
Table 1015.1. 2. The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of Section 1014.3."
TABLE 1015.1 - SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
OCCUPANCY
MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD
A, B, M
49
R
10
S
29
SEC 1015.2.1 TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS - "Where two exits or exit access doorways are
required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed a distance
apart... measured in a straight line betwen exit doors... Exception 2: Where building is equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system... the separation distance... shall not be less than one-third of the length of
the maxiumum overall diagonal dimension of the area served."
SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
SEC 1016.1 TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITATIONS - "Exits shall be so located on each story such that the
maximum length of exit access travel... shall not exceed the diatances given in Table 1016.1." DISTANCES TO
NEAREST EXIT NOTED ON PLANS MAY ALSO BE TO NEAREST EXIT ENCLOSURE OR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY.
TABLE 1016.1 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (PER 903.3.1.1)
A, M, R, S-1
250
B
300
S-2
400
SECTION 1021 - NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY
SEC 1021.1 EXITS FROM STORIES - "All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum number
of approved independent exits as specified in Table 1021.1..."
OCCUPANT LOAD
MIN. NUMBER OF EXITS
1-500
2
501-1,000
3
MORE THAN 1,000
4
SECTION 1022 - EXIT ENCLSOURES
1022.1 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED - "Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2
hours where connecting four stories or more... Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than
the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. Exit enclosures shall lead directly to the exterior
of the building or shall be extended... with an exit passageway conforming to the requirements of Section
1023..."
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-3.2
USE AND
EGRESS
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-2 - LEVEL 1
CBC NARRATIVE - GENERAL EGRESS
BLDG_2 LEVEL 1 EGRESS SUMMARY
RESIDENCE:
176 OCCUPANTS / 9 EXITS = 20 OCC./EXIT
REQ'D WIDTH: 20 x 0.2 = 4"
MIN. PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR (36" DOOR)
AMENITIES A:
87 OCCUPANTS / 2 EXITS = 44 OCC./EXIT
REQ'D WIDTH: 44 x 0.2 = 8.8"
MIN. PRV'D WIDTH: 128" CLEAR (2@2x36" DOOR)
AMENITIES B:
74 OCCUPANTS / 2 EXITS = 37 OCC./EXIT
REQ'D WIDTH: 37 x 0.2 = 7.4"
MIN. PRV'D WIDTH: 128" CLEAR (2@2x36" DOOR)
GARAGE 2 (NORTH)
50 OCCUPANTS / 2 EXITS = 25 OCC./EXIT
REQ'D WIDTH: 25 x 0.2 = 5"
MIN. PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR (36" DOOR)
RE-2 LEVEL 1 EGRESS SUMMARY
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 136 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
AMENITIES
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT A
UNIT F.1
UNIT B
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT J
UNIT F
UNIT F
UNIT F
UNIT C
UNIT D
UNIT B
UNIT B
UNIT F
UNIT A
UNIT H
UNIT L
UNIT E.1
UNIT E.1
UNIT E
UNIT E
UNIT B
UNIT C
UNIT C
AMENITIES
UNIT G
UNIT K
UNIT A
UNIT K
12' - 8"
24' - 10"
17' - 0"
7' - 0"
6' - 9 211/256"
963 SF
LOBBY
GARAGE
ENTRY
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
EXIT 3-1
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
GARAGE EXIT G3-1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 3-1
EXIT 3-2
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
GARAGE STAIR G3-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE EXIT G3-2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EXIT 3-3
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
GARAGE EXIT G3-3
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 3-2
STAIR 3-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
NO ROOF ACCESS
EXIT 3-4
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
EXIT 3-5
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
LOBBY 3-3
EXIT 3-6
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
GARAGE STAIR G3-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE EXIT G3-4
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 94'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 90'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 95'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 60'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 70'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 48'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 77'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 71'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 55'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 104'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 87'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 47'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 155'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 103'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 72'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 49'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 72'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 40'
EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
171' - 0 5/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 144'-6"; 1/3 = 48'-2"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 130'-3"; 1/3 = 43'-5"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 151'-6"; 1/3 = 50'-6"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 141'-6"; 1/3 = 47'-2"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 223'-6"; 1/3 = 74'-6"
(GARAGE)
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 90'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 85'
18' - 2"
24' - 2"
18' - 2"
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 144'-3"; 1/3 = 48'-1"
(RESIDENCE)
1' - 8"
15' - 9"
24' - 2"
4' - 11 13/64"
12' - 8"
0"
SECTION 1003 - GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
SEC 1003.2 CEILING HEIGHT - "The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6
inches."
SEC 1003.6 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY - "The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall not
be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component..."
SEC 1003.7 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKS - "Elevators... shall not be used as a
component of a required means of egress... Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in
accordance with Section 1007.4" THE BUILDINGS ARE 5 STORIES IN HEIGHT. SELECTED ELEVATORS
SHALL BE USED AS REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS AND SHALL BE SERVED BY EMERGENCY
GENERATORS.
TABLE 1004.1.1 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
THE FOLLOWING SPACES ARE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT:
Accessory Storage Areas, Mechanical Equipment Room:
300 gross
Assembly without Fixed Seats, Unconcentrated
15 net
Business Areas
100 gross
Exercise Rooms
50 gross
Mercantile
60 gross
Parking garages
200 gross
Residential
200 gross
SECTION 1005 - EGRESS WIDTH
SEC 1005.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED EGRESS WIDTH - "The total width of a means of egress in inches shall not
be less than the total occupant load served... multiplied by 0.3 inches per occupant for stairways and 0.2 inches
per occupant for other egress components.
SECTION 1007 - ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
1007.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS REQUIRED - "Where more than one means of egress are required
by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall be served by
accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1.
1007.2.1 ELEVATORS REQUIRED - "In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories above
or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator
complying with Section 1007.4." SECTION APPLIES. SEE SECTION 1007.4
1007.3 STAIRWAYS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit access stairway
as permitted by Section 1016.1 or exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches minimum between handrails
and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall be accessed from
either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2. The clear width of 48
inches between handrails is not required... in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." 3. Areas of refuge are not required at exit stairways in buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. ALL STAIRS
ARE MIN. 48" WIDE (HANDRAILS ENCROACH AS ALLOWED.)
1007.4 ELEVATORS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall
comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A 17.1.
Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 27 and Section 3003. The elevator shall be
accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SECTION 1014 - EXIT ACCESS
SEC 1014.3 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - "In occupancies other than Groups H-1, H-2 and
H-3, the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet. For common path of egress travel in
Group A occupancies... see Section 1028.8. Exceptions: 1. "Common path... in Group B, F and S shall
not be more than 100 feet provided that the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system...
2. Where a tenant space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30,
the length of a common path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 4. ...in a Group R-2
occupancy shall not be more than 125 feet... with an approved automatic sprinkler system..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OCCUPANCY
MAX. LENGTH
A (>50 OCC.)
30
A (<50 OCC.)
75
B,S
100
R-2
125
SECTION 1015 - EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS
SEC 1015.1 EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM SPACES - "Two exits or exit access
doorways from any space shall be provided where... 1. The occupant load of the space exceeds one of
the values in Table 1015.1. 2. The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of
Section 1014.3."
TABLE 1015.1 - SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
OCCUPANCY
MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD
A, B, M
49
R
10
S
29
SEC 1015.2.1 TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS - "Where two exits or exit access doorways
are required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed
a distance apart... measured in a straight line betwen exit doors... Exception 2: Where building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system... the separation distance... shall not be less
than one-third of the length of the maxiumum overall diagonal dimension of the area served."
SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
SEC 1016.1 TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITATIONS - "Exits shall be so located on each story such that the
maximum length of exit access travel... shall not exceed the diatances given in Table 1016.1."
DISTANCES TO NEAREST EXIT NOTED ON PLANS MAY ALSO BE TO NEAREST EXIT
ENCLOSURE OR EXIT PASSAGEWAY.
TABLE 1016.1 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (PER 903.3.1.1)
A, M, R, S-1
250
B
300
S-2
400
SECTION 1021 - NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY
SEC 1021.1 EXITS FROM STORIES - "All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum
number of approved independent exits as specified in Table 1021.1..."
OCCUPANT LOAD
MIN. NUMBER OF EXITS
1-500
2
501-1,000
3
MORE THAN 1,000
4
SECTION 1022 - EXIT ENCLSOURES
1022.1 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED - "Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than
2 hours where connecting four stories or more... Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not
less than the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. Exit enclosures shall lead
directly to the exterior of the building or shall be extended... with an exit passageway conforming to
the requirements of Section 1023..."
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-3.3
USE AND
EGRESS
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 1
DESCRIPTION
DATE
CBC NARRATIVE - GENERAL EGRESS

--- page 137 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
UNIT G.1
UNIT G.2
UNIT G.2
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT C
UNIT G
UNIT G
UNIT D
UNIT D
UNIT G
UNIT G.1
UNIT C
UNIT C.1
UNIT C.1
UNIT G.1
UNIT D
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT A
UNIT D
UNIT H
27' - 2"
1' - 0"
60' - 6"
19' - 4"
25' - 7"
157' - 9"
11.2%
5.0%
LOBBY
EXIT 4-6
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
GARAGE STAIR G4-2
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
GARAGE EXIT G4-4
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EXIT 4-1
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
GARAGE EXIT G4-1
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 4-1
GARAGE
ELEVATOR G4-1
BACKUP POWER
PROVIDED
GARAGE
ELEVATOR G4-2
BACKUP POWER
PROVIDED
EXIT 4-2
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
DRIVEWAY
STAIR 4-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
EXIT 4-4b
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
EXIT 4-5
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
GARAGE STAIR G4-1
2-HOUR EXIT ENCLOSURE
STAIR WIDTH: 48"
PROVIDES ROOF ACCESS
2-HOUR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY
EXIT 4-3
OCCUPANT LOAD:
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: X" CLEAR
GARAGE EXIT G4-2
EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH:
LOBBY 4-2
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 74'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 43'
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 155'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 108'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 129'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 44'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 149'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 54'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 62'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 57'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 99'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 53'
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 105'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: 43'
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
DUAL EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
EGRESS DOOR
PROVIDES PASSIVE
SMOKE CONTROL
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 166'-0"; 1/3 = 55'-4"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 204'-9"; 1/3 = 68'-3"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 106'-6"; 1/3 = 35'-6"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 58'-9"; 1/3 = 16'-6"
(RESIDENCE)
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 223'-9"; 1/3 = 74'-7"
(GARAGE)
18' - 3"
24' - 0"
18' - 3"
44' - 0"
MAX. DIAGONAL DIMENSION: 208'-3"; 1/3 = 69'-5"
(RESIDENCE)
EGRESS PATH
START POINT
DISTANCE TO
NEAREST EXIT: 57'
COMMON PATH
DISTANCE: <18'
EXIT 4-4a
OCCUPANT LOAD:
(FROM ABOVE)
REQ'D WIDTH:
PRV'D WIDTH: 32" CLEAR
SECTION 1003 - GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
SEC 1003.2 CEILING HEIGHT - "The means of egress shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet 6
inches."
SEC 1003.6 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY - "The path of egress travel along a means of egress shall
not be interrupted by any building element other than a means of egress component..."
SEC 1003.7 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND MOVING WALKS - "Elevators... shall not be used as a
component of a required means of egress... Exception: Elevators used as an accessible means of egress in
accordance with Section 1007.4" THE BUILDINGS ARE 5 STORIES IN HEIGHT. SELECTED ELEVATORS
SHALL BE USED AS REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS AND SHALL BE SERVED BY EMERGENCY
GENERATORS.
TABLE 1004.1.1 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT
THE FOLLOWING SPACES ARE INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT:
Accessory Storage Areas, Mechanical Equipment Room:
300 gross
Assembly without Fixed Seats, Unconcentrated
15 net
Business Areas
100 gross
Exercise Rooms
50 gross
Mercantile
60 gross
Parking garages
200 gross
Residential
200 gross
SECTION 1005 - EGRESS WIDTH
SEC 1005.1 MINIMUM REQUIRED EGRESS WIDTH - "The total width of a means of egress in inches shall
not be less than the total occupant load served... multiplied by 0.3 inches per occupant for stairways and 0.2
inches per occupant for other egress components.
SECTION 1007 - ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS
1007.1 ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS REQUIRED - "Where more than one means of egress are
required by Section 1015.1 or 1021.1 from any accessible space, each accessible portion of the space shall
be served by accessible means of egress in at least the same number as required by Section 1015.1 or
1021.1.
1007.2.1 ELEVATORS REQUIRED - "In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories
above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator
complying with Section 1007.4." SECTION APPLIES. SEE SECTION 1007.4
1007.3 STAIRWAYS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit access
stairway as permitted by Section 1016.1 or exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches minimum
between handrails and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall
be accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
The clear width of 48 inches between handrails is not required... in buildings equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." 3. Areas of refuge are not
required at exit stairways in buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM. ALL STAIRS ARE MIN. 48" WIDE (HANDRAILS ENCROACH AS
ALLOWED.)
1007.4 ELEVATORS - "In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall
comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A 17.1.
Standby power shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 27 and Section 3003. The elevator shall be
accessed from either an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6 or a horizontal exit. Exceptions: 2.
Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge or horizontal exit in buildings and facilities
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1..."
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
SECTION 1014 - EXIT ACCESS
SEC 1014.3 COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL - "In occupancies other than Groups H-1, H-2 and H-3,
the common path of egress travel shall not exceed 75 feet. For common path of egress travel in Group A
occupancies... see Section 1028.8. Exceptions: 1. "Common path... in Group B, F and S shall not be more
than 100 feet provided that the building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system... 2. Where a tenant
space in Group B, S and U occupancies has an occupant load of not more than 30, the length of a common
path of egress travel shall not be more than 100 feet. 4. ...in a Group R-2 occupancy shall not be more than
125 feet... with an approved automatic sprinkler system..." BUILDING IS EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH
AN NFPA 13 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OCCUPANCY
MAX. LENGTH
A (>50 OCC.)
30
A (<50 OCC.)
75
B,S
100
R-2
125
SECTION 1015 - EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS
SEC 1015.1 EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS FROM SPACES - "Two exits or exit access doorways
from any space shall be provided where... 1. The occupant load of the space exceeds one of the values in
Table 1015.1. 2. The common path of egress travel exceeds one of the limitations of Section 1014.3."
TABLE 1015.1 - SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
OCCUPANCY
MAX. OCCUPANT LOAD
A, B, M
49
R
10
S
29
SEC 1015.2.1 TWO EXITS OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS - "Where two exits or exit access doorways are
required from any portion of the exit access, the exit doors or exit access doorways shall be placed a distance
apart... measured in a straight line betwen exit doors... Exception 2: Where building is equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system... the separation distance... shall not be less than one-third of the length of
the maxiumum overall diagonal dimension of the area served."
SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
SEC 1016.1 TRAVEL DISTANCE LIMITATIONS - "Exits shall be so located on each story such that the
maximum length of exit access travel... shall not exceed the diatances given in Table 1016.1." DISTANCES TO
NEAREST EXIT NOTED ON PLANS MAY ALSO BE TO NEAREST EXIT ENCLOSURE OR EXIT
PASSAGEWAY.
TABLE 1016.1 EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM (PER 903.3.1.1)
A, M, R, S-1
250
B
300
S-2
400
SECTION 1021 - NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY
SEC 1021.1 EXITS FROM STORIES - "All spaces within each story shall have access to the minimum number
of approved independent exits as specified in Table 1021.1..."
OCCUPANT LOAD
MIN. NUMBER OF EXITS
1-500
2
501-1,000
3
MORE THAN 1,000
4
SECTION 1022 - EXIT ENCLSOURES
1022.1 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED - "Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2
hours where connecting four stories or more... Exit enclosures shall have a fire-resistance rating not less than
the floor assembly penetrated, but need not exceed 2 hours. Exit enclosures shall lead directly to the exterior
of the building or shall be extended... with an exit passageway conforming to the requirements of Section
1023..."
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
As indicated
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-3.4
USE AND
EGRESS
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 1
DESCRIPTION
DATE
CBC NARRATIVE - GENERAL EGRESS

--- page 138 ---
5'-1"
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
5+03
0+00
1+00
2+00
3+00
4+00
5+00
+00
2+00
3+00
4+00
5+00
6+00
7+00
8+00
9
0+00
1+00
1+91
0+00
1+00
2+03
0+00
1+00
4+53
0+00
1+00
2+00
3+00
4+00
4+53
0+00
1+00
2+00
3+00
4+00
0+00
1+00
2+00
3+00
4+00
5+00
6+00
7+00
8+00
9+00
10+00
10+59
3+01
0+00
1+00
2+00
3+00
ACCESSIBLE CURB RAMP W/ DETECTABLE WARNING
ZERO CURB W/ BOLLARDS & DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
5' ACCESS AISLE
ZERO CURB W/ BOLLARDS &
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE CURB RAMP W/
DETECTABLE WARNING
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1" = 30'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-4.0
ACCESSIBILITY
SITE PLAN
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1" = 30'-0"
1
ACCESSIBILITY SITE PLAN
0'
15'
30'
60'
120'

--- page 139 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DETECTABLE
WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE
WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
ALL RETAIL SPACES WILL HAVE ACCESSIBLE ACCESS FROM THE PUBLIC WAY
ALL RETAIL SPACES WILL HAVE ACCESSIBLE ACCESS FROM THE PUBLIC WAY
ALL OFFICE SPACES WILL HAVE ACCESSIBLE ACCESS FROM THE PUBLIC WAY
R 24' - 0"
OFFICE
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
OFFICE
COMMUNITY/REC. ROOM
STAIR G1-2
TRASH G1-1
LOBBY G1-1
LOBBY G1-2
STAIR G1-1
LOBBY G1-3
MAIL G1-1
LOBBY 1-3
STAIR 1-1
BICYCLE STORAGE
MAINTENANCE
RETAIL
VAN ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE
WARNING PAVERS
VAN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALL
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE
WARNING PAVERS
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING MU-1
MU1
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1" = 30'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-4.1
ACCESSIBILITY
SPAR SUBMITTAL
DESCRIPTION
DATE
 1" = 30'-0"
1
MU-1 - LEVEL 1 ACCESSIBILITY
 1" = 30'-0"
2
MU-1 - LEVEL 2 ACCESSIBILITY (LVL 3 SIM.)
 1" = 30'-0"
3
MU-1 - LEVEL 4 ACCESSIBILITY (LVL 5 SIM.)

--- page 140 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-2
RE2
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-4.2
ACCESSIBILITY
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/32" = 1'-0"
1
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 1 ACCESSIBILITY
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2
BLDG_2 - LEVEL 2 ACCESSIBILITY (LVL 3-5 SIM.)
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 141 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
VAN ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
R 24' - 0"
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
DETECTABLE WARNING PAVERS
R 24' - 0"
ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL
R 24' - 0"
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-3
RE3
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-4.3
ACCESSIBILITY
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/32" = 1'-0"
1
RE-3 - LEVEL 1 ACCESSIBILITY
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2
RE-3 - LEVEL 2 ACCESSIBILITY (LVL 3-5 SIM.)
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 142 ---
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
UP
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
FIRE WALL
DN
FIRE WALL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
BUILDING RE-4
RE4
EBL & S
DEVELOPMENT
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2013-10187
11/20/14
A6-4.4
ACCESSIBILITY
SPAR SUBMITTAL
 1/32" = 1'-0"
1
RE-4 - LEVEL 1 ACCESSIBILITY
 1/32" = 1'-0"
2
RE-4 - LEVEL 2 ACCESSIBILITY (LVL 3-5 SIM.)
DESCRIPTION
DATE

--- page 143 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
OWNER
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
ARCHITECT
LAND SURVEYOR
SHEET NO:        TITLE
SHEET INDEX
MVE & Partners, Inc.
1900 Main Street, Suite 800
Irvine, CA 92614-7318
Phone (949) 809-3388
GLS Landscape/Architecture
0LVVLRQ6WUHHW6XLWH
6DQ)UDQFLVFR&$
Phone (415) 285-3614
PROJECT LOCATION MAP
CIVIL & GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER
(SUBJECT TO THE STATION PARK GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT)
JMH Weiss Inc.
150 S. Almaden Blvd., Suite 700
San Jose, CA 95128
Phone (408) 286-4555
STATION PARK GREEN
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION
Arup North America Ltd
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone (415) 957-9445
C 0.0
C 0.1
C 1.0
C 2.0
C 3.0
C 3.1
C 3.2
C 4.0
C 5.0
C 6.0
V 1.0
V 1.1
TITLE SHEET
NOTES
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
DEMOLITION PLAN
ROADWAY PLAN
ROADWAY SECTIONS
CONCAR MULTI-USE PATH
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN
UTILITY PLAN
DETAILS
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
EBL&S Development LLC
803 Laurel Avenue, Unit #1
San Mateo, CA 94401
Phone (650) 796-1700
TITLE SHEET
C 0.0
236994-00
11/20/2014
N/A
PLAN
CONSTRUCTION ACCESS

--- page 144 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
GENERAL NOTES:
1.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN DESCRIBES THE OVERALL DESIGN INTENT OF STATION PARK
GREEN DEVELOPMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATION PARK GREEN SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT
AND STATION PARK GREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.  IT IS EXPECTED
THAT AS DESIGNS AND OTHER PROJECT ELEMENTS ARE APPROVED BY THE CITY, THERE MAY BE
MINOR MODIFICATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS TO THE DESIGNS FOR OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT AS SHOWN HEREIN.  THUS, MODIFICATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS SHALL BE ALLOWED.
SO LONG AS THE MODIFICATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS ARE IN SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE WITH
OVERALL DESIGN INTENT FOR THE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AS SHOWN HEREIN.  SPECIFIC
INFORMATION INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO CURB CUT LOCATIONS, STREET AND SIDEWALK
ELEVATIONS, UTILITY LOCATIONS AND ELEVATIONS, TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION FACILITIES,
EASEMENT LOCATIONS, DRAINAGE FACILITIES, LANDSCAPING SIGNAGE AND STRIPING, STREET CROSS
SECTIONS ARE ILLUSTRATIVE:  THE PRECISE LOCATIONS, TYPES, QUANTITIES AND SIZES MAY BE
MODIFIED OR ADJUSTED AS APPROVED BY THE CITY PRIOR TO GRADING PERMIT APPROVAL.
2.
ARUP PERFORMED GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATIONS WHICH ARE PRESENTED IN A DOCUMENT,
PRELIMINARY GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION, STATION PARK GREEN, SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA DATED
APRIL 10, 2007 FOR THIS PROJECT, IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GRADING PLANS SHELL BE PERFORMED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
3. EASEMENT INFORMATION SHOWN ON LAYOUT, GRADING, AND UTILITY PLANS IS ILLUSTRATIVE ONLY.
%$6,62)%($5,1*67+(%($5,1*1257+
:(672)7+(/,1(%(7:((17:2)281'$7,21
MONUMENTS AS SHOWN ON PARCEL MAP FILED FOR RECORD IN BOOK 16 OF MAPS AT PAGE 21.
5. TOPOGRAPHIC BENCHMARKS:
CITY OF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK #038-001
RAMSET NAIL AND WASHER LOCATED AT BACK OF WALL SOUTHEASTERLY SIDE OF HWY-92
OVERCROSSING AT PACIFIC BOULEVARD
ELEVATION = 7.67 FEET, CITY OF SAN MATEO DATUM
ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON ARE SHOWN PER THE ADJUSTED CITY OF SAN MATEO DATUM (SAN
MATEO DATUM PLUS 100 FT) TO ELIMINATE NEGATIVE ELEVATIONS.
6. DRAWING SHALL NOT BE SCALED.
EXISTING
CONTOUR LINE
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
FLOWLINE
10
sd
PROPOSED
10
g
s
e
jt
10
STORM DRAIN
SD
G
S
E
W
WATER
ELECTRICAL
SANITARY SEWER
GAS
JT
JOINT TRENCH
w
(E) STORM DRAIN
(E) GAS
(E) SANITARY SEWER
(E) ELECTRICAL
(E) WATER
(E) JOINT TRENCH
SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
CATCH BASIN/DRAINAGE INLET
FLOW LINE
DIRECTION OF  FLOW & SLOPE
EASEMENT
CONTOUR LINE
IR
DELTA
DRAIN INLET/CATCH BASIN
WATER VALVE
FIRE HYDRANT
WATER METER
BLOW-OFF VALVE
AIR-RELIEF VALVE
S
PROPERTY LINE, PARCEL LINE,
D
RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE
LIP OF GUTTER, FACE OF CURB,
AND BACK OF CURB
CENTERLINE OF ROADWAY
SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
SURVEY MONUMENT
IRRIGATION CONTROLLER,
METER & BACKFLOW
PREVENTER ASSEMBLY
CURB RAMP
UTILITY END CAP
MAXIMUM
MANHOLE
MINIMUM
NORTH
NORTHING
NOT IN CONTRACT
NUMBER
NOT TO SCALE
ORIGINAL GRADE/ORIGINAL GROUND
PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT
PEDESTRIAN
POINT OF CURVATURE
POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE
PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
PROFILE GRADE
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC
PARKING
PROPERTY LINE/PARCEL LINE
POINT OF HORIZONTAL CURVE
POINT OF TANGENT
POINT OF REVERSE CURVATURE
PRIMARY
PROPOSED
PLANTING STRIP
PROPOSED STORM DRAIN EASEMENT
PUBLIC SERVICE EASEMENT
POINT OF TANGENCY, POINT
PUBLIC UTILITIES EASEMENT
POLYVINYL CHLORIDE
POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
PAVEMENT
REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE
RADIUS
RIGHT
RIGHT OF WAY (STREET)
SOUTH, SLOPE
STORM DRAIN
STORM DRAIN EASEMENT
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
SANITARY SEWER
SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
SANITARY SEWER EASEMENT
SANITARY SEWER FLOWLINE
SANITARY SEWER FORCE MAIN
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
STREET
STATION
SIDEWALK
TOP OF CURB
TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT
TELEPHONE
TEMPORARY
TOP OF FOOTING
TOP OF PILE CAP
TOP OF SLOPE
TEMPORARY SIDEWALK EASEMENT
TYPICAL
TOP OF WALL ELEVATION
UNDERDRAIN CLEAN OUT
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTE
UTILITY
VARIES
VERTICAL CURVE/ VERTICAL CURB
VERTICAL
WATER, WATERLINE, WEST
WATER METER
WITH
MAX
MH
MIN
N
N 1395.2
NIC
NO., #
NTS
OG
PAE
PED
PC
PCC
PG
PG&E
PKG
PL
POC
POT
PRC
PRI
PROP, (P)
P.S.
PSDE
PSE
PT
PUE
PVC
PVI
PVMT
RCP
R
RT.
R/W
S
SD
SDE
SDMH
SIC
SS
SSCO
SSE
SSFL
SSFM
SSMH
ST
STA
SW
TC
TCE
TEL
TEMP
TOF
TOPC
TOS
TSWE
TYP
TW
UDCO
U.O.N.
UTIL
VAR
VC
VERT
W
WM
W/
POINT AT THE CURB RETURN
AGGREGATE BASE
ANGLE POINT
ASPHALT CONCRETE
AREA DRAIN
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER
BEGIN CURVE
BEGIN CURB RETURN
BEGIN
BENCHMARK
BLOWOFF ASSEMBLY
BOTTOM
BLUE PAVEMENT MARKER
BEGIN VERTICAL CURVE
BACK OF WALK
BOTTOM OF WALL ELEVATION
CURVE NUMBER IN CURVE TABLE
CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE COMPANY
CATCH BASIN
CALIFORNA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION
CURB & GUTTER
CLASS
CHAIN LINK
CLEAR
CONCRETE
CONSTRUCTION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CURB RAMP (CASE #)
DRAINAGE INLET
DIAMETER
DRIVEWAY
DRAWING
ELECTRIC, EAST
EASTING
EXISTING
EASEMENT
END CURVE
END CURB RETURN
EXISTING GROUND
ELEVATION
EDGE OF PAVEMENT
END VERTICAL CURVE
FUTURE
FACE OF CURB
FINISHED GRADE
FLOW LINE
FIRE SERVICE
FEET
GAS
GRADE BREAK
GROUND WATER LEVEL
HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
HORIZONTAL
HIGH POINT, HINGE POINT, HIGH PRESSURE
INVERT
JOINT TRENCH
LENGTH
LANDSCAPE EASEMENT
LEFT
LINEAR FEET
LIP OF GUTTER
LOW POINT
GRADING NOTES:
1.
SURFACES SHALL BE GRADED TO PROVIDE POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM STRUCTURES.
2. MINIMUM SLOPE AT PAVED AREA IS TYPICALLY 0.5%. MINIMUM SLOPE AT PLANTED AREA IS TYPICALLY
1%.  PAVEMENT SHALL TYPICALLY SLOPE AT 1% TO 2% MIN. AWAY FROM FACE OF BUILDING UNLESS
OTHERWISE NOTED.  CROSS SLOPES PERPENDICULAR TO THE PATH OF TRAVEL SHALL NOT TYPICALLY
EXCEED 2%.  RAMP SLOPES SHALL NOT EXCEED 1:12 SLOPE AT LANDING BETWEEN RAMPS SHALL NOT
EXCEED 2%.
3. EXISTING CLEAN TOPSOIL MAY BE AVAILABLE AND STOCKPILED FOR RE-USE.  TOPSOIL RE-USE TO BE
CONFIRMED PENDING THE RESULTS OF THE TOPSOIL ANALYSIS.
4. MAINTAIN EXISTING GRADE AT " EXISTING PLANT MATERIAL TO REMAIN AND BE PROTECTED".  DO NOT
DISTURB GRADE WITHIN DRIPLINE OF TREES INDICATED "EXISTING PLANT MATERIAL TO REMAIN AND
BE PROTECTED" UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. NO EQUIPMENT, STOCKPILING, OR DEBRIS MAY BE
STORED WITHIN TREE ROOT ZONE.
5. WHEN CONSTRUCTION OCCURS WITHIN DRIPLINE OF TREES INDICATED "EXISTING PLANT MATERIAL TO
REMAIN AND BE PROTECTED".  HAND CLEAR AND HAND EXCAVATE TO MINIMIZE DAMAGE TO ROOT
SYSTEM.  EXCAVATE BY HAND USING NARROW-TINE SPANDING FORKS AND COMB SOIL TO EXPOSE
ROOT SYSTEM.  SUPPORT AND PROTECT ROOTS FROM DAMAGE.  DO NOT BREAK OR CHOP ROOTS.
6. DRAWINGS SHOW FINISH GRADE UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
7. PROPOSED GRADES ARE SHOWN TO ILLUSTRATE THE INTENT OF GRADING STRATEGY.  GRADES MAY
CHANGE DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
8. IF VISIBLY CONTAMINATED OR CHEMICALLY ODOROUS SOIL IS ENCOUNTERED DURING
CONSTRUCTION, THE CONTRACTOR WILL STOP WORK IN THE AREA AND CONTACT THE OWNER.
UTILITY NOTES:
1.
UNLESS EXTERNAL AGENCIES OR SITE CONDITIONS REQUIRE OTHERWISE, VAULTS, BOXES, ETC.
SHALL TYPICALLY BE FLUSH TO GRADES ALIGNED AND SET PARALLEL TO ADJACENT JOINTS, CURBS.
ETC.
2. IRRIGATION CONNECTIONS TO WATER MAIN, BACKFLOW PREVENTERS, METERS AND CONTROL
CABINETS TO BE LOCATED IN THE LANDSCAPE STRIP ARE SHOWN ILLUSTRATIVELY.
S
D
NOTES
C 0.1
236994-00
11/20/2014
N/A
ABBREVIATIONS
LEGEND

--- page 145 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
LEGEND:
 1  REMOVE EXISTING WATER LINE
 2  REMOVE EXISTING SANITARY SEWER
 3  REMOVE EXISTING STORM DRAIN
 4  REMOVE EXISTING ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
 5  REMOVE DRAIN INLET
 6  REMOVE LIGHT FIXTURE AND POLE
 7  REMOVE FIRE HYDRANT
 8  REMOVE OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL AND COMMUNICATIONS
CABLE AND POLES.  FOR PLACEMENT UNDERGROUND,
REFER TO C-5.0.
 9  REMOVE GASOLINE UNDERGROUND STORAGE  TANKS.
10  REMOVE TRANSFORMER
11  REMOVE RAISED PLANTER
REMOVE CLARIFIER
REMOVE EXISTING UTILITY
REMOVE EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT
REMOVE EXISTING CONCRETE PAVEMENT
REMOVE EXISTING CONCRETE SIDEWALK/
ISLAND AND ASSOCIATED CURB/GUTTER
REMOVE EXISTING BUILDING
REMOVE VEGETATED LANDSCAPE
AND ASSOCIATED CURB/GUTTER
6FT HIGH CHAINLINK FENCE WITH GREEN 
FABRIC BACKING
6FT HIGH GREEN SLAT FENCE
CONSTRUCTION ACCESS
1" = 40'
//
DEMOLITION
PLAN
C 2.0
0'
80'
40'
40'
GRAPHIC SCALE
236994-00
11/20/2014
GENERAL NOTES:
1. DEMOLITION PLANS ARE INCLUDED FOR INFORMATION ONLY. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT A SEPARATE DEMOLITION PERMIT
APPLICATION, WHICH WILL CONTAIN DEMOLITION PLANS, A DEMOLITION
SPECIFIC STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) AND
RECYCLING PLAN.
2. REFER TO L-0.2 FOR TREE REMOVAL PLAN.
DEMOLITION NOTES:
1. DEMOLITION WORK SHALL INCLUDE REMOVAL OF ALL EXISTING
BUILDINGS, ASPHALTIC CONCRETE, SITE UTILITIES, SIDEWALKS,
CONCRETE PAVEMENT, STEEL BRACING, CONCRETE FOOTINGS, TREES,
LIGHT FIXTURES, EXTERIOR WALLS, ROOFING SYSTEM, INTERIOR
PARTITIONS, CEILING, FLOOR FINISH MATERIALS, CASEWORK, EQUIPMENT,
SPECIALTIES, MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND OTHER ITEMS,
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
2. DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR MUST SUBMIT NOTIFICATION FORM TO BAY
AREA AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT FOR J# AT LEAST 10 WORKING
DAYS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF DEMOLITION.
3. ALL EXISTING EMERGENCY SYSTEMS TO BE MAINTAINED IN PLACE, (I.E.,
SPRINKLER SYSTEM, CORRIDORS, ALARM SYSTEM, EMERGENCY
LIGHTING), UNTIL IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO DEMOLITION.
4. DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT UTILITIES TO SHUT-OFF, CAP
OR REMOVE UTILITY SERVICE PRIOR TO REMOVAL OF UTILITY LINES.
5. NOTIFICATION OF WATER MAIN REMOVAL SHALL BE PROVIDED TO
CALWATER BY THE CONTRACTOR, PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
DEMOLITION.
6. A TANK REMOVAL PERMIT FROM CITY OF SAN MATEO FIRE DEPARTMENT
SHALL BE REQUIRED PRIOR TO REMOVAL OF THE UNDERGROUND TANK.
7. DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR SHALL ESTABLISH A SAFETY PROGRAM TO
MINIMIZE DANGERS OF FIRE, COLLAPSE, PANIC AND EXPLOSION.
8. TRASH, LUMBER, DEBRIS OR OTHER MATERIALS CONSIDERED TO BE
FLAMMABLE OR HAZARDOUS SHALL NOT BE STORED OR ALLOWED TO
ACCUMULATE IN QUANTITIES THAT ENDANGER LIFE OR PROPERTY.
9. DIRECT ACCESS TO FIRE HYDRANTS, FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
AND FIRE ALARM STATIONS MUST BE MAINTAINED AT ALL TIMES.
HYDRANTS, CONNECTIONS AND FIRE ALARM STATIONS MUST BE EASILY
VISIBLE AT ALL TIMES.  PROVIDE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, NUMBER AND
TYPE SUITABLE FOR TYPE OF FIRE ASSOCIATED WITH THE HAZARDS
PRESENT.
10.DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE AND POST AN EMERGENCY FIRE
PROCEDURE PLAN FOR EVACUATION AND CONTAINMENT OF FIRE.
11.DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR MUST PROVIDE AND MAINTAIN ALL
TEMPORARY MEASURES TO CONTROL DUST, NOISE, AIR QUALITY,
EROSION AND SEDIMENT AND WASTE CONTROL  IN COMPLIANCE WITH
ALL APPLICABLE FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL CODE AND REGULATIONS,
PROJECT CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL  AND MITIGATION  MONITORING AND
REPORTING PROGRAM.
12.DEMOLITION WORK MUST PROCEED IN PHASES SUCH THAT REMOVAL AND
ABATEMENT OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MUST OCCUR FIRST.
13. WORK PLAN SHALL BE SUBMITTED BY DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR
INDICATING SEQUENCE OF WORK, ACCESS TO SITE, ROUTES TO BE USED
BY TRUCKS AND OTHER VEHICLES, LOCATION OF SITE PARKING AND
STAGING AREAS, AND LOCATIONS OF FENCES AND BARRICADES.
14.CLEARING WORK SHALL NOT BEGIN UNTIL FENCES, BARRICADES,
EROSION-SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES, WARNING SIGNS AND OTHER
PEDESTRIAN CONTROL DEVICES ARE INSTALLED.
15.PRIOR TO DEMOLITION, CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH
ARCHITECT AND OWNER FOR ITEMS TO BE SALVAGED.
16.TREE DEMOLITION SHALL INCLUDE CHIPPING TREE DEBRIS AND
DIVERSION TO COGENERATION PLANT AS FUEL, WHERE FEASIBLE.
17.TREE DEMOLITION SHALL INCLUDE STUMP GRINDING.
18.EXISTING SUBSURFACE UTILITIES SHALL BE REMOVED, UNLESS NOTED
OTHERWISE.
19.HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ABATEMENT AND CONTROL SHALL INCLUDE PLAN
FOR HANDLING AND DISPOSAL OF ASBESTOS-CONTAINING MATERIALS,
LEAD-BASED PAINTS, LEAD-CONTAINING MATERIALS, EXISTING BALLASTS
CONTAINING PCB, MERCURY-CONTAINING LAMPS, MERCURY SWITCHES,
RADIOACTIVE ISOTOPE SMOKE DETECTORS, WASTE OIL FROM
EQUIPMENT, REFRIGERANTS FROM HVAC EQUIPMENT.
20.EXISTING PAVEMENT SHALL REMAIN AS NECESSARY UNTIL REQUIRED TO
BE REMOVED BY GRADING OPERATIONS.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLTION DEBRIS
RECYCLING PROGRAM:
1. ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION OF COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
MUST COMPLY WITH CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDINANCE FOR
CONSTRUCTION & DEMOLITION DEBRIS DIVERSION.  CONTACT CITY OF
SAN MATEO RECYCLING SPECIALIST AT 650 522-7346.
2. DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR MUST FILL OUT CITY OF SAN MATEO FORM
FOR CONSTRUCTION & DEMOLITION PROJECTS-RECYCLING & WASTE
REDUCTION PLAN.  FORM AVAILABLE AT:
HTTP://WWW.CITYOFSANMATEO.ORG/DOWNLOADS/PUBWORKS.
3. "WEIGHT TAGS" ARE REQUIRED FROM DEBRIS BOXES AND SELF-HAUL
TRUCK LOADS, WHETHER RECYCLED OR GARBAGE.
4. DEBRIS BOX COMPANIES KEEP TAGS UNTIL PROJECT IS COMPLETED.
5. DIVERSION RATE REQUIREMENTS: MINIMUM RECYCLING RATE OF 60% IS
REQUIRED FOR ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION.

--- page 146 ---
236994-00
C 3.0
1" = 40'
ROADWAY
PLAN
GRAPHIC SCALE
40'
40'
80'
0'
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
11/20/2014
LEGEND:
     RXX' 
CURB RADIUS
CURB RAMP
CROSSWALK
BIKE PATH
STOP SIGN
STOP BAR
EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS EASEMENT
EMERGENCY VEHICLE TURNING PATH
TRAFFIC FLOW DIRECTION
D-1
D-2
D-1   STATION PARK CIRCLE AND GARVEY WAY
D-2   GREEN WAY AND CONCAR DRIVE
SCALE 1" = 20'
SCALE 1" = 20'

--- page 147 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
1" = 40'
ROADWAY
SECTIONS
C 3.1
236994-00
11/20/2014

--- page 148 ---
NOTES:
1. TOPOGRAPHIC INFORMATION,
STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY (R/W) AND/OR
PROPERTY LINES ARE SHOWN
ILLUSTRATIVELY.
2. EXISTING RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH IS
APPROXIMATE, AS TWO DISCRETE
SURVEYS HAVE BEEN OVERLAID TO
CREATE THIS EXHIBIT.
3. 2-FEET ZONE IS TO PROVIDE
CLEARANCE FROM THE BUILDING TO
MULTI-USE PATH PER AASHTO'S
BICYCLES GUIDE RECOMMENDATION.
LEGEND:
Multi-Use Path
Concrete Sidewalk
Unit Pavers
Updated Easement
Property Line
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
MATCHLINE A
MATCHLINE A
PLAN
Scale: 1'=20'
PLAN
Scale: 1"=20'
C 3.2
11/20/2014
1" = 20'
236994-00
CONCAR
MULTI-USE PATH
0'
80'
40'
40'
GRAPHIC SCALE

--- page 149 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
SPAR
C 4.0
1" = 40'
GRADING AND
DRAINAGE PLAN
NOTES:
1. THE GRADING AND STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SHOWN IN THE COURTYARD
AND INTERNAL WALKWAYS IS ILLUSTRATIVE, TO BE CONFIRMED
DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
2. PERMEABLE/IMPERMEABLE AREA CALCULATION SUMMARIZES THE
PERMEABILITY OF THE BUILDINGS, PARKS AND STREETS. THE
STORMWATER TREATMENT AREAS SHOWN ON THIS PLAN ARE BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) SIZED TO TREAT STORMWATER
RUN-OFF FROM THE PROJECT. THE POST-CONSTRUCTION PEAK
STORMWATER DISCHARGE RATE ENTERING THE CITY'S STORM DRAIN
SYSTEM FROM THE SITE WILL BE LESS THAN THE PRE-CONSTRUCTION
PEAK STORMWATER DISCHARGE RATE.
3. SUBDRAINS WILL BE INSTALLED ALONG THE INSIDE OF THE NORTHERN
AND WESTERN PROPERTY LINE TO CAPTURE RUNOFF FROM EVAE
PRIOR TO FLOWING TO POST OFFICE AND CALTRAIN PARKING LOT
4. EROSION CONTROL FACILITIES SHALL BE PROVIDED DURING
CONSTRUCTION AND WILL BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO'S EROSION AND SEDIMENT REQUIREMENT
MANUAL.
5. ALL STORM DRAINS REQUIRED TO HAVE "NO DUMPING--DRAINS TO
BAY"  STENCILED IN ACCORDANCE WITH COUNTY OF SAN MATEO C.3
REQUIREMENTS
6. CUT-FILL ANALYSIS IS BASED ON BULK VOLUMES AND DOES NOT
INCLUDE BULKING/SHRINKAGE FACTORS, TRENCH/FOUNDATION
SPOILS, ETC. VOLUMES TO BE CONFIRMED DURING DETAIL DESIGN.
LEGEND:
TOTAL AREA
(ACRES)
EXISTING
11.98
11.98
1.04
IMPERVIOUS AREA
(ACRES)
PROPOSED
PERVIOUS AREA
(ACRES)
SURFACE
10.94
8.03
3.95
236994-00
11/20/2014
STORMWATER TREATMENT AREA
XX.X' HP
ELEVATION HIGH POINT
XX.X' LP
ELEVATION LOW POINT
BMP - STORM WATER TREATMENT AREA
CATCH BASIN
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
PROPOSED STORM DRAIN
EXISTING STORM DRAIN
PROPOSED CONTOUR
EXISTING CONTOUR
D
NET CUT (CU. YD.)
CUT-FILL VOLUME ANALYSIS
FILL (CU. YD.)
CUT (CU. YD.)
21,300
13,500
7,800
sd
SD
103
0'
80'
40'
40'
GRAPHIC SCALE

--- page 150 ---
UTILITY
PLAN
1" = 40'
0'
80'
40'
40'
GRAPHIC SCALE
8" W
8" W
8" W
8" W
8" W
8" FH CONNECTION
8" W (E)
10" W (E)
24" W (E)
8" W (E)
CONNECT TO 8"W (E)
CONNECT TO 8"W (E)
CONNECT TO
33" SS (E)
RIM: 100.5'
INV: 91.2'
OPTION 2:
CONNECT TO
10" W (E)
LEGEND:
PROPOSED WATER
EXISTING WATER
PROPOSED FIRE HYDRANT
EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
SANITARY SEWER
EXISTING SANITARY SEWER
PROPOSED JOINT TRENCH
ILLUSTRATIVE POINT OF CONNECTION
BACKFLOW PREVENTOR
SAND/OIL SEPARATOR
ILLUSTRATIVE ELECTRICAL AND
COMMUNICATIONS VAULT
w
w
S
S
JT
8" SS
8" SS
CONNECT DRY
UTILITIES IN
DELAWARE ST
OPTION 1:
CONNECT
TO 24" W (E)
33" SS (E)
24" SS (E)
CONNECT TO
8" SS (E)
RIM: 104.1'
INV: 97.4'
24" G (E)
4" G (E)
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
CONNECT TO 8"SS (E)
EXISTING OVERHEAD
ELECTRICAL AND
COMMUNICATION LINES
TO BE RELOCATED
UNDERGROUND
C 5.0
ELECTRICAL AND
COMMUNICATIONS
CONNECTION
SAND/OIL SEPARATOR.
SEE NOTE 1
SAND/OIL
SEPARATOR.
SEE NOTE 1
SAND/OIL
SEPARATOR.
SEE NOTE 1
SAND/OIL
SEPARATOR.
SEE NOTE 1
ELEC
FDC
236994-00
11/20/2014
BUILDING RE-4
BUILDING MU-1
BUILDING RE-2
BUILDING RE-3

--- page 151 ---
Arup North America Ltd.
560 Mission Street, Suite 700
San Francisco, CA 94105   USA
Tel (415) 957 9445   Fax (415) 957 9096
www.arup.com
SPAR SUBMITTAL
JOB NO.
DATE
SCALE
REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND IS FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,
BIDDING OR REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OR ITS CONTENTS MAY NOT BE USED FOR
ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS
WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2011.
DEVELOPMENT
DETAILS
C 6.0
236994-00
11/20/2014
NTS

--- page 152 ---
IVWLLINGNAS YVd$

wwe

VINYOSITVD ‘OSLVW NVS

JOB NO.
SE OR WALLA

SUIRPOS,

TOWVWE & PAR TNENS
hom UP

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

WW OTNE LIMITED

NAY

MaVda NOILVLS

NEIDENCE FO

DESCRIPTION

T CONTAINS INFORMA TICN PROPRIETARY

Site Key Plan

REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER

64

JAIYG YVIONDD

FIRE WALL
shares

a Ass ar? 2 2 alla le

Wd NOWWLS |

aso ue

@)

Oe EE EEE

eeu st

——s se
—_

lg ig he gig ig gig ig i i i i igi gg ie ig ii ig li gg ie elgg ie egg ig ig ig ig ig ig i i i gig ig ge ig i He ie i ig gree Rig gg i ge ig ig eh i gl i gg a i ly ig ig ag i ge i eg i iy ti gigs

Bepairare

SOUTH DELAWARE STREET

Greenway Pocket
Park


--- page 153 ---
IWLLINGNS YVdS

VINYOSITVD ‘OSLVW NVS

NED

11.20.2014
LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

DESCRIPTION

AavVad NOLLVLS

Tree Removal
Plan

SHEETNUMBER| itr

SHEET TITLE

ANY OTHER PURPOSE AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OF OISCLOSED TO OTHERS

WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF MVE & PARTNERS INC. ALL RIGHTS

BIODING OF REVIEW. THIS DOCUMENT OF ITS CONTENTS MAY WOT BE USED FOR
RESERVED, © COPYRIGHT 2077

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION PROPRIETARY TO MVE & PARTNERS INC.
AND (S FURNISHED IN CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURPOSE OF EVALUATION,

REVISIONS

JANG YVINOI

oat
— a
—eees ee ee
. 7 —<<oe aan -_
C — — . — f ral “ Pas
i — i ‘m,
ee + —<<< ¥ L- br, re 4
‘ A) es / — aaa a ye AP te =
t ——<—<—<——— a Tt ( 4 _— (Fm Pinte a od wet =
(| L- _ laste >, LS “eee cee Mi of. i? oe,
= At ie, cm ——eaes os 5, oe,
\ . if L. rf ty te fs — a .
F | \) roi \ Fal ri \ ios ic Vata a
{ ‘e (/ a | a at - i fi —
rf "4 \ 4 i \) Jf =) \Z SS a a a a i /
| Be A Xow ) M K
i \ /\ ( / ea
" /) (/ bes L/
> (/ Wy - . a
Y 3 / 7 a
hig a(x) as
9 yi | ) i /
val " ‘i (; me | ) ee J , x vt k
Tag LF) \ — 9, ail A a
| | ae <t iN (] “ye |) a ; H > 4 4 ee. =
| % = ne b| — I) > Mi ~ We
F t pate \ \ ’ k 7s St ~ a
So A "4 /)
pt | ie cs
| “. — /)
— "I Pl F
r (\ ei | |
(y \ Say Kk if

Fam —
pee. aie aon \ rr —
a t\ ae Ace i
a = os . § i
f. si ee “t Ye KA ae em
WY nA

SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
Ay

/ \/
(\ y Fy
| x ! by an
Die i i lis oN SY ‘Oo +) i
wae aN )

CO
wy,
C
O

who a y k ‘I =
= 5 g & SS } oe
oO ; KO Ly )

ae

JOINT POWERS BOARD PROPERTY

99 / NY a:

\ og ac a4 ~ ty
a k a \ J
\ \ ye ‘
ey é f A x |
os cai |
: Mae = - +
f7 eee aK = { J
\/ \\ \ *
a i \) \
at Bhs gall: (‘ <—
b- ete \
~~" False |S
date
YN
A
iS ae
‘=
=
‘ 1
ey,
( ‘
1a h
— —= - —
uw
o 3
© — 2 3
2 a =
= £ ££ oS
ce =
oeaeaw i= o = Lal
oe = pas)
222M 5 E = = 2
esESSSESCS Sad =
BRaGe Gx ees eu oe =
ba) 3 A) Tl
ReaERE EES SES 7 3
7TH BBS ES 4 ad
ew BSCS fC BES x 4
tEBSSRSSEZE ( =
= = =
naBSSstetesset ‘ 8
= = = \
Sacues a0 24 O04 4 (\ o
rT iy
o \
=| ts
=i Q i
Tr =
=
eZnaluorve Sp =
PFtouwftaaoaod oun >
=
ol
a
=
g Dan | wp a ew Mp) ee wa) apy ee SS] en] ew] en] en Mm Ne Ae) Ae mee | er
= oa = =
= had oo ao
= ao
= aM ee |
Fe SH Se io ty)
sien + 29 oe ty
ff ny :
tee = Q
2 =
rs ii
_ a
uw
= i
a om LJ
ze w w | ea ty ped ol b ale “4 uh t =
=a e| |e =) ni|™ Hed oe ed ed Be ip fen] a) ] bord Doane Red Pod eed esd fed nm Ped Wee donde | ey ’ of ed a ad nl
Py a nd ow i alo) | F)Fi a Pred PP oa a fc ee) Peg ead ed ed ed a Nad [nd 7 a thin q =y
ae We
= =o
bi
ry =
= “ la pa mn a os
= mt Sly i a - 7
a td --1 lat eo | oo] Wl iw ra P | =t Fal t uh un A i i] ap |e be = feed
he : oo my Coed ieee eel es] = rm 2 | P= fan an] es | a el 1] ‘ H ee a i ms Whig) oF | ] es eid (a wi} rt : oO ul
pe ede ad a se bd ed be ad 9 bl sO dd ddd Od nd ad dd Ea Cd) dad Kd add dd 0d Be dd m at be SS an a bo \ o
. " Cah + my : at { ra S
é Ln oa | cu vi ut mi \ = 9
= 4 ra o i.
we | L-+ Lil
f fe z=
ae ed a ed a a uy Ca a) us a wy | apt | Wa a A S| BA) ue wy Ca a wp) uA LA A uy) ou rae a a uy Wf i =
Ee a ee ee fol Dd thea Rated Ra Pa rae] re | on | map ea |re len] ea| ea] en] re | ca] melen | er | elon) mat entms| cary [ea] oq | mle |es len |r| ea] al ra| or | ee maped | ee] eal me | oes |e moa pen| re | od] re| ea] i en gel feat Wel pit Bea bel Ha Poca fats Bue f : ; 7 a
S|o/c/o/c/a/ca 3 ais/c/alc slelelsialelelals/slelslelslelslelslslalslelsla|sialelalelal/siclsicisle siolc/cica o slele Sa/ojo|/o/s/o/a/clola|/cialc ealola/ciaic (/ 2 5
4
a
= me re uy) un ua) en ay en ump an | us) en un) re | Mp +) > eu \ ul o =.
5 ms K = me o
2 5 Q
33 \ F
me —., - oe
Ss \\ i wi ta
as, i iL co
= Tie Ge un] ofr foo] up r | wo] re | it ial Gis Ce Ei Go Go afer] me] wire fe fe pe pin | Mad wi —
Sx \ a ues
= br = fo. =
| Bx oa = tye
= ie Lad Ll
= ass & ra\ uu w 5 et
=o sle/eieie s|o Ss » \ - -= os,
- od faa ri f \ Lal rw Lt
S| esl" | \ 9 gt m8 49
= \ z
= 2 5 | \ = = Lal uh a
4 \ o
a | as { | Ee eo f£uAo
Lid \ Ed x Oo ates
\\ LJ 1 Fe 2°05 5
el2e2 a ci x = =a
= % 5/2 Fry ber] re fv bated ba bed ed bd ala s|2 FS =(talta|talte| Z| th) tal th] tal ay ta = ja eo >. = Jor
b=) ; ~ me
= em) st fan) uo) | oo i un] io] ao) ope] ea] ey re) ea] oe apa PS] lea] ao) eal ea un rm 1 1 ] ! Forw
=| r om) | oe st | + et | |< SRR Raa urs | ar eS pee tad ae ee og | oo oo oo [ = poof } os
a f oe J * i saat
Lu | ~ cl



--- page 154 ---
IVWLLINGAS YVdS

VINYOSITVD ‘OSLVWNVS

Nd

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

DESCRIPTION
+15, 285.3614

Layout, Material & Grading Plan
www plsarch.com

Park Corridor

AdVd NOULLVLS

REVISIONS
~ SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER

uw

fe Lu |

_ =i |

<i Cp Zz ep
ac N Te Seu oO cE I
Oo N a8) Lu Cig Ow Lue
Oo = O re O° Qa — ee se ol Jera
82u 3 fs 8 2 $a SST Y
a Le = nt mete =x oO =Ze
2wuo L_ L <I Tips e j1O WOS |
COON oy =e rs OD no =O 5

—_——_—_

—— — m1 —s —_

H

H

ih HL
HH HHH HI Ui
cana

ae st

Sco oo oe oe

f
HERAT

eS | es | es | | | | | | es | ||

_ on
ne = a _- = . i =
ij
8
i |
Jf ie = ev. ©
| r, ‘i

— —
Ps Bo allt
ai a
lé ‘

BUS STOP TO REMAIN

> FF 102.25

4p FF 103.0

SS Ss SS Ss SS
2 a ee
mal i i. iL

Bona
ao----J
|_AEaEE |
eee |
gr ---o4
le --—-4
i |
|

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AREA
WITH ACCENT CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS

BIKE LANE

BIKE PARKING

es
is oly

22S FOP SEPIINS

« 4 - Pol “s H
‘a; |
+
Sate A ;
i
\ y |

ars f peg an 2 + oe = q il i I | —. aa — fs
sees ISTH HHH HHH HH MH HH
oe 3) 3r- iL ole os | | 1 H |
Sok cen | ALELH_HLHL LH] LALLA f
| HHH. | HHH HLH HLH
HHH HHHHHHHHAHH HHH
| |
HUHHHHHE HH HHH
a xi

CY
LROBRRRRRRRR
a SSS
es fo
LS 2” Bo By ee RAR
Vee : ! RVR

UR
EELEEEE EEL REE EEK
ERROR RRR RRA
LEE EERE RE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE ELE EAE EEL EE EER
ORR
SSS OO OS eS
RRR RRR, RRA
OOOO OOOO OO

SSS SSSA SSSA SSNS SAN EEN SK

ERR RRRRRRY XS
1 RRR RRR ARERR RAR RRR RRR RRO RR RRA RR ass RRR 7 Ob:

3)

2
2

SPSANS
Yr

>=
GaN

1} | | jf ff hf aw
—_ b s ie
2
2
SS

SOUTH DELAWARE STREET

%

YYYyYyYyYyYyY» yyy yyy YY YY yyy yy yyy > +, Ss
oo cc oe. FC Pe
. , “ ; POLLO
ae a ee Te RTT ADL ek SULT bk RTE
es

AYLN4 JDVEVO

RE-4
> FF 105.0
|

LOBBY ENTRY
ACCENT PAVING


--- page 155 ---
IWLLINGNS YVd$

VINYOSITVD ‘OALVIW NVS

Nd

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

DESCRIPTION

Layout, Material & Grading Plan |

Eastern Plaza

MaVa NOLLVLS

REVISIONS
SHEET TITLE
SHEET NUMBER

Lu =
Bs
ris: < 2 .
eZ - Cu a Ko
Ou + Ze la LS =< = li
zm pe wl D NZ = - =>
O uw Cc ao <L ep) Lo) <<
O i oe = Ww if u © > 20 oO Ou
On Down =) C) i) = mn WwW a a ¢c)> 2
7 ZSqQEfE = = wi xy - x a
ZS 53205 S =<  ¢ eo 5S 4 aS

eerere

GARAGE ENTRY

[SS ae eee
| T if

BLACK GRANITE
COBBLE PAVER

ll li li ll ll ll li ll ll ll lll ll lll ll ill lb ll al

al

RR

SPEGECEGESEGOES:

KEES WY

PRRRRRRAY

CRAKAAARRR RA |
A

SSSSSSSSSSS
RRR
a

li yyy
K RRR RRR RK
SS

STS S

AKLAKKA

BAS
SASS
YYW SSS
CKRAAKKA KAA
WWWVVVVVS
| CUFEEEEGEEG
WWVVVVVA:
RKRRAARRAAKA
HIBVVRVVRVVVVV VY
KAAKRARARAARAAKA
} VRB SELASS
RRRRARRAAARA
VRVBBVVS Bry’
| CARAARAKAKAA
SSVRVIVVIWSBBSB
BRR
i URRAAAARAARKA

ell

4
i

9’ BIKE LANE

Ps
' Fo

, +

4
~*
C4
y
x
eo
ASSP Yyyyyy

i
sed PRO ae es
TI Es OE
SSIES
PLO
LRN ANASAAANSASSAS
PUNO
LESSEE
OOOO
LESSEE
SOICOT CGT CCC tedsed
SNSSSSSSSSSSSSASSSSS
POU
NSSSSSASSASSASSSSSASN
OOOO
NNNSNSSNSSSSSSSSSSSAN
POO
RRRRAOORAALEE A ELLE EEE EE EEE EEL EEE EEE ELE EEE EEE EK
POO OOOO OOOO OOOO
SSSA NS NS SSS SN
SSSR oN SNS NNN NN NN NN NU NN SSSI SINS
VOL PPI” VIC YY

_
Pi
1 i
— i}
F |
_

AREA
RE-4
4p FF 105.0

Oa
<<
=O
Z&
T=
(2 et

STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT
AT PARKING
CONCRETE
UNIT PAVERS

Lid
OW
<l
O
ep)
—
Lit
Lid
or
/—
ep)

5’ CONCRETE PATH


--- page 156 ---
IVLLINGAS YVdS

VINYOSIIVD ‘OSLVWNVS

NEP

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

DESCRIPTION

and Pavilion

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

MaVa NOILVLS

Park Connection

SHEET NUMBER

Lu
—
E
F
oe
Lu
Lu
r
”

REVISIONS

PAVERS WITH
BOLLARDS

Cc)

x.
a
”
aa
—
“xt
Os
OM
re

©
Oe
It ©

3’ WIDE FLUSH
CURB WARNING
CONCRETE UNIT

CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS

PEDESTRIAN
PAVERS
ORNAMENTAL
PLANTING
VEHICULAR

5’ BIKE LANE

4, FF 107.0

|
|
Lo /
=r ,
=
= |
z f ee — 2X? \ ONE ck Pe : ee ane .
Ss oo WLLL RX ge) ) Sees qupl
CW SE PVVWVVVISHVSVWSVS , O
a Y WECOLEDR SEE OCEOESE Z 7
e 7 so § 7 ER IOXMO DDT DOA —
xc Y BP ON DP ARAAAKAAKRARKAAKKARR x =
Zz Ba mies PEC SVBUROVSYEHVWBH VB VWVB NG 5 3
SS ESE ESSE SEES ESS ASSESSES 3 x ¢, CA 7 SS
IN RRR
x RRRRE KALA RARER REAR RRA RRR RARER RARE RRR ERR REAR AREA RARER ARERR RARER RARER RE RERK A KERR
= | A HS ge 8 a =
| , LA Bee: a eS *; iy “GEEEE
or Eg RRO Sie 3, NR fea 5 SR ORACR SX: UE ee oe } = §
Pe ee Boe Bogs Te ihe 55
O
a
= Lud Lu
DB nis
a = = a
2 § ==
3Z <
=
“2
g ee =
3 &
is
Z a
<x DSE
Z ress
: see2
0 Re NN ra

y |
ee ee

nos CRTTAT SOR: SER SS HTT, SRS

| Rite BE HH HHH

| tea HHH HH iy

HHH
THHHHH" a

i
: ; lee
j i \ 7) a ,-* | ln! 4 }
i F eee Ss i ko PUD ee
THLE Se

CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS

VEHICULAR

wi

|

= ae
: . , “S
6 | bins ee ol Pe
Li
~


--- page 157 ---
5’ BIKE LANE
SSAASPATASSS
— SAS252578 4 ZS
PRECGRGRERGRGRERG' 4nGR
BRENZNZNZNGNGNINGNGNGNGNS
GP NOSSSISISOSONISONOSONSS
A BY ASSSAASASRAKASASS:
FRECIRGRGRGRERGRG CENGRGRGA
: SZSASENISANZSENS
| RABASPALAAS
; ASPAIAASS
& PS SRYOYPYAYO YARNS
\ POSSI YOOPYAYAY ROD
FRIRGRGRGNGNENGR
NNFRANA NAN ARPRGA
TRAASRSARARSS
TEN A AN
SMALASASS:
<4
SANZNSNF9
ZRZNG8
NZNGA
NZRS8
YO?
4, FF 108.5 Wd.
S3873

LOBBY ENTRY
ACCENT PAVING

vA
See
SS

ff fs »S
CORRES
SSS
SSK

,
Re
EF.

SS
:

RRR
OSS

PAs
PAA
” RAR
IRANANZS

yyy yy»

2

7

WBS
SSK

>

r

Sy

>

Dry

CHILDREN’S PLAY AREA

3’ WIDE FLUSH WARNING PAVERS

SSS

CKA
GE

ee
&:

ey

LE GEEECECEGEC ES.

RRA
yyy

OL
PYYYYYYYYYYYYYY YY YY
SSSSSSSSSLSSASSS,

KA

Gh. ats x. A

ae

— =

CARAKAAAARARAKKAA

RRR

&
vA

CA
SS

REVISIONS
: DESCRIPTION
o.
. PEDESTRIAN CONCRETE
~ UNIT PAVERS
ys
4
mn @
MY |
A RE-2 SHEET TITLE
my FF 107.0 Lawn

DPE
SEES
ELLE KK

et
rl
» |
li
“<4

ot
_
>» |
7 : |

P

> =
--——- '
7", t

;
KR
Pe

>

\¥
Wy

VEHICULAR CONCRETE
UNIT PAVERS

oD BIKE LANE

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

|
5’ CONCRETE WALK
—= @ PARKING

STREETSCAPE

: iva PLANTING

YZ

LOBBY ENTRY
ACCENT PAVING

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

> ~SHEET NUMBER

L

THIS DOCU
WOous Fuse
OR

STEPPED CONCRETE
AMPHITHEATRE SEATING

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 158 ---
STORMWATER LOW WATER-USE
MANAGEMENT PLANTING
AREA LAWN — 9’ CONCRETE SIDEWALK

— AMPHITHEATRE SEATING 5’ BIKE LANE

LOBBY ENTRY
ACCENT PAVING

.
1]

: SE

Pr ee | KORA
S

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

;
a iv NORINKARANANK
=p RM OE
heal BPA

4
gO RA
RE-3 i,” Roe
4, FF 108.5 . phy SEMBNISF
) [e OO RRARALR
"% PRAY
REAR

RYAN
~ S AK x

STATION PARK

SS

RE-2

4, FF 107.0

DS

ERE
KRKQEKEES

KR

WWWVY
RR

yyy yy»

PEDESTRIAN CONCRETE
UNIT PAVERS

+

wR

Ch
yy»

Yyyyyyy

s
RRR
yyyyy

Ne

BLOCK LINE

x
SAK
AY,
Ns
3
WA
ASA

“2
EEE RRR RR

<
SS

the.
COCCCCCCCL eG?

YOOOd.

Sy
i
LAL
i
fi

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

~
es

SSS
CRRRAKKA
SSS

fete)
x

yyy YYYYY)

Yh
LOSS
AK

SS

reg

SOD
<\

VEHICULAR CONCRETE
UNIT PAVERS

LOBBY ENTRY
ACCENT PAVING

COG,
RRR RR RRR

‘S
yyy

CZKA
cK
Se

%
CRARARA KA
oo

S
S

yyyyyyy

SSPOYYY yy
S

Ss

yyyyyy
AASVVVVS:

CA
yyy
~

>»
aS.
SS

Sy
ms
SPEEEEOE
fy
&.
S
ax

yyy

AYLN4A JOVEVO

———
ww

rer
SS
Rr?
ons
i‘
x 4
»>
PA
4
Ad

yyy yy

4006
04
re

y
y
RRR
104.
;
SS
~ 4

&.
yy yy YY YY.

VIVSSWBWSB’

WWW
x

SHEET TITLE
Western Plaza

aS
fates

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

=
-_=

SHEET NUMBER

BNO
10187
DATE
sas
11.20.2014
cy 5
] SCALE
1/8" = 1-0
ANY OTHER PURPOSE ANG WAY NOT SE REPROOUCED OR DISCLOSED TO OTHERS

CUSTOM CONCRETE
AND STONE BENCH
PEDESTRIAN 3’ WIDE FLUSH WARNING PAVERS

3’ WIDE FLUSH WARNING PAVERS CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 159 ---
CUSTOM
CONCRETE
AND STONE
BENCH WITH

BACK AND ARMS STATION PARK CIRCLE

Brot “Brox

CUSTOM
CONCRETE

AND STONE
BENCH WITH
BACK AND ARMS

POTENTIAL
CART
VENDOR
PARKING
(SEE IMAGE
BELOW)

(8) BIKE PARKING

PARK PLANTING
RE-3

4p FF 108.5

PEDESTRIAN
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS

45 FF 107.0

PETTSSSAPRR ESS
ie ee ee

1
Piha iarnant
PALER

26’ X 20’ FIRE
TRUCK STAGING
AREA C FIRE
HYDRANT

CONNECTION TO STATION 20' X 20’ FIRE TRUCK STAGING

AREA C FIRE HYDRANT

EXISTING
CHAIN LINK
FENCE TO
REMAIN

POTENTIAL VENDOR CART [TO
SERVE TRANSIT USERS

EXERCISE <0 EVAE |
FQUIPMENT
ee

STOOP PLANTING

8.5’ H-20 DECOMPOSED
GRANITE JOGGING
PATH

3’ PLANTING STRIP

8.5' H-20 RATED
CONCRETE BIKE PATH

BUFFER PLANTING

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

REVISIONS
|| DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE
Station Corridor

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

SHEET NUMBER

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 160 ---
BLACK GRANITE
COBBLE PAVER

CONCRETE SIDEWALK

MU-1

4, FF 103.75

GARAGE ENTRY
Ww Ma,

7
a 7 tos
~~ ons

te Le es

ge tay
Fe al el |
-

yiersy 7

hh tehea —= —s P, a se, BT : alae
ot! ae twa Ye xd oe . if
+ ll 3 VE 1"

INIT ALY3d

STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT AREA

AANIYd YVONOD

MONUMENTAL
SCULPTUR

RE-2

45 FF 107.0

BUFFER PLANTING

CONCRETE SEATWALLS (TYPICAL)

ae Pare

LPC
1 C=

-&
S's ee |
L

or my = J]
E ==
ao
_?' . a
B
,  F «ie
H
J

taseenesene

COBBLES ON
SAND BASE WITHIN
2 BIKE LANE BUFFER

ree

4+

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

SHEET TITLE

Gateway Park

SHEET NUMBER 10187

DATE

| SCALE

8" = 1-0"

TAINS INFORMA TION PROPRIETARY TOIWVE & PARTNERS INC
vee es

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 161 ---
SOUTH DELAWARE ST.

PARK CONNECTION LOW WATER-USE PLANTING FLOWERING TREES

COURTYARD GARDEN

PRIVATE PATIO CONCRETE WALKWAY

4, FF 105.0

LOBBY ENTRY

Jo

—

/

RE-4
45 FF 105.0

RESIDENTIAL
ENTRY

NEW 6’ HIGH
MASONRY FENCE

LOW WATER-USE
PLANTING

H ‘ iz P al “
i f a . ae
a i a ee F — “t - J - ’ - -_
SACRE ERRGOREE. PAPE ee
or oe fs 5 ; at a8 ee a 4 a ond 7 Fe FLAS Ae | 4
RS EE UT ee

RG.

.
al. ow
: ag sa) | a
et a ae i

te ty ob yeh ee eS ce,
“as”

GARVEY WAY EXTENSION

PEDESTRIAN LOW WATER-USE
CONCRETE PLANTING
UNIT PAVERS et i.

Crd
ho

BUFFER
PLANTING

ORNAMENTAL
PLANTING

SLOPING CONCRETE
WALL 18" MAX.

TW 0.0’

/ BWO.0

STATION PARK

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

REVISIONS

DESCRIPTION

~ SHEET TITLE

Community Park

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

SHEET NUMBER

JOB NO.
OTS?

DATE
11.20.2014
SCALE

1 8
L a

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS

AND US RAS } Os

WS
~ONEIDEN

LANDSCAPE
_ ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 162 ---
<
a
* <
=
—
rd S
O a
be
— =
=z
, S
NEW 6’ HIGH TALL TOPOGRAPHIC PLAY CHILDRENS PLAY ARE) BUFFER PLANTING -
MASONRY FENCE 6’ HEIGHT W/ SLIDE AND TOT LOT Y)
|

STORMWATER

MANAGEMENT AREA ORNAMENTAL PLANTING

PEDESTRIAN CONCRETE
UNIT PAVERS

SLOPING CONCRETE REVISIONS
WALL 18” MAX. | DESCRIPTION

PROPERTY LINE

SHEET TITLE
Community Park

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

| 3 WIDE CONCRETE PATH SHEET NUMBER. ==
Al PARKING Bae

ee)
= .
a Se.
THIS DOCUWENT CON TAINS INFORMA TION PROPRIETARY TO WEE & © SINC.
ND IS FURNISHED IY CONFIDENCE FOR THE LIMITED PURFOSE OF E ON
ayn Th =_ua coe
4 s

oe ee i

y
aT

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

WW Fl Sat ane Om

i
co
on
Crd
ho

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 163 ---
CUSTOM CONCRETE
AND STONE BENCH

26’ X 20’ FIRE
TRUCK STAGING
AREA C FIRE HYDRANT

LOBBY ENTRY

20’ EVAE

3’ CONCRETE WALKWAY
TO RESIDENTIAL UNITS

EXERCISE
EQUIPMENT

POCKET PARK
GARDEN

STOOP PLANTING

8.5’ H-20 RATED DECOMPOSED
GRANITE JOGGING PATH

3’ WIDE PLANTING STRIP

8.5’ H-20 RATED
CONCRETE BIKE PATH

BUFFER PLANTING

EXISTING CHAIN
LINK FENCE TO
KEMAIN

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

STATION PARK

SHEET TITLE

Greenway Pocket
Parks

Layout, Material & Grading Plan

SHEET NUMBER

LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTURE

SPAR SUBMITTAL


--- page 164 ---
ATTACHMENT 5- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2025-048
Planning  
Application:
430 Station Park Circle
San Mateo, CA 94402
Parcel Number(s):
035 200 220
Address(es):
1,000 feet

--- page 165 ---
ATTACHMENT 5- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2025-048
Planning  
Application:
430 Station Park Circle
San Mateo, CA 94402
Parcel Number(s):
035 200 220
Address(es):
Project

--- page 166 ---
(925) 381 8666        
3527 MT. DIABLO BLVD, #487 
LAFAYETTE, CA 94549  
 
October 13, 2025 
 
Zachary Dahl 
Director of Community Development 
City of San Mateo 
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7207 
 
RE: Retail at Station Park Green, San Mateo 
 
 
Dear Zachary and Staff, 
 
Thank you for your time last week to discuss the retail space at Station Park Green, and for the follow-up 
responses provided by Simin. RRER has since reviewed the plans, visited the site, and spoken with the 
listing broker. Based on this due diligence, I would like to share several observations and 
recommendations for the City’s consideration in response to the property owner’s proposed 
amendment to their specific plan. 
 
Background 
Station Park Green is located at the intersection of Delaware and Concar in San Mateo. It is a mixed-use 
project with approximately 599 residential units, 25,033 square feet of retail, 7,991 square feet of office, 
and 3,034 square feet of amenity space. Retail parking is limited, with fewer than 2 stalls per 1,000 
square feet, and office/amenity parking being provided at 0.32 stalls per 1,000 square feet. 
 
The listing brokers, (Matt Sweeney and Sean O’Carrol of The Econic Company,)  have marketed the retail 
space since 2017. In 8 years of leasing efforts, they have leased 3 retail spaces, and all of the tenants 
have departed before their leases expired. Currently, there are no retail spaces occupied.  
 
The owner of the property has asked the City to approve an amendment allowing some existing retail to 
be used as additional office space and a reconfiguration of the ground floor commercial layout. The City 
has requested RRER’s assessment of the retail program, including whether a reduction is warranted and, 
if so, to what extent. 
 
Retail Leasing Challenges 
In reviewing both the broker’s letter (attached) and market feedback, it is clear that multiple design and 
locational factors have contributed to the lack of leasing success. These include: 
• 
Uninviting retail exteriors, with limited or no signage. 
• 
Uniform storefront design, which does not create the sense of variety that attracts pedestrians. 
• 
Extremely limited number of pedestrians in the area- maybe due to lack of construction of the 
approved residential units near the project. 
• 
Inconvenient parking: no street parking near the retail, with retail parking located only in a 
garage, with limited pedestrian egress. 
• 
Construction/design limitations: structural slabs prevent normal saw-cutting, leading to 
problematic sub-floors and poorly placed bathrooms. This causes a massive cost increase when 
a tenant needs to accommodate floor drains, and grease interceptors.

--- page 167 ---
• 
Inadequate loading and delivery access, especially for food users. 
• 
Weak/No retail synergy: the project is isolated, and the relocation of Trader Joe’s to an adjacent 
corner has not materialized. 
• 
Asking rents above market for this part of San Mateo. The landlord now cannot seem to lease 
space even at rents reduced by 50%. 
• 
High build-out costs:  shell delivery includes a bathroom and HVAC units, but all food tenants 
need to saw cut the floor which requires nearly a 100% price increase from a normal concrete 
floor. With the landlord’s TI allowance at approximately $60 per square foot, this causes an 
unrealistic financial gap for small independent tenants. 
These combined challenges suggest that the original retail allocation is not viable in this location or 
configuration. 
 
 
Recommendations 
RRER supports a reduction in the retail square footage. The owner has indicated its desire to use the 
former Beach Hut space as office space so as to create a continuous office space for their occupancy.  
That would leave retail spaces along Concar Ave, spaces shown as 6, 7, and 9 on the attached site plan.  
This is approximately 7200 square feet of retail space.  Note- Space # 8 is designated by the property 
owner as a Community Center, to be used by the community for free. 
 
RRER recommends the following actions: 
 
• 
Space 6 , approximately 2000 square feet, (former Starbucks) is equipped with valuable 
infrastructure, including floor drains and water hook ups that can easily be used by another 
coffee store.  While a grease trap/interceptor could not be seen within the space, it is unlikely 
Starbucks could have received County health department approvals, so the space may even 
have the required grease trap, making it suitable for another food tenant. 
• 
Space 7, approximately 1200 square feet, adjacent to the former Starbucks space may benefit 
from co-tenancy synergy. 
• 
Space 9, at nearly 4000 sf will be hard to lease for retail. While the space has bathrooms, there 
are many fewer tenants of that size in todays retail activity. And most tenants of that size will 
want more retail synergy  than what exists at Station Park Green.  Therefore, it is suggested that 
Space 9 be allowed for quasi-retail, or office. Maybe a non-profit within San Mateo looking for 
discounted space. 
• 
All spaces, will need signage help. Electricity should be brought to the existing canopies so a 
tenant can add a sign band that is back lit. Leniency should be given by the City in approving 
large amounts of sign square footage, so signs could be seen by cars as they exit the freeway on 
the adjacent freeway exist. 
 
Closing 
We appreciate the opportunity to provide input on this matter. Our recommendations are intended to 
help align the project with market realities while ensuring that the City continues to foster a balanced, 
sustainable mix of uses at Station Park Green. We would welcome the chance to discuss these findings 
in greater detail and to collaborate further with City staff and the property owner to identify solutions 
that best serve both the community and the long-term success of the project. 
 
Sincerely, 
RRER (Retail Real Estate Resources)

--- page 168 ---
(925) 381 8666        
3527 MT. DIABLO BLVD, #487 
LAFAYETTE, CA 94549  
 
Christine Firstenberg, Principal 
 
 
Cc: Simin Zakavand 
  Elaine Ling 
  Joanna Winter 
  Sung H. Kwon

--- page 169 ---
For Lease | Station Park Green

FULL PROPERTY

SITE PLAN

S|DELAWARE'ST:

CONCAR'DR

Retail / Restaurant Space

Office Space

iS the econic company?

4 | SWCS Delaware St & Concar Ave, San Mateo, CA


--- page 170 ---
Memorandum 
 
Date:  
July 22, 2025 
 
To: 
 
Mr. Chris Kober 
 
From:  
Ethan Heckman, Shikha Jain 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Trip Generation Study for Station Park Green Office Use 
 
 
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. has completed a trip generation study for the proposed 
office use at Station Park Green development in San Mateo, California. Station Park Green is a mix 
of residential, retail, and office land uses located at the northwest corner of Delaware Street & 
Concar Drive near the Hayward Park Caltrain station. The project proposes to convert 25,000 
square feet of the existing 30,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space in building MU-1 to office 
space. 
Trip Generation 
The trips for the existing and proposed land uses were estimated using trip rates published in the 
Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition.  
Strip Retail Plaza (<40k) (Land Use 822) was used to estimate the trips generated by the retail 
uses, and General Office Building (Land Use 710) was used to estimate the trips generated by the 
office uses.  
Pass-by trip reductions published in the ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition were applied to 
the retail uses to account for existing trips on the nearby roadway network, such as those to school 
or work, which would visit the site when passing by.  
The existing site is also subject to a transportation demand management (TDM) program and 
therefore, trip reduction associated with it were applied to the trip generation estimates. The TDM 
program was developed by Nelson/Nygaard Consulting Associates in May 2010 when the specific 
plan for this site was approved. Per Nelson/Nygaard’s study, the trip reductions associated with this 
TDM program would be 32 percent. This trip reduction includes reductions based on density, mix of 
uses, transit service, pedestrian/bicycle facilities, and affordable housing. 
As shown in Table 1, the proposed conversion from retail to office uses would generate fewer trips: 
197 fewer daily trips, including 14 fewer trips  during the AM peak hour, and 22 fewer trips during 
the PM peak hour.

--- page 171 ---
Trip Generation Study for Station Park Green Office Use 
July 22, 2025 
 
 
P a g e  |  2  
Table 1 
Existing Uses Trip Generation 
 
Conclusion 
The proposed conversion of existing retail space to office space within the Station Park Green 
development would generate fewer vehicle trips during the peak hours, and daily, compared to the 
existing retail use. 
Land Use
Rate
Trips 
Rate
In
Out
Total
Rate
In
Out
Total
Proposed Use
Office1
25,000 SqFt
10.84
271
1.52
33
5
38
1.44
6
30
36
(TDM Trip Reduction) 4
-32%
(87)
(11)
(2)
(12)
(2)
(10)
(12)
Subtotal After Reduction
184
22
3
26
4
20
24
Existing Use
Retail2
25,000 SqFt
54.45
1,361
2.36
35
24
59
6.59
83
82
165
(Pass-By Trip Reduction) 3
-40%
(544)
0
0
0
(33)
(33)
(66)
(TDM Trip Reduction) 4
-32%
(436)
(11)
(8)
(19)
(27)
(26)
(53)
Subtotal After Reductions
381
24
16
40
23
23
46
Net New Trips Generated
(197)
(2)
(13)
(14)
(19)
(3)
(22)
Notes:
Size
Daily
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour
1. General Office Building (Land Use 710): average trip rates in trips per unit. Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition.
2. Strip Retail Plaza (<40k) (Land Use 822): average trip rates in trips per unit. Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition.
3. Pass-By rate for Shopping Plaza (40-150k) (Land Use 821) was used as no pass by rates are available for Land Use 822. This land 
use only includes a pass-by rate for the PM peak hour. No pass-by trips are associated with the AM peak hour. The PM peak hour 
pass by rate was also applied on daily trips. Source: ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition.
4. 32% trip reduction based on density, mix of uses, transit service, pedestrian/bicycle facilities, and affordable housing calculated by 
Nelson Nygaard (May 13, 2010).

--- page 172 ---
Item 
No.
Old 
Page 
No.
New 
Page 
No.
Location
Amendment #1 - 2014
Amendment #2 - 2025
Change to 
Text
Change to 
Graphics
Change to 
Table
1
-
-
Figures + 
Tables: 2nd 
column, 2nd 
row
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking east 
toward Block MU-1 and ground-level retail.
Modify language:change "retail" to "office"
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking east 
toward Block MU-1 and ground-level office.
X
2
4
4
2nd column- 
last paragraph
The residential retail, commercial, and open space program will 
provide a complementary and continually active mix of uses.
Add "office" in list of uses.
The residential retail, office, commercial, and open space 
program will provide a complementary and continually active mix 
of uses.
X
3
8
8
Figure 1.04:
599 Residential Units
25,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail
10,000 to 15,000 square feet Office
2.3 acres of Open Space
(excluding streets and sidewalks)
Edit square footages:
599 Residential Units
3,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail 
10,000 to 35,000 square feet Office 
2.3 acres of Open Space
(excluding streets and sidewalks)
X
4
9
9
1st column- 2nd 
paragraph
The new neighborhood will include approximately 599 residential 
units, 10,000 square feet of office space, 25,000 square feet of 
retail space, and 2.3 acres of publicly accessible open space, 
not including streets and sidewalks.
Edit square footages:
The new neighborhood will include approximately 599 
residential units, a maximum of 35,000 square feet of office 
space, a minimum of 3,000 square feet of retail space, and 2.3 
acres of publicly accessible open space, not including streets 
and sidewalks.
X
5
9
9
last column- 2nd 
paragraph
At the core of the Plan is The Park, a new, approximately 1.1- 
acre neighborhood park, framed by residences and retail uses.
Add "office" to sentence:
At the core of the Plan is The Park, a new, approximately 1.1- 
acre neighborhood park, framed by residences, office and retail 
uses.
X
6
9
9
Yellow text
At the core of the Plan is The Park, a new, approximately 1.1- 
acre neighborhood park, framed by residences and retail uses.
Add "office" to caption:
At the core of the Plan is The Park, a new, approximately 1.1- 
acre neighborhood park, framed by residences, office and retail 
uses.
X
Chapter 1
Overview
Station Park Green 
Specific Plan Amendment
Description of Changes
(Rev. 1)

--- page 173 ---
7
11
11
last column- 2nd 
paragraph
The Development Agreement was still in effect at the time that 
the City amended this Plan in 2014.
Change sentence to state that the DA is no longer in effect.
The Development Agreement was recorded in March 2011 and 
was in effect for 10 years. The Development Agreement is no 
longer in effect in 2025 at the time of the second Specific Plan 
amendment.
X
8
39
39
2nd column
NA
New bullet:
Providing office space located in close proximity to public 
transportation.
New text
9
45
45
1st column- 3rd 
bullet point
Including a range of housing types, such as studios, 1-, 2-, and 3-
bedroom units, in addition to retail and some office uses, at 
densities sufficient to support both transit ridership and 
neighborhood vitality.
Edit bullet point:
Including a range of housing types, such as studios, 1-, 2-, and 3-
bedroom units, in addition to approximately 3,000 square feet of 
retail space and 10,000 square feet of office space, at densities 
sufficient to support both transit ridership and neighborhood 
vitality.
X
10
52
52
1st column- last 
bullet point
A commitment to get the cars “out of the living room” by requiring 
that above-ground parking be enclosed with active uses. This 
allows attractive front doors along nearly every corridor.
Modify bullet:
A commitment to get the cars “out of the living room” by requiring 
that above-ground parking be enclosed with active uses, 
including corporate offices. See page 166 of the Design 
Guidelines for a list of active uses. This allows attractive front 
doors along nearly every corridor.
X
11
61
61
2nd column- 3rd 
bullet point
Concentrates retail uses along South Delaware Street and 
Concar Drive, and at park frontages, minimizing impacts to 
existing residences in the surrounding neighborhoods.
Add "office":
Concentrates retail and office uses along South Delaware Street 
and Concar Drive, and at park frontages, minimizing impacts to 
existing residences in the surrounding neighborhoods.
X
12
61
61
2nd column- 4th 
bullet point
Priority Retail Locations: Identifies four locations in Block MU-1 
where retail is prioritized.
Modify bullet:
Priority Retail Locations: Identifies two locations in Block MU-1 
where retail is prioritized.
X
Chapter 3
Guiding Principles
Chapter 4
Development Standards

--- page 174 ---
13
61
61
Figure 4.08: Site 
Plan
Figure 4.08: Site Plan
Four priority retail location symbols located throughout the MU-1 
building.
Figure 4.08: Site Plan
Remove the two astrisk symbols facing the park and the one on 
South Delware and Concar in the current Beach Hut Deli space. 
Keep the asterisk symbol on Concar in the former Starbucks 
space. Add an asterisk symbols at the corner of Concar and 
Station Park Circle, depicted as "A Street" in the image.
X
14
62
62
1st Column-2nd 
bullet point
A minimum of 25,000 gross square feet (gsf) of 
Retail/Services/Restaurant uses, and a minimum of 10,000 gsf 
of Office use.
Edit retail square footage:
A minimum of 3,000 gross square feet (gsf) of 
Retail/Services/Restaurant uses, and a minimum of 10,000 gsf 
of Office use.
X
15
62
62
1st Column-last 
bullet point
At least 5,000 square feet of Retail/Services/Restaurant uses 
shall be neighborhood-serving Retail/Services/Restaurant uses, 
with a maximum size per establishment of 1,500 square feet.
Edit square footage:
At least 3,000 square feet of Retail/Services/Restaurant uses 
shall be neighborhood-serving Retail/Services/Restaurant uses, 
with a maximum size per establishment of 4,000 square feet.
16
62
62
Illustration & Figure 
4.09.
(Illustration)
FIGURE 4.09 Illustrative rendering of South Delaware Street 
entrance seen from Charles Lane in the Nineteenth Avenue 
Park neighborhood. Note: Buildings shown only for context.
Illustration:
Modify illustration by removing the café signage and the outdoor 
dining.
Caption: no change to caption
FIGURE 4.09 Illustrative rendering of South Delaware Street 
entrance seen from Charles Lane in the Nineteenth Avenue 
Park neighborhood. Note: Buildings shown only for context.
X
17
64
64
Table- MU1 Notes
Ground-floor retail/services/restaurant encouraged. Priority Retail 
Locations include South Delaware Street/Concar Drive 
intersection and frontages along The Park.
Modify Notes:
Ground-floor retail/services/restaurant and office encouraged. 
Priority Retail Locations include South Delaware Street/Concar 
Drive intersection and Station Park Circle/Concar Drive 
intersection.
X
18
66
66
1st column, 1st 
paragraph
As shown in Figure 4.15, the overall FAR for the Plan Area is 
3.0. Retail FAR is limited to 0.2, and office FAR is capped at 0.1.
Modify FAR:
As shown in Figure 4.15, the overall FAR for the Plan Area is 
3.0. Office FAR is limited to 0.2 and Retail FAR is capped at 0.1.
X

--- page 175 ---
19
66
66
Figure 4.15: 
Legend and Site 
Plan
(Site Place)
Legend:
Retail FAR: 0.2
Office FAR: 0.1 
Site Plan:
Modify extent of hatching to reflect updated FAR values.
Legend: Modify FAR values:
Retail FAR: 0.1
Office FAR: 0.2
X
X
20
69
69
Figure 4.17-Legend 
Storefront Access encouraged
Add 'office access":
Storefront access and office access will take on an urban form, 
allowing for visual and physical interaction between the 
streetscape and retail/office spaces.
X
21
71
71
1st Column-last 
paragraph
Along the entire northern edge of The Park, a row of large trees 
will provide a subtle separation between the residences fronting 
onto The Park, and the commercial uses opposite...
Remove "commercial uses" and add "office use"
Along the entire northern edge of The Park, a row of large trees 
will provide a subtle separation between the residences fronting 
onto The Park, and the office use opposite...
X
22
71
71
2nd column-1st 
paragraph
The eastern plaza is intended to front ground-level retailers, and 
is more formal, including a reflective sculpture.
Edit "retailers" to "office"
The eastern plaza is intended to front ground-level office, and is 
more formal, including a reflective sculpture.
X
23
73
73
Figure 4.24
(Illustration)
Caption:
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking east 
toward Block MU-1 and ground-level retail.
Illustration:
Modify the illustration by removing the "Market" signage on the 
left-hand side.
Caption: change "retail" to "office"
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking east 
toward Block MU-1 and ground-level office.
X
X
24
82
82
1st column, 1st 
paragraph
Outdoor lighting in the Plan Area should consider vehicular and 
pedestrian circulation, residential and retail uses, the diversity of 
open space typologies, design and infrastructure coordination, 
and energy efficiency.
Add "office":
Outdoor lighting in the Plan Area should consider vehicular and 
pedestrian circulation, residential, office and retail uses, the 
diversity of open space typologies, design and infrastructure 
coordination, and energy efficiency.
X
25
83
83
MU1 Block 
standards-
Nonresidential 
Floor Area
25,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail/Services/Restaurant;
10,000 to 15,000 square feet Office
Edit square footages:
3,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail/Services/Restaurant; 
10,000 to 35,000 square feet Office
X

--- page 176 ---
26
87
87
Publicly Accessible 
Open Space
Standards- The 
Park Design
A landmark open space divided into smaller spaces for public 
activities, framed by commercial and residential uses. Helps to 
connect South Delaware Street to Hayward Park Station. 
Surrounding streets are enhanced to encourage pedestrian and 
bike circulation.
Add "office":
A landmark open space divided into smaller spaces for public 
activities, framed by commercial, office and residential uses. 
Helps to connect South Delaware Street to Hayward Park 
Station. Surrounding streets are enhanced to encourage 
pedestrian and bike circulation.
X

--- page 177 ---
Item 
No.
Old 
Page 
No.
New 
Page 
No.
Location
SPA 1 - 2014
SPA 2 - 2025
Change to 
Text
Change to 
Graphics
Change to 
Table
27
4
4
FIGURE 1.01
Program:
599 Residential Units
25,000 to 30,000 Square feet of Retail
10,000 to 15,000 square feet of Office
2.3 acres of Open Space
(excluding streets and sidewalks)
Edit square footages:
599 Residential Units
7,000 to 15,000 square feet Retail
10,000 to 45,000 square feet Office
2.3 acres of Open Space
(excluding streets and sidewalks)
X
28
88
88
Build-to Block 
Lines-
NA
Add bullet point:
Buildings at Block MU-1 should
clearly define the edge to activate
and engage frontage for office uses
and building entries.
X
29
90
90
Frontages of 
Block MU-1 
last
bullet point
Uses along The Park should prioritize restaurants, cafés, and 
outdoor sidewalk dining.
Modify bullet point:
Uses along The Park should prioritize access and amenities for 
office users.
X
30
90
90
FIGURE 3.06 
Example of 
mixeduse on 
The Park 
frontage
(Image)
Caption:
Figure 3.06: Example of mixed-use on The Park frontage
Image:
Replace image with photo of ground floor office underneath 
apartments
Caption:
Figure 3.06: Example of ground-floor office use on The Park 
frontage
X
X
31
104
104
Image
(Image)
Image:
Modify the illustration by removing the "Cafe" signage and 
outdoor diners.
X
Station Park Green 
Design Guidelines
Description of Changes
(Rev. 1)
Chapter 1
Introduction
Chapter 3
General Urban Design

--- page 178 ---
32
112
112
FIGURE 4.04 
& 4.06 The 
Park frontage
example
Figure 4.04: (Image)
Figure 4.06: (Image)
Figure 4.04: (Image)
Replace image with photo of ground level office.
Figure 4.06: (Image)
Replace image with photo of ground level office.
X
33
114
114
MU1 Land Use 
-South 
Delaware
Street
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required on 
the frontage.
Add "office":
Retail/Services/Restaurants, office or other active uses are 
required on the frontage.
X
34
114
114
MU1 Land Use 
-Concar Drive
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required.
Add "office":
Retail/Services/Restaurants, office or other active uses are 
required.
X
35
114
114
MU1 Land Use 
-The Park 
Frontage
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required.
Priority retail locations are at the corners of “B” and “C” Streets 
and “A” and “C” Streets.
Add "office" and remove second sentence.
Retail/Services/Restaurants, office or other active uses are 
required.
X
36
166
166
Definitions-
Active Use
ACTIVE USE:
Retail/services/restaurants, residential entrances, or other high-
frequency uses such as brokerage offices, commercial lobbies, 
health facilities and professional offices
Include additional language:
Retail/services/restaurants, residential entrances, or other high-
frequency uses such as brokerage offices, commercial lobbies, 
health facilities,  professional offices, and corporate offices with 
transparent frontage, multiple entries, and visibility into the 
workplace.
X
Chapter 4
Block and Building Elements
Appendix

--- page 179 ---
ce

AAT INSANE 3



--- page 180 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 181 ---
31 July 2014

STATIONPARKgreen

SPECIFIC

AN ere CALIFORNIA



--- page 182 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 183 ---
How to Use this Specific Plan 
1. Overview [03] 
The Overview is the introduction to this Specific Plan and a summary 
of Station Park Green, including its vision, program, and design 
intent. This chapter also discusses the Plan within the physical and 
policy setting of San Mateo. 
2. Existing Conditions [15] 
From location to site and edge conditions, to existing transit and 
utilities infrastructure, the Existing Conditions chapter describes the 
Plan Area in its current state. 
3. Guiding Principles [35] 
The Station Park Green Specific Plan is based upon a set of planning 
and design principles. The Guiding Principles chapter presents 
the basic precepts related to transit connectivity, respecting 
the neighborhood context, synergy of uses, publicly accessible open 
spaces, and sustainability. 
4. Development Standards [51] 
This chapter describes Station Park Green in detail, including 
proposed block pattern, land uses, urban design framework, publicly 
accessible open spaces, streets, transit and infrastructure improvements. 
5. Implementation [121] 
The subsequent steps necessary to realize The Station Park Green 
Specific Plan are listed in this Implementation chapter.

--- page 184 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 185 ---
1. 
Overview 
Introduction  [ 03 ] 
Vision and Goals  [ 04 ] 
Location  [ 06 ] 
General Description  [ 09 ] 
Graphic Note  [ 10 ] 
Legal Requirements  [ 10 ] 
Corridor Plan and General Plan  
Relationship  [ 11 ] 
Public Participation  [ 11 ] 
Overall Phasing  [ 11 ]  
2. 
Existing   
Conditions 
Introduction [ 15 ] 
Plan Area and Current Facilities [ 17 ] 
Edge Conditions  [ 18 ] 
Hayward Park Station TOD Zone[ 18 ] 
Neighborhood Setting  [ 19 ] 
City Open Space System  [ 24 ] 
Transportation  [ 25 ] 
Environmental Setting  [ 26 ] 
Infrastructure and Utilities  [ 28 ] 
Emergency Services  [ 32 ] 
Waste and Recycling  [ 32 ]  
3. 
Guiding   
Principles 
Introduction  [ 35 ] 
Implement the Corridor Plan  [ 37 ] 
Consider the Context  [ 39 ] 
Lead with Landscape  [ 41 ] 
Connect the Station to the  
Neighborhood  [ 43 ] 
Create a Vital Center  [ 45 ] 
Design for Sustainability  [ 47 ]  
4.  
Development   
Standards  
Contents  
Introduction  [ 51 ] 
Overview  [ 52 ] 
Concepts  [ 53 ] 
Station Engagement  [ 56 ] 
Regulatory Context  [ 58 ] 
Block Pattern and Open Space [ 59 ] 
Land Use and Density  [ 61 ] 
Heights and Typologies  [ 67 ] 
Open Space System  [ 70 ] 
Block Standards  [ 83 ] 
Circulation  [ 92 ] 
Infrastructure Improvements  [ 114 ]  
5.  
Implementation 
Introduction  [ 121 ] 
Design Guidelines  [ 122 ] 
Development Agreement  [ 122 ] 
Subdivision Maps  [ 122 ] 
Site Development Permit  [ 123 ] 
Site Plan and Architectural Review  
(SPAR)  [ 123 ] 
Allocation of Land Uses  [ 124 ]          
Amendment Information  [ 124 ]

--- page 186 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 187 ---
1. 
Overview 
FIGURE 1.01 Bird’s-eye view of Sta-
tion Park Green looking east  to San 
Francisco Bay 5 
FIGURE 1.02  Location of Station  
Park Green Specific Plan Area 6 
FIGURE 1.03 Aerial view of Plan  Area 
in its existing condition 7 
FIGURE 1.04 Station Park Green illus-
trative site plan and program 8 
FIGURE 1.05 Orientation of all 
graphics at a regional and city  scale 
10 
FIGURE 1.06 Orientation of all 
graphics at a local scale 10  
2. 
Existing Conditions 
FIGURE 2.01 Aerial view of the Plan  Area 
in its existing condition 16 
FIGURE 2.02 Kmart building and  park-
ing lot, facing east 17 
FIGURE 2.03 Kmart building and  park-
ing lot, facing southeast 17 
FIGURE 2.04 Kmart building and  park-
ing lot, facing northwest 17 
FIGURE 2.05 Concar Drive and  Mi-
chaels store, facing east 18 
FIGURE 2.06 South Delaware Street  and 
Shell Station, facing northwest  
18 
FIGURE 2.07 Plan Area with  surround-
ing neighborhoods and  streets 19 
FIGURE 2.08 Caltrain right-of-way, 
facing south to SR 92 overpass 20 
FIGURE 2.09 Joint Powers Board  
property seen from the Caltrain  sta-
tion, facing east 20 
FIGURE 2.10 Concar Drive and commer-
cial properties, facing east  
21 
FIGURE 2.11 SR 92 overpass over  Pacific 
Boulevard, at the intersection  of Concar 
Drive, facing south 21  
Figures + Tables  
3. 
Guiding Principles 
FIGURE 2.12 Aerial view of the Plan  
Area, with Caltrain and the Joint  
Powers Board property, and Kmart,  
Michaels and surface parking in the  
foreground, and higher commercial   
development in the background,  
higher commercial development 21 
FIGURE 2.13 Post Office at the  
corner of Garvey Way and South  
Delaware Street, with AAA in the  
background 22 
FIGURE 2.14 South Delaware Street  
at AAA, facing southeast 22 
FIGURE 2.15 Leslie Creek channel  
22 
FIGURE 2.16 Substantial vegetated  
buffer between South Delaware  
Street and the Nineteenth Avenue  
Park neighborhood 23 
FIGURE 2.17 Public open space in  
San Mateo 24 
FIGURE 2.18 General exposure of 
the Plan Area to wind, sun, and  
noise, and drainage conditions 27 
FIGURE 2.19 Existing storm  
drainage system 29 
FIGURE 2.20 Existing wastewater 
collection and treatment system 30  
There are no figures or tables in  
Chapter 3.  
4. 
Development Standards 
FIGURE 4.01 Station Park Green 
illustrative site plan 52 
FIGURE 4.02  Concept 1: A Park at the 
Heart 53 
FIGURE 4.03 Concept 2: Getting to  
Transit 54 
FIGURE 4.04 Concept 3: A Green 
Network  55 
FIGURE 4.05 Rendering from the ‘Rail  
Corridor Plan’ illustrating clear view  
corridors and good connectivity of  
streets drawing people through the two  
properties 56 
FIGURE 4.06 Block pattern and 
open space 59 
FIGURE 4.07 Illustrative site plan 60 
FIGURE 4.08 Land use plan 61 
FIGURE 4.09 Illustrative rendering of  
South Delaware Street entrance from  
Charles Lane in the Nineteenth Avenue  
Park neighborhood 62 
FIGURES 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13  
Neighborhood-serving retail 
examples  
63 
TABLE 4.01  Land Uses by Block 64

--- page 188 ---
Figures + Tables  
4. 
Development Standards 
(continued)  
FIGURE 4.14 Relative Residential 
Density  Diagram 65 
FIGURE 4.15 FAR Limitations 66 
FIGURE 4.16 Height ranges by block 67 
FIGURE 4.16a Method of height  
measurement along graded parcel in  
Plan Area 68 
FIGURE 4.16b Method of height  
measurement along 35-foot Maximum  
Height Zone along South Delaware  
Street 68 
FIGURE 4.16c Location of 107’ height  
measurement point 68 
FIGURE 4.16d Location of roof plateline  
68 
FIGURE 4.17 Pedestrian Access at the 
Ground Level  69 
FIGURE 4.18 Open Space System 70 
FIGURE 4.19 The Park: Illustrative 
Plan 71 
FIGURE 4.20 The Park example 71 
FIGURE 4.21 The Park example 71 
FIGURE 4.22 The Park example 71  
FIGURE 4.23 The Park illustrative  
cross section,  from building wall to  
building wall, facing east 72 
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of  
The Park, looking east toward block 
MU-1 and ground-level  retail 73 
FIGURE 4.25 Gateway Park and 
Community Park illustrative Plan 74 
FIGURE 4.26 Gateway Park and 
Community Park examples 74 
FIGURE 4.27 Gateway Park and 
Community Park examples 74 
FIGURE 4.28 Gateway Park and 
Community Park examples l74 
FIGURE 4.29 The Greenway Pocket 
Parks 75 
FIGURE 4.30 The Greenway Pocket 
Parks  75 
FIGURE 4.31 The Park Corridor 76
FIGURE 4.31a The Park Corridor and 
The Station Corridor example 76 
FIGURE 4.32 The Station Corridor 76 
FIGURE 4.32a Illustrative rendering of 
South Delaware Street entrance seen 
from Charles Lane in the Nineteenth 
Avenue Park neighborhood. Note: 
Buildings shown only for context 76
 
FIGURE 4.33 Station Park Green 
illustrative site plan 77 
FIGURE 4.34 Illustrative rendering of 
The  Park, looking northwest through 
The Park and The Station Corridor, 
which leads to the Joint Powers Board 
Property 78 
FIGURE 4.35 Example of street trees  
80 
FIGURE 4.36 Example of mixed-use  
sidewalk 80 
FIGURE 4.37 Example of residential  
usable open space and setback 80 
FIGURE 4.38 Example of stormwater  
management 81 
FIGURE 4.39 Example of stormwater  
management 81 
FIGURE 4.40 Example of open space  
lighting 82 
TABLE 4.02  Block MU-1 83 
TABLE 4.03  Block RE-2 84 
TABLE 4.04  Block RE-3 85 
TABLE 4.05  Block RE-4 86 
 TABLE 4.06  Publicly Accessible 
Open  Space Standards  87-90 
FIGURE 4.41 Example of Emergency  
Vehicle Access (EVAE) 91 
FIGURE 4.42 Access to Plan Area  
at South Delaware Street opposite  
Charles Lane, at Concar Drive  
opposite SR 92 ramps, and at Garvey  
Way. Three existing traffic signals and  
crosswalks are also shown. 93 
FIGURE 4.43a Street hierarchy plan  
94 
FIGURE 4.44 Street-section key  
showing locations of the street  
sections on following pages 95 
FIGURE 4.45 Section 1: “A” Street  
looking north 96  
FIGURE 4.46 Section 2: “B” Street  
looking east 97 
FIGURE 4.47 Section 3: “C” Street  
around The Park, looking east 98
FIGURE 4.48  Section 4: “C” Street at 
MU-1 Garage Entry, looking north 99
FIGURE 4.49 Section 5: “C” Street  at 
Block RE-2, looking south (see key plan  
1) 100 
FIGURE 4.50 Section 6: Garvey Way 
Extension, looking south 101

--- page 189 ---
4. 
Development 
Standards 
(continued)  
FIGURE 4.51 Section 7: “EVAE” at 
Block RE-3, looking north 102
FIGURE 4.52 Section 8: “Station 
Corridor” at OS-7, looking east 103
FIGURE 4.53 Section 9: Concar Drive 
at Block RE-2, looking east 104 
FIGURE 4.54 Section 10: Concar Drive 
at RE-2, looking east 105 
FIGURE 4.55a Section 11: South 
Delaware Street at MU-1 106
FIGURE 4.55b Section 12: South 
Delaware Street at MU-1 bust 
stop 107
FIGURE 4.55c Section 13: South 
Delaware Street at RE-4 107
TABLE 4.07 Street Standards 108-109
FIGURE 4.56 Example of a  pedestrian 
connection 110 
FIGURE 4.57 Example of a  
pedestrian connection 110
FIGURE 4.58 Bicycle Trail System  111
TABLE 4.08 Parking ratios 113 
FIGURE 4.59 Proposed Storm 
Drainage System 114
FIGURE 4.60 Proposed Sewer 
System 113  
5. 
Implementation 
There are no figures or tables in  
Chapter 5.  
Figures + Tables

--- page 190 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 191 ---


--- page 192 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Station Park Green  
is envisioned as a 
defining new  
neighborhood for San  
Mateo. It will build on 
the City’s strong  
tradition of distinctive, 
high-quality  
neighborhoods.  
Community parks and 
landscaped  thorough-
fares will  set the tone 
for the  area and pro-
vide  an inviting front  
door, welcoming the  
broader community to 
use and enjoy it.

--- page 193 ---
Introduction  [ 03 ] 
Vision and Goals  [ 04 ] 
Location  [ 06 ] 
General Description  [ 09 ] 
Graphic Note  [ 10 ] 
Legal Requirements  [ 10 ] 
Corridor Plan and General Plan Relationship  [ 11 ] 
Public Participation  [ 11 ] 
Overall Phasing  [ 11 ] 
3 
Chapter 1 
Overview 
The City of San Mateo (City) conducted a study 
of land use and transportation issues in a half-
mile radius around the Hillsdale and Hayward 
Park  Caltrain stations. That study resulted in 
the San  Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development  Plan (Corridor Plan), approved by 
the City Council  on June 6, 2005. The intent of 
the Corridor Plan  is to allow, encourage, and 
provide guidance  for the creation of a world 
class transit-oriented  development (TOD), while 
maintaining and  improving the quality of life of 
those who already  live and work in the area.

--- page 194 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
4 
The area (Plan Area) subject to  
the Station Park Green Specific  
Plan (Plan) is an approximately  
12-acre portion of the Hayward  
Park Station TOD Overlay Zone.  
The development permitted  
under this Plan follows directly  
from the policies set for the  
Hayward Park Station TOD Zone  
under the Corridor Plan:  multi-
family uses developed at transit-
supportive densities, with some  
neighborhood- and community-  
serving retail uses and services-
-including specialty uses that  
enhance neighborhood services  
within the TOD--and publicly  
accessible open space. 
This chapter gives an overview  
of the Plan. Chapter 2 describes  
existing conditions within the  
Plan Area. Chapter 3 explains  
design principles for the Plan.  
Chapter 4 specifies the framework 
for development within the  Plan 
Area. Chapter 5 describes  steps 
for implementing the Plan,  
including permits and phasing.  
Vision and Goals  
Station Park Green is envisioned  
as a defining new neighborhood  
for San Mateo. It will build  on 
the City’s strong tradition  
of distinctive, high-quality  
neighborhoods. Community parks  
and landscaped thoroughfares  
will set the tone for the area  
and provide an inviting front  
door, welcoming the broader  
community to use and enjoy it.  
The overarching purpose of  
Station Park Green is to fulfill 
the  goals of the Corridor Plan—
to  foster TOD and, thereby, to  
implement San Mateo’s chosen  
approach to growth in this area. 
To capitalize on existing  transit, 
Station Park Green  will be a 
compact mix of uses  structured 
on a walkable grid  near Hayward 
Park Station. The  residential, 
retail, commercial,  and open 
space program will  provide a 
complementary and  continually 
active mix of uses.  Goods and 
services will be  convenient and 
accessible to the  neighborhood 
and the wider  public.   
Integral to its transit-oriented  
purpose, this Plan combines  
sustainability measures and  
community amenities that 
reflect  a commitment to parks 
and  environmental stewardship.  
The Plan Area’s system of 
open  spaces and pedestrian-
oriented  streets will be safe and 
attractive,  bordered by active 
uses and  residential entries, with 
multiple  ‘eyes on the street.’  
This  commitment will ensure 
that  Station Park Green is not 
only safe  and attractive for its 
residents but  also a respectful 
and beneficial  neighbor to 
existing nearby  communities.  
Based upon the aims of the  
Corridor Plan, the Preliminary  
Application, the community  
process, and multiple Planning  
Commission study sessions,  as 
well as sound planning and  
design practice, the following  
principles guide this Plan:  
•   Implement the transit-oriented  
development aims of the  
Corridor Plan. 
•   Consider the area context in                
determining the location, height,  
and density of uses. 
•   Lead with landscape, investing  
in parks and streetscape to  
establish the character of the  
area. 
•   Facilitate station-to- 
neighborhood connectivity. 
•   Create a vital center with a  
vibrant mix of uses. 
•   Design for sustainability. 
These principles are further  
detailed in Chapter 3: Guiding  
Principles.

--- page 195 ---
CHAPTER 1 OVERVIEW
FIGURE 1.01 Bird’s-eye view of Station Park Green looking east to San Francisco Bay   
5

--- page 196 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 1.02  Location of Station Park Green Specific Plan Area  
Location 
The Plan Area is located in the  
City of San Mateo, California,  
within the long-standing north-
south development corridor that  
runs between the Santa Cruz  
Mountains to the west and San  
Francisco Bay to the east. As  
shown in Figure 1.02, the Plan  
Area is situated adjacent to the  
Hayward Park Caltrain Station,  
midway between San Mateo’s  
downtown and Hillsdale stations.  
Less than one mile from the  
junction of State Route 92 (SR  92) 
and U.S. Highway 101, and  locat-
ed at an SR 92 exit, the Plan  Area 
is at a regional crossroads,  with 
convenient access to the  cities of 
San Francisco to the  north and 
San Jose to the south,  and to the 
East Bay. 
The 12-acre Plan Area lies at  
the northwest corner of Concar  
Drive and South Delaware Street,  
just north of SR 92, as shown 
in Figure 1.03. The property is 
currently occupied by retail and 
office uses—a Kmart store, offic-
es, a Michaels store, and a Shell 
station— and a large expanse of 
accessory  surface parking.   
A narrow, approximately three-
acre swath of land owned by the 
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers 
Board (Joint Powers Board or JPB) 
separates the Plan Area from the 
Caltrain rail right-of-way to the west, 
run by the Joint Powers Board. To 
the north, the Plan Area is bounded 
by the offices of the California State 
Automobile Association (AAA) and 
a U.S.  Postal Service facility.   
6

--- page 197 ---
FIGURE 1.03 Aerial view of the Plan Area in its existing condition  
7 
CHAPTER 1 OVERVIEW

--- page 198 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 1.04 Station Park Green illustrative site plan and program  
Program 
599 Residential Units 
25,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail 
10,000 to 15,000 square feet Office 
2.3 acres of Open Space  
(excluding streets and  sidewalks)  
8

--- page 199 ---
General Description  
The Station Park Green Specific 
Plan  enables, at its most basic 
level, a clustered mix of uses 
to support  transit usage. At 
another level, the Plan advances 
a sustainable, parks-oriented, and 
community-centered ethic. 
As a TOD, Station Park Green will  
contain a mix of uses to minimize  
car trips. The new neighborhood 
will include approximately 599 
residential units, 10,000 square 
feet of office space, 25,000 square 
feet of retail  space, and 2.3 
acres of publicly accessible open 
space, not including streets and 
sidewalks. The flexibility of this 
program is detailed in Chapter 4. 
Station Park Green favors either 
underground or ‘enclosed’ parking 
to enhance the vitality of the 
streets with attractive residential or  
retail ground-floor entrances. The  
preferred condition is for the Plan  
Area to operate in conjunction with 
the JPB property by creating a new 
street to connect to Garvey Way .
The office space and the 
neighborhood-serving retail uses 
will be located on pedestrian 
friendly streetscapes  
to maximize transit convenience 
and enhance the transit user’s 
experience as well as active the 
street life of the project. The Plan 
pairs ground-floor retail uses with 
a tight-knit residential character  
along The Park and Concar Drive, 
to  enliven streets with continuous 
daily activity. 
As shown in the illustrative site 
plan (Figure 1.04), the Plan has 
a walkable grid of primary and 
secondary streets, and bicycle 
connections, that link South 
Delaware Street and Concar Drive 
to the station. The connections 
through publicly accessible open 
spaces prioritizes the pedestrian 
experience. Hayward Park 
Station will be a quick walk from 
any point in the compact new  
neighborhood. Points of access to  
the neighborhood are aligned with  
existing local streets. The Plan is  
regionally and locally connected.  
It is the goal of this plan to 
integrate seamlessly with the 
adjacent JPB property by 
providing for direct connection of 
vehicular, bike and pedestrian 
ways through to the JPB 
property. Seamless integration 
and through connections 
between these two properties 
will help establish easy access 
to the transit stop and hence 
a successful transit-oriented 
neighborhood. The Plan 
envisions the JPB property 
not merely as a destination for 
people using Hayward Park 
Station but also as a through-
way for pedestrians and cyclists 
traveling in both directions 
across the railroad right-of-way 
to and from the Plan Area. The 
Emergency Vehicle  Access 
Easement (EVAE) shown 
throughout this document 
along the southwestern 
boundary of the Plan is merely 
a contingency  plan, to ensure 
required fire  safety access for 
the project.  The preferred 
condition is to develop the Plan 
Area in conjunction with the 
JPB property. 
Station Park Green will be a 
small  neighborhood with eight 
9 
diverse  open spaces—The Park, 
Park Corridor, Station Corridor, 
Gateway Park, Community Park, 
Greenway Pocket Parks, RE-3 
Courtyard, and Delaware/Concar 
Plaza—2.3 acres  in total. 
At the core of the Plan is The 
Park, a new, approximately 1.1-
acre neighborhood park, framed 
by residences and retail uses. 
Tree-lined streets will extend from 
The Park into the framework of 
walkable blocks. Green corridors  
and landscaped streets extending 
from The Park will link to open 
spaces within the Plan, as well 
as in the existing surrounding 
neighborhoods. This extension of 
The Park into the street network 
infuses the Plan with an identifiable 
and cohesive character. The 
Community Park and Gateway Park  
will connect to The Park through 
both visual and physical means. 
The Park Corridor will extend The 
Park to South Delaware Street, 
toward Nineteenth Avenue Park.  
The parks and streetscapes will also  
integrate stormwater management  
techniques.  
At the core of the Plan is The Park, a new, approximately 1.1-acre 
neighborhood park, framed by residences and retail uses. Tree-lined streets 
will extend from The Park into the framework of walkable blocks.  
CHAPTER 1 OVERVIEW

--- page 200 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
10  
The building massing and  
architecture of Station Park 
Green will be varied and 
articulated to create a high-
quality development with 
modulation and a cohesive,  
though non-uniform, identity.  
Smaller-scale residential 
buildings will create a smooth 
transition  to the existing 
residential  neighborhoods to 
the east. The concentration of  
buildings with greater height 
and density near the Caltrain 
Station aids transit ridership. 
In addition, the strategy of 
placing higher buildings 
along  Concar Drive and the 
Joint Powers Board property 
creates a buffer for The Park 
and the neighborhood from 
SR 92 and the Caltrain line.  
Graphic Note  
For the purposes of this Plan, all 
graphics addressing the Plan  Area 
at a regional or city scale are  shown 
with north oriented toward  the top 
of the document (Figure  1.05). 
However, all graphics at a local scale 
are oriented with north to the upper 
left of the document (Figure 1.06).  
Legal  
Requirements 
This Plan meets the legal  require-
ments for specific plans  estab-
lished under Section 65450 et  
seq. of the California Government  
Code and San Mateo Municipal  
Code Section 27.06.080. Specific  
Plans must include certain text  
and diagrams that specify land  
uses, utilities, provisions for  
conservation of natural resources,  
and implementation measures.   
Land uses, including residential  
and floor area densities, as well 
as  open space usable by the 
public, are described in Chapter 
4. Major infrastructure for the Plan 
is also described in Chapter 4 in 
the section entitled “Infrastructure  
Improvements.” A program of  
implementation measures is in  
Chapter 5.  
FIGURE 1.06 Orientation of all graphics at a local scale   
General 
Description
(continued)
FIGURE 1.05 Orientation of all graphics at a regional 
and  city scale

--- page 201 ---
Corridor  
Plan and   
General Plan   
Relationship 
This Plan is not intended to  
supplant the Corridor Plan, but  
to implement it. Specifically, to  
further implement Policy 7.7 of  
the Corridor Plan, the Plan Area  
is planned in a comprehensive  
manner to ensure the creation of  
a transit-oriented development  
that is consistent with the  
Corridor Plan. This Plan, like the  
Corridor Plan, is consistent with  
the General Plan.  Development  
within the Plan Area must comply  
with this Plan, the Corridor Plan  
and the General Plan.  
Public   
Participation 
Through the City’s Preliminary  
Application process, preparation 
prior to submittal of this Plan  
included formal and informal  
neighborhood meetings. Many  
more public neighborhood  
meetings and Planning  
Commission and City Council  
hearings came after application.  
These sessions brought together 
a cross-section of San Mateo  
citizens and officials to shape,  
review, and discuss the Plan and  
its relationship to the goals of 
the  Corridor Plan.   
The City originally adopted this 
Plan in 2011. Three years later, 
after development had not 
proceeded, the City amended 
this Plan.  A new round of 
community outreach occurred at 
that time. 
Overall   
Phasing 
The Plan serves to assure the 
City and the owners of land 
within the Plan  Area that 
future development  will fulfill 
its intended form and  sense 
of place. The Plan does  this 
by:  setting the location and 
specifications for roads, 
utilities, open spaces, and other 
common areas; establishing a 
block and open space pattern; 
and setting land uses, densities, 
building heights, and lot 
coverage. 
In future years, the owners of  
land within the Plan Area must  
seek additional approvals from  
the City to develop that land.  
Specifically, a development may  
not commence construction of  
a building unless the Zoning  
Administrator, the Planning  
Commission, and, for buildings  
exceeding 55 feet in height,  
the City Council, approve an  
application for site plan and  
architectural review (SPAR). It is  
anticipated that it could take ten 
years for all SPAR applications to 
11 
be complete under the Plan.  
As provided under City code,  
to approve a SPAR application,  
the decision maker must review  
detailed drawings, including floor  
plans, of all proposed buildings.   
Concurrently with approval  of 
the Plan in 2011, the City and the 
owner of the land within the Plan 
Area entered  into a contractually 
binding  development agreement, 
as described in Chapter 5:  
Implementation (Development 
Agreement). The Development 
Agreement was still in effect at the 
time that the City amended this 
Plan in 2014.
CHAPTER 1 OVERVIEW

--- page 202 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 203 ---
© =~ ae :
. ig |
|

=~ a9 : ~

: . ad —— '

—— | om || eee
6

ba



--- page 204 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Currently, the  
Plan Area includes  
over nine acres of  
impermeable surface  
parking around the  
Kmart, Michaels, and  
Shell station facilities.  
At present, only  
about six percent  
of the entire Plan  
Area is covered by  
permeable, vegetated  
surfaces in the form of  
parking lot islands.

--- page 205 ---
Introduction [ 15 ] 
Plan Area and Current Facilities [ 17 ] 
Edge Conditions  [ 18 ] 
Hayward Park Station TOD Zone  [ 18 ] 
Neighborhood Setting  [ 19 ]
      City Open Space System  [ 24 ]
 Transportation  [ 25 ] 
Environmental Setting  [ 26 ] 
Infrastructure and Utilities  [ 28 ] 
Emergency Services  [ 32 ] 
Waste and Recycling  [ 32 ] 
15 
Chapter 2 
Existing Conditions 
Station Park Green is located on approximately 
12 acres of developed land adjacent to 
the Hayward Park Station. The following 
chapter details the existing uses, character, 
transportation network, and utilities at the Plan 
Area and its edges.

--- page 206 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 2.01 Aerial view of Plan Area in its existing condition  
16

--- page 207 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
Plan Area and  
Current 
Facilities 
The Plan Area is bounded by  
South Delaware Street to the east  
and Concar Drive to the south  (Figure 
2.01). Across Concar Drive to the 
south, SR 92 rises above grade to 
cross the Caltrain right-of-way. To the 
west, the Joint Powers Board owns 
a relatively narrow, approximately 
three-acre strip of property used for 
surface parking, which separates the 
Plan Area from the Caltrain tracks. 
To the north, Garvey Way, the Post  
Office, and the AAA office building  
sit between the Plan Area and  
residential properties along East 16th 
Avenue.  
The Plan Area is currently occupied  
by retail and office uses, including  
Kmart store, offices, Michaels store, 
a Shell gas station, and their surface  
parking areas. The Kmart store is  
located generally in the middle of  
the 12 acres, significantly set back  
from its primary vehicular access  on 
South Delaware Street. This vehicular 
access is opposite the entrance 
to the Nineteenth Avenue Park 
neighborhood across South  
Delaware Street.  
FIGURE 2.02 Kmart building and  
parking lot, facing east 
The Kmart building is  
approximately 37 feet tall and  
has about 148,000 square feet  
of retail space on two floors,  
plus office and storage space. 
A large expanse of surface 
parking surrounds the  store 
(Figures 2.02, 2.03, 2.04).  A 
narrow buffer of landscape  
separates the parking lot from  
South Delaware Street. Within  
the parking lot, small islands  
with mulch support small trees.  
Between the Shell station and  
the AAA building, the edge  
of the Plan Area along South  
Delaware Street is very open,  
with no building edge defining  
the space of the street.  
FIGURE 2.03 Plan Area with Kmart 
parking lot, facing southeast 
The Michaels store is located  
southeast of the Kmart building  
with frontage on Concar Drive.  
An arts-and-crafts supply store,  
Michaels occupies a building 
of approximately 19,000 square  
feet that is approximately 21-feet 
high. Vehicular access to Michaels  
exists opposite the access ramps  
to SR 92. Except for its eastern  
boundary with the Shell station,  
the Michaels property is also sur-
rounded by surface parking and 
rudimentary landscape. 
The Shell gas station sits at  the 
northwest corner of the intersec-
tion of Concar Drive and South 
Delaware Street. Its facilities in-
clude an auto service station, gas 
pump canopy, and car wash.  
17 
FIGURE 2.04 Kmart building and  
parking lot, facing northwest 
Currently, the Plan Area includes  
over nine acres of impermeable  
surface parking around the 
Kmart, Michaels, and Shell station 
facilities. At present, only about 
six percent of the entire Plan Area 
consists of permeable, vegetated 
surfaces in the form of parking lot 
islands.

--- page 208 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
18  
FIGURE 2.05 Concar Drive and Michaels store, facing east  
FIGURE 2.06 South Delaware Street and Shell Station, facing northwest  
Edge   
Conditions 
The immediate edges of the Plan 
Area are public streets, surface  
parking for the AAA building, 
and the Joint Powers Board 
property, which is also mostly 
surface parking. Because the 
existing Kmart, Michaels, and 
Shell station facilities are set 
back from the sidewalks, there 
is little streetwall definition 
along either the South Delaware 
Street or Concar Drive corridors. 
South Delaware Street, Concar 
Drive, and the Joint Powers 
Board property that surround 
the Plan Area have some 
streetscape improvements 
including sidewalks, street 
trees, low shrubs, tree grates, 
mulching, small lawn areas, and 
pedestrian lighting. Along all 
streets, the Plan Area edges are 
open and almost entirely paved, 
with predominant views of the 
surface parking lots and limited 
streetscape features within the 
Plan Area (Figures 2.05,  
2.06).  
As noted in Chapter 1, this Plan  is 
intended to implement the Corridor 
Plan. In turn, the intent of the Corri-
dor Plan is to allow, encourage, and 
provide guidance for the creation 
of  Transit Oriented Development 
(TOD). The area covered by this 
Plan is an approximately 12-acre 
portion of the Hayward Park Station 
TOD Zone. 
The remainder of the Hayward 
Park Station TOD Zone includes 
property owned and operated 
by the Joint Powers Board to the 
west, and AAA and the U.S. Postal 
Service to the north.  
Hayward Park 
Station TOD Zone

--- page 209 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
Neighborhood   
Setting  
Aspects of the Plan—including  
the land use program, massing,  
height, circulation pattern, and 
open space system—account  
for the possibility of future 
development of the remainder 
of the Hayward Park TOD 
Zone in conformity with the 
Corridor Plan. Specifically, the 
block and street system for 
the Plan Area is aligned with 
those of neighboring parcels,  
should redevelopment of the  
remaining land in the TOD 
Zone occur. 
Moreover, as discussed in 
Chapter 5, this Plan may 
be amended. Such an 
amendment could, if the City 
so approves, enlarge the 
Plan Area to encompass the 
entire TOD Zone. Details on 
the amendment process are 
provided in Chapter 5.  
The Plan Area lies amidst a 
mix of uses including service 
commercial and single- and 
multi-family residential uses. 
Mid- and high-rise commercial 
properties are located to the 
south and southeast of the 
Plan Area, along Concar Drive 
and SR 92. To the north and 
northeast, beyond the existing 
Post Office and AAA, the uses 
are predominantly single- and 
multi-family residential. Further  
implementation of the Corridor 
Plan and San Mateo City Zoning 
suggest that the area covered 
by this Plan will, in the future, be 
surrounded by TOD uses, except 
for Nineteenth Avenue Park to 
the northeast. Though the Plan 
Area is closest to the Nineteenth 
Avenue Park neighborhood, 
Hayward Park, Sunnybrae and 
Fiesta Gardens are nearby as 
well. The street networks  of 
these neighborhoods are shown  
in Figure 2.07.  
FIGURE 2.07 Plan Area with surrounding neighborhoods and streets  
19 
Plan Area
Creek
Caltrain

--- page 210 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Caltrain Station  
and Parking  
 
The Caltrain right-of-way runs 
north-south, west of the Plan 
Area. The rail is elevated slightly 
above the surrounding land-
scape, and low areas along the 
tracks function as ad-hoc storm-
water channels (Figure 2.08). 
Caltrain’s Hayward Park Station 
is located just north of the SR 92 
overpass, where Concar Drive 
intersects with Pacific Boulevard. 
At both ends of the station plat-
form there are at-grade pedestri-
an crossings  over the tracks. 
The Plan Area does not abut  
the Caltrain right-of-way; it is  
separated by property owned  
by the Joint Powers Board.  
This narrow, approximately 
three-acre property consists of 
surface parking for the station.  
Chain-linked fencing and narrow  
landscape strips buffer the Joint 
Powers Board property  from 
surrounding uses (Figure  
2.09). Across the tracks to the  
west of the rail, there is a mix of  
service commercial, community  
commercial and multi-family  
residential uses, which is also  
zoned for TOD.  
FIGURE 2.08 Caltrain right-of-way facing south to SR 92 overpass  
FIGURE 2.09 Joint Powers Board property, seen from the Caltrain station,  
facing east  
Concar Drive 
To the south, Concar Drive  
separates the Plan Area from  
large commercial properties  
along the SR 92 corridor (Figure  
2.10). These commercial buildings  
are set back from Concar Drive  
and surrounded by surface  
parking lots. The elevated SR  
92 rises to approximately 35  
feet above grade behind these  
buildings to pass over the Caltrain  
right-of-way (Figure 2.11).  
Entrance and exit ramps for the  
SR 92 intersect with Concar Drive  
near the entrance to Michaels. 
As shown in Figure 2.12, the scale  
of the existing development on  
Concar Drive is higher than the  
residential uses to the north and  
northeast of the Plan Area. Within  
a half-mile of Station Park Green,  
there are buildings of between  
five and ten stories along Concar  
Drive and the SR 92 corridor. 
800 and 900 Concar Drive are  
each five stories plus mechanical  
penthouse; the Marriott Hotel is  
six stories; and the buildings of  
The Crossroads are ten stories,  
approximately 140 feet in height.  
20

--- page 211 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
Immediately south of SR 92 
is a cluster of light-industrial 
and service commercial uses. 
This area is separated from the 
Plan Area by the elevated SR 
92. Access to these properties 
is accomplished via Pacific 
Boulevard which runs along 
the eastern side of the Caltrain 
right-of-way and connects to 
Concar Drive at the Hayward 
Park Caltrain Station, shown in 
Figure 2.11.  
FIGURE 2.12 Aerial view of the Plan Area, with Caltrain, the Joint Powers Board  
property, Kmart, Michaels, and surface parking in the foreground, and in the  back-
ground, higher commercial development  
21 
FIGURE 2.10 Concar Drive and commercial properties, facing east  
FIGURE 2.11 SR 92 overpass over Pacific Boulevard, at the intersection of  
Concar Drive, facing south

--- page 212 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
22    
The remainder of the block  
located north and outside of 
the Plan Area includes the AAA 
and the Post Office (Figure 
2.13). The AAA and the Post 
Office both front on South 
Delaware Street (Figure 2.14). 
These buildings are set back 
from the street, separated by 
dedicated surface parking. 
Deliveries, service functions, 
and employee parking for the 
Post Office are located behind 
the facility and accessed by 
Garvey Way, a public street.  
Trees and ground cover provide 
minimal landscape buffers  
between the Post Office and  
AAA and the Plan Area. Also  
outside the Plan Area, beyond  
the U.S. Postal Service property  
and behind residences on 16th  
Avenue, Leslie Creek channel  
is a concrete-lined channel 
that flows east-northeast under 
South Delaware Street to the 
Marina Lagoon (Figure 2.15).   
FIGURE 2.13 Post Office at the corner of Garvey Way and South Delaware  
Street, with AAA in the background  
FIGURE 2.14 South Delaware Street at AAA, facing southeast  
FIGURE 2.15 Leslie Creek channel  
AAA, Post Office, and Leslie Creek Channel

--- page 213 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
South Delaware Street and Nineteenth Avenue Park  
To the east, South Delaware Street  
separates the Plan Area from the  
Nineteenth Avenue Park neighborhood.   
A community developed by builder  
Joseph Eichler in the 1950s, the  
Nineteenth Avenue Park neighborhood  
consists of single- and multi-family  
residences. These houses are oriented  
away from South Delaware Street; they  
front on Eleanor Drive within the internal  
Nineteenth Avenue Park neighborhood  
street network. One access road, Charles  
Lane, leads into Nineteenth Avenue Park  
from South Delaware Street. 
The residences of Nineteenth Avenue  
Park are separated from the Plan Area by 
South Delaware Street. South Delaware  
Street has four travel lanes and one  
turning lane, for a total right-of-way  
width of approximately 70 feet, including  
sidewalks. In addition, as shown in  
Figure 2.16, a high wooden fence and  
streetscape with mature trees along the  
eastern side of South Delaware Street  
significantly buffer the homes within  
Nineteenth Avenue Park from traffic on  
South Delaware Street, as well as from  
the Plan Area beyond.  
23 
FIGURE 2.16 Substantial vegetated buffer between South Delaware Street and the Nineteenth Avenue Park 
neighborhood

--- page 214 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Figure 2.17 Public open space in San Mateo  
24
The City of San Mateo includes  
substantial park and open space  
acreage within its boundaries,  
especially along its boundary  
with San Francisco Bay. Notably,  
Central Park in downtown San 
Mateo sets a high standard for  
public open spaces in the City  
(Figure 2.17). 
Despite this existing acreage 
and  tradition of park design 
in the City, the Plan Area is 
located in  a part of the City 
with a relative dearth of public 
open space. Within one half-
mile of the Plan Area, there 
are three small parks. These 
are the Concar playground 
in Nineteenth Avenue Park, 
Sunnybrae playground on  
Folkstone Avenue, and Trinta 
Park on Palm Avenue, which 
has two baseball fields and a 
basketball  court.   
The Leslie Creek channel is 
zoned  as an open space. While 
the channel supports some 
natural features, it would require 
more improvement to become a 
natural trail.  
City Open Space System

--- page 215 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
Transportation  
Immediately adjacent to transit  
and the state highway system,  
the Plan Area is exceptionally  
well connected to the region’s  
transportation networks.  
Transit 
Caltrain, the north-south  
commuter rail line on the  
Peninsula, and SamTrans, the  
primary bus service for San 
Mateo  County, both provide 
transit  service to the Plan Area. 
Caltrain 
The Hayward Park Caltrain 
Station  provides local service. 
Also  during peak hours, a 
Caltrain  shuttle bus operates 
an hourly  service that is 
synchronized with  the train 
between the Hayward  Park 
Caltrain Station, various  local 
office buildings, and the  
Lakeshore and Fiesta Gardens  
neighborhoods. 
The Hillsdale Caltrain station,  
located approximately 1.5 miles  
south of the Plan Area, provides  
both local and express (Baby  
Bullet) train service. SamTrans 
and  several employee and 
residential   
shuttle services operate at the  
Hillsdale Station.  
SamTrans 
SamTrans Bus Routes 292 and 35 
run along South Delaware Street,  
providing direct bus service to  
the Plan Area. This route operates  
between Hillsdale Shopping  
Center and downtown San  
Francisco. 
Road Network 
The Plan Area is surrounded  
by readily accessible local  
arterials and major highways.  
The Plan accounts for possible  
reconfiguration of the SR 92  
interchange with Concar Drive, as  
well as the City’s plans to narrow  
South Delaware Street. 
•  State Route 92 (SR 92):  Just  
south of Concar Drive, SR 92  is 
a four- to six-lane, east-west  
freeway that extends from Half  
Moon Bay in west San Mateo  
County across the San Francisco  
Bay via the San Mateo Bridge  
to Hayward in Alameda County.  
Prior to intersecting US 101 to  
the east, SR 92 is four lanes. East  
of US 101, SR 92 becomes six  
lanes. 
•  Concar Drive:  This two- to four-
lane, east-west arterial borders  
the Plan Area to the south. SR 92  
westbound on- and off- ramps  
are located roughly at the north-
south access to the Plan Area at  
Concar Drive. 
•  South Delaware Street:  This  
is a two- to four-lane (with  an 
additional turning lane),  north-
south arterial bordering  the 
eastern edge of the Plan  Area. 
Eastbound SR 92 on- and  off- 
ramps are located at the  SR 
92/South Delaware Street  
interchange, south of the South  
Delaware Street/Concar Drive  
intersection and the Plan Area. 
•  East 16th Avenue:  Located  
north of the Plan Area, this is a  
four-lane collector which runs  
east-west between US 101 and  
the Caltrain tracks. 
•  US Highway 101 (US 101):  This  
is an eight-lane, north-south  
freeway less than one-half mile  
from the Plan Area. US 101  
extends northward through San  
Francisco and across the Golden  
Gate Bridge, and southward  
through San Jose toward Morgan 
Hill. Access to the Plan Area is  
provided via an interchange at  
SR 92.  
25 
Parking 
The Plan Area currently includes  
approximately 700 parking spaces  
in over nine acres of surface lots  
to serve the Kmart and Michaels  
retail stores. Separated from these 
parking lots by a chain-linked 
fence are approximately 200 
spaces at the Joint Powers  Board 
property to the west. 
No on-street parking is currently  
permitted along the Plan Area  
frontage. On-street parking of a  
half-dozen vehicles is allowed on  
the south side of Concar Drive  
west of the SR 92 westbound on-  
and off- ramps.

--- page 216 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
26 
San Mateo is situated on the San 
Francisco Peninsula, between  
the Santa Cruz Mountains and  
San Francisco Bay. Because it is 
positioned on the Bay side of  
the Peninsula, the City has all  
the typical physical and climatic  
features of lower-lying areas  
around the Bay. 
Climate 
The San Francisco Bay Area 
has drastically varying micro-
climates.  San Mateo’s location 
affords it a very mild climate. 
The average high temperature is 
roughly 65 degrees Fahrenheit, 
varying  from 55 degrees in 
January to 75 degrees in August. 
Average low temperatures range 
from 40 degrees to 55 degrees. 
The San Francisco Bay Area  
experiences distinct rainy and 
dry seasons. The rainy season 
generally occurs between  
October and April, with a total 
annual average rainfall of 19 
inches per year measured  
at nearby San Francisco  
International Airport. The 
dry season generally occurs 
between May and September 
with generally negligible rainfall.  
The general exposure of the Plan 
Area to prevailing winds, sun, noise 
from SR 92 and Caltrain, and storm 
drainage is shown in Figure 2.18.  
Topography 
The Plan Area’s existing high point  
is located near its center, at the  
finished floor level of the Kmart  
building, at approximately +107 feet 
(adjusted City datum). The Michaels  
store is located southeast of Kmart,  
and has a finished floor elevation  
of approximately +105 feet. From  
its center the Plan Area slopes  
downward in all directions toward its 
boundaries. The highest boundary  
elevation is along the western edge  
adjacent to the Joint Powers Board  
property, at an elevation of +106.2  
feet. The lowest boundary elevation  
is along the northeastern edge  
adjacent to South Delaware Street, 
at  +100.7 feet. 
Air Quality 
According to the California  
Environmental Protection  
Agency’s Air Quality and Land Use  
Handbook (April 2005), freeways  
and major arterial roads within  
1,000 feet upwind of residential  
developments are a source of  
air pollution that result in higher  
than average adverse health  
impacts. As shown in Figure 2.18,  
although the Plan Area is within  
1,000 feet of SR 92, the freeway  
is downwind, not upwind, of the  
Plan Area. Thus, this potential air-
quality issue is minimized. 
 
Soil 
At present, the Plan Area is almost 
entirely covered with buildings  
and solid pavement. Previously,  
the Kmart building was used  
by Montgomery Ward, another  
general retailer. The Michaels  
building was once an automobile  
service center. The third existing  
land use within the Plan Area 
is  a Shell gas station located at 
the  corner of Concar Drive and 
South  Delaware Street. A Phase 
I Environmental Assessment  
for the Kmart and Shell station  
properties (EarthTech, Inc., July  
2006) recommended no further  
investigation. 
The existing asphalt pavement  
that covers the Plan Area is  of 
varying thickness, averaging  
two inches where vehicles 
pass. There are some small 
landscaped areas, mainly 
islands of plantings scattered 
throughout the parking lot. 
Beneath the pavement is a 
layer of artificial fill that varies 
between 1.5- and six-feet thick.  
The classification of artificial fill is 
highly variable, containing poorly 
graded gravel, clayey gravel, 
poorly graded sand, silty sand, or 
clayey sand. Below the artificial 
fill is Bay Mud, which  varies from 
one-foot thick near  the western 
boundary of the Plan  Area to six-
feet thick near South  Delaware 
Street. The upper one to two feet 
of Bay Mud is highly organic and 
contains decaying vegetation. 
Below the Bay Mud, a medium-
stiff, lean clay layer covers 
the majority of the Plan Area.  
Alluvium was also found below 
the Bay Mud. Below the stiff-
lean clay, the alluvium deposit 
is mainly silt or clay with sand 
and gravel. Small zones of 
predominantly sand or gravel 
were also encountered. The depth 
to bedrock is unknown.   
Environmental Setting

--- page 217 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
FIGURE 2.18 General exposure of the Plan Area to wind, sun, and noise, and drainage conditions  
27

--- page 218 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
28  
Infrastructure and Utilities  
The Plan Area contains a shallow  
groundwater table located above  
the Bay Mud material that varies  
from +96 to +103 feet (adjusted  
City datum). This groundwater 
table  fluctuates seasonally, and is 
probably  controlled by water levels 
in Marina  Lagoon and by seasonal 
rainfall. A  second groundwater 
zone may occur  in the Plan Area 
approximately 17 to  30 feet 
underground. If penetrated,  the 
static level of this confined  aquifer 
is approximately five feet  below 
existing grade.  
The Plan Area is not within an  
Earthquake Fault Zone, as 
defined  by the Alquist-Priolo 
Earthquake  Fault Zoning Act, and 
no known  active faults exist there. 
In a  seismically active area such 
as  Northern California, the remote  
possibility exists for future faulting  
in areas where no faults previously  
existed; however, the risk of surface  
faulting and consequent secondary  
ground failure is very low. (Source:  
San Mateo Corridor Plan and Bay  
Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment  EIR 4.13-6.)  
The Plan Area lies within a part  
of San Mateo that has been  
developed for many decades, and 
it  is well served by infrastructure 
and utilities. 
Storm Drainage 
The Plan Area falls entirely 
within  the tributary area of 
Leslie Creek  channel (formerly 
known as the  16th Avenue 
Channel). Leslie  Creek 
channel flows northeasterly  to 
Marina Lagoon, which, in turn,  
discharges to San Francisco 
Bay.  The Marina Lagoon water 
surface  elevation is controlled 
by the City.  There are no offsite 
flows through  or onto the Plan 
Area. 
At present, the Plan Area is 
almost  entirely covered by 
impermeable  surfaces, including 
building roofs  and over nine 
acres of asphalt  parking lots. 
Approximately six  percent of the 
Plan Area consists  of permeable, 
vegetated surfaces,  in the form 
of parking lot islands.  Rainfall is 
captured on-site and  conveyed 
directly to the City storm  drains.  
The Plan Area has three distinct,  
on-site drainage systems, shown  
in Figure 2.19. These are the  
Western, Northern, and Eastern  
systems: 
•  Western system:  This captures  
and conveys flows from the  
parking lot to the west of the  
existing Kmart building. Catch  
basins located along the Joint  
Powers Board property line  
connect to an 18-inch storm  
drain located in Concar Drive. 
•  Northern system:  The roof drain  
from the existing Kmart building  
connects to a catch basin located  
at the southwestern end of  
Garvey Way. This catch basin  
drains a significant proportion  of 
the parking lot north of the  Kmart 
building, and it discharges  to an 
18-inch City storm drain,  which, 
in turn, discharges to the  Leslie 
Creek channel. 
•  Eastern system:  This system  
captures flows from the parking  
lots to the south and east of  the 
Kmart building via a series  of 
catch basins. It connects to a  
39-inch City storm drain in South  
Delaware Street at Charles Lane.  
Using a 51-inch pipe, this storm  
drain, in turn, connects to the  
Leslie Creek channel outfall.  
The 18-inch City storm drain in  
Concar Drive conveys flows from  
the south of the Plan Area to  the 
intersection of Concar Drive  and 
South Delaware Street, just  beyond 
the southeastern point of  the Plan 
Area. The Shell station  connects 
directly to this 18-inch  City storm 
drain in Concar Drive. 
The 39-inch South Delaware  
Street storm drain conveys  run-off 
from a small watershed  between 
Concar Drive and SR  92. The 
South Delaware Street  storm drain 
outfalls directly to  Leslie Creek 
channel in a 12-foot  by 6-foot box 
culvert that allows  Leslie Creek 
channel to flow  under South 
Delaware Street.

--- page 219 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
FIGURE 2.19 Existing storm drainage system  
Existing Storm Drain to Remain 
Existing Storm Drain to be Removed 
Specific Plan Area Boundary 
Existing Outfall to Leslie Creek channel 
29

--- page 220 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Figure 2.20 Existing wastewater collection and treatment system  
Sewers 
Collection and treatment of  
wastewater in the Plan Area is  
provided by the City. As shown  
in Figure 2.20, existing facilities  
serving the Plan Area include: 
33” Delaware Trunk 
This trunk sewer line runs along  
the eastern edge of the Plan  
Area in South Delaware Street. It  
collects flows from properties and  
areas adjacent to South Delaware  
Street, including the 845-acre  
San Mateo Village watershed  
catchment, Fiesta Gardens, the  
San Mateo County Exposition  
Center, the Bay Meadows Phase  
One redevelopment, and the  
City’s Mongini and Santa Clara lift  
stations. The trunk line discharges  
to the Dale Avenue Pump Station,  
from which the flow is pumped  
to the San Mateo Wastewater  
Treatment Plant.  
Existing Sewer to Remain 
Sewer to be Removed 
Specific Plan Area Boundary  
30

--- page 221 ---
CHAPTER 2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 
El Camino Real By-Pass 
In 2001 the City commissioned  
the City of San Mateo City-
Wide Sewer System Study  
which indicated that there is  
a significant capacity deficit 
in  all of the major trunks in 
the  southern trunk system due 
largely to high infiltration and 
inflow. Accordingly, a bypass 
from the El Camino Real trunk 
sewer line was constructed 
in recent years along Concar 
Drive, to alleviate surcharge 
of the El Camino Real trunk 
during storm events. This  
30-inch sewer line connects 
to the South Delaware Street 
trunk line at the intersection of 
Concar Drive. 
Plan Area 
Within the Plan Area itself, an 
8-inch line collects sanitary 
sewer flows from the existing 
Kmart and Michaels sites, 
and connects to the 30-inch 
El Camino Real bypass line in 
Concar Drive.  
Water 
Water service for the Plan Area  
is provided by the California  
Water Service Company 
(CWSC). CWSC obtains its water 
from  the San Francisco Public 
Utilities Commission (SFPUC) 
through connections in the 
northwest part of the City of 
San Mateo. Water distribution 
mains in the Plan Area include a 
10-inch and 8-inch main in South 
Delaware Street, an eight-inch 
main in Concar Drive, an eight-
inch main in Garvey Way, and 
a 24-inch high-pressure main 
in South Delaware Street. A 
12-inch water main, branching 
from the 10-inch South Delaware 
Street main, serves the Plan 
Area by looping around the 
Kmart building. The loop 
consists of a 12-inch pipe along 
the southern side of the building 
and an eight-inch pipe along 
the north. The eight-inch main 
in Garvey Way extends south 
into the property to intercept 
the building loop, creating a 
secondary loop.  
Electricity and Gas 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
(PG&E) provides electrical and 
natural gas service to the Plan 
Area. 
Electrical service is supplied by  
both overhead and underground  
lines. Low-voltage electrical lines  
are fixed to overhead utility poles  
that are located along the entire  
length of Concar Drive adjacent to  
the Plan Area. The service feeds to  
the existing buildings in the Plan  
Area are located underground. 
A two-inch natural gas line is  
located underneath the sidewalk on  
the northern side of Concar Drive  
and along the western edge of  
South Delaware Street. In addition,  
a high-pressure, 24-inch gas line 
is located in the center of South 
Delaware Street.  
31 
Telecommunications 
Telecommunications cables are  
fixed to overhead utility poles  
along the entire length of Concar  
Drive adjacent to the Plan Area.  
Multiple telecommunication  
companies provide services to  
the area.

--- page 222 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Emergency  
Services 
San Mateo Fire Department’s  
Station 23, located at 27th and  
Edison streets, serves as the  
first response unit for the Plan  
Area. However, due to the City  
of San Mateo’s participation in  
the San Mateo County Boundary 
Drop Program, the first response 
can also come from the nearest  
available apparatus throughout  
the County.  
The San Mateo Police  
Department has facilities at  
the intersection of Hillsdale  
Boulevard and Saratoga Drive,  
approximately one half-mile 
south  of the Plan Area.  
Waste and  
Recycling 
Recology (formerly Allied Waste) 
provides solid-waste disposal 
for the Plan Area.  Solid waste 
is transferred to Recology’s Ox 
Mountain facility.  
32

--- page 223 ---


--- page 224 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Guiding Principles: 
Implement the   
Corridor Plan 
Consider the Context 
Lead with Landscape 
Connect the Station to 
the Neighborhood  
Create a Vital Center 
Design for Sustainability

--- page 225 ---
Introduction  [ 35 ] 
Implement the Corridor Plan  [ 37 ] 
Consider the Context  [ 39 ] 
Lead with Landscape  [ 41 ] 
 Connect the Station to the Neighborhood  [ 43 ] 
Create a Vital Center  [ 45 ] 
Design for Sustainability  [ 47 ] 
35 
Chapter 3 
Guiding Principles 
By building upon a basic set of design principles,  this 
Plan establishes a vision of how Station Park  Green will 
look, feel, and operate when it is  completed. These 
basic principles range from ideas  about land use and 
built form, through vehicular,  bicycle and pedestrian 
access assumptions, to  ecological goals. The principles 
were established  based on existing conditions and 
constraints, such  as the Plan Area’s unique physical 
characteristics and  economic realities, as well as 
normative values of  placemaking.

--- page 226 ---
SAN MATEO
RA

IDOR

PMENT PLAN

| TRANSIT: -ORIENTED CORR

Adopted June 6, 2005

|

|


--- page 227 ---
CHAPTER 3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
37 
Implement the Corridor Plan 
This Plan further develops and expresses the objectives and policies of the Corridor  
Plan. Indeed, the central objective of this Plan is to implement the vision of that ear-
lier document, by enabling the development of a public-spirited and transit-oriented  
neighborhood. In this way, Station Park Green is envisioned as a place worthy of the  
Hayward Park Caltrain Station, the existing residential neighborhoods that surround  
the Plan Area, and the City of San Mateo as a whole. 
The vision of Station Park Green, established by this Plan, will realize the vision of the  
Corridor Plan within the Plan Area. The objectives and policies of the Corridor Plan  
are applied throughout, including:  
•   An interconnected street system  
that integrates with San Mateo’s  
surrounding residential fabric  
(Policy 4.1 and 6.32) 
•   Multi-family uses developed  
at transit-supportive densities  
(Policy 5.9) 
•   Diversity in architecture, building  
types, and unit types (Policies  
6.12 and 6.30 ) 
•   Fine-grained massing and  
articulation of buildings,  
constructed close to sidewalks  
(Policies 6.15, 6.16, and 6.33) 
•   Neighborhood- and commuter-
serving retail uses, including  
specialty uses that enhance  
neighborhood services (Policies  
5.12 and 5.13)  
•   Height limitations of 35 feet along  
South Delaware Street and 55 feet  
elsewhere (Policies 5.14 and 5.15).  
Height shall be measured per  
pages 66 and 67 of this Plan. 
•   Street designs that emphasize  
pedestrian comfort and safety  
while calming traffic (Policies 4.6, 
4.8, 6.4, 6.5, and 6.32) 
•   One-way “Park Streets”  that allow  
auto circulation around parks while  
minimizing pedestrian crossing  
distances (Policy 4.11) 
•   Placement and orientation of  
the park along the major visual  
and pedestrian link to the station  
(Policies 4.16 and 5.10)
•  Water-quality protection and  
environmental responsibility  
integrated into streetscapes,  
buildings, parking, and open  
space (Policies 6.11 and 6.35) 
•  Design of new buildings to  
be pedestrian-friendly and  
compatible with local styles  
    (Policy 6.2, 6.19, 6.30, 6.33, and  
6.34) 
•  Does not significantly increase  
traffic levels on residential streets  
in existing neighborhoods (Policy  
4.3, 4.12 and 7.11)

--- page 228 ---
-_. .

we

2 :

a: _™ on
my ad .
A
Y ]

;



--- page 229 ---
39 
Consider the Context 
Station Park Green is not merely located within San Mateo but will be an integral part  
of the City. Its design reflects careful consideration of adjacent neighborhoods, the  
existing street network, ongoing urban planning efforts, and available transportation  
resources. The Plan does this by:  
•	 Providing for new 
neighborhood-serving retail 
uses. 
  
•	 Designing a street network that  
reflects San Mateo’s existing  
residential grid and integrates  
with existing streets 
  
•	 Ensuring residential densities  
and intensities of retail and 
office uses appropriate to the 
area’s  proximity to Caltrain
 
•	 Planning for seamless potential  
future expansion of the Plan  
Area to include the Joint 
Powers Board, AAA, and U.S. 
Postal Service properties  
 
•	 Reducing building heights  
along South Delaware Street to  
present a form compatible with  
the Nineteenth Avenue Park  
neighborhood 
•	 Locating the greatest building  
heights and use densities 
toward the southern and 
southwestern portions of the 
Plan Area, to mitigate traffic 
noise and prevailing westerly 
winds 
  
 CHAPTER 3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES

--- page 230 ---


--- page 231 ---
41 
Lead with Landscape  
The framework for Station Park Green is its network of landscaped, publicly accessible  
open spaces. In turn, the key to that open space network is an approximately 1.1-acre  
park at the very heart of the neighborhood, called “The Park.” The Park will extend out 
through the streets connected by the Gateway Park and Community Park. Together 
with the tree-lined streets within the Plan Area, these elements form a network of open 
spaces that comprises the public realm for Station Park Green. The Plan ensures the 
central importance and high quality of the public realm by:  
•  Setting The Park as the defining  
feature for Station Park Green,  
visible at its heart and from  
adjoining streets, and inviting  
enjoyment by residents, neighbors 
and station users alike
 •  Connecting Concar Drive to 
Garvey Way through a continuous 
set of green linear parks, hosting 
a variety of uses, from passive 
strolling to active play
•   Extending the influence 
of The  Park into all of the 
neighborhood’s  public spaces 
through related  materials and 
design treatments,  following 
City-approved guidelines   
•  Providing a more intimate 
courtyards  for local residents, 
with a more serene character 
befitting their location and scale 
•  Planning for the continuation 
of the emerging regional trail  
system through the Hayward  
Park Station TOD Zone  
 
•   Linking the publicly accessible  
open space network to and  
integrating it with private 
stoops,  porches, mews, and 
gardens  within the Plan Area  
 CHAPTER 3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES

--- page 232 ---


--- page 233 ---
43 
Connect the Station to   
the Neighborhood  
Station Park Green presents an opportunity to reintegrate the station area, which 
is currently disrupted by auto-dominated uses, with the urban fabric around it. As a 
contingency, the Plan provides for an Emergency Vehicle Access Easement (EVAE) 
along the Plan Area boundary with the JPB property. However, the preferred approach 
would be to develop both properties together seamlessly, with active uses facing 
the Caltrain Station. The development of a vital, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood 
will facilitate station access for both new and existing residents, with clear, direct 
connections drawing  people to and through the Plan Area. The Plan does this by:  
•   Facilitating clear, direct 
pedestrian  and visual 
connections to the  Hayward 
Park Station, particularly  from 
Concar Drive and Charles  Lane 
•   Providing a densely 
interconnected  network for 
pedestrian circulation,  including 
generous sidewalks,  frequent 
crossings, and through-block 
pathways  
•   Using traffic-calming techniques  
to reduce vehicular speeds in the  
neighborhood 
•   Creating a street network that  
connects efficiently to existing  
streets, from Concar Drive in  
alignment with the SR 92 off-
ramp and from South Delaware  
Street in alignment with Charles  
Lane of Nineteenth Avenue Park  
•   Providing retail and services  
for commuters using the train  
station and nearby residents 
•   Parking will primarily be 
enclosed with retail and 
residential uses, to maximize the  
pedestrian orientation of streets  
and open space  
 CHAPTER 3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES

--- page 234 ---


--- page 235 ---
45 
Create a Vital Center 
Station Park Green will become a vibrant hub of activity where asphalt dominates today.  
Added activities and amenities will create a new meeting ground for commuters, 
residents, and shoppers. The Plan does this by:  
•   Providing a new transit-oriented  
neighborhood near the Hayward  
Park Station for the shared  
enjoyment of surrounding  
residents 
•   Concentrating density near the  
Hayward Park Station and around  
a large park and the larger streets 
•   Including a range of housing  
types, such as studios, 1-, 2-, and 
3-bedroom units, in  addition to 
retail and some office  uses, at 
densities sufficient to  support 
both transit ridership  and 
neighborhood vitality 
•   Drawing visitors to and through  
the neighborhood with clear  
connections and comfortable  
and attractive streets and open  
spaces 
•   Locating parking to avoid  
interference with building  
entrances, retail spaces, and  
pedestrian access points 
 
•   Providing for uses and  
activities that will keep the new  
neighborhood active into the  
evenings and weekends 
•   Orienting buildings toward  
streets and parks to provide  
emphasis and spatial definition  
to the public realm  
•   Creating and supporting a  
distinctive visual identity through 
excellent architectural, urban,  
and landscape design  
 CHAPTER 3 GUIDING PRINCIPLES

--- page 236 ---


--- page 237 ---
47 
Design for Sustainability 
Station Park Green exemplifies a sustainable pattern of development, which creates  
compact, diverse, vibrant places. It recycles underutilized land near existing transit  
facilities, converting an auto-dominated area of asphalt into a community-oriented 
place around people. By providing more services and amenities near mass transit, 
the  Plan facilitates access by proximity, reducing the need for travel and supporting  
transit ridership. Careful planning allows a thorough and proactive consideration  
of environmental factors from stormwater management to energy efficiency to  
transportation. The Plan is compatible with LEED for Neighborhood Development 
(LEED-ND) certification. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED-ND program 
emphasizes the creation of vibrant, walkable, mixed-use communities that reduce the 
impact of urban sprawl and contribute to healthier living. The Plan furthers the following 
sustainable practices:  
•   Recycling underused, auto-
dominated land 
•   Concentrating diverse activities  
close to one another 
•   Developing densities near mass  
transit—encouraging transit use  
by proximity 
•   Managing transportation  
demand through amenities that  
support transit use  
•   Facilitating safe, comfortable  
station access by pedestrians  and 
bicyclists 
•   Providing bicycle parking and  
addressing bicycle circulation in  
street design 
•   Incorporating the emerging  
     regional trail network  
 
•   Addressing solar access and wind 
impacts through sensitive site 
design 
•   Integrating stormwater  
management into site design 
•   Incorporating green building 
systems, materials, and  
technology wherever feasible

--- page 238 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 239 ---


--- page 240 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Neighborhood  parks 
are at the  heart 
of the design  and 
development  concept 
for this Plan.  A set 
of interconnected, 
welcoming, and 
memorable open 
spaces—The Park, 
Gateway Park, and 
Community Park— 
will establish the  
identity of this new  
city district. The feel 
of The Park will reach 
out to South Delaware 
Street and invite the 
public to share and 
enjoy it.

--- page 241 ---
51 
Chapter 4 
Development Standards 
Development of Station Park Green comes with both 
opportunity and responsibility. The opportunity is to 
deliver to the City a new mixed-use development that 
in its design and management is a proud addition 
to the family of remarkable living experiences in San 
Mateo. At the same time, there is a responsibility to 
respect and fully utilize the scarce resource of public 
transit accessibility, by clustering attractive, intense 
development at transit stations. San Mateo has 
identified only a few locations for such transit-oriented 
developments, and sets them out as showcases for 
good urban living.  
Introduction  [ 51 ]
Overview  [ 52 ]
Concepts  [ 53 ]
Station Engagement  [ 56 ]
Regulatory Context  [ 58 ]
Block Pattern and Open Space  [ 59 ]
Land Use and Density  [ 61 ]
Heights and Typologies  [ 67 ]
Open Space System  [ 70 ]
Block Standards  [ 83 ]
Circulation  [ 92 ]
Infrastructure Improvements  [ 114 ]

--- page 242 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 4.01 Station Park Green illustrative site plan  
Overview 
The development detailed in this  
chapter seizes the opportunities  
of the Plan Area through bold and  
distinctive design characterized by: 
•   A pattern of walkable blocks, 
narrow streets, and housing  
diversity 
•   An assurance of shared 
community amenities, most 
dramatically represented by The 
Park at the heart of the Plan Area 
and enhanced by Gateway Park 
and Community Park.   
•   A dedication to transit  
connectivity—providing shuttle  
service to downtown 
•   A focus on living experiences—an  
invitation to neighbors, a park  
down every block and outside  
most windows, and attractive  
routes for transit riders 
•   A commitment to get the cars 
“out of the living room” by 
requiring that above-ground 
parking be enclosed with active 
uses. This allows attractive front 
doors along nearly every corridor  
The sections that follow 
describe the development and 
design approach  through text, 
diagrams, illustrative  plans, and 
renderings, including:  
•      Concepts — key design  
foundations of the Plan 
•      Station Engagement — 
seamless  integration and 
development 
•      Regulatory Context—existing  
policies, laws, and regulations 
•      Block Pattern and 
Open Space—the basic  
framework for streets and  
connectivity, including an  
alternative configuration 
•      Land Use and Density—
land  uses, intensity of use, 
residential  density, and 
dwelling-unit types 
•      Heights and Typologies— 
designated building envelopes 
and characteristics 
•      Open Space System—design  
intent and standards for open  
space 
•  	 Black Standards— use and 
dimensional standards by 
block
52 
•      Streets and Circulation— 
streets and streetscape from a  
transportation perspective 
•      Infrastructure Improvements— 
stormwater, sewer, water,  
emergency services, other  
utilities, grading, and waste 
and  recycling

--- page 243 ---
CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
FIGURE 4.02 Concept 1: A Park at the Heart  
Concepts   
 
The following three diagrams  
illustrate the key design concepts 
that are the foundation of the  
Plan. The intent of these graphics 
is to convey concepts, not 
specify connections or forms: 
Concept 1: A Park at the Heart 
Concept 2: Getting to Transit  
Concept 3: A Green Network 
Concept 1:   
A Park at the 
Heart 
The design of the Plan Area  
is centered around The Park,  
shown in dark green. The light 
green arrows illustrate how The 
Park is visible and accessible 
within the neighborhood, 
situated within one block of 
every residence, and linked to 
the surrounding community 
by roads, bicycle paths, 
and extended pedestrian 
connections.  
53

--- page 244 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
54 
FIGURE 4.03 Concept 2: Getting to Transit  
Concept 2 :  
Getting to Transit 
Open linkages to and from  the 
Hayward Park Caltrain  Station 
will facilitate easy  access to 
transit for the Plan  Area and the 
surrounding  neighborhoods. 
This diagram  uses blue arrows 
to show how  the east-west 
pedestrian and  vehicular routes 
pass through  the Plan Area 
along park  spaces (shown in 
green), and  lead toward the 
station.   
The primary transit linkage  is 
along The Park, through  the 
center of the Plan Area,  ending 
at the Joint Powers  Board 
property adjacent to the station. 
Because the JPB property is not 
part of the Plan Area, interim  
connectivity is provided along 
Concar Drive and an EVAE is 
provided along the boundary  
between the two properties.  
The EVAE is intended solely  
as a contingency should  
coordinated development  of 
the two properties be  infeasible 
or alternative access  is not 
possible.

--- page 245 ---
Concept 3 :  
A Green Network 
The Park, located in the center,  
is one of multiple open spaces in 
the Plan Area, including Gateway 
Park, Community Park, and other, 
smaller open spaces, all shown 
in darker green. This series 
of linked publicly accessible 
open spaces are connected 
by a network of high-quality, 
landscaped streets—including  
sidewalks—which are shown in 
lighter green.  
Stemming from The Park at the 
center, this network of parks and 
streets will create a common 
identity and  experience for the 
entire  Plan Area. The landscape 
of the streets will unify the 
neighborhood, benefiting  every 
block, so that every  street 
feels like an extension  of 
The Park. The streets will also 
integrate a system of stormwater 
management strategies.  
FIGURE 4.04 Concept 3: A Green Network  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
55

--- page 246 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
56
The figures in this Plan show  
an Emergency Vehicle Access 
Easement (EVAE) at the  
southwestern portion of the 
Plan  Area, along the boundary 
of  the adjacent JPB property. It 
is  the ultimate goal of this Plan to  
integrate the Plan Area seamlessly 
with the adjacent JPB property  
by providing for direct adjacency  
of buildings and the connection  
of vehicular, bike and pedestrian 
ways. Seamless integration and 
direct connection between these 
two properties will facilitate and  
improve the circulation for the 
entire Hayward Park TOD Station 
Zone. 
Integration of the properties  
may include the placement of  
buildings, as well as pedestrian  
and bikeway amenities fronting  
directly onto the JPB property.  
The location of street, pedestrian  
and bikeway amenities could  
straddle the Plan Area and the  
JPB property. However, at this 
time it is not known how the  
Plan Area and the JPB property  
will ultimately interface, so the  
EVAE is shown as a necessary  
contingency, providing the 
required fire safety access for 
the Plan Area solely within 
its boundaries. The interface 
of the Plan Area and the JPB 
property will be determined 
during SPAR for Blocks RE-2 
and RE-3. 
As stated above, the  
development standards in  
this chapter apply only to 
the Plan Area. However, as 
noted  throughout this Plan, 
the ultimate design intent 
for the Hayward  Park Station 
TOD Zone is for the Plan Area 
and the JPB property to work 
together seamlessly through 
coordinated access ways, view 
corridors, an active network of 
streets and open spaces, and 
attention to building design and 
use along pedestrian routes, 
to achieve a successful transit 
oriented neighborhood to  
facilitate pedestrian and bicycle 
traffic across the JPB property  
to and from all portions of the 
Hayward Park Station Area, 
and to increase use of transit 
services. 
FIGURE 4.05 Rendering from the ‘Rail Corridor Plan’ illustrating clear view corridors  and 
good connectivity of streets drawing people through the two properties  
Station Engagement

--- page 247 ---
The interface between the two 
adjacent properties should: 
•   Use clear connections and  
comfortable and attractive  
streets to draw visitors to and  
through the boundary between  
the two properties, including  
visitors from beyond the  
Hayward Park Station. 
•   Promote safe, convenient  
pedestrian and bicycle  
accessibility in both the north-
south and east-west directions in  
the project area adjacent to the  
Hayward Park Station, which may  
include entirely new connections  
through and around the Plan  
Area, as well as the continuation  
of the existing bicycle and  
pedestrian connection to 16th  
Avenue.  
•   Promote the maximum 
potential of Hayward Park Train 
Station as a local transit hub 
by improving and facilitating 
safe and convenient access to 
transit at the Hayward Park Train 
Station and throughout the Plan 
Area. 
•   Encourage seamless 
integration by providing 
appropriate landscaping and 
architectural treatment of 
southwestern façade of Blocks 
RE-2, and RE-3 that engages, 
rather than cuts off, the JPB 
property. 
•   Locate parking entrances 
to avoid interference with 
building entries, retail spaces, 
and  pedestrian access points. 
•   Encourage uses and activities  
that will keep the interface  
between the two properties  
active into the evenings and 
weekends. 
 
•   Consider the location and 
design  the Greenway Park to  
integrate the Plan Area and the 
JPB property  and to facilitate 
vehicular, bicycle  and pedestrian 
connections  between the Plan 
Area and  the JPB property, 
including  from beyond the 
Hayward Park Station.  
57 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 248 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
58 
Land Use   
Requirements 
This Plan implements objectives  
and policies of the Corridor  
Plan, which establish a land use  
program that supports a new  
transit-oriented village within the  
Plan Area. To guide the process  
of transit-oriented development,  
the Corridor Plan introduced  
the Hayward Park Station TOD  
Overlay Zone. The TOD Zone  
encompasses all the property  
covered by this Plan as well  
as some adjacent properties,  
including the JPB property. 
This Plan applies the policies for 
the Hayward Park Station TOD 
Overlay Zone set out in the  
Corridor Plan. Although existing  
land uses may remain in the  
TOD Zone, new development is  
highly encouraged to be transit-
oriented, allowing new land uses,  
higher densities, lower parking  
requirements, and transit- and  
pedestrian-supportive design  
standards.  
The TOD Zone allows residential  
uses, office, retail shops, and  
services. Civic uses, including  
publicly accessible open space  
areas and multi-modal transit  
facilities and access ways, are also 
permitted. Retail uses should be, for 
the most part, neighborhood- and 
commuter-serving (such as small 
grocery stores, personal services, 
shops, or restaurants), and should 
be convenience oriented, providing  
goods and services within easy  
walking distance for residents and  
commuters alike. Community-serving 
retail use is permitted on the ground 
floor in the blocks along the Concar 
Drive frontage.  
Requirements  
Residential Density    
The Plan Area lies within the  
“Station Area” of the TOD Zone,  
which has minimum as well as  
maximum density requirements.  
In the Station Area, the minimum  
residential density is thirty-five (35)  
dwelling units per acre and the  
maximum density is fifty (50) units  
per acre.  
FAR   
Requirements 
Recognizing the extraordinary  
resource of adjacent transit, the 
Corridor Plan calls for high density 
within the Hayward Park TOD Zone. 
The maximum, overall FAR in the 
Station Area is 3.0. Retail uses have a 
maximum FAR of 0.3 across the Station 
Area. 
Height Limits 
A maximum height of 55 feet  applies 
to the majority of the Plan Area. The 
exception is a 45-foot deep strip along 
the length of South Delaware Street, 
which has a height limit of 35 feet. 
Height will be measured as described 
on pages 67 and 68 of this Specific  
Plan. The 55-foot height zone is 
intended to meet the needs of transit-
supportive development densities, 
anticipating four- or five-story, multi-
family and/or mixed-use residential 
buildings, with enclosed parking.  
Regulatory Context

--- page 249 ---
FIGURE 4.06 Block pattern and open space
59 
Block Pattern  
and Open Space
The blocks within the Plan  
Area are defined by a grid of 
narrow streets that will be privately 
maintained, but  publicly accessible 
(Figure 4.06). The planned street grid  
corresponds to the surrounding  
neighborhood grids in both  scale and 
orientation. The grid  is oriented to 
minimize the effect of prevailing west 
winds. The block pattern and street 
network achieve a high degree  of 
connectivity by linking access  points 
with intersections at the  edges of the 
Plan Area. 
Three vehicular access points  connect 
with pre-existing  intersections:  the South 
Delaware Street entrance mirrors  the 
Charles Lane entrance to the Nineteenth 
Avenue Park neighborhood; the main 
Concar Drive entrance aligns with the  
ramp to SR 92; and, on the northern edge 
of the Plan Area, Garvey Way is extended 
into the Plan Area, along the Community 
Park. As a contingency, an EVAE is planned 
along the westerly boundary with the JPB 
property.  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 250 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Figure 4.07 Illustrative site plan   
Illustrative Site Plan 
The Plan includes four blocks. One 
will allow a mixed-use residential 
building (MU), and three will be 
residential (RE). There will also be 
eight areas that will be dedicated  as 
publicly accessible open space (OS). 
As shown in Figure 4.07, the blocks 
on the south side of The Park are 
deeper than those on the north side. 
This slight asymmetry around The 
Park responds to the environmental 
setting. Thus, Blocks MU-1 and RE-2  
provide greater distance between 
The Park (OS-5) and Concar Drive, 
buffering The Park from the noise 
and appearance of SR 92 as it rises 
over the Caltrain right-of-way. This 
asymmetry also allows the South 
Delaware Street frontage of Block 
MU-1 to hold the street wall on 
the corner of what the Corridor 
Plan establishes as an important 
intersection.  
60

--- page 251 ---
Land Use and Density  
Land Use 
The Plan Area comprises a  
combination of uses including  
publicly accessible open space, 
all-residential buildings, and 
a mixed-use building with 
residential units above non-
residential space. This section 
details the land uses by block 
(Figure 4.08). Each of the four 
blocks has been designated 
in Table 4.01 on page 64 with 
permitted (and preferred)  
land uses, in some cases with  
prioritized locations. 
The land use plan for the Plan  
Area fulfills the requirements of  
the Corridor Plan, and advances  
urban design and planning  
principles that will create a  
high-quality, vibrant, pedestrian-
oriented neighborhood that is  
respectful of surrounding uses. 
As shown in Figure 4.08, the  
interface of the Plan Area with  
the JPB property is intended to  
be seamless. However, an EVAE  
separating the two areas has been 
planned as a contingency.  
The land use plan: 
•  Permits residential uses in every 
block 
•  Concentrates commercial office 
space along Concar Drive, 
consistent with the other office 
uses on Concar Drive  
•  Concentrates retail uses along 
South Delaware Street and  
Concar Drive, and at park 
frontages, minimizing impacts 
to existing residences in the 
surrounding neighborhoods 
•  Priority Retail Locations: Identifies 
four locations in Block MU-1 
where retail is prioritized.  
•  Uses open space as an essential 
public amenity that gives the Plan 
Area its identity 
•  Organizes open space to create 
connections to transit, welcome  
residents from surrounding  
neighborhoods, and enhance the  
setting for ground-floor retail 
•  Extends a network of open space 
uses to improve views, light and  
air throughout the neighborhood  
61 
FIGURE 4.08 Land Use Plan 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
Retail

--- page 252 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Program 
Based upon the land use, density,  
and FAR parameters of the  
Corridor Plan, the development  
program for the Plan Area at full  
build-out includes: 
•   Up to 599 dwelling units (50 du/ 
acre), including Below Market  
Rate units. 
•   A minimum of 25,000 gross  
square feet (gsf) of Retail/
Services/Restaurant uses, and a 
minimum of 10,000 gsf of Office  
use. 
•   Approximately 2.3 acres of  
publicly accessible open space  
(excludes publicly accessible 
streets).  
Retail/Services/Restaurant uses  
are defined to include all such  
uses permitted under San Mateo  
Municipal Code Chapter 27.30  
(C1 Districts - Neighborhood  
Commercial), with the following  
conditions:  
•   At least 5,000 square feet of 
Retail/Services/Restaurant uses 
shall be neighborhood-serving 
Retail/Services/Restaurant 
uses, with a maximum size per 
establishment of 1,500 square 
feet. 
FIGURE 4.09 Illustrative rendering of South Delaware Street entrance seen from Charles Lane in the Nineteenth Avenue Park 
neighborhood. Note: Buildings shown only for context.  
The following page explains  the 
character of neighborhood-serving 
retail uses in the Plan  Area. Table 
4.01 on page 64 summarizes the 
land use designations by block.  
62

--- page 253 ---
FIGURE 4.12	
FIGURE 4.13 
ALL IMAGES ABOVE - FIGURES 4.10-4.13 Neighborhood-serving retail examples
FIGURE 4.10	
FIGURE 4.11  
Neighborhood-Serving Retail  
The neighborhood-serving 
retail uses in the Plan Area will  
align with the neighborhood  
commercial districts (C1) zoning  
in San Mateo as well as with the  
principles and objectives in the  
Corridor Plan. These retail uses  
are intended for neighborhood  
shopping that is compatible with  
surrounding residential areas. Per  
the Corridor Plan, they should be: 
•   Located in the ground floor of a 
mixed-use building, rather than  
as stand-alone retail 
•   Smaller-scale and 
convenience-oriented shops 
and services 
•   Within easy walking distance for 
the immediate neighborhood  
and transit users 
•   Built to the sidewalk to bring  
vitality to the street 
Examples of such retail uses  
include, but are not limited to:   
bakeries, delicatessens, book  
stores, grocery stores, drug  
stores, restaurants, outdoor  
dining areas, antique shops,  
apparel stores, hardware and  
garden supply stores, household  
furnishings, pet shops, barber 
shops and hair salons, dry  
cleaners, banks, fitness studios,  
health spas, photo processing  
and framing shops, real estate  
establishments, tailoring and  
repair stores, travel agencies,  
and parking, recycling, and  
community facilities.   
63 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 254 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
64  
TABLE 4.01 Land Uses by Block  
BLOCK
APPROX. 
ACREAGE
PERMITTED USES
NOTES
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL/
SERVICES/
RESTAURANT
OFFICE
MU-1
1.8
Yes
Yes
Yes
Ground-floor retail/services/restaurant encouraged.  
Priority Retail Locations include South Delaware 
Street/Concar Drive intersection and frontages along 
The Park.
RE-2
1.9
Yes
Yes
Yes
Residential and amenity uses are included in this 
block
RE-3
1.8
Yes
No
No
Residential and amenity uses are included in this 
block
RE-4
1.4
Yes
No
No
Residential and amenity uses are included in this 
block.

--- page 255 ---
65 
Residential 
Density  
As required under the Corridor  
Plan, the minimum residential  
density for the Plan Area is 35  
dwelling units per acre and 
the  maximum is 50 dwelling 
units  per acre. Allocation 
of density  from one block 
to another within  the Plan 
Area is permitted (San Mateo 
Municipal Code, Section  
27.02.160). Therefore, density  
shall be calculated across the  
entire Plan Area.   
As shown in Figure 4.1 Relative 
Residential Density Diagram,  
residential density is intended  to 
be compatible with surrounding 
conditions. Instead,  the 
Plan allocates density to be  
compatible with surrounding  
conditions. The Residential  
Density Diagram indicates  four 
gradations of density. The streets 
and open space blocks do not 
have dwelling units. For the 
blocks, density is lowest along 
South Delaware Street.
More information on the ranges  
of residential units permitted by  
block is provided in the Block 
Standards in Chapter 4.  
FIGURE 4.14 Relative Residential Density Diagram
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 256 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FAR 
Because the entire street system  
within the Plan Area will be  
privately built and maintained, it 
has been included in “lot area“  
for purposes of calculating overall 
FAR for the Plan Area. As shown  
in Figure 4.15, the overall FAR for  
the Plan Area is 3.0. Retail FAR is 
limited to 0.2, and office FAR is 
capped at 0.1. 
More information on the ranges  
of floor area by block is provided 
in the Block Standards on pages  
83-86.  
66  
FIGURE 4.15 FAR Limitations

--- page 257 ---
Heights and Typologies   
Heights 
The Plan requires lower 
building heights along South 
Delaware Street in response to 
the Nineteenth Avenue Park  
neighborhood. Figure 4.16a 
shows  building heights by 
block.  
Heights along South Delaware  
Street, in Blocks MU-1 and RE-
4  within the 35-feet Maximum  
Height Zone, will be 25-feet  
to 35-feet tall. This approach  
maintains a comparable scale  
of development adjacent 
to Nineteenth Avenue Park. 
Buildings 35-feet to 55-feet 
high are permitted in the rest 
of the blocks. These heights 
will enable the density needed 
to support transit and retail 
uses, as well as protect open 
spaces against freeway and 
Caltrain noise and the visual 
mass of the elevated freeway.  
Except for areas in Blocks 
MU-1 and RE-4 withinthe 35-
foot Maximum Height Zone 
along South Delaware Street, 
building heights shall be 
measured from the Plan Area’s 
existing highest elevation (+ 
107 feet) to the primary roof 
plateline.  (See Figures 4.16b, 
4.16d, and 4.16e.)  For the 
35-foot Maximum Height Zone 
along South Delaware Street, 
height shall be the vertical 
distance measured from 
104.7 feet to the primary roof 
plateline.   (See Figures 4.16c 
and 4.16e.)
67 
FIGURE 4.16a Height ranges by block  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 258 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Plan Area Existing   
Highest Elevation  
+107’  
Project Boundary  
Primary Roof  
Plateline  
Building Height (H)   
+104.7’   
68  
Measure P 
Measure P, approved in  
November 2004, amended Policy  
1.5 of the General Plan, requiring  
the City Council to make 
five  findings for General Plan  
amendments involving building  
height changes: 
1.  The building has high design  
quality, which is enhanced by  
additional building height; 
2.  Increased building heights are  
visually related to surrounding  
building heights and promote  
the creation of a coherent City  
image; 
3.  Increased building heights  
will still provide for a variety of  
building heights in the vicinity of  
the project and the surrounding  
areas; 
4.  Increased building heights are  
compatible with surrounding  
land uses, and will not create  
adverse shadow or visual impacts  
on surrounding residential uses;  
and 
5.  The City’s infrastructure is  
adequate to accommodate the  
proposed Plan program.  
With the June 2005 adoption of  
the Corridor Plan, the City Council  
adopted amendments to the  
General Plan establishing a new  
TOD land use category, modifying  
certain allowable heights and  
densities to the TOD category.   
These amendments resulted in  
changes to the allowable heights  
and densities in the Plan Area.   
Primary Roof  
Plateline  
Building Height (H)  
Plan Area 
Existing Highest  
Elevation +107’  
FIGURE 4.16b Method of height measurement along a graded parcel in Plan Area  
FIGURE 4.16c Method of height measurement along 35-foot Maximum Height  
Zone along South Delaware Street 
Flat Roof	
Sloped Roof  
FIGURE 4.16e Location of roof plateline  
FIGURE 4.16d Location of 107’ height 
measurement point

--- page 259 ---
69 
Pedestrian Access at 
Ground Level 
Pedestrian access at ground level 
will activate the open spaces of 
the plan, softening the edges 
of the building with varied 
textures and forms at the street 
level.  Access at street level will 
take on three forms in response 
to context, program, and 
form: lobbies, unit stoops, and 
storefront:   
•   Lobbies will serve the whole 
building, creating access to key 
open spaces and highlighting 
important site connections. 
•   Residential stoops will allow 
for open circulation for ground 
floor units and increase the 
permeability of the building 
edge.   
•  Where allowed by grade and 
landscape setback, stoops will be 
utilized to activate park frontages
•  Storefront access will take on an 
urban form, allowing for visual 
and physical interaction between 
the streetscape and retail/office 
spaces.
•  Where grade does not allow for 
residential stoops, landscape will 
be used to soften the building 
edge and to provide a buffer 
from the street. 
FIGURE 4.17 Pedestrian Access at Ground Level
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 260 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
70  
Publicly accessible neighborhood  
parks are central to the design 
of the Plan Area. The existence  
of three large open spaces—
The Park, Community Park, and 
Gateway Park—will establish the 
identity of this new district. The 
feel of these new open spaces will 
reach out to South Delaware Street 
and Concar Drive and invite the 
public to share and enjoy it.   
Daily, the parks will delight  
walkers, joggers, bicyclists,  
and transit riders with a green  
backdrop, a colorful display, new  
foliage, or a place to rest. Color,  
variety, a focus on arts, and a  
sophisticated sustainable palette  
will distinguish the landscape  
design and the selection of trees  
and plant materials. The result  
will be an appealing place to live,  
visit, enjoy the convenience of  
local retail, or simply pass through  
on the way to the train.  
Figure 4.18 illustrates the  
proposed open space system. 
Table 4.06 lists the Open Space 
Standards for the public parks 
shown in Figure 4.18. 
Maintenance for the entire open  
space system in the Plan Area will 
be the responsibility of the Master 
Developer or owners’ associations.
FIGURE 4.18 Open Space System  
Open Space System  
Delaware/Concar 
Plaza

--- page 261 ---
The Park: A Green Entry and  
Signature Open Space  
An approximately 1.1-acre,  
publicly accessible park will  
connect South Delaware Street  
and surrounding neighborhoods  
to the Hayward Park Caltrain  
Station (Figure 4.19). With  
neighborhood-serving retail and  
attractive, varied residential uses  
facing The Park, its sense  of place 
will extend from building  wall to 
building wall. Figure 4.23  is an 
illustrative cross section of  The 
Park. 
Visitors will experience The  
Park together with The Park  
Corridor leading from South  
Delaware Street as a series of  
green outdoor rooms oriented 
toward the south side of The Park. 
This asymmetry complements 
surrounding uses. Some of  these 
landscaped rooms will be terraced 
or shaded by a ceiling of tree 
branches (Figure 4.20), while 
others will be completely open to 
the sun (Figure 4.21). 
Along the entire northern edge 
of The Park, a row of large trees 
will provide a subtle separation 
between the residences 
fronting onto The Park, and 
the commercial uses opposite 
them;  an example is shown in 
Figure 4.22. The eastern and 
western ends of The Park have 
plaza-like spaces. The eastern 
plaza is  intended to front ground-
level retailers, and is more formal, 
including a reflective sculpture. 
The western plaza is differentiated 
by an informal grove of trees that 
anchors the western end. A grove, 
an exuberant flower garden and 
pathway intersect diagonally at 
the center of the park, connecting 
the Community Park and the 
Gateway Park. The central lawn 
will be accessible from both ends 
via an ADA-compliant ramp at its 
southern edge and one flush with 
the Pavilion Plaza at the northern 
edge. 
The Park will have high-quality 
finishes, large trees, and 
coordinated lighting, seating, and 
furnishings. It will accommodate 
changing events or uses, large 
scale sculpture and a small pavilion 
and/or transit kiosk. The Park can 
also accommodate stormwater 
management functions. 
Figure 4.24 is an illustrative 
rendering of The Park.  
FIGURE 4.19 The Park illustrative plan   
71 
FIGURE 4.20 The Park example  
FIGURE 4.21 The Park example  
FIGURE 4.22 The Park example  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 262 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
72  
FIGURE 4.23 The Park illustrative cross section,  from building wall to building wall, facing east

--- page 263 ---
FIGURE 4.24 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking east toward Block MU-1 and ground-level retail  
73 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 264 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Figure 4.26
Figure 4.27
Figure 4.28
Gateway Park and 
Community Park
74 
Two linear parks connect The 
Park from Concar Drive to Garvey 
Way.  Welcoming pedestrians, 
cyclists, and vehicles from Concar, 
Gateway Park begins with colorful 
plantings and an entry sculpture.  
The plaza provides a sanctuary 
for having lunch or just sitting on 
a bench.  The Grove and Flower 
Garden subareas guide views 
across The Park at the center of 
the Plan Area to the Community 
Park, while a topographical play 
element terminates the view 
screening adjacent parking.  
Community Park offers greater 
horticultural variety and planes 
of tilting grasses for children’s 
enjoyment.  Smaller garden 
spaces and paths encourage quiet 
enjoyment and vary the scale from 
park to residences.  Pedestrians 
can access the Plan Area using a 
path along the rear of Block RE-3, 
terminating in Community Park.
Figure 4.25 Gateway Park and Community Park illustrative plan
The Community Park Examples

--- page 265 ---
75 
The Greenway Pocket Parks 
and RE-3 Courtyard
The Greenway Pocket Parks
The Greenway stretches from 
Concar to Garvey Way widening to 
three pocket parks along its length. 
Divided between crushed stone, 
concrete, and a planted center strip, 
the EVAE functions as a pedestrian 
way, bike path, and green front door 
to the residences. The pocket parks 
provide areas to stop along the 
Greenway and small scale garden 
spaces for residents. Specimen tree 
plantings within the parks connect 
them to The Station Corridor and 
create a contiguous greenspace. 
The pocket park closest to Garvey 
Way also provides stormwater 
management areas integrated into 
the overall design. 
RE-3 Courtyard
This small-scale, lush open space 
will soften the entry to Block RE-3, 
and provide quiet park space for 
the community.  The RE-3 Courtyard 
connects visually and physically 
with the linear Community Park.  
Plantings should provide a greater 
horticultural variety than can be 
appreciated by faster-moving 
pedestrians.
Figure 4.29 The Greenway Pocket Parks
Figure 4.30 The Greenway Pocket Parks
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 266 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
76  
Green Corridors 
Two linear open spaces called  
“Green Corridors” will link South  
Delaware Street to The Park and  
The Park to the train station. The  
Green Corridors will create view  
corridors through the Plan Area. 
The Park Corridor is intended  to 
extend The Park experience  to South 
Delaware Street  (Figure 4.30). The 
Park Corridor  introduces an axis that 
begins  at the South Delaware Street  
entry and runs west along the  north 
side of The Park toward  the Caltrain 
station. This axis is wide enough 
to make it visually  inviting and 
accessible to the  community (Figure 
4.30). The  main axis will be reinforced 
by tall trees and landscape finishes 
that  will encourage pedestrians 
and  bicyclists from the surrounding  
community to use the public  spaces 
within the Plan Area and  the Caltrain 
Station beyond.  
The Station Corridor will run east-west 
to link The Park to the train station, 
and to extend the view corridor from 
South Delaware Street through the 
Plan Area. Specimen trees will create 
a focal point and improve way-find-
ing. A main pedestrian route will be 
kept open for commuters but alcoves 
with bench seating will provide relax-
ing spaces to sit among lush plantings 
FIGURE 4.31a The Park Corridor and The Station 
Corridor example  
FIGURE 4.32 The Station Corridor
FIGURE 4.31 The Park Corridor—connecting   South 
Delaware Street to The Park 
FIGURE 4.32a Illustrative rendering of South Delaware Street entrance seen 
from Charles Lane in the Nineteenth Avenue Park neighborhood. Note: 
Buildings shown only for context.

--- page 267 ---
FIGURE 4.33 Station Park Green illustrative site plan  
Multi-Purpose 
Neighborhood 
Network  
The open space system for the Plan  
Area comprises not only the parks 
and green corridors dedicated to 
public use, but private streets open 
to the public. The goal is a detailed 
network that is inviting to pedes-
trians and bicyclists, yet accommo-
dates essential auto use (Figure 
4.33). 
The open space system will provide  
public parks, shaded streets, and  
other amenities typical of tradition-
al  neighborhoods. It is also meant  
to provide wildlife habitat, detain  
stormwater, and integrate utilities  
in an unobtrusive manner. Plant  
materials will be selected to favor 
large, long-lived trees, and coastal  
native and climate-adapted plants to 
provide habitat and conserve water.  
Components of this attractive and  
high-performing landscape include:   
street trees, wide sidewalks, set-
backs, suitable plant selection, 
stormwater management, and street 
lighting. For each of these design  
components, the following pages  
provide design standards.  
77 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 268 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
78  
Figure 4.34 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking northwest through The Park and The Station Corridor, which leads to the Joint Powers Board property

--- page 269 ---
Street Trees 
The street trees required 
under the  Plan will help to 
establish a spatial  hierarchy that 
differentiates portions of the Plan 
Area from one another. 
A line of monumental, fast-
growing trees will announce The 
Park at South Delaware Street, 
and continue west along the edge 
of  The Park to the boundary of 
the  Joint Powers Board property 
and  the Caltrain station. A 
secondary  signature sidewalk 
tree will unify the  streetscape 
along the north side  of this main 
entry street that leads  from South 
Delaware. An example  of this 
concept is illustrated in  Figure 
4.35. Connector streets that do 
not face The Park will have trees  
of different species. 
South Delaware Street itself will 
be  planted with tall evergreen 
trees  to provide a buffer between 
the  Plan Area and that busy 
artery, as  well as the Nineteenth 
Avenue  Park neighborhood 
beyond.  Concar Drive, which has 
less traffic,  will be planted with 
deciduous trees and accented 
with large evergreens, thereby 
providing some transparency for 
the retail uses facing south.  
Sidewalks 
There will also be a hierarchy  
of sidewalk treatments  
commensurate with the nature 
of  the street:  from the primary 
entry  street at South Delaware 
Street  to the narrower, 
local residential  streets and 
pedestrian-oriented  streets. 
Sidewalks in mixed-use  areas 
are intended to allow  activity to 
spill out from adjacent  retailers 
and restaurants, like  tables 
and chairs for ground-floor  
restaurants. (Figure 4.36) 
All sidewalks should include  
paved pedestrian zones at least  
five-feet wide and planting  
areas at least four-feet wide.  
The planting program of a  
sidewalk should depend on the  
uses fronting on that sidewalk.  
Accordingly, there are at least  
three sidewalk treatments  
envisioned: 
a.  Mixed-Use Sidewalks facing 
The Park—Encouraged to have  
evenly-spaced street trees with  
tree grates or cobble pavers.  
The pedestrian surface in these  
locations should be either  
poured concrete or concrete  
pavers.
  
b. Residential Sidewalks— 
Encouraged to have a continuous  
planting strip with evenly-spaced  
street trees and low shrubs.  
The pedestrian surface in these  
locations should be concrete. 
c.  Commercial Sidewalks (along   
Concar Drive)—Encouraged to  
have evenly-spaced street trees  
and low plantings.  The pedestrian 
surface in these locations should  
be poured concrete.  
Residential Usable Open  
Space 
Residential usable open space is  
meant to enhance the experience  
of living in multiple-family  
buildings. These may include: 
a.  Private Usable Open Space–  
When residential open space 
is  required, it can be provided 
in  many forms, including decks,  
balconies or gardens adjacent to  
individual units. 
b.  Common Usable Open Space– 
Instead of private usable 
open  space, common usable 
space  could be provided, such 
as  atriums, courtyards or roof 
decks. 
79 
c.  Semi-Private Open Space –      
When  semi-private residential 
open  space is required, fences 
and  walls will be minimized to 
provide  semi-private transitional 
garden  spaces between 
residential units  and public 
sidewalks, parks and  podiums. 
d.  Transitional Garden Space–     
When a publicly accessible  
open space is surrounded by  
dwelling units, there should  
be a transitional garden space  
adjacent to the units to prevent  
public circulation against private  
living spaces. 
Setbacks 
Consistent with the Corridor  
Plan, buildings are not required  
to be set back from every  
street. Where they are included,  
setbacks should be landscaped  
primarily with plantings (Figure  
4.37). Stormwater management  
is recommended in setbacks  
when grading allows. Plantings  
in the setback area should be  
coordinated with adjacent street  
trees to avoid visual disharmony.  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 270 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 4.37 Example of residential usable open space and setback  
80  
FIGURE 4.35 Example of street trees  
FIGURE 4.36 Example of mixed-use sidewalk

--- page 271 ---
Plant Selection 
Plantings should be selected for  
attractiveness, longevity, drought  
tolerance, ability to support  
regional habitat (including  
pollinators and birds), and  
adaptability to post-construction  
conditions. Native plants are  
encouraged whenever possible,  
along with California vernacular  
plantings and other climate-
adapted plants.   
Stormwater 
Management   
Strategy 
The landscaping within the Plan Area 
accounts for stormwater treatment in 
accordance with San Mateo County 
C.3 Requirements. The objective is 
not only to meet basic County and 
City requirements, but to do so in a 
sustainable manner, as follows:  
a.  Three primary open spaces — 
The  Park, Gateway Park and 
Community Park — should be used 
to treat stormwater runoff without 
compromising their usability. They 
should collect water from their 
surrounding streets, sidewalks and 
roofs  
b. Other runoff that does not drain to 
the parks should collect in stormwater 
treatment areas that are integrated 
into sidewalk and open space designs. 
An example is shown in Figure 
4.38 and Figure 4.39. All Plan Area 
stormwater treatment areas should 
have a bypass for large storm events. 
c. Unit pavers should be used in large 
paved areas to slow the volume of 
runoff and provide treatment via 
filtration 
.  
FIGURE 4.38 Example of stormwater management  
FIGURE 4.39 Example of stormwater management  
81 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 272 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
82
Figure 4.40 Example of open space lighting  
Block and Open Space Standards—The tables on pages 83-90 detail the 
development standards for Station Park Green by block and open space 
areas. These standards include permitted land uses, block sizes, ranges 
for dwelling units and floor area, as well as building heights and open 
space requirements.   
Outdoor Lighting 
Outdoor lighting in the Plan 
Area  should consider vehicular 
and  pedestrian circulation, 
residential  and retail uses, 
the diversity of  open space 
typologies, design  and 
infrastructure coordination,  
and energy efficiency. Outdoor  
lighting should include:  
a.  Energy-efficient, color-balanced 
lighting at the lowest possible  
lighting levels that provide  
for safe pedestrian and auto  
circulation. Particular attention  
should be paid to preventing  
glare into dwelling units and 
light  pollution into the night sky 
b.  Street light standards (fixtures)  
coordinated with the design 
and  materials of street 
furnishings  and buildings in the 
Plan Area  
c.  Street light locations that are  
coordinated with street tree  
locations to ensure a continuous 
tree canopy 
d.  A variety of lighting effects to  
highlight important building  
elements, special plantings, art  
and sculptures

--- page 273 ---
Block Standards  
83  
TABLE 4.02 Block MU-1  
STANDARD
BLOCK MU-1
Permitted Uses
Multiple-family dwellings; Offices, when part of a mixed-use development; Retail/Services/Restaurant, when part of a  
mixed-use development; and Accessory uses to principally permitted uses
Block Area
Approximately 1.8 acres  
Block Dimensions
Approximately 355 feet wide and 290 feet deep
Residential
Units
100 to 184 dwelling units* 
Residential 
Floor Area
160,000 to 230,000 square feet**
Garage Area
Up to 160,000 square feet
Non-Residential 
Floor Area
25,000 to 30,000 square feet Retail/Services/Restaurant;  
10,000 to 15,000 square feet Office  
Minimum and 
Maximum 
Building Height
25 feet to 55 feet*** 
Exception: 25 feet to 35 feet for 45-foot-wide zone along South Delaware Street
Off-Street 
Parking
Offices: 0.32 stalls per 1,000 square feet  
Retail/Service/Restaurant uses: 2.06 stalls per 1,000 square feet  
Dwelling units: 1.0 to 1.8 stalls per unit (see page 112-113)  
Space-efficient parking may be considered at SPAR approval without the need for variance  
Open Space
The Plan Area must include at least 150 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.  Except studios, each dwelling 
unit must include at least 50 square feet of residential private usable open space, measuring at least five-feet deep 
and seven-feet wide.  For every square foot of required residential private usable open space not provided may be 
substituted 1.5 square feet of residential common usable open space within the same block, measuring at least 20-feet 
deep and 20-feet wide.  All remaining required open space may be publicly accessible open space located within the 
Plan Area. 
* Aggregated total units of all blocks within the Plan Area cannot exceed 50 du/acre. 
** Aggregated total floor area within the Plan Area cannot exceed 3.0 FAR and 0.3 Retail FAR. 
*** Measured as described on pages 67-68. 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 274 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
84  
STANDARD
BLOCK RE-2
Permitted Uses
Multiple-family dwellings; Accessory uses to 
principally permitted uses
Block Area
Approximately 1.9 acres  
Block Dimensions
Approximately 330 feet wide and 360 feet deep
Residential
Units
180 to 220 dwelling units* 
Residential 
Floor Area
200,000 to 275,000 square feet  
Garage Area
Up to 150,000 square feet
Non-Residential 
Floor Area
Up to 4,000 square feet
Minimum and 
Maximum 
Building Height
45 feet to 55 feet*** 
Exception:  Minimum height limits do not apply to usable open space 
Off-Street 
Parking
Dwelling units: 1.0 to 1.8 stalls per unit (see pages 112-113)  
Space-efficient parking may be considered at SPAR approval without the need for variance  
Open Space
The Plan Area must include at least 150 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.  Except studios, each dwelling 
unit must include at least 60 square feet of residential private usable open space, measuring at least five-feet deep 
and seven-feet wide.  For every square foot of required residential private usable open space not provided may be 
substituted 1.5 square feet of residential common usable open space within the same block, measuring at least 20-feet 
deep and 20-feet wide.  All remaining required open space may be publicly accessible open space located within the 
Plan Area.
TABLE 4.03 Block RE-2  
* Aggregated total units of all blocks within the Plan Area cannot exceed 50 du/acre. 
** Aggregated total floor area within the Plan Area cannot exceed 3.0 FAR and 0.3 Retail FAR. 
*** Measured as described on pages 67-68.

--- page 275 ---
85  
TABLE 4.04 Block RE-3  
STANDARD
BLOCK RE-3
Permitted Uses
Multiple-family dwellings; Accessory uses to 
principally permitted uses
Block Area
Approximately 1.8 acres  
Block Dimensions
Approximately 420 feet wide and 250 feet deep 
Residential
Units
150 to 180 dwelling units* 
Residential 
Floor Area
200,000 to 250,000 square feet**
Garage Area
Up to 150,000 square feet
Non-Residential 
Floor Area
Up to 6,000 square feet 
Minimum and 
Maximum 
Building Height
45 feet to 55 feet*** 
Exception:  Minimum height limits do not apply to usable open space 
Off-Street 
Parking
Dwelling units: 1.0 to 1.8 stalls per unit (see pages 112-113)  
Space-efficient parking may be considered at SPAR approval without the need for variance
Open Space
The Plan Area must include at least 150 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.  Except studios, each dwelling 
unit must include at least 60 square feet of residential private usable open space, measuring at least five-feet deep 
and seven-feet wide.  For every square foot of required residential private usable open space not provided may be 
substituted 1.5 square feet of residential common usable open space within the same block, measuring at least 20-feet 
deep and 20-feet wide.  All remaining required open space may be publicly accessible open space located within the 
Plan Area.
* Aggregated total units of all blocks within the Plan Area cannot exceed 50 du/acre. 
** Aggregated total floor area within the Plan Area cannot exceed 3.0 FAR and 0.3 Retail FAR. 
*** Measured as described on pages 67-68. 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 276 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
86  
STANDARD
 BLOCK RE-4 
Permitted Uses
Multiple-family dwellings; Accessory uses to 
principally permitted uses
Block Area
Approximately 1.4 acres  
Block Dimensions
Approximately 180 feet wide and 350 feet deep 
Residential
Units
90 to 120 dwelling units*  
Residential 
Floor Area
125,000 to 175,000 square feet**  
Garage Area
Up to 120,000 square feet
Non-Residential 
Floor Area
Up to 4,000 square feet 
Minimum and 
Maximum 
Building Height
45 feet to 55 feet*** 
Exception:  25 feet to 35 feet for 45-foot-wide zone along South Delaware Street
Off-Street 
Parking
Dwelling units: 1.0 to 1.8 stalls per unit (see pages 112-113)  
Space-efficient parking may be considered at SPAR approval without the need for variance  
Open Space
The Plan Area must include at least 150 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.  Except studios, each dwelling 
unit must include at least 60 square feet of residential private usable open space, measuring at least five-feet deep 
and seven-feet wide.  For every square foot of required residential private usable open space not provided may be 
substituted 1.5 square feet of residential common usable open space within the same block, measuring at least 20-feet 
deep and 20-feet wide.  All remaining required open space may be publicly accessible open space located within the 
Plan Area.”
TABLE 4.05 Block RE-4  
* Aggregated total units of all blocks within the Plan Area cannot exceed 50 du/acre. 
** Aggregated total floor area within the Plan Area cannot exceed 3.0 FAR and 0.3 Retail FAR. 
*** Measured as described on pages 67-68.

--- page 277 ---
87
OS-5
 OS-6  
 OS-7 
 OS-8  
Publicly Accessible Open Space Standards  
TABLE 4.06 Publicly Accessible Open Space Standards 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
STANDARD
THE PARK
OS-5
THE PARK CORRIDOR 
OS-6
THE STATION CORRIDOR 
OS-7
GATEWAY PARK 
OS-8
Area
Approximately 1.06 acre
Approximately .08 acre
Approximately .09 acre
Approximately .24 acre
Dimensions
Approximately 30 feet wide 
by118 feet deep
Approximately 50 feet wide by 80 
feet deep
Approximately 35 feet wide by 
215 feet deep and 50 feet wide 
by 63 feet deep
Design
A landmark open space 
divided into smaller 
spaces for public activities, 
framed by commercial and 
residential uses. Helps to 
connect South Delaware 
Street to Hayward Park 
Station. Surrounding streets 
are enhanced to encourage 
pedestrian and bike 
circulation
Extension of The Park into the 
community beyond creating 
an inviting entry at South 
Delaware Street. Stormwater 
management and tree plant-
ing soften the intersection of 
B Street and South Delaware.
Extension of The Park to Hay-
ward Station. Specimen tree 
plantings anchor view down 
C Street and create clear way-
finding to the station as well 
as a small park for sitting and 
commuting.
One of two north-south, 
linear parks, Gateway Park 
welcomes the public into 
The Park from Concar Drive, 
utilizing plantings, trees, 
sculptures, and a plaza. 
Connects to The Park.
Approximately 105 feet wide 
by 440 feet deep

--- page 278 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
88 
OS-5
 OS-6  
 OS-7 
 OS-8  
Publicly Accessible Open Space Standards  
TABLE 4.06 Publicly Accessible Open Space Standards, continued
STANDARD
COMMUNITY PARK 
0S-9
GREENWAY POCKET 
PARKS
OS-10
THE RE-3 COURTYARD 
OS-11
DELAWARE/CONCAR PLAZA 
0S-12
Area
Approximately 0.5 acres
Approximately 0.17 acres
Approximately 0.08 acres
Approximately 0.04 acres
Dimensions
Approximately 314 feet 
by 61 feet, 43 feet by 84 
feet and 21 feet by 345 
feet.
Approximately 27 feet 
by 111 feet, 57 feet by 13 
feet and 101 feet by 36 
feet.
Approximately 46 feet by 
91 feet
Approximately 46 feet by 
50 feet
Design
The second of two linear 
parks, The Community Park 
is a quieter more passive 
space for walking, sitting, 
and play. A topographic 
feature and stormwater 
plantings buffer views 
to the adjacent site. 
When entering the site 
from Garvey Way, this 
will provide a welcoming 
gateway. 
Provides pocket parks for 
resting along the Greenway 
and creates continuity along 
the length of the EVAE 
to create the feeling of a 
contiguous green space.
Smaller-scale garden 
courtyard for quiet 
enjoyment by residents and 
the public.
Extension of open spaces to the 
corner of South Delaware Street and 
Concar Drive. Provides areas for retail 
outdoor seating and a welcoming 
green space at the busy corner. A 
large specimen tree and planting bed 
anchor the space.

--- page 279 ---
TABLE 4.06 Open Space Standards, continued  
STANDARD
THE PARK
OS-5
THE PARK CORRIDOR
OS-6
THE STATION CORRIDOR
OS-7
GATEWAY PARK
OS-8                                                 
                                                                           
                               
Landscape
Character
Formal quality with 
approximately 70%  planted 
surface area
Semi-formal quality  
with approximately 70%  
planted surface area
Formal quality with 
approximately 50% planted  
surface area
Semi-formal quality  with 
approximately 50%  planted 
surface area
Design &
Construction
Master Developer
Master Developer
Master Developer
Master Developer
Maintenance &
Ownership
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Active Uses
Yes
No
No
No
Passive Uses
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Connections
Pedestrian path and bike trail 
connecting South Delaware 
Street and  Hayward Park 
Station
Pedestrian connection  
between South Delaware  
Street and The Park
Pedestrian connection  
between the project site and 
the adjacent JPB site
Pedestrian connection  
between Concar Drive and The 
Park
Stormwater
Features
Biological treatment of 
stormwater from surrounding 
streets and roofs in central 
area; permeable paving 
(pavers); self-treating vegetated 
areas
Biological treatment 
of stormwater from 
adjacent streets and roofs; 
permeable paving
Limited potential for biological 
treatment of stormwater from 
adjacent plaza and roofs
Biological treatment of 
stormwater from adjacent 
roofs; permeable paving; self-
treating vegetated areas
Maximum
Building Height
15 feet, not including  
sculptures or other artwork*  
N/A
N/A
15 feet, not including  
sculptures or other artwork*  
   * Measured as described on pages 67-68. 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
89

--- page 280 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
90  
TABLE 4.06 Open Space Standards, continued  
STANDARD
COMMUNITY PARK
OS-9
GREENWAY PARK
OS-10
THE RE-3 COURTYARD 
OS-11
DELAWARE/CONCAR 
PLAZA
OS-12                                                 
                                                                           
                                
Landscape
Character
Formal quality with 
approximately 80%  planted 
surface area
Semi-formal quality  
with approximately 90%  
planted surface area
Formal quality with 
approximately 50% 
planted  surface area
Semi-formal quality  with 
approximately 50%  planted 
surface area
Design &
Construction
Master Developer
Master Developer
Master Developer
Master Developer
Maintenance &
Ownership
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Owner’s Association
Active Uses
Yes
Yes
No
No
Passive Uses
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Connections
Pedestrian connections across 
The Park to Gateway Park. 
Connection to Garvey Way and 
RE-4
Pedestrian and bike 
connection to Garvey Way 
and Station Corridor
Pedestrian connection  
from RE-3 to Community 
Park
Pedestrian and bike connection 
to Concar Multi-Use Bike Path. 
Pedestrian connection to MU-1 
garage.
Stormwater
Features
Biological treatment of 
stormwater from adjacent 
streets and roofs; permeable 
pavers; self-treating vegetated 
areas
Biological treatment of 
stormwater from adjacent 
roofs and hardscape; self-
treating vegetated areas
Self-treating vegetated 
areas
Biological treatment of 
stormwater from adjacent 
plaza and roofs; self-treating 
vegetated area
Maximum
Building Height
15 feet, not including  
sculptures or other artwork*  
15 feet, not including  
sculptures or other artwork* 
N/A
N/A
   * Measured as described on pages 67-68.

--- page 281 ---
FIGURE 4.41 Example of Emergency Vehicle Access Easement (EVAE)  
High-Performance 
Landscape   
Designing a high-performance  
landscape means planning ahead  for 
a multi-layered, multi-purpose, robust 
landscape. This strategy should deliver 
the landscape qualities along streets 
and in open spaces described in Table 
4.06. At the same time, it should 
manage stormwater, meet grading 
needs, provide emergency access and  
accommodate parking and  garage 
access.  
a. Streets should serve multiple  
functions, so that in addition to  
being conduits for vehicles and  
utilities, they also contribute to  
achieving environmental goals.  An 
example is the Emergency Vehicle 
Access Easement (EVAE) shown in 
Figure 4.41  which functions as a 
walkable,  permeable, pedestrian-
oriented  open space. Streets are 
encouraged to accommodate large 
trees and permeable paving to 
optimize shade,  moderate possible 
“heat island” effects, intercept water 
runoff, and encourage bicycle and  
pedestrian activity.    
b. The extent to which streets can  
achieve environmental goals is related 
to the volume of uncompacted soil 
that can be provided while satisfying 
Plan Area and road engineering  
requirements.  
c.  When required for stormwater  
management, large soil-
filled, planters or rain gardens 
are encouraged as a part of 
sidewalk design, and should be 
coordinated with street trees, 
lighting and infrastructure in a fully 
integrated manner.  
91 
d. The EVAE along the Plan  
Area boundary with the JPB  
property is intended solely  
as a contingency in case  
development is not coordinated  
with the JPB or an alternative  
access is not possible.  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 282 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
92
To create a walkable block  
pattern, the Plan Area has a  
network of pedestrian-oriented 
streets. Residential and  mixed-
use streets will provide  narrow 
pavement (curb-to-curb)  widths 
that help slow traffic and  
prioritize pedestrian safety. On-
street parking lanes will also help 
to calm traffic. Ample sidewalks  
with planting and lighting will  
create spacious and enjoyable  
pedestrian spaces. 
Streets will be consistent with  
the intent, character, and spatial  
proportions of the street sections 
for mixed-use and residential  
streets shown in the Corridor  
Plan. Sidewalk widths in mixed-
use areas will support restaurant  
and café uses. Sidewalks on  
residential blocks will also create  
buffers from the vehicular traffic  
through setbacks or raised  
building entrances. As provided  
in the Corridor Plan, streets  
surrounding The Park will be  
one-way to promote visibility and 
minimize distance from adjacent  
sidewalks.  
These approaches to the  
organization of rights-of-way  
will create streets that respond  
to adjacent uses, promote a  
safe and pedestrian-oriented  
environment, and physically  
and visually connect the entire  
neighborhood. 
Streets within the Plan Area will  
remain under private ownership.  
As shown in Figure 4.43, the  
existing sidewalks and crosswalks 
adjacent to the Plan Area will  
remain.  
Street Hierarchy 
Vehicular circulation is organized  
to connect to the existing  
hierarchy of surrounding city  
streets. South Delaware Street  
and Concar Drive (between  
the South Delaware Street  
intersection and the ramps for  
SR 92) are designated as arterial  
streets by the City. 
Garvey Way and Concar Drive  
between the SR 92 ramps and  
Pacific Drive are designated as  
local streets. 
There will be three vehicular  
access points to the Plan 
Area  (Figure 4.42). Two will be  
main entrances from arterials/ 
collectors: one is on South  
Delaware Street opposite Charles  
Lane at the existing signal; the  
other will be at the existing signal  
opposite the ramps for SR 92.  
There will be secondary vehicular 
access from Garvey Way.  
The Park, which is at the heart  
of the Plan Area, is surrounded  
by one-way streets, connecting  
from the main entrances on 
South  Delaware Street and 
Concar  Drive (Figure 4.42) 
classified as  local streets. 
Another new local street will 
extend Garvey Way to The Park 
and the rest of the open spaces 
and buildings. Street standards 
are listed in  Table 4.07.  
Circulation

--- page 283 ---
FIGURE 4.42 Access to the Plan Area at South Delaware Street opposite Charles Lane, at Concar Drive opposite SR 92 ramps, and at Garvey Way. 
Three existing traffic signals and crosswalks are also shown.   
93 
Traffic Signals 
Crosswalks Plan 
Area 
Plan Area  
Boundary  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 284 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
94 
FIGURE 4.43a Street hierarchy plan

--- page 285 ---
Street Sections  
The total right-of-way (block 
line  to block line) width for 
each street  shown within the 
Plan Area shall not be greater 
than shown herein. All other 
aspects of the street sections 
shall be determined during 
subdivision and SPAR. Widths 
for travel lanes, parking, and 
landscape may be adjusted, 
provided there is a minimum five-
foot unobstructed pedestrian  
through-zone on sidewalks.  
(Street sections depict basic 
block  envelopes for future 
buildings.) 
South Delaware Street  
and Concar Drive 
The City has adjusted both
South Delaware Street and  
Concar Drive. Currently, the lane 
configuration of South Delaware  
Street adjacent to block RE-4 
includes a widened sidewalk 
and landscape strip. Along the 
north side of Concar Drive, a 
mixed-use path is planned to 
link the Caltrain Station to South 
Delaware Street.   
95 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
FIGURE 4.44 Street section key showing locations of the street sections on the following pages Note: Assumes EVAE along 
boundary with the JPB property.

--- page 286 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
FIGURE 4.45 Section 1: “A” Street looking south  
“A” Street  
96
“A” Street 
(Street Section 1) 
“A” Street serves as the primary 
entrance  to the Plan Area from SR 
92 to the one-way street around The 
Park. The geometry  of the existing 
SR-92 / Concar Drive  intersection 
at the “A” Street entry shall  be 
retained, but should be designed 
such  that the intersection meets San 
Mateo  Public Work standards. “A” 
Street has  a conventional two-lane 
cross section  with parking bays and 
sidewalks on  both sides. Pedestrians 
shall be served  by sidewalks on both 
sides of the street  buffered from 
the vehicular traffic by six-foot-wide 
planting strips. On the south side of 
The Park, the MU-1 and RE-2 blocks 
flank  “A” Street.

--- page 287 ---
“B” Street  
“B” Street 
(Street Section 2) 
“B” Street serves as the  primary 
entrance from South  Delaware 
Street to the one-way street around 
The Park.  “B” Street should be 
a two-lane street with bike lanes  
provided in each direction.  No 
on-street parking should  be 
permitted. Landscaped  sidewalks 
should be provided  along the 
north side of the  street. Along 
the south side,  The Park Corridor 
should link The Park to South 
Delaware Street, between the 
Mixed Use  block and a Residential 
block.  The landscaped area on the  
south side of the street shall  serve 
as a publicly accessible open space 
as well as provide sidewalks and 
building access.   
97
FIGURE 4.46 Section 2: “B” Street looking east.  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 288 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
98
“C” Street  
FIGURE 4.47 Section 3: “C” Street around The Park, looking east  
“C” Street 
(Street Section 3) 
“C” Street circulates counter-clockwise 
around The Park,  providing a single 
travel lane and  a bike lane. On-street 
parking is  permitted along the north and  
south sides of The Park.  
Sidewalks should be landscaped   
on both sides of the street. To  maximize 
the area of The Park,  and to extend the 
sense of The  Park across “C” Street to 
the  buildings, there is no curb around  
The Park edge. Instead, a three-foot-wide 
hardscape area, with  warning pavers and 
free of vertical  obstructions, should be 
provided around the edge of The Park 
to  signal the vehicular lane and make  
sufficient room for emergency  vehicle 
access. Residential blocks are on the 
north side of The Park,  the Mixed Use 
and Residential block are on the south 
side.

--- page 289 ---
“C” Street Curve  
“C” Street at MU-1 
Garage Entry 
(Street Section 4)  
The eastern section of “C” Street will 
turn into a two way street, providing 
direct access into and out of MU-1 
garage.  Parking should not be 
permitted except in temporary loading 
zone on east side of “C” Streets.
As along the rest of  “C” Street,  a 
three-foot-wide hardscape  area 
with warning pavers, free of  vertical 
obstructions, should be  provided 
within The Park to make  sufficient 
room for emergency  vehicle access.  
99 
FIGURE 4.48 Section 4: “C” Street at MU-1 Garage Entry, looking north  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 290 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
“C” Street at Block RE-2 
100
FIGURE 4.49 Section 5: “C” Street at Block RE-2 looking south (see key plan 1)  
“C” Street at Block RE-2 
(Street Section 5) 
“C” Street runs counter-
clockwise  around The Park. 
The segment  of “C“ Street 
between The Park  and RE-2 
shall  be similar to Section 3, 
though  without an on-street 
parking  bay. There is a single 
travel  lane, a bike lane, and a 
three-foot-wide hardscape area 
with warning pavers, free of 
vertical  obstructions, to make 
sufficient  room for emergency 
vehicles.

--- page 291 ---
Garvey Way Extension 
(Street Section 6) 
Garvey Way Extension is a 
residential street.  It has a 
conventional two-lane cross 
section with parking bays 
and sidewalks on both sides. 
Pedestrians shall be served 
by sidewalks on both sides of 
the street buffered from the 
vehicular traffic by six-foot wide 
planting strips.
101  
FIGURE 4.50 Section 6: Garvey Way Extension, looking south  
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 292 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
102  
  EVAE 
    (Street Section 7)  
The EVAE is a twenty foot wide 
Emergency Vehicle Access 
Easement and pedestrian and 
cycling route. Running along 
the western border of the site 
bordering the Joint Board Powers 
Property, it connects Concar Drive 
and Garvey Way at the existing 
cul-de-sac. Divided into an 8.5 foot 
concrete bike lane, 3 foot planting 
strip, and 8.5 crushed stone 
jogging path, “The Greenway” 
will provide space for multiple 
uses simultaneously as well as 
a pleasant commuting path for 
residents with EVAE-facing stoops. 
Three pocket parks line “The 
Greenway” and provide small-scale 
park spaces and places to rest 
along the recreation path.
FIGURE 4.51 Section 7: “EVAE”at Block RE-3 looking south

--- page 293 ---
The “Station Corridor” extends the 
feeling the The Park to the western 
edge of the site and creates a clear 
pedestrian and cycling connection 
to the Hayward Park Station. The 
large specimen trees are visible 
from the entry at South Delaware 
and B Street and create clear 
wayfinding within the site. Bike 
racks encourage cycling to the 
station and benches and plantings 
will make it a pleasant place to stop 
as well as pass through. A width 
of 20 feet was maintained should 
future development on the JPB 
site require a seamless interface of 
vehicular roadway.
FIGURE 4.52 Section 8: “Station Corridor” at OS-7 looking east 
“Station Corridor” at OS-7
(Street Section 8)
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
103

--- page 294 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
104  
  Concar Drive   
(Street Sections 9 & 10) 
Concar Drive is an existing  
thoroughfare along the 
southeast edge of the site. 
It provides an important 
connection for pedestrians and 
vehicles to the Hayward Park 
Station. The sidewalk of Concar 
Drive should be widened to 
accommodate a ten-foot-wide 
(14-foot-clear)  multiuse path and 
a planting  buffer along MU-1 
and RE-2.  Figure 4.55 illustrates 
that parallel parking shall also be 
provided along a portion of the 
RE-2 frontages.  Figure 4.56  
shows how the wider sidewalks  
and additional planting space  
should improve the appearance  
of the street and establish a 
pedestrian-friendly environment 
that should encourage those in  
he surrounding neighborhoods 
to bike and walk to Hayward  
Station.
FIGURE 4.53 Section 9: Concar Drive at Block RE-2  
looking east

--- page 295 ---
FIGURE 4.54 Section 10: Concar Drive at RE-2 Looking east 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
105

--- page 296 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
106 
South Delaware Street  
(Street Section 11, 12, & 13) 
 
FIGURE 4.55a Section 11: South Delaware 
Street at MU-1
South Delaware Street is an  
existing thoroughfare along 
the northeast edge of the 
site. It is a major north-south 
connector within the City of 
San Mateo. The  Corridor 
Plan calls for narrowing  South 
Delaware Street from four  
lanes to three between Charles 
Lane and Garvey Way, and  
from four lanes to two between 
Garvey Way and 16th Avenue, 
to accommodate the addition 
of a Class II bicycle lane which 
will extend from Charles to 
Guilford, and to establish 
a more pedestrian-friendly 
environment. Figures 4.55a and 
4.55b show that  the portion of 
South Delaware in front of MU-1 
retail stores will be specially 
treated with high quality paving 
materials, site furnishings and 
accent planting to establish a 
focal point at the intersection 
and draw pedestrians from 
South  Delaware Street sidewalk 
to the project area through 
The Paseo which cuts through 
MU-1. The existing bus stop 
operation in front of MU-1 
will remain. Additionally,  the 
sidewalk in front of RE-4 has 
been be widened to provide a 
more extensive planting buffer 
and to treat stormwater runoff 
generated from South Delaware 
Street (Figure 4.55c).

--- page 297 ---
FIGURE 4.55b Section 12: South Delaware Street at 
MU-1 bus stop
 
South Delaware Street    
FIGURE 4.55c Section 13: South  Delaware Street at RE-4.
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
107

--- page 298 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
South Delaware Street  
108  
TABLE 4.07 Street Standards 
STANDARD
“A” STREET 
“B” STREET
“C” STREET
GARVEY 
WAY 
EXTENSION
CONCAR 
DRIVE
SOUTH 
DELAWARE 
STREET
Approximate 
Planting Width 
(sides)
6 feet (both)
5.5 feet 
(north) 
16.5 feet 
to 9 feet 
(south)
5.5 feet  
(outside)
6 feet (both)
Varies from 5 
feet to 12’-3”
Varies from 5 
feet to 18’-3”
On-Street 
Parking
Both sides
None
Outside
Both sides
In front of 
MU-2 & MU-3
None
Striping/
Delineation
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Recommended 
Curb-type 
and Radius at 
Corners
Raised curb,  
15-foot  
radius;  Flush 
curb,  15-foot 
radius
Raised curb, 
15- to 25-
foot  radius;   
Flush curb,  
15-foot 
radius
Raised curb, 
15- to 25-
foot  radius;  
Flush curb,  
15-foot 
radius
Raised 
curb,  15-
foot  radius;  
Flush curb,  
15-foot 
radius
Raised curb, 
15- to 25-foot 
radius
Raised curb, 15- 
to 25-foot radius
Bicycle Facilities
None
Bicycle Lane
Bicycle Lane
None
Multi-use 
path
Bicycle Lane
Ownership and 
Maintenance
Private
Private
Private
Private
Public
Public
Please note that above Street Standards may vary based on newly adopted City of San Mateo street, 
parking and loading standards that may result in narrower street, parking and loading dimensions.
Street Standards

--- page 299 ---
109 
TABLE 4.07 Street Standards, continued
STANDARD
“A” STREET
“B” STREET
“C” STREET
GARVEY WAY 
EXTENSION
CONCAR DRIVE
SOUTH 
DELAWARE 
STREET
Street Section
1
2
3, 4, & 5
6
9 &10
11, 12, & 13
Classification
Mixed-Use
Mixed-Use
Mixed-Use
Residential
N/A
N/A
Vehicular
Movement
Two-way
Two-way
One-way
Two-way
N/A
N/A
Travel Lanes
Two
Two
One
Two
N/A
N/A
Recommended 
Operating 
Speed
20--25 mph
20-25 mph
20-25 mph
20-25 mph
25-35 mph    
(west of A  
Street or SR 92  
ramps) 
35-45 mph  
(between South 
Delaware 
Street  & A 
Street)
25-35 mph
Approximate 
Right-of-Way
62 feet
77 feet
39 feet
62 feet
N/A
N/A
Approximate 
Pavement Width 
(curb to curb)
40 feet
34 feet
28 feet
40 feet
N/A
N/A
Approximate 
Sidewalk Width 
(sides)
5 feet (both)
5 feet 
(north), 15 
feet (south)
5 feet 
(outside)
5 feet (both)
Varies from  
20’-6” to 34’-6”
Varies from     
17’-0” to 24’-6”
Please note that above Street Standards may vary based on newly adopted City of San Mateo street, 
parking and loading standards that may result in narrower street, parking and loading dimensions.
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 300 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
110 
FIGURE 4.57 Example of a pedestrian connection  
Pedestrian Connections  
The Plan will create a walkable,  
pedestrian-oriented community,  
benefiting both Plan Area 
residents and visitors. The intent  
is to create a sense of place that  
values the pedestrian experience  
and that is not dominated  by 
vehicular traffic, using the  
following strategies: 
•   All streets internal to the Plan  
Area should have continuous  
sidewalks. Landscape buffer  
strips between the travel lanes  
and sidewalk should be provided  
where appropriate. Zones  
offering on-street parking should  
afford additional protection for  
pedestrians. 
•   A pedestrian connection shall  
be established opposite Charles  
Lane, providing an inviting  
connection to The Park from  
South Delaware Street. This  
connection should also serve as a  
direct connection to the Hayward  
Park Caltrain Station, allowing  
regional commuters on foot  
and bicycles a more desirable  
alternative than using Concar  
Drive. The pedestrian connection  
along Concar shall remain.  
Existing pedestrian crossings  
of South Delaware Street and  
Concar Drive shall remain or be  
upgraded as needed.  
•   A pedestrian-only access to The 
Park shall be provided  from  
South Delaware Street  via a 
pedestrian way through  block 
MU-1(The Paseo). Its exact  
location shall be set in SPAR and  
is not part of this Plan. 
•   If the EVAE is necessary along  
the JPB property, a shared  
pedestrian/bike path shall be  
provided along the western  
property line adjacent to the  
Joint Powers Board property,  
providing north-south  
connectivity. 
•   Pedestrian crossings should be  
provided at street intersections  
within the Plan Area. Crossings  
should be provided where  
publicly accessible Park Corridors  
meet the streets, provided that 
a  logical pedestrian connection 
is  made.  
FIGURE 4.56 Example of a pedestrian connection

--- page 301 ---
Bicycle Trail System   
This Plan will enhance the San  
Mateo Regional Bike Trail System  
(Figure 4.56). Class II bike lanes 
on  the east-west streets shall 
connect South Delaware Street, at 
the intersection with Charles Lane, 
to the Caltrain Station. A Class 
I shared bicycle and pedestrian  
path provided along the western  
property line from the northern 
end of RE-3 to the southern end 
of RE-2 where the path meets  
Concar Drive shall also provide  
bicycle access to the Caltrain  
station. 
FIGURE 4.58 Bicycle Trail System
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS 
111

--- page 302 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
112  
Transit Improvements  
The Rail Corridor Plan “aims to  
achieve an overall reduction in  
new vehicle trips of at least 25  
percent corridor wide.” 
In order to implement the 
goal of an overall reduction 
in vehicle trips, the project 
proposes Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM)  measures 
that could include  the following: 
first-class telecommuting 
opportunities for  residents of 
the development;  carsharing; 
shuttle service;  inclusion 
of neighborhood-serving 
retail; bicycle storage  for the 
convenience of bicycle  riders; 
unbundled parking;  shared 
parking (between office  
residential and commercial 
uses); a transportation kiosk 
with up-to-date information 
on transit, ridesharing,  
carsharing, bicycling and other  
alternative transportation; and  
a transportation coordinator  
who will be responsible for 
coordinating and maintaining the 
TDM Program. 
The City of San Mateo and the  
Peninsula Traffic Congestion  
Relief Alliance (Alliance) have 
completed the process of forming 
a Transportation Management  
Association (TMA) for the Corridor 
Plan area. Since it was formed, 
Station Park Green has been 
required to participate in  the 
TMA. TMA  participation will help 
to verify if  the 25% trip-reduction 
target is  met. A representative 
for the Plan  Area will also be 
required to serve  on the TMA 
Board of Directors.  
Parking and Loading 
Station Park Green is intended as  
a pedestrian-friendly, mixed-use,  
transit-oriented development,  
which offers the opportunity to  
share parking stalls between uses  
with different parking demand  
periods.  The Residential, Office,  
and Retail/Services/Restaurant  
uses permitted under this Plan  
generate particular levels and  
patterns of parking demand.  
Parking facilities within the Plan  
Area will be able to accommodate  
these demand fluctuations 
more  efficiently than segregated  
supplies, by accommodating  
peaking uses with stalls left vacant  
by other uses. 
The Corridor Plan provides  that 
conditions of approval for  all 
developments within the  Corridor 
Plan Area will establish  minimum 
and maximum parking  standards 
for the development,  with a 
goal of achieving an overall  
reduction in new vehicle trips  
of at least 25 percent corridor-
wide.  Accordingly, trip reduction  
strategies for Station Park Green  
have been evaluated as part   
of the environmental review  
process.  Shared parking is one  
key strategy. 
A shared parking analysis  was 
performed by Nelson  Nygaard 
Consulting Associates  and 
Hexagon Transportation  
Consultants as part of the  
environmental review of this  
Plan (Station Park Green Shared  
Parking Analysis, May 12,  2010).  
The analysis considered  three 
maximized build-out  scenarios 
possible under the  Plan – 
maximum permitted retail,  
maximum permitted office, and  
maximized mix of retail and office  
– and accounted for how parking  
demand can be expected to vary  
by time of day, for both weekdays  
and Saturdays. The supply  
exceeded estimated demand  
under all scenarios. 
Pursuant to Section 27.90.050 of  
the San Mateo Municipal Code,  
the uses permitted under this  
Plan shall require off-street motor  
vehicle parking according to the  
schedule shown in Table 4.08.

--- page 303 ---
113 
Off-street parking facilities for  
different buildings, structures  
or uses, or for mixed uses, may  
be provided collectively in the  
Plan Area, provided that the  
total number of stalls so located 
together shall not be less 
than the  sum of the separate 
requirements  for each use, and 
that at least one  parking stall 
accessory to each  dwelling 
unit shall be located  on the 
same parcel as the use  served. 
During SPAR, the Planning  
Commission (and City Council) 
may  consider allowing required 
off-street parking stalls to be 
space-efficient, without the 
need for a  variance. 
Loading facilities shall comply  
with Sections 27.64.310 
through  27.64.390 of the 
San Mateo  Municipal Code. 
During SPAR, the Planning 
Commission (and City Council) 
may consider allowing  
required loading facilities to 
be  located on-street, without 
the need  for a variance. 
The required off-street parking shall be as follows:  
*Includes visitor parking as analyzed in the shared parking study 
described on p.112
TABLE 4.08 Parking Ratios   
Land Use 
Parking Requirements
Studio Dwelling Unit
1.0* (stalls per unit)
1-BR Dwelling Unit
1.3* (stalls per unit)
2-BR Dwelling Unit
1.5* (stalls per unit)
3-BR Dwelling Unit
1.8* (stalls per unit)
Office
0.32* (stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.)
Retail / Restaurant /Services
2.06* (stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.)
                          Parking Requirements
Land Use
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 304 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
114 
 
Infrastructure Improvements 
Storm Drainage  
The Plan Area will maintain 
western, eastern, and northern 
drainage watersheds similar to 
those existing. Run-off from the 
western portion of the Plan Area 
should  discharge to the existing 
storm drain located in Concar 
Drive. Run-off from the central 
and eastern watersheds should 
discharge to the drain in South 
Delaware Street. The northern 
portion of the Plan Area should 
discharge to the existing Garvey 
Way storm drain. The existing 
Plan Area is highly impervious. 
The Plan Area will have an overall 
imperviousness that is equal to or 
less than the existing condition. 
This will result in the total peak 
discharge being equal to or less 
than the existing discharge from  
the Plan Area. Plan Area detention  
facilities are therefore not required  
and will not be provided.
FIGURE 4.59 Proposed Storm Drainage System

--- page 305 ---
115 
Stormwater Quality 
The stormwater drainage system 
will be designed in accordance 
with the National Pollutant 
Discharge Elimination Systems 
(NPDES) required by the San Mateo 
County Water Pollution Prevention 
Program (C.3 Stormwater Technical 
Guidance, January 2013).  
Due to the predominantly clay soils 
and program, the C.3 guidelines 
deem infiltration and rainwater 
harvesting infeasible. Stormwater 
treatment via biofiltration and low 
impact development strategies 
is therefore appropriate. The 
stormwater quality design for 
the Plan Area shall meet the C.3 
requirements by utilizing Best 
Management Practices (BMPs) to 
reduce stormwater pollutants in 
the storm water discharge from the 
development.
Station Park Green presents specific 
constraints and opportunities which 
guides the selection of appropriate 
BMPs. The two categories of BMPs 
that will be implemented are likely 
to fall under treatment control and 
source control.
Treatment Control BMPs 
Treatment control BMPs will 
include planted stormwater 
treatment areas that will treat 
runoff from the Plan Area using 
one or more methodologies, such 
as detention/retention, infiltration/
filtration. Mechanical devices are 
non-preferred and will only be 
considered in areas where other 
BMPs are infeasible.
Source Control BMPs 
Source Control BMPs are 
operational practices that reduce 
pollutants released at their source. 
Examples of source control BMPs 
that may be implemented include:
• Provision of efficient irrigation   
systems and appropriate landscape 
design
• Use of porous pavement and 
other permeable materials where 
applicable
• Provisions for appropriate trash 
enclosures and recycling areas
• Use of alternative building 
materials that leach fewer pollutants
• Car washing within the internal 
garages
The selected BMPs should be 
integrated into the urban landscape 
wherever possible. For Station Park 
Green, the use of infiltrative water 
quality solutions such as infiltration 
trenches will be significantly 
constrained by highly impervious soils 
in the Plan Area and the high water 
table.
Specific stormwater quality design 
measures shall be identified during 
the Subdivision Map or SPAR approval 
processes.
 
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 306 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
116
Sewer 
The Plan Area will be served by 
a network of approximately six-
inch- to 15 inch-diameter pipes 
that would connect to the 
City’s Southern Trunk system.  
Connections are likely to be 
made  at one or more points 
along the newly completed El 
Camino Real by-pass in Concar 
Drive, the Delaware Trunk line 
at the intersection of Charles 
Way, and/ or the eight-inch 
sewer in Garvey Way. (Figure 
4.58) 
Water 
Water service to the Plan Area is  
planned through a looped network 
of approximately eight-inch to 12-
inch mains which would connect  
to the surrounding network in  
Garvey Way and South Delaware  
Street. An extension of the water  
main located in Concar Drive 
may be required to service the 
western portion of the Plan Area.  
All water supply and distribution  
systems within the Plan Area 
will be within a California 
Water Service Company 
(CWSC) easement, and will be 
maintained by the CWSC.  
FIGURE 4.60 Proposed Sewer System

--- page 307 ---
117
Emergency Services 
Emergency services will continue 
to be provided by the San 
Mateo  Fire Department and San 
Mateo Police Department, with 
Fire Station No. 23 serving as the 
Plan Area’s first responder.  
All streets are expected to be  
private, and emergency vehicle  
access easements (EVAEs) 
shall be provided for the Plan 
Area in accordance with the 
requirements of the San Mateo 
Fire Department. The details of  
the EVAE(s) will be finalized at 
the time of SPAR approval. 
Utilities 
Pacific Gas and Electric 
Company (PG&E) provides 
electrical and gas service to 
the Plan Area. It is anticipated 
that several telecommunication 
providers will provide service to 
the Plan Area. The utility systems 
shall be located within private 
streets, and it shall be the utility 
provider’s responsibility to 
maintain the service up to meter 
connection locations. All utilities 
are expected to share a joint 
trench.  
Grading 
The grading assumptions made  
for Station Park Green are: 
•   The contours for the Plan Area  
must match existing contours  
along South Delaware Street 
and  Concar Drive along the 
northeast  and southeast 
boundaries. 
•   The proposed contours 
along  the boundary of the 
Joint Powers  Board property 
should match  those existing, 
where feasible,  to maximize 
connectivity to the  station. 
•   The contours along the 
northern  property line at 
the AAA  property and the 
Post Office  may be raised 
slightly, relative  to existing 
levels, to provide  residential 
finished floors above  the 
minimum permitted finished  
floor elevation of +104.7 feet  
(adjusted City datum). 
The finished grades within the 
project area will be generally 
similar to the existing grades. 
A point near the western 
edge of The Park shall be the 
highest graded point on the 
property with an elevation of 
approximately +107 feet. The 
ground is expected to fall to 
the west and match the existing 
grade at the Joint Powers Board 
property line. The Park will 
gently fall to the east where the 
eastern edge of the park will be 
approximately +102 feet.
Building heights within the Plan 
Area, except within the 35-foot 
Maximum Height Zoning along 
South Delaware Street, shall 
be measured from the existing 
high point of the Plan Area, 
i.e., approximately +107 feet 
(adjusted City datum).”
Flood Plain  
Management 
In early 2012, the City of 
San Mateo completed levee 
improvements that resulted in 
revisions to the FEMA flood 
insurance mapping in October 
2012. These improvements 
removed the project site 
from the 100-year flood plain 
(1-percent chance annual flood). 
Parts of the site remain in Zone 
X, the 500-year flood plain (0.2 
percent chance annual flood).
Due to the site being removed 
from the flood plain, the 
requirements of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 23.33, 
which were included in the 
2011 Specific Plan and Design 
Guidelines documents, no longer 
apply.
Currently, portions of the Plan Area 
(below +104.7 feet adjusted City 
datum) are susceptible to flooding 
given the unlikely failure of the 
Crystal Springs Reservoir Dam 
(Corridor Plan EIR). 
Waste and Recycling 
The San Mateo Municipal Code  
requires the provision of recycling  
facilities for multi-family housing.  
Non-residential uses within the 
Plan Area shall also comply.   
 CHAPTER 4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

--- page 308 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 309 ---


--- page 310 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
Construction 
of Station Park 
Green may take an 
extended period 
of time-, the 
implementation  
process requires 
a coordinated 
approach.

--- page 311 ---
Introduction  [ 121 ] 
Design Guidelines  [ 122 ] 
Development Agreement  [ 122 ] 
Subdivision Maps  [ 122 ] 
Site Development Permit  [ 123 ] 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)  [ 123 ] 
Allocation Of Land Uses  [ 124 ] 
Amendment Information  [ 124 ] 
121 
Chapter 5 
Implementation 
Construction of Station Park Green may take an 
extended period of time. To achieve the goals of 
the Plan, the  implementation process requires 
a coordinated  approach. There are five primary 
mechanisms for  the implementation process: Design 
Guidelines,  a Development Agreement, Subdivision 
Maps,  Site Development Permits, and Site Plan and  
Architectural Review (SPAR) approvals. This chapter  
describes how each of these tools will be used  to 
ensure that the vision of this Plan is ultimately  realized.

--- page 312 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
122 
Concurrently with adoption 
of  this Plan, the City Council 
will approve Design Guidelines 
by resolution, after receiving 
the recommendations of the 
Planning Commission. The 
Design Guidelines shall be in 
substantial  conformity with this 
Plan. The Design Guidelines shall 
set criteria for each block and 
open space within the Plan Area, 
such as: 
Build-to Lines: The required 
location  of exterior walls to define 
streets and open spaces
Setbacks: The minimum distances  
between buildings and streets or 
open spaces
Parking and Access: The required 
separation and/or location of 
curb cuts for parking garages and 
loading areas  
Development   
Agreement  
Plant Species/Size: The range of  
permissible species and sizes for 
trees  and other vegetation along 
streets, in  parks, and within blocks 
Building/Paving Materials: The  
range of permissible materials for  
constructing buildings, streets, 
and  open spaces 
Sustainability: The strategies 
to  achieve the sustainability 
objectives  of the Plan  
The City and the owner of the 
land within the Plan Area entered 
into a contractually binding 
development agreement in 2011.  
State and City law authorize the 
City to enter into a development  
agreement to vest in a developer  
certain development rights for 
a  period of years set by contract,  
regardless of intervening changes  
in land use regulations (Cal. Gov.  
Code §§65854 et seq.; San Mateo  
Reso. No.120). In exchange, the  
City receives certainty about  
the public benefits that will be  
included as part of the Plan.  
The owner of the land within  the 
Plan Area may apply for  parcel 
maps and/or tentative  maps 
to create separate parcels  to 
facilitate the development  
described in this Plan. Ultimately,  
each parcel may be further  
subdivided through one or more  
additional subdivision maps,  
and any and all maps may be for  
condominium purposes.   
Parcels may be transferred into  
separate ownership, but all  
parcels within the Plan Area will  
remain subject to this Plan unless  
the Plan Area is redefined to  
exclude them.  
Design 
Guidelines  
Subdivision  
Maps

--- page 313 ---
CHAPTER 5 Implementation
Site Development 
Permit  
Grading and/or the removal of  
major vegetation within the Plan  
Area requires a Site Development 
Permit under the San Mateo Site  
Development Code.  Among  
the specific purposes of the  Site 
Development Code is to  protect 
public and private lands  from 
erosion, earth movement,  and 
flooding, and to ensure the  
maximum preservation of the  
natural scenic character of the  
City by establishing minimum  
standards and requirements  
relating to land grading,  
excavations and fills, and removal  
of major vegetation.   
123
Accordingly, no site development  
may commence without  
first obtaining approval of 
a  site development planning  
application followed by  
application for, and issuance of, a  
Site Development Permit, which  
allows construction to proceed.    
Construction of an individual  
building within the Plan  
Area requires approval of an  
application for SPAR under  
Section 27.08.030 of the San  
Mateo Municipal Code. The  
officer or agency approving a  
SPAR is the Zoning Administrator,  
the Planning Commission, or, for  
buildings exceeding 55 feet in  
height, the City Council. 
The City should also review a  
signage program for the project  
before approving the SPAR  
application. The sign program can  
consist of guidelines.   
To approve a SPAR application,  
the City must review detailed 
drawings to determine that the 
proposed construction will be in 
scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood.  
The City must also confirm that  
the SPAR is consistent with this 
Plan. It is anticipated that the 
approval of each subsequent 
SPAR application consistent with  
the Plan shall not require the  
preparation of new environmental 
documents, unless the SPAR  
substantially changes the  
assumptions of the environmental 
study for this Plan.  
Site Plan and Architectural   
Review (SPAR)

--- page 314 ---
STATIONPARKGREEN SPECIFIC PLAN  
124
Amendment  
Information 
Allocation of 
Land Uses 
Pursuant to the California  
Government Code and the 
San  Mateo Municipal Code, 
this  Plan may be amended 
following  public hearings before 
and  approval by both the 
Planning  Commission and the 
City Council.   Such amendment 
is a legislative  act subject to 
initiative and  referendum.  Under 
state law, a  specific plan may be 
amended  in the same manner as 
a general  plan, except that it may 
be  amended as often as deemed  
necessary by the legislative body.   
This Plan provides for 
overall  aggregate limits on 
development  for the entire 
Plan Area. Due  to the long-
term nature of  the anticipated 
build-out, it is  desirable to 
maintain flexibility  in the precise 
allocation of  the density and 
type of land  uses. However, 
the density of  development 
for a particular  block must be 
allocated at the  time that (1) a 
Subdivision Map  or (2) a SPAR 
for such block is  approved, 
whichever occurs first.

--- page 315 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 316 ---


--- page 317 ---
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 
31 July 2014  
City of San Mateo

--- page 318 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 319 ---
How to Use the Design Guidelines 
1. Introduction [ 03 ] 
The Introduction gives an overview of the purpose and content of the Design Guidelines,  and 
provides an overall vision of the urban design concept and the sustainable planning 
and design approach. 
2. Open Space and Streetscape Guidelines [ 15 ] 
This chapter details the open space, streetscape, and landscape design strategies
 and guidelines that provide a pedestrian-oriented network of public amenities. 
3. General Urban Design [ 83 ] 
This chapter elaborates upon the objectives and policies of the Corridor Plan to 
contextualize Station Park Green into the Hayward Park TOD Zone as well as the larger City 
Context.
  
4. Blocks and Building Elements [ 111 ] 
This chapter includes block guidelines that address uses, edges, access, form, heights,  and 
building expression, as well as building elements guidelines that address the design  intent 
and character of and the relationships between buildings within each block in the 
Plan Area. 
5. Sustainability [ 151 ] 
This chapter describes how stormwater management, green design, and sustainable de-
velopment features will be integrated into the Plan Area. 
Appendix [ 165 ] 
The appendix includes definitions of some of the more specialized terms used in the 
Design Guidelines.

--- page 320 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 321 ---
1. 
Introduction 
Introduction 03 
Relation to the Specific Plan 05 
Vision 06 
Examples 07 
Urban Design Concept 08 
Sustainable Planning  and 
Design 10  
2. 
Open Space and 
Streetscape   
Introduction 15 
Open Space Guidelines 16 
Streetscape Guidelines 48 
Landscape Guidelines 62 
3. 
General  
Urban Design  
Introduction 83 
Form 84 
Building Placement and Edges 88 
Primary Ground-Floor Uses 90 
Solar Orientation 92 
Modulation of Built Form 93
Residential-Scale Expression 102 
Housing Diversity 105 
Parking and Loading 105 
  
4.  
Blocks and  
Building Elements 
Introduction 109 
Blocks and Open 
Space  110 
Block MU-1 112 
Block RE-2 118 
Block RE-3 124 
Block RE-4 130 
Building Elements 136 
Contents  
5. 
Sustainability 
Introduction 151 
LEED for Neighborhood  
Development 152   
Stormwater Management 153 
Flood Control Strategy 159 
Site Preparation and Design 160 
Neighborhood Design and  
Community 160 
Green Building Design 161  
Appendix  
Definitions 165

--- page 322 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 323 ---
1. 
Introduction 
FIGURE 1.01 Station Park Green  
illustrative site plan 4 
FIGURE 1.02 Illustrative rendering  
of a residential street in the Plan  
Area, facing north along Concar 
Drive 6 
FIGURE 1.03 Rendering from the  
‘Rail Corridor Plan’ illustrating  
clear view corridors and good  
connectivity of streets drawing  
people through the two 
properties 7 
 
FIGURE 1.04 Bird’s-eye-view  
rendering of Station Park Green,  
looking east 8 
FIGURE 1.05 Urban design          
concept  9  
2. 
Open Space and 
Streetscape  
FIGURE 2.01 Open Space diagram  
16 
FIGURE 2.02 Station Park Green  
illustrative site plan with open  
space components  17  
FIGURE 2.03 The Park illustrative  
site plan 18 
FIGURE 2.04 A row of deciduous,  
fast-growing trees edges a park 18 
FIGURE 2.05 Illustrative rendering  
of The Park, looking east from  
RE-2 19 
FIGURE 2.06 Example of various  
rooms for range of activities 19 
FIGURE 2.07 Example of built-in  
seating around a fountain 20 
FIGURE 2.08 Example of a 
reflective sculpture 20 
FIGURE 2.09 Example of sculpture 
derived from circular form 20 
FIGURE 2.10 Eastern Plaza  
illustrative plan and section 21 
Figures + Tables  
FIGURE 2.11 Example of sculptural  
iconic structure 22 
FIGURE 2.12 Example of a pavilion  
as a lantern at night 22 
FIGURE 2.13 Example of a gazebo 
22 
FIGURE 2.14 The Pavilion illustrative 
plan and section 23 
FIGURE 2.15 Example of lawn and  
low planting providing openness  
and visibility 24 
FIGURE 2.16 Example of lawn  
serving as a large, informal  
gathering space 24 
FIGURE 2.17 The Lawn illustrative  
plan and section 25 
FIGURE 2.18 Example of pocket  
spaces sheltered by lush planting  
26 
FIGURE 2.19 Example of a 
specimen  grove with seating 26 
FIGURE 2.20 Western Plaza  
illustrative plan and section 27  
FIGURE 2.21  Example of rain  
garden planting 28 
FIGURE 2.22  Example of rain  
garden planting with seasonal  
interest 28 
FIGURE 2.23 Park Promenade 
illustrative plan and section 29 
FIGURE 2.24 Linear Park illustrative  
plan 30 
FIGURE 2.25 Example of tree grove 
31 
FIGURE 2.26 Example of glower 
garden 31 
FIGURE 2.27 Example of pathway in 
the grove 31 
FIGURE 2.28 Gateway Park 
Illustrative Plan 32 
FIGURE 2.29 Gateway sculpture 33 
FIGURE 2.30 Gateway Park 
Illustrative Plan and section 33 
FIGURE 2.31 Gateway Plaza 
Illustrative Plan 34 
FIGURE 2.32 Example of seating 
area buffer with planting 34   
FIGURE 2.33 Example of custom 
seating that accommodate different 
usage 35 
FIGURE 2.34  Example of lighting 
integrated into seating 35 
FIGURE 2.35 Example of tree grove 
framing view 36 
FIGURE 2.36 Drought tolerant 
ornamental planting 36 
FIGURE 2.37 Example of flush curb 
and paving transition at crossing 36 
FIGURE 2.38 The Park Connection 
Illustrative Plan 37 
FIGURE 2.39 The Park Community 
Park Illustrative Plan 38 
FIGURE 2.40 Example of topographic 
mount 38 
FIGURE 2.41 Illustrative Plan of Tilted 
Garden 39 
FIGURE 2.42 Example of tilted garden 
39 
FIGURE 2.43  Example of tilted 
garden 40

--- page 324 ---
Figures + Tables  
2. 
Open Space and  
Streetscape 
(continued)
FIGURE 2.44 Example of buffer 
planting  40 
FIGURE 2.45 Illustrative Plan of 
The Mount 41 
FIGURE 2.46 Example of color 
sculptural element 41 
FIGURE 2.47 Example of fast-
growing deciduous tree 42 
FIGURE 2.48 Example of Park 
Corridor with seating 42 
FIGURE 2.49 Example of 
seating under the grove 42 
FIGURE 2.50 Park Corridor 
Illustrative Plan 43 
FIGURE 2.51 Station 
Corridor Illustrative Plan 
43 
FIGURE 2.52 Example of Multi-
use EVAE 44 
FIGURE 2.53 Example of seating 
along Pocket Park 44 
FIGURE 2.54 Greenway Pocket 
Parks Illustrative Plan 45 
FIGURE 2.55 Example of 
Courtyard planting 46 
FIGURE 2.56 RE-3 Courtyard 46 
FIGURE 2.57 Corner of Concar 
and South Delaware Street Plaza 
Illustrative plan and section 47 
FIGURE 2.58 Street section 
location  key 48 
FIGURE 2.59 “ A” Street illustrative  
plan and section (Section 1) 49 
FIGURE 2.60 “B” Street illustrative  
plan and section (Section 2) 50 
FIGURE 2.61 “C” Street illustrative  
plan and section (Section 3) 51 
FIGURE 2.62 “C” Street at MU-1 
garage illustrative plan and 
section (Section 4) 52 
FIGURE 2.63 “ C” Street at Block  
RE-2 illustrative plan and section  
referred to key plan 1 (Section 5) 53 
FIGURE 2.64 Garvey Way Extension 
illustrative plan and section 54  
FIGURE 2.65 Concar Drive at Blocks 
RE-2 and RE-3 illustrative plan and 
section (Section 7) 55  
FIGURE 2.66 OS-7 Pedestrian Path-
way (Section 8) 56 
  
FIGURE 2.67 Concar Drive at Block 
RE-2 illustrative plan and section 
(Section 9) 57 
FIGURE 2.68 Concar Drive at Block 
MU-1illustrative plan and section 
(Section 10) 58 
FIGURE 2.69 South Delaware Street 
at Block MU-1 Retail illustrative 
plan and section (Section 11) 59 
FIGURE 2.70 South Delaware 
Street at Block MU-1illustrative 
plan and section (Section 12) 60 
FIGURE 2.71 South Delaware Street  
at Block RE-4 Retail illustrative plan 
and section (Section 13) 61 
FIGURE 2.72 Tree Diagram 62 
TABLE 2.01 Encouraged street and 
open-space tree species 63 
FIGURE 2.73 Ginko biloba 63 
FIGURE 2.74 Ulmus parvifolia 63  
FIGURE 2.76  Platanus acerifolia 63  
FIGURE 2.77 Zelkova serrata 63 
FIGURE 2.78 Magnolia soulangeana  
64 
FIGURE 2.79 Olea europea 64 
FIGURE 2.80 Cedrus deodora 64 
FIGURE 2.81 Sequoia semperviren  
64 
FIGURE 2.82 Populus fremontia 64 
FIGURE 2.83 Populus fremontia 65 
FIGURE 2.84 Cercis canadensis 65 
FIGURE 2.85 Arbutus unedo 65 
FIGURE 2.86 Eucalyptus nicholi 65 
FIGURE 2.87 Quercus agrifolia 65 
FIGURE 2.88 Lavendula 66 
FIGURE 2.89 Garrya elliptica 66 
FIGURE 2.90 Ribes sanguineum 66 
FIGURE 2.91 Fremontadendron  
californicum 66 
FIGURE 2.92 Ceanothus “Ray 
Hartman” 66 
FIGURE 2.93 Corylus cornuta 66 
FIGURE 2.94 Cercis occidentalis 66 
FIGURE 2.95 Romneya coulteri 66 
FIGURE 2.96 Carex nudata 66  
TABLE 2.02 Encouraged plant  
species 67  
FIGURE 2.97 Lighting diagram 68 
TABLE 2.03 Lighting Performance  
and Types 69 
FIGURE 2.98 Example of 
bollard pathway lighting 70 
FIGURE 2.99 Example of  street 
trees interspersed with lights  
70 
FIGURE 2.100 Example of a pavilion  
serving as a lantern at night 70 
FIGURE 2.101 Example of a marker  
light 70 
FIGURE 2.102 Example of lighting  
used to define landscape rooms 70 
FIGURE 2.103 Example of a light  
sculpture 70 
FIGURE 2.104 Decomposed granite 
71 
FIGURE 2.105 Cobblestone 71 
FIGURE 2.106 Flag stone 71 
FIGURE 2.107 Wood decking 71 
FIGURE 2.108 Concrete unit paver 71 
FIGURE 2.109 Concrete 71 
FIGURE 2.110 Warning paver/ 
truncated dome 71

--- page 325 ---
2. 
Open Space and 
Streetscape 
(continued)  
FIGURE 2.111 Flagstone 71 
FIGURE 2.112 Paving integrated with  
grass 71 
TABLE 2.04 Paving Performance  
and Types 72 
FIGURE 2.113 Example of a planter  
73  
FIGURE 2.114 Example of permanent  
furnishing used to reinforce the  
larger design concept 73  
FIGURE 2.115 Example of seating 73 
 
FIGURE 2.116 Example of fixed bench 
73
FIGURE 2.117 Example of built-in  
seating 73 
FIGURE 2.118 Example of masonry  
wall and metal fencing 74 
FIGURE 2.119 Example of masonry  
wall with opening to increase  
transparency 74  
FIGURE 2.120 Example of a fence 74  
 
FIGURE 2.121 Paving performance 
and types 74 
 
FIGURE 2.122 Example of a fence 74  
 
3. 
General  
Urban Design 
FIGURE 2.123 Example of masonry  
post with wood fence 74 
FIGURE 2.125 Example of a 
temporary installation 75 
 
FIGURE 2.124 Example of art 
gateway sculpture 75 
 
FIGURE 2.126 Example of lighting  
as art 75 
FIGURE 2.128 Example of  
illuminated signage 76 
FIGURE 2.127 Example of custom  
text providing identity 76 
FIGURE 2.129 Example of signage  
mounted on landscape slope 76  
FIGURE 2.130 Example of  
pedestrian path and fire lane 77 
FIGURE 2.131 Example of fire lane  
and pedestrian thoroughfare 77 
FIGURE 2.132 Example of multi-
directional ramp 77 
FIGURE 2.133 Example of curb cut  
to allow stormwater to drain into  
stormwater planter 78 
FIGURE 2.134 Example of  
stormwater planter 78 
FIGURE 2.135 Example of  
stormwater treated in soil-filled,  
planted concrete catch basin 78 
Figures + Tables  
FIGURE 2.136 Example of rain  
garden 78  
FIGURE 3.01 Form areas and  
subareas 85 
FIGURE 3.02 Form areas,  
perspective view 87 
FIGURE 3.03 Example of a build-to  
line edge 89 
FIGURE 3.04 Example of residential  
setback edge 89 
FIGURE 3.05 Building placement  
and edges 89 
FIGURE 3.06 Example of mixed-
use on The Park frontage 90 
FIGURE 3.07 Example of residential  
unit entries 90 
FIGURE 3.08 Residential-scale unit  
entryway example 91 
FIGURE 3.09 Example of mixed-use  
typology for Concar Drive 91 
FIGURE 3.10 Primary ground-floor  
use plan 91 
FIGURE 3.11 Solar orientation 92 
FIGURE 3.12 Modulation of 
Built Form 93   
FIGURE 3.14 Vertical Expression 
93 
FIGURE 3.15 Horizontal Expression  
93 
FIGURE 3.16 Residential-Scale 
Expression 93 
FIGURE 3.17 Modulation of Built 
Form 94 
FIGURE 3.18 Primary  Vertical 
Expression 94 
FIGURE 3.19 Roof modulation 95 
FIGURE 3.20 Block MU-1 
Concar Frontage 95 
FIGURE 3.21 Vertical Corner 
Massing 95 
FIGURE 3.22 Primary Vertical 
Expression example #1 96 
FIGURE 3.23 Primary Vertical 
Expression example #1 with  
secondary Horizontal Expression  
96 
FIGURE 3.24 Primary Vertical 
Expression example #1 showing  
building envelope 96 
FIGURE 3.25 Vertical Expression 
example #2 97  
FIGURE 3.26 Vertical Expression 
example #2 showing irregular  
façade planes and stepbacks 97 
FIGURE 3.27 Vertical Expression 
example #2 showing building  
envelope 97 
FIGURE 3.28 Modulation of Built 
Form 98 
FIGURE 3.29 Horizontal Expression  
framed by corner end-pieces 98 
 
FIGURE 3.30 Secondary Vertical or 
Horizontal Expression 99 
FIGURE 3.31 Roof Expression 99 
FIGURE 3.32 Horizontal 
Articulation Ground-floor 
Interface 99 
FIGURE 3.33 Primary Horizontal 
Expression example #1 100 
FIGURE 3.34 Primary Horizontal 
Expression example #1 with  
secondary (vertical) articulation 100

--- page 326 ---
Figures + Tables  
3. 
General  
Urban Design 
(continued)  
FIGURE 3.35 Primary Horizontal 
Expression example #1 showing  
building envelope 100 
FIGURE 3.36 Primary 
Horizontal Expression  
example #2  101 
FIGURE 3.37 Primary  Horizontal 
Expression example #2  with 
secondary (vertical) articulation  
101 
FIGURE 3.38 Primary  Horizontal 
Expression example #2  showing 
building envelope 101 
FIGURE 3.39 Residential-Scale 
Expression 102 
FIGURE 3.40 Location of  
Residential-Scale Expression 
unit modulation  
102 
FIGURE 3.41 Residential-Scale 
Expression example #1 102 
FIGURE 3.42 Residential-Scale 
Expression  example #2 102 
FIGURE 3.43 Residential-Scale 
Expression elements 
example #1 103  
4.  
Blocks and Building 
Elements              
FIGURE 3.44 Unit Rhythm example  
#1 103   
FIGURE 3.45 Vertical Expression  
example #1 103 
FIGURE 3.46 Roofline example 
#1  103 
FIGURE 3.47 Secondary Expression  
example #1 103 
FIGURE 3.48 Residential-Scale 
Expression elements example #2  
103 
FIGURE 3.49 Unit Rhythm example  
#2 103 
FIGURE 3.50 Vertical Expression  
example #2 103 
FIGURE 3.51 Roofline example 
#2 103 
FIGURE 3.52 Secondary Expression  
example #2 103 
FIGURE 3.53 Illustrative rendering  
of The Park Corridor as seen from  
across South Delaware Street in 
the   Nineteenth Avenue Park  
neighborhood 104 
  
FIGURE 4.01 Plan Area Block and 
Open Space Plan  110 
FIGURE 4.02 Illustrative  site plan 
111 
FIGURE 4.03 Block MU-1 illustrative  
plan 112 
FIGURE 4.04 The Park frontage  
example 112 
FIGURE 4.05 Concar Drive frontage  
example 112 
FIGURE 4.06 The Park frontage  
example 112 
FIGURE 4.07 The Paseo example 113 
FIGURE 4.08 Example of corner  
treatment at intersection of Concar  
Drive and South Delaware Street 113 
FIGURE 4.09 Block MU-1 placement  
guidelines 113 
TABLE 4.01 Block MU-1 guidelines  
114, 116, 117 
  
FIGURE 4.10 Block MU-1 massing  
guidelines 115 
FIGURE 4.11 Block MU-1 section A-A  
115 
FIGURE 4.13 Block RE-2 illustrative  
plan 118  
  
FIGURE 4.14 The Park frontage  
example 118 
  
FIGURE 4.15 Common usable open 
space  example 118 
FIGURE 4.16 Concar Drive frontage 
example  118 
FIGURE 4.17 Block RE-2 placement  
guidelines 119 
FIGURE 4.18 “A” Street frontage  
example 119 
TABLE 4.02 Block RE-2 guidelines  
120, 122, 123 
FIGURE 4.20 Block RE-2 massing  
guidelines 121 
FIGURE 4.21 Block RE-2 section A-A  
121
 
FIGURE 4.23 Block RE-3 illustrative  
plan 124 
 
FIGURE 4.24 The Park frontage 
example 124 
FIGURE 4.25 The EVAE frontage 
example 124
FIGURE 4.26 Block RE-3 placement  
guidelines 125 
FIGURE 4.28 Garvey Way Extension 
frontage  example 125 
FIGURE 4.29 Example of frontage on  
The Park 125 
TABLE 4.03 Block RE-3 guidelines  
126, 128, 129 
FIGURE 4.30 Block RE-3 massing  
guidelines 127 
FIGURE 4.31 Block RE-3 section  
A-A 127 
FIGURE 4.33 Block RE-4 illustrative  
plan 130

--- page 327 ---
FIGURE 4.34 South Delaware 
Street frontage  example 131 
FIGURE 4.35 The Park frontage  
example 130 
FIGURE 4.36 South Delaware 
Street frontage example 131 
FIGURE 4.37 Block RE-4 placement 
guidelines 137  
 
TABLE 4.04 Block RE-4 guidelines 
132, 134, 135 
FIGURE 4.38 Block RE-4 massing  
guidelines 133 
FIGURE 4.39 Block RE-4 section 
A-A  133 
FIGURE 4.40 Buildings 
should not  overuse 
multiple architectural  
expressions 136 
FIGURE 4.41 Example of possible  
materials, openings and 
projections 136  
FIGURE 4.42 Example of 
building  transition 137 
FIGURE 4.43 Example of 
materials  and colors 137 
FIGURE 4.44 Example of 
projections  138 
FIGURE 4.45 Example of 
openings  and recesses 138 
FIGURE 4.46 Roof form example 
139 
FIGURE 4.47 Roof should integrate  
green design features 139  
FIGURE 4.48 Mixed-use ground-
floor transparency example 139
 
FIGURE 4.49 Awning example 140
 
FIGURE 4.50 Materials and 
setbacks  example 140 
FIGURE 4.51 Retail façade 
example  140 
FIGURE 4.52 Example of entries 
that  enhance pedestrian 
character 141 
FIGURE 4.53 Example of entry 
that  provides visual interest 
and relates  to building’s overall 
façade 141 
FIGURE 4.54 Materials and colors  
example 142 
FIGURE 4.55 Example of façade  
response to solar orientation 142 
FIGURE 4.56 Brise-soleil example  
142 
FIGURE 4.57 Common residential  
usable open space example 144 
Figures + Tables  
FIGURE 4.58 Common residential  
usable open space example 144 
FIGURE 4.59 Planter on hardscape  
example 145  
FIGURE 4.60 Planter on hardscape  
example 145 
FIGURE 4.61 Residential private 
usable open  space example 145 
FIGURE 4.62 Residential private 
usable open  space example 145 
FIGURE 4.63 Example of signage 
on  awning 146 
FIGURE 4.64 Example of blade 
signs  146 
FIGURE 4.65 Retail signage 
example 147 
FIGURE 4.66 Building address and  
commercial signage example 147 
FIGURE 4.67 Retail signage 
example  147 
FIGURE 4.68 Address signage  
example 147  
4.  
Blocks and Building 
Elements 
(continued)              
5. 
Sustainability 
FIGURE 5.01 Example of  
biofiltration in planter box 153 
FIGURE 5.02 Typical Filterra® layout  
153 
FIGURE 5.03  Planter box with  
disconnected leader 155 
FIGURE 5.04 Typical rain garden 
section  156 
FIGURE 5.05 Typical planter box 
section 156 
FIGURE 5.06 Rain garden example  
157 
FIGURE 5.07 Rain Garden 
example 157 
FIGURE 5.08 Rain garden example  
157 
FIGURE 5.09 Stormwater 
Management example  157 
FIGURE 5.10 Disconnected leader  
over podium example 158 
FIGURE 5.11  Disconnected leader  
over podium example 158 
FIGURE 5.12  Disconnected leader  
and rain garden over podium  
example 158  
Appendix            
There are no numbered 
figures or tables in  the 
Appendix.

--- page 328 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 329 ---


--- page 330 ---
Station Park Green 
is  a compact network  
of walkable  blocks 
framing parks,  public 
spaces, and  pedestrian-
oriented  streets. As a 
transit-oriented plan, 
the  block pattern and  
street network are  
designed to provide  
internal connectivity,  
complement the mix  
of uses, and reinforce  
links to the Hayward  
Park Station and the  
surrounding existing  
neighborhoods.

--- page 331 ---
3 
Chapter 1 
Introduction 
This document guides the physical design of Station Park Green. These  
guidelines are intended to facilitate the creation of high-quality spaces  in 
the public realm—the parts of Station Park Green that are seen and  used 
by the public—including the system of streets, open spaces and  linkages, 
and the building components that frame them.   
Introduction [ 03 ]
Relation to the Specific Plan [ 05 ]
Vision [ 06 ]
Examples [ 07 ]
Urban Design Concept [ 08 ]
Sustainable Planning and Design [ 10 ]

--- page 332 ---
Program
599 Residential Units
25,000 to 30,000 Square feet of Retail
10,000 to 15,000 square feet of Office
2.3 acres of Open Space 
(excluding streets and sidewalks)
FIGURE 1.01 Station Park Green Illustrative Site Plan
4  
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES

--- page 333 ---
5 
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 
Relation to the Specific Plan  
The Design Guidelines give  
detailed guidance to supplement  
the Station Park Green Specific  
Plan (Specific Plan).  By detailing  
the physical design of all  buildings, 
commercial spaces,  open spaces 
and travel areas,  these guidelines 
ensure that  development in the 
Plan Area will  serve good planning 
principles  and make a pleasing 
aesthetic  contribution to the 
whole.   
These Design Guidelines state  
minimum and maximum unit  
densities, off-street parking and  
loading standards, setbacks,  
building heights, floor area ratio  
requirements, and open space  
requirements.  Additionally,  
ranges of permissible materials  
for constructing buildings and  
open spaces and paving streets  
are specified. 
All projects within the area of  
the Specific Plan (Plan Area)   
must comply with these Design  
Guidelines.  Thus future Site Plan  
and Architectural Review (SPAR)  
applications will be reviewed for  
consistency with these Design  
Guidelines. 
Throughout these Design  
Guidelines, mandatory conditions  are 
specified by the terms  “shall” and 
“not permitted.” All  other conditions 
are voluntary  and are specified by the 
terms  “should,” “encouraged,” “not  
encouraged,“ and “permitted.”  A 
project may still be approved  despite 
a failure to comply  with voluntary 
conditions. The  term “should” does 
not create  a mandatory condition, but  
does demonstrate intent. An  applicant 
that does not comply  with a condition 
which “should”  be included must be 
prepared  to explain why compliance is 
problematic.

--- page 334 ---
6  
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 1.02 Illustrative rendering of “A” Street in the Plan Area, facing  north along 
Concar Drive   
•  Active uses, including multiple 
building entries and lobbies, are 
encouraged to foster activity and 
interaction between buildings and  
sidewalks;   
•  Building articulation, such as  
storefront display windows,  
window openings, and the  use of 
varied materials, are encouraged 
in order to reinforce the pedestrian  
scale and create architectural  
interest.  
Vision 
 
Station Park Green is envisioned  
as a compact network of 
walkable blocks framing parks  
and pedestrian-oriented streets.   
As a transit-oriented plan, the  
block pattern and street network  
are designed to provide internal  
connectivity, complement the  
mix of uses, and reinforce links  
to the Hayward Park Station  
and the surrounding existing  
neighborhoods. A system of  
interconnected parks, park  
corridors, and pedestrian streets  
infuses the plan with a high-
quality landscape character and  
integrates sustainable practices. 
These Guidelines apply only to  
the Plan Area. However, as noted  
throughout these Guidelines,  
the ultimate design intent for the  
Hayward Park Station TOD Zone  
is for the Plan Area and the JPB  
property to operate together  
seamlessly through coordinated  
access ways, view corridors, an  
active network of streets and  
open spaces, and attention to  
building design and use along  
pedestrian routes, to achieve   
a successful transit-oriented 
neighborhood, to facilitate  
pedestrian and bicycle traffic  
across the JPB property to and  
from all portions of the Hayward  
Park Station Area, and to 
increased use of transit services. 
These intended design elements 
are  further elaborated below: 
•  The appropriate building  
articulation, building materials  
and landscaping at the interface  
of the Plan Area with the  
adjacent JPB property should  
provide for seamless integration. 
•  Pedestrian and bikeway  
amenities shall be considered to  
promote safe, efficient, attractive 
connections to and through the  
Plan Area and the adjacent JPB  
property, mindful that Hayward  
Park Station is not merely a  
destination but also a through-
way for pedestrians and cyclists  
traveling in both directions  
across the railroad right-of-way. 
•  Along the westerly edges of  
Blocks RE-2 and RE-3,  which 
face the JPB property,  once 
direct connection to the  
station area is implemented,  
attractive, safe, and well-lit  
pedestrian and bicycle access  
should be provided;

--- page 335 ---
7 
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 
FIGURE 1.03 Rendering from the ‘Rail Corridor Plan’ illustrating clear view corridors 
and good connectivity of streets drawing people through the two properties  
The figures in these Guidelines  
show an EVA at the southwestern  
portion of the Plan Area, along  
the boundary of the adjacent JPB  
property. It is the ultimate goal  
of these Guidelines to integrate  
the Plan Area seamlessly with the  
adjacent JPB property by providing  
for direct adjacency of buildings  
and the connection of vehicular,  
bike and pedestrian ways through  
to the JPB property. Integration of 
the properties could include the 
placement of buildings, fronting  
directly onto the JPB property, as  
well as a new street through the 
JPB property to meet Concar Drive. 
The location of street, pedestrian 
and bikeway amenities would then 
straddle the Plan Area and JPB 
property. However, at this time it is 
not known how the Plan Area and 
the JPB  property will ultimately 
interface, so the EVA is shown as a 
necessary contingency, providing 
required  fire safety access for 
the Plan Area, solely within its 
boundaries. The interface of the 
Plan Area and the JPB property 
will be determined during SPAR for 
Blocks RE-2 and RE-3.
Examples 
The Design Guidelines are illustrated 
throughout with images of existing 
built environments. These illustrations 
are meant to serve as examples of the 
different forms of development that are 
possible under these guidelines. The 
examples must be treated as  only that 
-- examples. The Design Guidelines 
are expressly intended to allow a 
wide variety of architectural styles, 
not merely the styles depicted in the 
examples.

--- page 336 ---
8  
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 1.04 Bird’s-eye-view rendering of Station Park Green, looking east  
The bird’s-eye-view rendering in 
Figure 1.04 reflects an overall  
vision for Station Park Green. 
It illustrates the relationships 
among  the blocks and their built 
edges,  the open space system 
and its  access linkages, and 
locations of key architecture and 
landscape focal points.  
Open Space System 
Station Park Green is organized  
by an interconnected system of  
public parks, green corridors,  
and pedestrian-oriented streets.  
Located at the center of the  
plan area, The Park is the central  
open space “room” for four 
mixed-use and residential blocks.  
There are also three smaller 
parks interconnected into the 
plan, Community Park, Gateway 
Park and the Greenway Pocket 
Parks. The Park is connected to 
South Delaware Street by a linear 
landscape, the Park Corridor. The 
interior streets along the four 
blocks have a special streetscape 
character that unifies the space 
around The Park from building 
face to building face.  
Access and Connections 
There are three points of vehicular  
access to the plan area: at South 
Delaware Street opposite  
Charles Lane; at Concar Drive  
opposite the SR 92 ramps; and  
from Garvey Way. The primary  
transit access corridor from South  
Delaware Street to the Joint  
Powers Board property is planned  
along the north side of The Park, 
creating a visual link to Hayward 
Park Station. Pedestrians may pass 
through Block MU-1 from South 
Delaware Street using a publicly 
accessible path called “the 
Paseo.”
Building Edges 
Three types of building edges   
differentiate the mixed-use and  
residential blocks within Station  
Park Green. The character of a  
building’s edges is related to the  
uses of that building, as well as   
to the adjacent streets and open  
spaces. Accordingly, the block  
frontages along Concar Drive and  
the JPB property will have mostly 
full build-to  lines. Frontages 
on The Park extend into the 
surrounding blocks with articulated 
build-to lines. The lower heights 
and massing of the units along 
South Delaware Street will have 
a high degree of modulation and 
residential-scale expression.  
 Urban Design Concept

--- page 337 ---
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
9 
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 
Focal Points 
Five architectural focal points and five landscape 
focal points are planned within Station Park Green. 
Architectural: 
•  The intersection of Concar Drive and South 
Delaware Street will be emphasized in Block MU-1, 
per the Corridor Plan. 
•  Blocks MU-1 and RE-2 will each have a focal point to 
emphasize the corridor to Caltrain Station.
•  A focal point at the north end of RE-3 will announce 
the project to traffic entering from Garvey Way.
•  The corner of “A” Street and “C” Street on Block 
MU-1 will anchor The Park with an architectural 
feature. 
Landscape: 
•  A landscape feature should be provided in The Park, 
on axis with “A” Street, to create a visible landmark 
announcing this 1.1-acre space.
•  The focal point at the intersection of Concar Drive 
and South Delaware Street will serve as a gateway to 
the site.
•  A landscape berm at the north end of Community 
Park will provide a visual terminus for the connected 
open spaces.
•  Sculptural artwork and specialized plantings at the 
south end of “A” Street and the east end of The 
Park will welcome visitors to the Plan Area. 
FIGURE 1.05 Urban design concept

--- page 338 ---
10  
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Station Park Green integrates  
sustainable planning in its location, 
transit-orientation,  mix and 
intensity of uses,  block pattern and 
orientation,  landscape materials, 
and  stormwater management  
strategies. The approach to  
sustainable planning and design  
for the Plan Area is incorporated  
in every chapter of this document.   
Chapter 5: Sustainability includes  
detailed guidelines for the 
Plan  Area regarding stormwater  
management and building 
components.  
Publications relied upon include:   
•  Constructed Wetlands in the  
Sustainable Landscape (Craig S.  
Campbell and Michael Odgen,  
1999)  
•  Creating Great Neighborhoods:  
Density in Your Community  (Local 
Government Commission  and US 
EPA, September 2003) 
•  Great Streets  (Allan B. Jacobs,  
The MIT Press, 1993) 
•  LEED for Neighborhood  
Development pilot version  
(United States Green Building  
Council, 2007) 
•  Multi-Family Green Building  
Guidelines (Alameda County  
Waste Management Authority,  
2004) 
•  Pedestrian- and Transit-Friendly  
Design (Smart Growth Network,  
1999)  
•  Planning and Urban Design  
Standards (American Planning  
Association, John Wiley & Sons,  
2005) 
•  Plants and Landscapes for  
Summer-dry Climates of the San  
Francisco Bay Region (EBMUD,  
2004) 
•  San Mateo County Sustainability  
Checklist 
•  San Mateo Municipal Code;  
Chapter 23.70 “Green Building  
Requirements” 
•  Sustainable Landscape  
Construction: a Guide to Green  
Building Outdoors (J. William  
Thompson and Kim Sorvig, 2000) 
•  Take Back Your Streets  
(Conservation Law Foundation,  
1995)  
Sustainable Planning and Design

--- page 339 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 340 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 341 ---


--- page 342 ---
From The Park,
green corridors will
reach out into the
surrounding streets
and establish visual
and pedestrian
connections to
additional open
spaces and public
transit. Within The
Park, three green
“rooms” will face
toward the mixed-use
areas.

--- page 343 ---
Introduction [ 15 ]
Open Space Guidelines [ 16 ]
Streetscape Guidelines [ 48 ]
Landscape Guidelines [ 62 ]
15
Station Park Green is organized around a system of interconnected 
open spaces and streets that provide a pedestrian-oriented network of 
public amenities. The design approach to the parks and streetscapes 
is based upon principles of sustainability, and examples from nearby 
communities. This chapter describes the open space and streetscape 
design strategies and guidelines for the Plan Area. It is divided into 
three sections: Open Space Guidelines, Streetscape Guidelines, and 
Landscape Guidelines.
Chapter 2
Open Space and
Streetscapes

--- page 344 ---
16
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Figure 2.01 Open Space and Streets
The open space program 
includes The Park, Gateway Park, 
Community Park, Park Corridor, 
Station Corridor, Greenway Park, 
and the Courtyards. These eight 
open spaces are shown in Figure 
2.01. 
The street network includes three 
mixed-use streets around The 
Park, “A”,”B”, and “C” streets, 
and one residential street, the 
Garvey Way Extension. 
Plantings for the open space and 
streetscape program is covered 
in the Landscape Guidelines, 
beginning on page 62.
Open Space Guidelines

--- page 345 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
17
Figure 2.02 Station Park Green illustrative site plan with Open Space  
Components
South Delaware Street
A Street
Garvey Way Extension
C Street
B Street
Concar Drive

--- page 346 ---
18
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Figure 2.03 The Park Illustrative Site Plan
Figure 2.04 Example of a row of 
deciduous, fast growing trees edging 
a park
The Park 
The Park gives Station Park 
Green its primary identity. The 
Park will have a semi-formal, civic 
character, expressed through 
materials that reflect its prime 
Peninsula setting, and will build 
upon the examples established in 
nearby communities. 
From The Park, green corridors 
will reach out to the surrounding 
streets, and establish visual 
and pedestrian connections 
to additional open spaces and 
public transit. Within The Park, 
two green “rooms” will face 
south toward the mixed-use areas 
and the last room will face south 
towards the residential area. 
Residential areas north of The 
Park will be buffered by a line of 
tall trees. The Park’s spaces will 
offer a variety of scales and sun 
conditions to accommodate a 
range of activities related to the 
adjacent buildings and uses.

--- page 347 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
19
Figure 2.05 Illustrative rendering of The Park, looking west from RE-2
Tree species such as native 
redwood, oak, and cottonwood 
trees are encouraged in The 
Park to reinforce the regional 
microclimate and help shape the 
different scales of built and open 
spaces. Trees will vary in size 
from ornamental to specimen. 
Provision has also been made for 
a potential sculptural pavilion to 
provide a focal point and space 
for gathering, retail uses, utilities, 
bike parking, or other new uses 
and programs that may develop.
Figure 2.06 Example of various rooms 
for a range of activities

--- page 348 ---
20
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Figure 2.09  Example of sculpture dervied from circular form
Figure 2.07 Example of built-in 
seating
Figure 2.08  Example of reflective 
sculpture
Eastern Plaza 
General Guidelines 
•   Establish the first impression for 
neighborhood visitors to The 
Park. 
•   Relate to Block MU-1. 
•   Provide a semi-formal plaza for 
outdoor events, dining, and 
vending for retail tenants. 
•   Offer shade and seating for 
residents and visitors. 
Planting 
a. Tall, fast-growing deciduous 
trees shall be planted on the 
northern side to orient the plaza 
toward Block MU-1. 
b. The plaza should contain 
a sculpture surrounded by a 
ring of trees. Native oaks are 
encouraged. 
c. The plaza should provide 
a welcoming space to guide 
pedestrians from The Paseo 
at MU-1. Low plantings are 
encouraged to maintain openness 
and visibility. 
Sculpture 
a. The sculpture is encouraged 
to have a polished surface to 
capture the reflection of the 
sky and the surrounding tree 
canopies.
b. The sculpture should avoid 
creating harmful glare into 
residential units or the path of 
automobile travel.
Paving 
a. Unit pavers and decomposed 
granite are encouraged. 
b. The plaza edge contains a 
portion of the EVAE around The 
Park and shall be curbless and 
marked with a flush band of 
warning pavers and bollards for 
safety. 
Furniture 
a. Built-in seating should be an 
integral part of the plaza design. 
b. Moveable tables and chairs 
provided by mixed-use tenants 
are permitted.

--- page 349 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
21
Figure 2.10  Eastern Plaza Illustrative plan and section
c. Furnishings shall be compatible 
with the materials and finishes 
of site elements such as lighting, 
signage, metalwork and minor 
structures.
Lighting 
a. Light poles should mark the 
southeast corner of The Park, 
using greater height and mass 
to create a transition to taller 
adjacent buildings. 
b. Accent lighting should be 
integral to the design of a plaza 
sculpture.
c. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
warning pavers
circular bench 
seating
iconic sculpture
bike lane
bollards
street trees with 
underplanting
C Street
B Street

--- page 350 ---
22
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Pavilion 
General Guidelines 
•   Provide a sculptural, iconic 
structure. 
•   Create a focal point. 
•   Anchor the view from Concar 
Drive to The Park. 
•   Provide a source of light; act as a 
lantern at night. 
•   Allow for informal usage 
Planting 
a. Tall, fast-growing deciduous 
trees shall be used on the 
northern side to orient the plaza 
toward Blocks MU-1 and RE-2. 
b. A grove of mid-sized trees shall 
provide an enclosed, shady area, 
and frame adjacent open space. 
Evergreens are encouraged. 
c. Tree species such as Olea 
Europea ‘Swan Hill’ (Fruitless 
Olive) or Arbutus ‘Marina’ 
(Madrone crossed with Strawberry 
Tree) are encouraged. 
d. Low plantings are encouraged 
to maintain openness
FIGURE 2.13 Example of a gazebo
Figure 2.11 Example of sculptural 
iconic structure
Figure 2.12 Example of a pavillion as a 
lantern at night
Paving 
a. Paving materials shall be 
compatible with those used in the 
Eastern and Western Plazas. 
b. Colored sandblasted 
concrete steps, unit pavers, 
and decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
c. The curbless edge along the 
street contains a portion of the 
EVAE around The Park and shall 
be marked with a flush band of 
warning pavers for safety. 
Furniture 
a. Built-in seating should be 
provided within the grove of 
trees. 
b. Furnishings shall be compatible 
with the materials and finishes 
of site elements such as lighting, 
signage, metalwork, and minor 
structures.

--- page 351 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
23
FIGURE 2.14 The Pavilion illustrative plan and section
Lighting 
a. Accent lighting should be 
provided for the grove of trees 
and the Pavilion itself. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
warning 
pavers
pavillion
grove
bike lane
bike parking
grove
stormwater 
managment 
area
C Street
flush curb with 
warning pavers 
and bollards
high contrast 
pavers in 
crosswalk
garden 
plantings
garden 
plantings
street trees with 
underplanting

--- page 352 ---
24
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Lawn 
General Guidelines 
•   Provide a large, informal 
gathering space that is suitable 
for events, passive recreation, 
and casual games. 
•   Accommodate informal seating 
on low steps. 
•  Provide accessible connection at 
both north and south ends. 
Planting 
a. Tall, fast-growing deciduous 
trees shall be used on the 
northern side to orient the lawn 
toward RE-2. 
b. Low plantings around the 
lawn are encouraged to maintain 
openness and visibility. 
c. A sunken lawn area is 
encouraged. 
Paving 
The curbless edge along the 
street contains a portion of the 
EVAE around The Park and shall 
be marked with a flush band of 
warning pavers for safety.
FIGURE 2.16 Example of lawn serving as a large, informal gathering space
FIGURE 2.15 Example of lawn and low planting providing openness and visibility
Furniture 
Built-in steps for seating should 
define the lawn perimeter. 
Lighting 
Low-level strip lighting 
incorporated into seating steps is 
encouraged for safety.

--- page 353 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
25
FIGURE 2.17 The Lawn illustrative plan and section
bike lane
flush curb with 
warning pavers 
and bollards
stormwater 
management 
area
bench seating
flush curb and 
warning pavers
lawn
step seating
concrete 
walkway
street trees with 
underplanting

--- page 354 ---
26
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Western Plaza 
General Guidelines 
•   Provide a protected gathering 
space. 
•   Divide the plaza and grove 
into a series of smaller, informal 
gathering spaces. 
•   Create a transition in scale and 
mass between the lawn and RE-2 
west of The Park. 
Planting 
a. A grove of specimen trees shall 
relate to existing Peninsula parks. 
Coast Redwoods or Deodor 
Cedars are encouraged. 
b. Low, flowering shrubs should 
frame outdoor gathering spaces. 
Paving 
a. Paving materials shall be 
compatible with those of the 
Pavilion and Eastern Plaza. 
b. Sandblasted concrete steps, 
unit pavers, and decomposed 
granite are encouraged. 
c. Textured and patterned 
surfaces shall tie into paved areas 
across “C” Street to Blocks RE-2 
and RE-3
FIGURE 2.18 Example of pocket 
spaces sheltered by lush planting
FIGURE 2.19 Example of a specimen
grove with seating
d. The Plaza edge contains a 
portion of the EVAE around The 
Park and shall be curbless and 
marked with a flush band of 
warning pavers and bollards for 
safety. 
Furniture 
Built-in seating should be 
integrated into the plaza design.
Lighting 
a. Lights mounted in branches of 
trees are permitted to create a 
moonlight effect. 
b. Light poles should mark the 
southwest corner of The Park, 
using greater height and mass 
to create a transition to taller 
adjacent buildings. 
c. Paths of travel or high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
.

--- page 355 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
27
FIGURE 2.20 Western Plaza illustrative plan and section
bike lane
flush curb with 
warning pavers 
and bollards
stormwater 
management 
area
flush curb and 
warning pavers
street trees with 
underplanting
large speciman 
trees

--- page 356 ---
28
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Park Promenade 
General Guidelines 
•   Provide a green pedestrian 
connection from South Delaware 
Street to the Hayward Park 
Station. 
•   Subtly separate The Park from 
RE-3 and RE-4 with a screen of 
trees. 
•   Include a rain garden with plants 
that withstand saturation and 
drought to treat stormwater 
from the streets around The 
Park. More information on rain 
gardens is provided in Chapter 5: 
Sustainability. 
Planting 
a. A row of large, fast-growing 
deciduous trees that can 
withstand both saturation and 
drought conditions shall be 
planted along the northern 
edge of The Park. Species 
such as Populus fremontii 
(Fremont’s Cottonwood) or 
Fraxinus americana ‘Empire’ are 
encouraged. 
b. Carex spp. or other species 
capable of withstanding 
saturation and drought conditions 
are encouraged for the Rain 
Garden.
FIGURE 2.21 Example of rain garden 
planting
FIGURE 2.22 Example of rain garden planting with seasonal interest
Paving 
a. The curbless edge along “C” 
Street shall be marked with 
warning pavers for safety. 
b. The paving material should 
include sandblasted concrete with 
lampblack color.
Lighting 
a. Low-level path lights should be 
used to mark the main pedestrian 
axis and augment street and 
building lighting. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.

--- page 357 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
29
FIGURE 2.23 Park Promenade illustrative plan and section
.
bike lane
flush curb with 
warning pavers
stormwater 
management 
area planted with 
fast-growing trees
bench seating
lawn
concrete walkway

--- page 358 ---
30
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Linear Parks
Commmunity and Gateway Parks 
connect Concar and Garvey Way, 
and invite the public to share 
and enjoy the heart of the Plan 
Area. Daily, the parks will delight 
walkers, joggers, bicyclists, 
and transit riders with a green 
backdrop, a colorful display, new 
foliage, or a place to rest. Color, 
variety, a focus on arts, and a 
sophisticated sustainable palette 
will distinguish the landscape 
design and the selection of trees 
and plant materials.
FIGURE 2.24 Linear Park Illustrative Plan
GATEWAY PARK
COMMUNITY PARK
Garvey Way Extension
Concar Drive
A Street

--- page 359 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
31
Gateway Park
Connecting to The Park from 
Concar Drive, The Gateway Park 
provides a plaza for seating 
and begins a grove of trees 
and flower gardens that carry 
through the linear park designs. 
A large sculpture and plantings 
will anchor the corner of A Street 
and Concar Drive providing 
wayfinding into the site for 
pedestrians and cyclists. An 
elongated bench provides places 
for gathering.  
FIGURE 2.28 Gateway Park Illustrative Plan
A Street
Concar Drive
Concar Entry Plaza
and Flower Garden
Gateway Plaza
Grove
Garden Seating 
Area

--- page 360 ---
32
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Grove  & 
Flower Garden
General Guidelines 
•   Create a continuous view 
corridor from Concar Drive to 
Garvey Way using the buffer 
trees and vibrant ornamental 
plantings to promote a long view 
across all three parks.
•   Anchor the view corridor from 
Concar Drive with a cluster 
of trees at the north end of 
Community Park. 
•   Mirror the character of the 
Western Plaza in The Park to tie 
the two parks together along 
one axis. 
Planting 
a. Specimen trees that are similar 
to those in the Western Plaza 
shall be used in the grove. 
b. Tree species such as Cedrus 
deodara (Deodor Cedar) and 
Sequoia sempervirens (Coast 
Redwood) are encouraged. 
c. Drought-tolerant plantings are 
encouraged. 
Paving  
a. Concrete unit pavers and 
decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
b. Flush wood decking is 
permitted.
Furniture 
Built-in seating should be 
provided and should be located 
and installed with careful regard 
to the protection of specimen 
tree roots. 
Lighting 
a. Lights mounted in branches of 
trees are permitted to create a 
moonlight effect. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.25  Example of tree grove
FIGURE 2.26 Example of flower 
garden
FIGURE 2.27 Example of pathway in the grove

--- page 361 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
33
Concar Drive 
Entry Plaza
General Guidelines 
•   Anchor the view corridor from 
Concar Drive with a cluster of 
trees. 
•   Mirror the character of the 
Western Plaza in The Park to tie 
the two parks together along 
one axis. 
•   Utilize seatwalls to provide 
casual seating and reinforce site 
lines.
•   Facilitate pedestrian and cyclist 
circulation from sidewalk and 
bike lane.
Planting 
a. Continuous street tree 
plantings with planted understory 
shall create a feel of separation 
from the roadway.
b. Planting in The Grove and 
Flower Garden should create 
cohesion in the parks.
c. Drought-tolerant plantings are 
encouraged. 
d. Planting should buffer the 
terrace at RE-2
 
Paving  
Concrete unit pavers and 
decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
Furniture 
Utilize seatwalls to provide casual 
seating and reinforce sight lines.
Lighting  
a. Lights mounted in branches of 
trees are permitted to create a 
moonlight effect. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.29 Excample of Gateway 
Sculpture 
FIGURE 2.30 Gateway Park Illustrative Plan
iconic sculpture
shared bike path
garden plantings
seatwall
stormwater 
management 
area
street trees with 
underplanting
A Street

--- page 362 ---
34
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.31 Gateway Plaza illustrative Plan
FIGURE 2.32 Example of seating area buffer with planting
Gateway Plaza
General Guidelines
•   Provide a gateway at Concar 
Drive and “A” Street that is 
welcoming to both pedestrians, 
cyclists, and vehicles.
•   Facilitate clear movement 
within the sidewalk zone while 
providing a quiet space to pause.
•   Provide wide fixed seating within 
the plaza suitable for sitting 
alone, or in groups. 
•   Utilize seatwalls to provide 
casual seating and reinforce sight 
lines.
•   Provide access to small-scale 
public courtyard space
Planting 
a. Continuous street tree 
plantings with planted understory 
shall create a feel of separation 
from the roadway.
b. Plantings in The Grove and 
Flower Garden at the corner of 
“C” St should be consistent with 
planting at Concar Drive Entry 
Plaza and across to The Park.
grove plantings
seatwall
flowering trees
flower garden 
plantings
entries to private 
residences
street trees with 
underplanting
fixed plaza seating
flush curb with warning 
pavers and bollards
high contrast pavers in 
crosswalk
garden plantings
Bike Parking
A Street
C Street

--- page 363 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
35
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to a level of one foot-
candle on average.
FIGURE 2.33 Example of custom seating that accomodates different usage
FIGURE 2.34 Example of lighing integraged into seating 
Paving  
a. Concrete unit pavers are 
encouraged and plaza paving 
shall extend to the sidewalk to 
enlarge the feeling of the space.
b. Flush curb with warning pavers 
and bollards should be used at 
crossing to The Park. 
c. High contrast pavers should 
identify pedestrian crossings 
across “C” street to The Park.
Furniture 
Built-in seating should be 
provided and designed to 
accomodate a range of group 
sizes and activities.
Lighting  
a. Lighting may be added to 
seating to accentuate sight lines 
and create interest near the entry.
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be

--- page 364 ---
36
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Park 
Connection
General Guidelines 
•   Create visual coherance 
between the three parks
•   Facilitate safe pedestrian 
movement across C St. 
•   Act as interface to grove and 
pavillion spaces.
Planting  
a. Match plantings in the Grove 
and Flower Garden sections of 
Gateway Park
b. Drought-tolerant plantings are 
encouraged. 
Paving 
a. Concrete unit pavers and 
decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
b. High contrast pavers should 
identify pedestrian crossings to 
The Park across “C” Street.
Lighting 
a. Lights mounted in branches of 
trees are permitted to create a 
moonlight effect.
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.35 Example of tree grove 
framing view
FIGURE 2.36 Example of drought 
tolerant ornamental planting
FIGURE 2.37 Example of flush curb and paving transition at crossing

--- page 365 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
37
FIGURE 2.38 The Park Connection illustrative Plan
bike lane
flush curb with 
warning pavers 
and bollards
stormwater 
management 
area
flush curb and 
warning pavers
crossing at stormwater 
swale
street trees with 
underplanting
garden planting
grove planting
garden planting
high contrast paving at 
crossing
pavillion
C Street

--- page 366 ---
38
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Community Park
Across The Park and C Street, The 
Community Park is the northern 
most open space. To terminate 
the long view from The Gateway 
Park, a six foot high topographic 
play feature will provide a visual 
barrier as well as a children’s 
play area.  Tilted gardens give 
horticultural variety and the seat 
walls provide casual seating. The 
RE-4 Courtyard and the pathway 
to South Delaware Street extend 
this park into the smaller scale 
gardens and stoop zones of the 
residential units
FIGURE 2.39 The Community Park illustrative Plan
FIGURE 2.40 Example of topographic mount
bike lane
seatwall
Flower Garden planting
Grove plantings
flush curb with 
warning pavers 
and bollards
street trees with 
underplanting
garden seating area
The Mount
Tilted Garden
Garvey Way Extension

--- page 367 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
39
Tilted Garden
General Guidelines 
•   Provide unique horticultural 
experiences using drought- 
tolerant plants.
•   Create more intimate walkway 
and garden spaces.
Planting  
a. The Grove and Flower Garden 
sections echo other parks in 
the Plan Area while buffering 
residential units and adding 
seasonal interest.
b. Drought-tolerant plantings are 
encouraged. 
Paving 
Concrete unit pavers are 
encouraged for primary 
circulation. Secondary walkways 
may be concrete with saw-cut 
joints.
Furniture  
Seatwalls to provide flexible 
seating 
Lighting 
Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of  
darkness to a level of one foot-
candle on average.
FIGURE 2.42 Example of tilted lawn
FIGURE 2.41 Illustrative Plan of Tilted Garden
Flower 
Garden 
planting
Grove 
plantings
flush curb 
with warning 
pavers and 
bollards
seatwall
drought 
tolerant 
garden 
plantings
small scale residential 
entries
garden entry
Garvey Way Extension

--- page 368 ---
40
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Mount
General Guidelines 
•   Terminate park views and screen 
views of the adjacent Postal 
Service facility. 
•   Provide opportunities for play 
through topography and art.
•   Create more expansive views 
from the top of the mount which 
in an otherwise flat site.
Planting  
a. The southern side of the mount 
should be irrigated lawn to 
facilitate play while the other two 
sides may be low-maintenance, 
low-water grasses.
b. The northern edge of the 
park should include  stormwater 
management plantings and fast-
growing, water-loving trees to 
create a backdrop for The Mount 
and screen views. 
c. Buffer plantings to the east of 
The Mount should match species 
in the Grove.
Paving 
a. Secondary circulation around 
The Mount should be concrete. 
Lighting 
a. Uplighting at The Mount is 
encourage to create dramatic 
effect and terminal vista.
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to a level of one foot-
candle on average.
FIGURE 2.43 Example of tilted garden
FIGURE 2.44 Example buffer planting

--- page 369 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
41
FIGURE 2.45 Illustrative Plan of the Mount
FIGURE 2.46 Example of color sculptural element 
Garvey Way Extension
stormwater management area 
with fast-growing trees
topographic play feature
Grove tree planting
South Delaware Street 
park connection
Flower Garden planting
seatwall

--- page 370 ---
42
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Station Corridor 
& Park Corridor
General Guidelines 
•   Create a gateway to the Plan 
Area. 
•   Strengthen the east-west axis 
along The Park toward Hayward 
Park Station. 
•   Extend space and character 
of The Park from the Eastern 
Plaza to South Delaware 
Street to open The Park to the 
surrounding neighborhoods. 
•   Continue The Park Promenade 
to South Delaware Street, 
by using the same trees, 
construction materials, lighting, 
and rain garden plantings. 
Planting 
a. Tall, fast-growing deciduous 
trees shall be planted to continue 
the line of regularly-spaced trees 
in The Park to South Delaware 
Street. 
b. Tree species Populus fremontii 
(Fremont’s Cottonwood) or 
Fraxinus americana ‘Empire’ are 
encouraged. 
c. A 21-foot-wide continuous bed 
of plantings at least three feet 
high shall be installed below the 
trees. 
d. Carex spp. or other species 
capable of withstanding 
saturation and drought conditions 
are encouraged for the rain 
garden. 
Paving 
Sandblasted concrete colored 
with lampblack is encouraged. 
Lighting 
a. Low-level path lights should be 
used to mark the main pedestrian 
axis and to augment street and 
building lighting. 
b. The general level of 
illumination should average 0.4 
foot-candles. 
c. Paths of travel or high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.47 Example of fast growing 
deciduous tree
FIGURE 2.48 Example of Park Corridor 
with seating
FIGURE 2.49 Example of seating under the Grove

--- page 371 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
43
FIGURE 2.50 Park Corridor illustrative Plan
FIGURE 2.51 Station Corridor Illustrative Plan
unit pavers
potential seating adjacent 
to retail
Stormwater management 
area
bike lane
B STREET
S. DELAWARE 
STREET
speciman tree plantings
seating nooks
bike parking
buffer plantings at 
residential
stone dust jogging path
center planting strip
concrete bike path
buffer planting at fence

--- page 372 ---
44
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Greeway Pocket 
Parks
General Guidelines 
•   Create areas of respite 
along greenway corridor for 
pedestrians, cyclists, and 
residents.
•   Pocket parks should act as quiet 
gathering spaces seperate from 
the larger more active park 
spaces.
•   Create pleasant access to 
train station for residents with 
entrances along the greenway. 
Planting  
a. Specimen trees that are similar 
to those in the Western Plaza 
shall be used in the Pocket Parks. 
b. Tree species such as Cedrus 
deodara (Deodor Cedar) and 
Sequoia sempervirens (Coast 
Redwood) are encouraged. 
c. Drought-tolerant plantings are 
encouraged. 
Paving 
a. Concrete unit pavers, concrete 
paving, and decomposed granite 
are encouraged. 
b. Use different materials to signal 
seperate active and passive uses.
c. Signify residential lobby 
entrances with special paving. 
Concrete unit pavers are 
encouraged.
Furniture  
Built-in seating should be 
provided with careful regard to 
the protection of specimen tree 
roots. 
Lighting 
a. Lights mounted in branches of 
trees are permitted to create a 
moonlight effect. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.52 Example of Multi-use EVAE 
FIGURE 2.53 Example of seating along pocket park

--- page 373 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
45
FIGURE 2.54 Greenway Pocket Parks illustrative Plan

--- page 374 ---
46
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
RE-3 Courtyard
General Guidelines 
• Facilitate access to lobbies and 
private terraces while creating 
small scale residential open 
spaces for quiet enjoyment.
• Encourage visual and physical 
access between the parks and 
courtyards.
Planting  
a. Specimen and flowering trees 
should give a more intimate scale 
to the spaces.
b. More horticultural variety 
encouraged.
Paving 
a. Concrete unit pavers and 
decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
b. Flush wood decking is 
permitted.
Furniture 
Built-in seating should be 
provided 
Lighting  
a. Lower bollard lighting 
encouraged. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to an average of one 
foot-candle.
FIGURE 2.55 Example of courtyard planting
FIGURE 2.56 RE-3 Courtyard 
Illustrative plan
flowering trees
flower garden 
plantings
bike parking
entries to private 
residences

--- page 375 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
47
FIGURE 2.57 Corner of Concar Drive and South Delaware Street Plaza 
Illustrative Plan
Delaware/ Concar
Plaza
General Guidelines 
•  Define intersection of South 
Delaware Street and Concar 
Drive.
•   Create an green and attractive 
plaza space as a transition 
between the Nineteenth Avenue 
Park neighborhood and Station 
Park Green.
•   Create retail-serving space for 
casual gathering and outdoor 
seating.
Plantings  
Specimen treeis encouraged as a 
marker with a green understory to 
soften the corner.
Paving  
a. Concrete unit pavers and 
decomposed granite are 
encouraged. 
b. Flush wood decking is 
permitted.
Furniture 
Built-in seating should be 
provided 
Lighting  
a. Accent lighting is encouraged. 
b. Paths of travel or areas of high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to a level of one foot-
candle on average.
specimen trees
flower garden 
plantings
bike parking

--- page 376 ---
48
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.58 Street section location key
This section describes each street 
section in the Plan Area. Figure 
2.58 indicates the locations of 
the street sections shown on the 
following pages. Plan Area streets 
will facilitate vehicular movement, 
link to public transit, encourage 
pedestrian use, and support 
sustainability. Since street names 
will be determined later, streets 
are indicated as “A”, “B”, “C” 
and Garvey Way Extention for 
reference purposes. 
The hierarchy of street types will 
be reinforced by the selection of 
trees. Streets with different uses, 
character, and volumes will have 
distinct street tree species. The 
largest trees will reinforce the 
main axes, focal points, public 
spaces, and mixed-use areas. 
Smaller trees will be used on 
secondary streets and areas with a 
lower, residential scale. Street tree 
placement should have priority 
over utilities and lighting to allow 
adequate space for root growth 
and regular tree spacing.
Streetscape Guidelines

--- page 377 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
49
FIGURE 2.59 “A” Street illustrative section and plan (Section 1)
at a regular interval of not more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Deciduous trees are 
encouraged.
d. Street tree placement should 
have priority over utilities and 
lighting.
e. Trees shall be planted in tree 
wells with minimum dimensions of 
five feet, six inches, by eight feet. 
f. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
g. Cobblestone or decomposed 
granite combined with low 
plantings should be installed 
at the base of each tree along 
Gateway Park.
h. Cobblestone or tree grate 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree at Block MU-1.
i. Tree species Ginkgo biloba 
‘Saratoga’ (Maidenhair) and 
Platanus x acerifolia (Sycamore) 
are encouraged. 
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted, except adjacent to 
Gateway Park where sidewalk 
paving should match.
Lighting
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average.
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
“A” Street (Street Section 1)
 General Guidelines
•   Provide the primary entrance to      
the Plan Area and The Park from 
SR 92 and Concar Drive. 
•   The geometry of the existing SR-
92/Concar Drive intersection at 
the “A” Street entry shall meet 
City standards.
Parking
a. Parallel parking shall be 
provided on both sides of the 
street except where stormwater 
management structures are 
installed.
b. 5’ walk to be provided at 
center of each parallel parking 
spot to cross planting zone.
Planting
a. Mid-sized street trees shall 
be planted on both sides of the 
street. 
b. Street trees should be placed 
mid-sized
deciduous tree 
w/ light shade
OFFICE
concrete 
paving
pedestrian
concrete
unit pavers
asphalt paving
min. tree well-
size 8’x5’-6” 
Cobblestone or 
tree grate
street light

--- page 378 ---
50
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.60 “B” Street illustrative section and plan (Section 2)
General Guidelines 
•   Create the primary entrance to 
the Plan Area and The Park from 
South Delaware Street. 
•   Provide for two-way traffic with a 
bike lane on either side. 
Parking 
On-street parking should not be 
permitted. 
Planting 
a. Mid-sized street trees shall be 
planted on the northern side of 
the street. 
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of not more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Eucalyptus trees may be 
considered where soil alkalinity is 
an issue.
d. Street tree placement should 
have priority over utilities and 
lighting. 
e. Trees shall be planted along 
with low planting in a continuous 
planting strip with minimum 
dimensions of five feet, six inches, 
by eight feet. 
f. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box. 
g. Evergreen trees, Tristania 
conferta (Brisbane Box) and 
Ulmus parvifolia ‘Drake’ (Chinese 
Elm) are encouraged. 
Sidewalk 
Sidewalks shall be composed 
of either concrete (colored with 
lampblack and sandblasted) or 
concrete unit pavers. 
Lighting 
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
“B” Street (Street Section 2)
min. tree well 
size 8’x5’-6” 
rain garden 
planting 
pedestrian 
concrete
unit pavers
special paver 
for bikelane
vehicular 
concrete 
unit paver
street light
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL

--- page 379 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
51
FIGURE 2.61 “C” Street illustrative section and plan (Section 3)
“C” Street (Street Section 3)
General Guidelines 
•  Ring The Park with a one-way 
street including a bike lane. 
Parking
Parallel parking shall be provided
Planting
a. Mid-sized street trees shall 
be planted on the building side 
(opposite from The Park side). 
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of not more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Evergreen trees are 
encouraged.
d. Street tree placement should 
have priority over utilities and 
lighting.
e. Trees shall be planted in tree 
wells with a minimum dimension 
of five feet six inches by eight 
feet. 
f. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
g. Tree species Tristania conferta 
(Brisbane Box) and Ulmus 
parvifolia ‘Drake’ (Chinese Elm) 
are encouraged.
h.  Cobblestone should be 
installed at the base of each 
street tree.
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be either 
concrete (colored with lampblack 
and sandblasted) or concrete unit 
pavers.
b. A 2-foot-wide concrete path 
should be provided to connect 
the sidewalk to parallel parking. 
Curb
A flush band of warning pavers shall 
be provided along the outer edge of 
the Park as part of the EVAE.
Lighting
a. The general level of illumination 
should be 0.6 foot-candle on average.
b. Intersections should be illuminated 
to one foot-candle  on average.
medium  
evergreen 
trees  
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL
3’-wide 
warning 
pavers
special paver 
for bike lane
vehicular 
concrete unit 
pavers
street light
OFFICE

--- page 380 ---
52
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.62 “C” Street at Block MU-1 Garage illustrative section and plan (Section 
General Guidelines 
•	 Two way street for better access 
to MU-1 Garage with bike lane 
on one side.
Parking
a. Parking should not be 
permitted except in temporary 
loading zone on east side of “C” 
Street.
Planting
a. Low planting at The Paseo and 
under street trees should guide 
the eye towards the Eastern Plaza. 
b. Tree species Magnolia 
soulangeana ‘Rustica Rubra’ is 
encouraged. 
c. Street tree placement should 
have priority over utilities and 
lighting.
d. Trees shall be planted in tree 
“C” Street at MU-1 Garage (Street Section 4)
wells with a minimum dimension 
of five feet six inches by eight  
feet.
e. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
f. Cobblestones or tree grates 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree.
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be either 
concrete (colored with lampblack 
and sandblasted) or concrete unit 
pavers.
b. A 2-foot-wide concrete path 
should be provided to connect 
the sidewalk to parallel parking. 
Curb
A flush band of warning pavers 
shall be provided along the outer 
edge of The Park with bollards to 
complete the EVAE.
Lighting
a. Light poles should match those 
of the Eastern Plaza in The Park, 
using greater height and mass 
to create a transition to taller 
adjacent buildings.
b. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.4 foot-
candles on average.
c. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
Cobblestone or 
tree grate
medium 
deciduous tree
special paver 
for bike lane
two-way street
light pole
3’-wide 
warning paver
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 381 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
53
FIGURE 2.63 “ C” Street at Block RE-2 illustrative section and plan (Section 5)
General Guidelines 
•   Ring The Park with a one-way    
street including a bike lane.
Parking
Parking should not be permitted.
Planting
a. Mid-sized street trees shall 
be planted on the building side 
(opposite from The Park side). 
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of not more 
than 30 feet.
c. Trees shall be planted along 
with low plantings in a continuous 
strip with minimum dimensions of 
five feet, six inches, by eight feet. 
d. Stormwater plantings to be 
provided on south side of the 
street within planting area.
Sidewalk
a. Sidewalks should be either 
concrete (colored with lampblack 
and sandblasted) or concrete unit 
pavers.
“C” Street at Block RE-2 (Street Section 5)
Curb
The street shall be curbless 
adjacent to the park and marked 
by a flush band of warning pavers 
for safety.
Lighting
a. Light poles should match those 
of the Western Plaza in The Park, 
using greater height and mass 
to create a transition to taller 
adjacent buildings.
b. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.4 foot-
candles on average.
c. Paths of travel or high 
pedestrian activity should be 
illuminated during the hours of 
darkness to a level of one foot-
candle  on average.
light pole
3’-wide 
warning pavers
special pavers
for bike lane
vehicular concrete 
unit paver
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 382 ---
54
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.64 Garvey Way Extension illustrative section and plan (Section 6)
e. Trees shall be planted in tree 
wells with minimum dimensions 
of five feet, six inches, by eight 
feet. 
f. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
g. Cobblestones or decomposed 
granite combined with low 
temporary plantings should be 
installed at the base of each tree.
h. Tree species Ginkgo biloba 
‘Saratoga’ (Maidenhair) and 
Platanus x acerifolia (Sycamore) 
are encouraged. 
Sidewalk
a. Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted.
b. A 2-foot-wide concrete path 
should be provided to connect 
the sidewalk to parallel parking. 
Lighting 
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average.
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
General Guidelines
•   Provide the primary entrance to     
the Plan Area and The Park from 
Garvey Way.
Parking 
Parallel parking shall be provided 
on both sides of the street. 
Planting 
a. Mid-sized street trees shall 
be planted on both sides of the 
street. 
b. Street trees should be placed at 
a regular interval of not more than 
30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Deciduous trees are 
encouraged.
d. Street tree placement should 
have priority over utilities and 
lighting.
Garvey Way Extension
(Street Section 6)
medium 
deciduous 
tree
low water-use
planting
concrete unit
pavers
sculptural 
light pole
slanting 
concrete 
seatwall
5’-wide 
concrete walk 
at parking
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 383 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
55
FIGURE 2.65 Concar Drive at Blocks RE-2 & RE-3 illustrative section and plan 
(Section 7)
Greenway EVAE (Street Section 7)
General Guidelines 
•   Provide a twenty foot-wide 
emergency vehicle access as well 
as pedestrian and cycling route.
•   Connect Concar Drive to Garvey 
Way at the exisitng cul-de-sac.
•   Establish a more pedestrian- 
friendly environment. 
Parking 
Parking is not permitted.
Planting 
a. Screen planting should be 
planted along the property line 
between JPB parcel and the 
EVAE. 
b. Maximum planting height at 
the central planter should be no 
more than two feet. 
Paving
a. H-20 rated concrete paving 
shall be used at the bike path.  
b. H-20 rated decomposed 
granite shall be used at the 
pedestrian path.
Lighting  
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
screen planting
RESIDENTIAL
3’-wide small shrubs 
and groundcover
planting
8.5’-wide decom-
posed granite 
pathway
8.5’-wide 
multi-use lane

--- page 384 ---
56
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.66 OS-7 Pedestrian Pathway (Section 8)
d. Tree placement should have 
priority over utilities and lighting.
e. Trees shall be planted in tree 
wells with minimum dimensions 
of five feet, six inches, by eight 
feet. 
f. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
g. Cobblestones or decomposed 
granite combined with low 
temporary plantings should be 
installed at the base of each tree.
h. Tree species Cedrus deodora 
(Deodor Cedar) and Sequoia 
sempervirens ‘Aptos Blue (Coast 
Redwood) are encouraged. 
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be either 
concrete (colored with lampblack 
and sandblasted) or concrete unit 
pavers.
Lighting 
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average.
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
General Guidelines
•   Provide Bike and Pedestrian 
connection from The Park to the 
Hayward Park Station
• Establish a more pedestrian 
friendly environment.
Parking 
Park is not permitted.
Planting 
a. Mid-sized street trees shall 
be planted on both sides of the 
pathway. 
b. Park trees should be placed at 
a regular interval of not more than 
25 feet.
c. Evergreen trees are 
encouraged.
OS-7 Station Corridor (Street Section 8)
medium 
evergreen
tree
low water-use
planting
concrete unit
pavers
bike parking
sculptural 
light pole
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 385 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
57
FIGURE 2.67 Concar Drive at RE-2 illustrative section and plan (Section 9)
Concar Drive at RE-2 (Street Section 9)
General Guidelines 
•   Maintain existing vehicular 
circulation and widen sidewalk 
to accommodate pedestrian and 
bike circulation. 
•   Provide wide planting buffer 
between retail stores and drive 
lane. 
•   Establish a more pedestrian 
friendly environment. 
Parking 
Parking is only be permitted 
towards the east end of RE-2.
Planting 
a. Mid-sized trees shall be 
planted along Concar Drive. 
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of no more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Trees shall be planted in a 
planting strip with a minimum 
width of five feet. 
d. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box. 
e. Small shrubs and groundcover 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree. 
f. Tree species Platanus acerifolia 
and Tristania conferta are 
encouraged. 
Sidewalk 
a. Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted. 
b. A 2-foot-wide concrete path 
should be provided to connect 
the sidewalk to parallel parking. 
Lighting 
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
Platanus acerifolia
RESIDENTIAL
concrete sidewalk
bike lane buffer
small shrubs and 
groundcover
planting
2’-wide concrete 
walk
10’-wide 
multi-use lane

--- page 386 ---
58
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.68 Concar Drive at MU-1 illustrative section and plan (Section 10)
Concar Drive MU-1 (Street Section 10)
General Guidelines 
•   Maintain existing vehicular 
circulation and widen sidewalk 
to accommodate pedestrian and 
bike circulation. 
•   Provide wide planting buffer 
between retail stores and drive 
lane. 
•   Establish a more pedestrian 
friendly environment. 
Parking 
Parallel parking cannot be 
provided in front of MU-1.
Planting 
a. Mid-sized trees shall be 
planted along Concar Drive. 
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of no more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways. 
c. Trees shall be planted in a 
planting strip with a minimum 
width of five feet. 
d. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box. 
e. Small shrubs and groundcover 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree. 
f. Planting should occur between 
stoops wherever possible outside 
of bike lane buffer.
g. Tree species Platanus acerifolia 
and Tristania conferta are 
encouraged. 
Sidewalk 
a. Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted. 
b. A 2-foot-wide concrete path 
should be provided to connect 
the sidewalk to parallel parking. 
Lighting 
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
RESIDENTIAL
Platanus acerifolia
concrete path
10’ wide multi-use 
lane 
small shrubs and 
groundcover planting

--- page 387 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
59
South Delaware Street at MU-1 Retail  (Street Section 11)
FIGURE 2.69 South Delaware Street at MU-1 Retail illustrative section and plan 
(Section 11)
General Guidelines
•   Draw in pedestrians from 
sidewalk into the Plan Area.
•   Continue the Paseo onto South 
Delaware Street by using the 
same shrub planting, paving 
material, site furnishing, and 
lighting.
•   Maintain existing vehicular 
circulation.
•   Establish a more pedestrian-
friendly environment.
•   Provide lush planting buffer 
between retail stores and drive 
lane.
Parking
No parking shall be provided in 
front of Block MU-1.
Planting
a. Mid-sized trees shall be planted 
along South Delaware Street.
b. Street trees should be placed 
at a regular interval of no more 
than 30 feet, except at driveways.
c. Trees shall be planted in a 
planting strip with a minimum 
width of five feet, six inches.
d. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
e. Small shrubs and groundcover 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree.
f. Tree species Ginkgo biloba is 
encouraged.
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be concrete 
(colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted) or concrete unit 
paver.
Lighting
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
Ginkgo biloba
concrete path
small shrubs and 
groundcover planting
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 388 ---
60
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FIGURE 2.70 South Delaware Street at MU-1 Bus stop illustrative section and plan 
(Section 12)
South Delaware Street at MU-1 bus stop (Street Section 12)
General Guidelines 
•	 Maintain existing vehicular 
circulation and bus stop 
operation.
•	 Provide wide planting buffer 
between residential units and 
drive lane.
•	 Establish a more pedestrian- 
friendly environment.
Parking
Parking is not permitted in front 
of MU1.
Planting
a. Mid-sized trees shall be 
planted along South Delaware 
Street.
b. Street trees should be 
placed at a regular interval of 
no more than 30-feet except at 
driveways.
c. Trees shall be planted in a 
minimum 5’-6” wide planting 
strip.
d. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
e. Small shrub and groundcover 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree.
f. Tree species Ginkgo biloba is 
encouraged.
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted.
Lighting
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candles 
on average. 
Ginkgo biloba
street light
concrete path
small shrubs and 
groundcover 
planting
existing bus stop
to remain 
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 389 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
61
South Delaware Street at RE-4  (Street Section 13)
FIGURE 2.71 South Delaware Street at RE-4 illustrative section and plan (Section 13)
General Guidelines
•   Maintain existing vehicular 
circulation.
•   Set building edge back to 
provide wider planting buffer 
between residential units and 
drive lane.
• Establish a more pedestrian-
friendly environment.
Parking
No parking shall be provided in 
front of Block RE-4.
Planting
a. Mid-sized trees shall be 
planted along the west side of 
South Delaware Street.
b. Street trees should be 
placed at a regular interval of 
no more than 30 feet, except at 
driveways.
c. Trees shall be planted in a 
planting strip with a minimum 
width of five feet, six inches.
d. The minimum installation size 
shall be a 24-inch box.
e. Small shrubs and groundcover 
should be installed at the base of 
each tree.
f. Tree species Ginkgo Biloba is 
encouraged.
Sidewalk
Sidewalks should be concrete 
colored with lampblack and 
sandblasted.
Lighting
a. The general level of 
illumination should be 0.6 foot-
candles on average. 
b. Intersections should be 
illuminated to one foot-candle on 
average.
Ginkgo biloba
concrete path
existing stormwater
management area
small shrubs and 
groundcover planting
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 390 ---
62
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Landscape 
Guidelines
The following pages describe all 
landscape elements for the open 
spaces and streetscapes of the Plan 
Area, including trees, plantings, 
paving, lighting, furnishings, fencing, 
public art, signage, and accessibility. 
Trees 
Figure 2.74 diagrams tree selection 
within the Plan Area. 
General Guidelines 
•   Reinforce the street hierarcy and 
block pattern of the Plan Area 
through the selection of trees of 
varying character, giving specific, 
function-related identity to streets, 
parks and open spaces. 
•   Provide a backbone of evergreen 
trees that will serve as a green 
framework in contrast to the 
changing character and transparency 
of deciduous trees which provide 
seasonal change, texture, flowers and 
fall color. 
•   Select trees for longevity, ease of 
management, and adaptability to 
salty soil conditions. 
•   Encouraged tree species are listed in 
Table 2.01. 
•   No invasive species shall be used.
FIGURE 2.72 Tree diagram

--- page 391 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
63
FIGURE 2.73 ginko biloba
FIGURE 2.76 Platanus acerifolia
FIGURE 2.75 Fraxinus Uhdeii
FIGURE 2.74 Ulmus Parvifolia
FIGURE 2.77 Zelkova serrata
Street
Encouraged Species
Tree Character 
Encourage Size 
at Installation
Mature Size
Water Need
When Established 
“A” Street & 
Garvey Way 
Extension
Ginko biloba ‘Saratoga’ / Maidenhair ‘Saratoga’
Platanus acerifolia ‘Columbia’ / Sycamore 
‘Columbia’
Urban character with 
light shade
36” Box
Medium-large 
deciduous
Low
“B” Street
(Building Side)
Tristania conferta / Brisbane Box
Ulmus parvifolia ‘Drake’ / Chinese Elm ‘Drake’
Eucalyptus nicholi / Peppermint Gum (for alkaline 
soil only)
Fast-growing; 
strongly upright to 
rounded
36” Box
Medium
evergreen
Moderate to Low
“C” Street
Tristania conferta / Brisbane Box
Ulmus parvifolia ‘Drake’ / Chinese Elm ‘Drake’
Eucalyptus nicholi / Peppermint Gum (for alkaline 
soil only)
Fast-growing; 
strongly upright to 
rounded
36” Box
Medium
evergreen
Moderate to Low
South Delware 
Street
Tristania conferta / Brisbane Box
Ginko biloba ‘Saratoga’ / Maidenhair ‘Saratoga’
Urban character with 
light shade; upright
36” Box
Medium
evergreen or 
deciduous
Moderate to Low
Concar Drive
Tristania conferta / Brisbane Box
Platanus acerifolia ‘Columbia’ / Sycamore 
‘Columbia’
Urban character with 
light shade; upright
36” Box
Medium
evergreen or
deciduous
Moderate to Low
TABLE 2.01 Encouraged Street Trees and Open Space Tree Species

--- page 392 ---
64
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
The Park
Encouraged Species
Tree Character 
Encourage Size 
at Installation
Mature Size
Water Need
When Established 
Eastern 
Plaza
Quercus agrifolia / Coast Live Oak (alternating 
with)
Magnolia soulangeana ‘Rustica Rubra’ / Saucer 
Magnolia
Magnolia ‘Galaxy’ / Galaxy Magnolia
Large evergreens 
interplanted with
sculptural-accent 
trees with delicate
branching
48” box
Large evergreen
& small-medium
deciduous
Moderate to Low
The Pavillion
Olea europea ‘Swan Hill’ / Olive
Arbutus ‘Marina’ / Arbutus ‘Marina’
Sculptural multi-trunk 
tree; Mediterranean
character
48” box
Medium
evergreen
Low
Western 
Plaza
Cedrus deodora / Deodor Cedar
Sequoia sempervirens ‘Aptos Blue’ / Coast 
Redwood
Tall conifer with grand 
stature
8”-caliper
trunk
Large evergreen
Low
Rain Garden
Populus fremontii / Fremont’s Cottonwood
Fraxinus americana ‘Empire’ / Empire Ash
Large, fast-growing 
tree with delicate 
foliage
48” box
Large
deciduous
Moderate
Park 
Corridor
Fraxinus americana ‘Empire’ / Empire Ash
Large, fast-growing 
tree with delicate 
foliage
48” box
Large
deciduous
Moderate
FIGURE 2.78 Magnolia soulangeana
FIGURE 2.79 Olea europea
FIGURE 2.80 Cedrus deodora
FIGURE 2.81 Sequoia sempervirens
FIGURE 2.82 Populus fremontia
TABLE 2.01 Encouraged Street Trees and Open Space Tree Species, Continued

--- page 393 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
65
Gateway Park 
& Community 
Park
Encouraged Species
Tree Character 
Encourage Size 
at Installation
Mature Size
Water Need
When Established 
Buffer Planting
Eucalyptus nicholi / Peppermint Gum
Lyonothamnus floribunda / Catalina Ironwood
Melaleuca quinquenervia / Cajeput tree
Tall and slender with 
fast growth rate
48” box
Medium
evergreen
Low
Screen Tree
Rhamnus alaternus / Italian Buckthorn
Laurus nobilis / Grecian Laurel
Myrica californica / Wax Myrtle
Bambusa oldhamii / Timber Bamboo
Attractive informal 
hedges and screens
24”
Small
Low
Rain Garden
Populus fremontii / Fremont’s Cottonwood
Fraxinus americana ‘Empire’ / Empire Ash
Large, fast-growing 
tree with delicate 
foliage
48” box
Large
deciduous
Moderate
Entry Court 
Garden
Prunus yedoensis / Yoshino Flowering Cherry
Flowering specimen 
trees
48” box
Medium/Small 
deciduous
Moderate
Greenway 
Pocket Parks, 
Station 
Corridor & 
Delaware/
Concar Plaza
Cedrus deodora / Deodar Cedar
Sequoia sempervirens ‘Aptos Blue’ / Redwood
Tall, grand stature 
specimen trees
8”-caliper
trunk
Large
evergreen
Low
Residential 
Frontage
Cercis reniformis ‘Oklahoma’ / Oklahoma Redbud
Arbutus unedo / Strawberry Trees
Ornamental
36”
Small
Low
FIGURE 2.83 Populus fremontia
FIGURE 2.84 Cercis canadensis
FIGURE 2.85 Arbutus unedo
FIGURE 2.86 Eucalyptus nicholi
FIGURE 2.87 Quercus agrifolia
TABLE 2.01 Encouraged Street Trees and Open Space Tree Species, Continued

--- page 394 ---
66
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Plants
•   Native and Mediterranean 
climate-adapted plantings, 
such as those from Southern 
Europe, Chile, South Africa, and 
Australia, are encouraged for 
their attractiveness, longevity, 
drought tolerance, ability 
to support regional habitat 
(including pollinators and birds), 
ease of maintenance, and 
adaptability to post-construction 
soil conditions. 
•  Plantings for the Rain Garden 
should be selected to withstand 
saturation and drought, 
supporting stormwater 
management strategies.
Encouraged plant species are 
given in Table 2.02; a selection is 
pictured at right.
FIGURE 2.88 Lavandula
FIGURE 2.91 Fremontadendron californicum
FIGURE 2.94 Cercis occidentalis
FIGURE 2.89 Garrya elliptica
FIGURE 2.92 Ceanothus ‘Ray Hartman’
FIGURE 2.95 Romneya coulteri
FIGURE 2.90 Ribes sanguineum
FIGURE 2.93 Corylus cornuta
FIGURE 2.96 Carex nudata

--- page 395 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
67
Native and Mediterranean Climate-Adapted Plants
Arctostaphylos/ Mazanita
Heteromeles arbutifolia/ Toyon
Rhamnus californica/ Coffeeberry
Myrica californica/ Pacific Wax Myrtle
Ribes sanguineum/ Red Flowering Current
Rosmarinus officianalis/ Rosemary
Ceanothus “Ray Hartman”/ Wild Lilac
Cercis occidentalis/ Western Redbud
Lavandula spp./ Lavender
Lonicera hispidula/ Native Honeysuckle
Mahonia aquifolium/ Oregon Grape
Pittosporum spp./ Pittosporum
Rhamnus californica/ California Coffeberry
Rosa spp./ California Wild Rose
Rubus parviflora/ Thimbleberry
Vaccinium ovatum/ California Huckleberry
Romneya coulteri/ Matilija Poppy
Fremontadendron californicum/ Common Flannel Bush
Garrya elliptica/ Silktassel
Myrtus communus/ Myrtle
Olea europaea ‘Little Ollie’/ Dwarf Olive
Phormium tenax/ New Zealand Flax
Laurus nobilis/ Grecian Laurel
Rain Garden Plants
Aralia californica/ Elk Cover
Aristolochia californica/ Pipevine
Calycanthus occidentalis/ Western spicebush
Myrica californica/ Pacific wax myrtle
Carex nudata/ California black-flowering sedge
Corylus cornuta var. california/ Hazelnut
Darmera peltata/ Umbrella plant
Juncus patens/ California grey rush
Mimulus spp./ Monkeyflower
Physocarpus capitatus/ Ninebark
Polypodium californicum/ California polypody
Ribes sanguineium/ Red-flowering currant
Rubus spectabilis/ Salmonberry
Rudbeckia californica/ Coneflower
Vaccinium ovcatum/ California huckleberry
Carex tumulicola/ Berkeley Sedge
Chondrapetalum tectorum/ Cape Rush
Rubus parviflora/ Thimbleberry
Sambucus mexicana/ Elderberry
TABLE 2.02 Encouraged plant species

--- page 396 ---
68
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Lighting
The lighting for the Plan Area is 
diagrammed in Figure 2.97. “A” 
Street, “B” Street, “C” Street, 
and Garvey Way Extension are 
anticipated to have 16 to18-
foot-high street lights. The 
Greenway/EVAE is anticipated 
to have 12-14-foot-high street 
lights. South Delaware Street 
and Concar Drive should have 
City of San Mateo standard 
street lights. The open spaces 
should provide a range of lighting 
types, including path-marking 
lights, “moonlights” in trees, 
diffuse in-ground lights, bollards, 
and accent lights on landscape 
features. 
All outdoor luminaires shall be 
fully shielded such that they emit 
no direct uplight into the night 
sky. Some low-level accent and 
directional lighting in public 
spaces shall be allowed.
FIGURE 2.97 Lighting Diagram

--- page 397 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
69
Location
The Park , Park 
Corridor & Station 
Corridor
Gateway & 
Community Park
“B” & “C” Street  
“A” Street & 
Garvey Way 
Extension
South Delaware 
Street & Concar 
Drive
Lighting
Performance
Innovative and 
distinctive lighting 
should be used at the 
Eastern and Western 
plazas.
Lighting should 
complement special 
planting area, define 
landscape rooms, and 
highlight architectural 
elements.
Modern light fixtures 
are preferred.
The general level of 
illumination should be 
0.4 foot-candles on 
average.
Paths of travel or high 
pedestrian activity 
should be illuminated 
during the hours of 
darkness to a level 
of one foot-candle on 
average
Unobtrusive lighting is 
preferred for intimate 
garden spaces and 
to avoid glare to the 
adjacent residential 
units.
Lighting is encouraged 
to be incorporated into 
site furnishings.
Simple and elegant 
light fixtures are 
encouraged.
Paths of travel or high 
pedestrian activity 
should be illuminated 
during the hours of 
darkness to a level 
of one foot-candle on 
average
Lighting should be 
coordinated with The 
Park lighting design.
Should provide 
minimum light for 
safe pedestrian and 
vehicular circulation.
Light layout should 
integrate tree planting 
plans so mature trees 
will not block street 
light fixtures.
The general level of 
illumination should be 
0.6 foot-candles on 
average.
All intersections 
should be illuminated 
to one foot-candle on 
average.
Should provide 
minimum lighting for 
safe pedestrian and 
vehicular circulation.
Attention should be 
paid to preventing 
light obtrusion into 
the adjacent dwelling 
units.
Light layout should 
incorporate tree 
planting plan so 
mature trees will 
not block street light 
fixtures.
The general level of 
illumination should be 
0.4 foot-candles on 
average.
All intersections 
should be illuminated 
to one foot-candle on 
average.
Additional Street 
lighting should comply 
with City of San 
Mateo standard and 
match the adjacent 
neighborhood.
The general level of 
illumination should be 
0.6 -foot-candles on 
average.
All intersections 
should be illuminated 
to one foot-candle on 
average.
Lighting Types
Pole-mounted,
 
Cylindrical glass 
lighting
Light sculptures
In-ground uplights
Light Emitting Diode 
(LED) is encouraged
Pole-mounted lights
In-ground uplights
Light markers
Light Emitting Diode 
(LED) is encouraged 
in all types.
Street lights
Use full cut-off 
luminaires wherever 
such equipment is 
available.
Street lights
Use full-cut-off 
luminaires wherever 
such equipment is 
available.
City standard
luminaires
TABLE 2.03 Lighting Performance and Types

--- page 398 ---
70
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
General Guidelines 
•   Implement a hierarchy of lighting 
types with street lights providing 
ambient light and visual rhythm. 
•   Illuminate open spaces and 
streets to provide clear and 
comfortable visibility at night. 
•   Make streets and sidewalks 
inviting at night. 
•   Reduce nighttime accidents. 
•   Facilitate vehicular, bicycle, and 
pedestrian circulation. 
•   Promote business and use of 
public facilities at night. 
Levels 
Lighting should be provided at 
the lowest levels which are in 
accordance with the Illumination 
Engineering Society of North 
America (IESNA) lighting 
guidelines and applicable codes. 
Open Space 
There should be accent lighting 
at focal points, sculptures, or 
pavilions; mood lighting in high 
branches of mature trees; and 
path lights or markers such as 
LED displays.
FIGURE 2.98 Example of 
bollard pathway lighting
FIGURE 2.101 Example of a
marker light
FIGURE 2.99 Example of
street trees interspersed
with lights
FIGURE 2.102 Example of
lighting used to define
landscape rooms
FIGURE 2.100 Example of
a pavilion serving as a
lantern at night
FIGURE 2.103 Example of a
light sculpture

--- page 399 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
71
Paving
•   Paving materials should have a 
variety of textures and finishes in 
order to reinforce design ideas. 
•   Unit pavers are encouraged to 
increase site permeability and signal 
areas of pedestrian priority. 
•   If used, concrete paving shall use 
lampblack color which has been 
sandblasted or washed to conceal 
stains and reduce reflectivity.
•   Decomposed granite and 
cobblestones are encouraged at the 
base of trees where walking surfaces 
are not required.
FIGURE 2.104 Decomposed granite
FIGURE 2.107 Wood decking
FIGURE 2.110 Warning paver/truncated 
dome
FIGURE 2.105 Cobblestone
FIGURE 2.108 Concrete unit paver
FIGURE 2.111 Flag stone
FIGURE 2.106 Flagstone
FIGURE 2.109 Concrete
FIGURE 2.112 Paving integrated with 
grass

--- page 400 ---
72
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Location
The Park, Park 
Corridor & Station 
Corridor
Gateway Park & 
Community Park
“B” & “C” Street
“A” Street & 
Garvey Way 
Extension
South Delaware 
Street & Concar 
Drive
Paving Performance
All paving materials
should be
permeable and have
high-quality finishes
that complement 
usage
and enhance civic
character.
All paving materials
used should be
permeable and refined
to define use areas.
Vehicular unit pavers
should be used on the
driveway and sidewalk
of these streets to the
face of buildings.
Vehicular warning
pavers shall be used
around The Park and
their color should
complement adjacent
paving.
Asphalt is permitted 
on
roadways. Concrete 
paving should be use 
on the sidewalk.
Additional paving on
sidewalk should match
adjacent existing
condition. Asphalt is 
permitted on
roadways. 
Paving Type
Concrete unit pavers 
or decomposed 
granite
Poured asphalt is not
permitted.
Concrete unit pavers,
Flagstones,
Decomposed granite,
Wood, or
Crushed glass.
Poured asphalt is not
permitted.
Concrete unit pavers  
Concrete paving, and
Asphalt.
Broom-finish concrete
paving with lampblack
and tooled joints
are encouraged on
sidewalks.
Concrete paving
Asphalt
TABLE 2.04 Paving Performance and Types

--- page 401 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
73
Site Furnishings
•   Furnishings built into retaining walls 
or site structures should reinforce the 
design concept.
•   Where catalog furnishings are used 
they shall be a uniform family of 
elements throughout the open space 
network, with a combination of 
steel and wood that ties into colors, 
finishes, and materials of required site 
elements (such as light poles, utility 
enclosures and minor structures).
•   Moveable furniture which is 
compatible with site materials, colors, 
and finishes is permitted.
FIGURE 2.113 Example of a planter
FIGURE 2.114 Example of permanent 
furnishing used to reinforce the larger 
design concept
FIGURE 2.115 Example of seating
FIGURE 2.116 Example of a fixed bench
FIGURE 2.117 Example of built-in seating

--- page 402 ---
74
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Fencing
•   Fences shall have architectural-
quality detailing and materials 
that enhance the overall Plan 
Area. 
•   Fences should be built with 
consideration for permanence, 
and are encouraged to include 
wood, masonry, metal or a 
combination of those materials. 
•   Fences in transition areas 
between residential and public 
spaces should be primarily 
transparent. 
•   Sound walls, chain link, security, 
plastic and lightweight tube steel 
fences are not permitted.
FIGURE 2.118 Example of masonry wall
and metal fencing
FIGURE 2.119 Example of masonry
wall with openings to increase
transparency
FIGURE 2.120 Example of a fence
FIGURE 2.121 Paving Performance and Types
FIGURE 2.122 Example of a fence
FIGURE 2.123 Example of masonry post with wood
fence

--- page 403 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
75
Public Art
•   Public art is encouraged to be 
used to reinforce or upgrade 
required landscape design 
elements such as paving, steps, 
lighting, utility structures, or 
pavilions. 
•   Freestanding art should be 
placed to reinforce or strengthen 
existing axes, view corridors, and 
spaces.
•  Temporary art installations are 
permitted.
FIGURE 2.124 Example of gateway sculpture
FIGURE 2.126 Example of lighting as art
FIGURE 2.125 Example of a temporary 
installation

--- page 404 ---
76
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Signage
•   All text and signage should be 
designed to provide uniformity 
and coherence throughout the 
Plan Area. 
•   Signage shall be building-
mounted or integrated into 
required landscape structures 
whenever possible. 
•   Independent, freestanding signs 
are discouraged, except where 
required for City requirements 
such as street or parking signs. 
•   If approved by the City, required 
signage is permitted to be 
customized to be integrated with 
wayfinding signage. 
•   Illuminated signage should be 
directed towards the pedestrian 
or intended audience, with 
no spill light or light pollution 
affecting adjacent and 
neighboring spaces. 
•   Billboards are prohibited. 
•   Animated, moving, flashing, 
blinking, reflecting, revolving or 
other similar signs, or signs that 
incorporate these elements, are 
prohibited. 
•   Pennants, wind, or inflated signs 
are prohibited.
•   Signs cannot be placed at 
intersection or locations where 
they could obstruct the visibility 
of drivers.
FIGURE 2.128 Example of illuminated
signage
FIGURE 2.127 Example of custom text
providing identity
FIGURE 2.129 Example of signage
mounted on landscape slope

--- page 405 ---
CHAPTER 2 OPEN SPACE AND STREETSCAPES 
77
•   Circulation requirements for 
safety and accessibility should 
be integrated into sidewalks, 
crosswalks, ramps, bike lanes, 
and curbless streets so that they 
are invisible except to the extent 
that they reinforce the overall 
design. 
FIGURE 2.130 Example of pedestrian path and fire lane
FIGURE 2.131 Example of fire lane and pedestrian thoroughfare
FIGURE 2.132 Example of multi-directional ramp
•   Ramps, curbcuts, wheelguides, 
and painted pavements are 
required to meet standard 
Caltrans specifications; however, 
they are encouraged to be 
coordinated with the street 
furniture palette.
•   Multi-directional ramps 
should be used at all corner 
intersections. These ramps are 
depressed from curb return 
to curb return. The design 
shall maintain a minimum 2% 
slope along the flow line and 
an accessible route. Truncated 
domes shall be provided along 
the depressed curb.
Emergency Vehicle & Handicapped Accessibility

--- page 406 ---
78
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES
Sustainability
•   Best management practices 
such as biofilters, rain gardens, 
and permeable pavings should 
be integrated into the parks and 
sidewalks for the treatment of 
surface runoff and roof water. 
•   Besides stormwater 
management, electrical energy 
generation for low light-
level fixtures and fountains is 
encouraged. 
Please refer to Chapter 5: 
Sustainability for more details.
FIGURE 2.133 Example of curb cut to allow stormwater to
drain into stormwater planter
FIGURE 2.134 Example of stormwater planter
FIGURE 2.135 Example of stormwater treated in soil-filled, planted concrete catch
basin
FIGURE 2.136 Example of rain garden

--- page 407 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 408 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 409 ---


--- page 410 ---
Station Park Green  
is designed as 
a  transit-oriented  
neighborhood. The  
general urban design  
guidelines in this  
chapter incorporate  
the objectives 
and  policies of the  
Corridor Plan to fit  
Station Park Green  
into the Hayward  Park 
TOD Zone, as  well 
as the larger City  
context.

--- page 411 ---
83 
Introduction  [ 83 ] 
Form  [ 84 ] 
Building Placement and Edges  [ 88 ] 
Primary Ground-Floor Uses  [ 90 ] 
Solar Orientation  [ 92 ] 
Modulation of Built Form  [ 93 ] 
Residential Scale Modulation  [ 102 ] 
Housing Diversity  [ 105 ] 
Parking and Loading  [ 105 ] 
Station Park Green is designed as a transit-oriented neighborhood.  
The general urban design guidelines in this chapter elaborate upon the  
objectives and policies of the Corridor Plan to fit Station Park Green into 
the Hayward Park TOD Zone, as well as the larger City context.  
Chapter 3 
General Urban Design

--- page 412 ---
84
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Form Areas
 
Concar Drive 
Concar Drive frontages of 
Blocks MU-1 and RE-2
•  Buildings should be of 
appropriate height and mass to 
screen interior streets and The 
Park from SR-92 conditions and 
to achieve desired density.  
•  Building articulation should 
provide variety, visual interest, 
and points of reference along 
Concar Drive.
•  Buildings may share courtyards 
and transition areas with 
adjacent form areas.  
•  Open space at grade should 
further modulate building mass.  
The Park Frontages 
Frontages to larger open spaces  
•  Buildings should be minimum 
height of 35’ (as specified in the 
block diagrams in Chapter 4) and of 
sufficient mass to clearly define a built 
frame around The Park.  This frame 
should create a coordinated and 
identifiable “room” around The Park.
•  Buildings should provide a transition 
from South Delaware Street and 
Concar Drive into the heart of the plan 
area with appropriate modulation. 
•  Buildings may share courtyards, open 
space, and transition massing with 
adjacent form areas. 
•  Open spaces at grade should further 
modulate building mass.  
•  Upper stories should be modulated to 
create visual rhythm along roof lines, 
provide usable open space, include 
architectural and landscape elements, 
and increase sunlight in The Park.   
 •  Building entrances and setbacks 
should create appropriate 
transitions for residential units 
from the street, while supporting 
an active relationship with the 
street.  
•  Building mass should create an 
architectural feature at both ends 
of The Park. 
•  Spaces and structures should be 
aligned to create direct physical 
or visual connections across 
streets and The Park.
•  Building lobbies should be 
located to activate the street 
frontage and complement the 
composition of building forms
The Plan Area has five main form 
areas: Concar Drive, The Park 
Frontages, Delaware Street (MU-
1), Delaware Street (RE-4), and 
Hayward Park Station Edge. For 
block-specific form guidelines, 
refer to Chapter 4: Blocks and 
Building Elements. 
 
Building form within the Plan 
Area should address the internal 
and external contexts of Station 
Park Green.  Within the form 
areas, building heights should 
be modulated as contextually 
appropriate, to break up building 
mass, create variety and visual 
interest, and allow for penetration 
of sunlight and air.  Figure 3.01 
shows each form area.  The 
approach to form is shown in a 
three-dimensional perspective 
view in figure 3.02, with basic 
buildable envelopes. 
 
Form

--- page 413 ---
85 
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN
FIGURE 3.01 Form areas and subareas

--- page 414 ---
86
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Delaware Street (MU-1)
South Delaware Street frontage 
of Block MU-1 
•  Smaller massing should respond 
to the existing neighborhood 
across South Delaware Street. 
•  Architectural massing should hold 
the corner of “B” Street and the 
intersection of South Delaware 
Street and Concar Drive, creating 
an identifying feature for Station 
Park Green and transitioning the 
block from the 35’ height limit to 
55’ height limit.
•  Ground-floor articulation should 
respond to pedestrian and 
automobile activity, encouraging 
building/street interaction and 
highlighting the mixed use 
elements of the block.
Delaware Street (RE-4)
South Delaware Street frontage 
of Block RE-4 
•  Ground-level stoops and 
landscape setbacks should 
create appropriate transitions 
for residential units from the 
street, while supporting an active 
relationship with the street.  
•  Building form should incorporate 
the residential scale with fine-
grained rhythms and articulation. 
Smaller-scale massing should 
provide a transition to the 
existing neighborhood. 
Hayward Park Station 
Edge
West edge of the site that fronts 
Hayward Park Station  
•  Building volumes should create 
focal points to highlight the 
project’s identity to the Caltrain 
line that runs along this form area.
•  Buildings should be of sufficient 
mass and height to frame the site 
at the transit edge.  
•  Massing and articulation should 
emphasize the physical and visual 
connection into The Park.  
•  The buildings should address the 
Joint Powers Board property as 
primary frontages. 
•  Varied building and landscape 
depths should create additional 
diversity along the length of this 
form.

--- page 415 ---
87 
FIGURE 3.02 Form areas perspective view  
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 416 ---
88
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Edge types and building placement 
guidelines create a hierarchy of 
streetwalls in the Plan Area. There 
are three major edge types: 
Build-to Block Lines, Limited 
Landscape, and Setback.  
•  Building placement and edge 
character should ensure clear 
block patterns, active sidewalks, 
and buffers for residential areas.  
•  Edge types should consider land 
uses and the surrounding context.
Build-to Block 
Lines 
Block MU-1 frontages
 
•  Buildings at Block MU-1 should 
clearly define the edge to activate 
and engage frontage for retail uses 
and building entries. 
•  Building edges should follow the 
block lines wherever possible, 
creating an urban street edge with 
frequent pedestrian entrances and 
hardscape.    
Limited Landscape 
Landscape buffers of zero to 
ten feet from the block line are 
permitted for blocks RE-2, RE-3, 
and RE-4 to buffer from pedestrian 
and vehicular traffic or other uses 
as detailed in Chapter 4: Blocks 
and Building Elements. Parking 
and loading areas should be 
screened.
•  Buildings fronting on The Park 
should allow for a landscaped 
transition at the building edge while 
still framing The Park and activating 
the ground level. 
•  Landscaped buffers should provide 
additional space for residential 
stoops at street level.  
•  Buildings fronting The Park, 
Delaware Street, and Concar 
Drive should have a continuous 
and articulated streetwall to 
define the blocks.
•  Buildings at the corners of 
intersecting streets should hold 
the corner, avoiding excessive 
setback from the block lines.
•  Reducing the Limited 
Landscape zone (up to zero 
feet) may be utilized at 
lobby locations, residential 
amenities, and when 
architectural articulation 
requires increased variation in 
depth.  Reduced landscaping 
should be minimized, used 
primarily as a means of the 
building reaching out to 
engage with the sidewalk, 
highlighting special spaces.
•  The building edge must 
remain within ten feet of 
the block line, ensuring 
engagement with the street 
and creating a more urban 
condition throughout Station 
Park Green.
Building Placement and Edges  
Setback
Setback conditions should be 
used for additional landscaping 
next to ground-floor units, 
and to allow for increased 
building articulation as the 
building mass steps in and out.  
Setback depth varies from each 
condition and reacts to the 
blocks contextual edge.
 
•  Setbacks should create a 
transition space along the 
EVAE and the Plan Area’s 
north edge to allow for 
stoops, pedestrian walkways, 
and landscaping to foster 
and appropriate residential 
character.
•  Setbacks should create 
appropriate transitions at site 
edges.

--- page 417 ---
89 
FIGURE 3.03 Example of a build-to block line
FIGURE 3.04 Example of residential setback edge  
FIGURE 3.05 Building placement and edges 
Note: Assumes EVAE along boundary with the JPB  property.  
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 418 ---
90
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
There are two basic ground-floor 
uses in the plan area: one is mixed-
use and one is primarily residential, 
as shown in Figure 3.10. Refer to 
Chapter 4:  Blocks and Building 
Elements for additional guidelines 
for ground-floor design.  
Mixed-Use:  
Retail/Office 
Frontages of Block MU-1
•  Retail/Services/Restaurant and      
Office uses shall be the primary  
ground-floor uses. 
•  Residential uses should include  
residential lobbies and entries. 
•  Uses along The Park should  
prioritize restaurants, cafés, and  
outdoor sidewalk dining.  
Residential 
Frontages of Blocks RE-2, RE-3, 
and RE-4 
•  Residential uses should be the  
primary ground-floor use in  
Blocks RE-2, RE-3, and RE-4
•  Residential uses should include  
lobbies, residential entries, and  
amenities.
FIGURE 3.06 Example of mixed-use on The Park frontage
FIGURE 3.07 Example of residential unit entries (stoops)  
Primary Ground-Floor Uses

--- page 419 ---
91 
FIGURE 3.08 Residential-scale unit entryway  
example  
FIGURE 3.09 Example of mixed-use typology 
for  Concar Drive  
FIGURE 3.10 Primary ground-floor uses plan
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 420 ---
92
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Solar Orientation  
The exposure of building  
façades to the sun is illustrated  
in Figure 3.11. Façades facing  
south and west have the most  
solar exposure, while northern  
and eastern façades will receive  
limited sunlight.  
•  Buildings should be designed  
with an understanding of their  
relationship to solar orientation.  
•  Buildings with significant  
exposure to the sun should  
incorporate façade treatments  
that address solar exposure;  
such treatments can reduce  
energy expenditures and create  
more comfortable indoor  
environments for working and 
living. 
•  Buildings with significant  
exposure to the sun should  
consider incorporating devices  
to harvest passive energy. 
•  Southern and western façades  
should incorporate elements  
such as brise-soleil, balconies, or  
loggias to shade against the sun. 
FIGURE 3.11 Solar orientation

--- page 421 ---
FIGURE 3.14 Vertical Expression
93 
Modulation of Built Form
Within Station Park Green, 
diversity of modulation 
creates a more successful 
street character and vibrant 
streetscape.   Through 
conscious variation, the Plan 
Area becomes a village of 
diverse architectural styles.  
Three particular forms are 
emphasized in the buildings’ 
massing: Vertical Expression, 
Horizontal Expression, and 
Residential-Scale Expression. 
(Figure 3.12) 
•  Integrating vertical and 
horizontal forms along The Park 
edge will create visual interest 
and varied ground-plane 
interaction.  
•  Each form should address 
ground-floor uses, access 
points, street character, and 
solar orientation into its design. 
•  The building facades within the 
Plan Area should be broken 
into segments through the 
variation in horizontal and 
vertical articulation.
•  Utilizing vertical and horizontal 
articulation for architectural 
focal points will create a variety 
of iconic forms as reference 
points throughout the Plan 
Area.  Heightened forms will 
allow for vertical expression 
(such as lobby and leasing 
locations) with horizontal 
masses anchoring both ends of 
The Park. 
•  Materials and openings should 
differentiate facade planes.
•  Facade step backs, recesses, 
and projections should 
continue above the ground 
floor to create visual interest 
and rhythm.
FIGURE 3.15 Horizontal Expression
FIGURE 3.16 Residential-Scale Expression
Vertical Expression
Horizontal Expression
Residential Scale Expression
FIGURE 3.12 Modulation of Built Form
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 422 ---
94
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 3.18 Primary Vertical Expression  
FIGURE 3.17 Modulation of Built Form
Vertical Expression
Vertical Expression  
The use of Vertical Expression is one 
means of providing architectural 
diversity throughout the Plan Area. 
Creating a series of planes at the 
ground floor provides opportunities 
for landscaping, pedestrian niches, 
and defined entries.  Carrying these 
jogs in the building plane up to the 
parapet creates roof form variation 
that articulates the overall mass-
ing of the facade. Recesses used 
to define vertical building forms 
also create voids ideal for defining 
unit decks within the built mass.  In 
mixed-use conditions, continuing 
vertical lines from the upper resi-
dential expression through to the 
ground floor can inform glazing 
openings,  pedestrian access points, 
and breaks in plane while incorporat-
ing horizontal articulation to create a 
strong ground floor-base. 
1. Facade modulation: Facades 
should establish a vertical 
expression (see Figure 3.18).
•  Vertical modulation will create 
diverse facade depth as well as 
variety at the street level as the 
building wall meets the ground 
plane.
•  Vertical expression should relate 
to ground-floor facades to engage 
street-level activity.
•  Individual planes within the facade 
above the ground-floor should have 
proportions that use the width of a 
residential unit or room to create a 
vertical rhythm.
•  Irregularity of the vertical rhythm 
is encourage to achieve greater 
diversity and further integrate with 
the overall design strategy.
•  The depth of step backs and 
recesses should vary from one to ten 
feet.
Vertical Modulation / Rhythm  
Vertical  
Proportions 
Ground Floor Base  
Façade plane

--- page 423 ---
95 
2. Roof Modulation: Roof  
modulation should create  
attractive and varied rooflines  
(see Figure 3.19). 
•  Buildings should vary massing  
within the height limits. 
•  Modulated roof forms, integrated   
with mechanical equipment, are  
permitted. 
•  Roof shapes and treatment  should 
contribute to the overall  roofline 
appeal. 
3. Ground-Floor Interface: Ground-
floor  treatment should create 
a vibrant interface between the 
building and the sidewalk (see 
Figure 3.20).
 
•  Buildings should foster  interaction 
between the inside  and outside by 
using multiple  entrances and trans-
parent  façades.   
•  Architectural details such as retail 
entrances, residential or office 
lobbies, other active uses,  awnings, 
paving, or signage  should be used 
to create visual  appeal and interest 
at the  pedestrian level.  
•  Minor setbacks of ground-floor 
façades are permitted to create va-
riety and additional spatial interest. 
Please refer to Chapter 4: Blocks 
and Building Elements for further 
guidelines on ground-floor design.
4. Corners: The massing  of corners 
should create  distinctive façades 
(see Figure 3.21). 
•  Corners should address the  charac-
ter and scale of adjacent  streets. 
•  Façade treatment and materials  
should optimize orientation to  sun-
light. 
5. Distinctive Corners: Massing 
should create distinctive 
landmarks at important corners.  
• Block MU-1, at the corner of “C” 
street and “A” Street, should address 
The Park and highlight ground-floor 
uses. 
•  Block MU-1, at the corner of South 
Delaware Street and Concar Drive, 
should announce Station Park Green, 
anchoring the retail edge and the 
Delaware/Concar Plaza. 
•  Lobby entrance at RE-3 fronting 
Hayward Park Station should create a 
visual landmark for the pedestrian ac-
cess point and break up the longest 
block frontage.   
FIGURE 3.19 Roof Modulation
FIGURE 3.20 Block MU-1 Concar Frontage
FIGURE 3.21 Vertical Corner Massing
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 424 ---
96
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 3.22 Primary Vertical Expression example #1	
FIGURE 3.23 Primary Vertical Expression example #1 with  
secondary Horizontal Expression  
FIGURE 3.24 Primary Vertical Expression example #1 showing  building envelope

--- page 425 ---
97 
FIGURE 3.25 Vertical Expression example #2	
FIGURE 3.26 Vertical Expression example #2 showing irregular  
façade planes and stepbacks  
FIGURE 3.27 Vertical Expression example #2 showing building  envelope 
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 426 ---
98
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Horizontal 
Expression
Horizontal expression creates a 
strong base at the ground level, 
which lends itself to retail uses.  This 
approach is used on Block MU-1 
along South Delaware Street to 
highlight the mixed-use component 
of Station Park Green.  Horizontal 
expression establishes an important 
visual line directing visitors in at the 
corner of “A” Street and Concar 
Drive.  Similar forms used along the 
north side of “C” street visually rein-
force the connection with the transit 
station.  Additionally, using horizon-
tal articulation in high sun exposure 
areas creates useful shade. 
1. Primary Horizontal Expression: 
Façades should establish a  primary 
Horizontal Expression  (see Figure 
3.29).  
•  The Horizontal Expression shall  be re-
lated to the components of  base, mid-
dle, and capital/cornice,  and framed by 
corner end-pieces.
•  Horizontal expression should be paired 
with landscaping and stoops at the 
ground level to provide variety where 
the building wall meets the ground 
plane.
•  In particular for larger blocks, corner 
end-pieces should be considered to  
frame the façade and to address  the 
character of adjacent streets. 
•  Ground floors should be designed as a 
base for the primary  Horizontal Expres-
sion  of buildings.
•  Buildings should comply with block 
edges established in Figure 3.05.  
•  Southerly facades should  incorporate 
shading devices  such as brise-soleil, 
balconies or  loggias that support the 
horizontal  rhythm. 
 
  
FIGURE 3.28 Modulation of Built Form
Horizontal Expression
FIGURE 3.29 Horizontal Expression framed by corner end-pieces

--- page 427 ---
99 
2. Secondary Expression:  
Secondary façades should  
create variety and rhythm  
within the primary Horizontal  
Expression (See Figure 3.30). 
•  Projections within required  setbacks 
and stepbacks should  be used to 
create secondary  modulation and 
façade interest. 
•  The secondary modulation may  
be horizontal and/or vertical. A  
secondary Vertical or Horizontal  
Expression is permitted to relate  to 
or engage roof treatments so that 
horizontal and vertical lines interplay 
dynamically, provided that reading 
of horizontality remains dominant. 
•  Corner end-pieces or side  façades 
should address the  immediate 
street and open  space context and 
orientation, as  well as the height 
and character  of  buildings on the 
facing block. 
3. Roof Modulation: Roof  
modulation should create  
attractive and varied rooflines  
(See Figure 3.31). 
•  Buildings should vary massing  
within the height limits. 
• Modulated roof forms, integrated   
with mechanical equipment, are  
permitted.  
•  Roof shapes and treatment  should 
contribute to the overall  roofline 
appeal.  
•  Roof shapes and treatment  should 
also consider their  southern orien-
tation to create  additional shade for 
façades or  private open space. 
4. Ground-Floor Interface: 
 Ground-floor treatments  should 
create an attractive  transition 
between the street  and 
residential units (See Figure 3.32). 
•  Ground-floor units should be  raised 
above street level while  ensuring 
ADA accessibility.  Please refer to 
guidelines for  ground-floor design 
in Chapter  4: Blocks and Building 
Elements. 
•  Setback areas should be  supple-
mented with treatments  that create 
visual interest for  pedestrians, such 
as stoops,  awnings, paving, and 
landscape. 
•  The ground floor should  be 
activated with building  entrances, 
secondary unit  entrances, or other 
active uses  that support residential 
use.  
FIGURE 3.32 Horizontal Articulation ground-floor interface
FIGURE 3.31 Roof Expression
FIGURE 3.30 Secondary Vertical or Horizontal Expression
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 428 ---
100
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 3.33 Primary Horizontal Expression example #1	
FIGURE 3.34 Primary Horizontal Expression example #1 with  
secondary (vertical) articulation  
FIGURE 3.35 Primary Horizontal Expression example #1 showing  building envelope

--- page 429 ---
101 
FIGURE 3.36 Primary Horizontal Expression example #2	
FIGURE 3.37 Primary Horizontal Expression example #2 with  
secondary (vertical) articulation  
FIGURE 3.38 Primary Horizontal Expression example showing  building envelope 
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 430 ---
102
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 3.39 Residential-Scale Expression  
FIGURE 3.40 Location of Residential-Scale Expression 
(highlighted area)  
FIGURE 3.41 Residential-Scale Expression example #1  
FIGURE 3.42 Residential-Scale Expression example #2  
Residential-Scale Expression should 
reflect a fine-grained, reduced  
mass and vertical articulation.  
This modulation should be  
accomplished with patterns 
of  projections or recesses, and  
changes in roof forms expressed  
at each residential-scale unit, as 
shown in Figures 3.43-3.52.  Block 
RE-4 along Delaware Street and 
Block RE-3 South along Garvey Way 
Extension will feature units with 
Residential-Scale Expression.
Residential-Scale Expression

--- page 431 ---
103 
FIGURE 3.51 Roofline 
example #2  
FIGURE 3.49 Unit Rhythm 
example #2  
FIGURE 3.46 Roofline 
example #1  
FIGURE 3.44 Unit Rhythm 
example #1  
FIGURE 3.48 Residential-Scale Expression elements example #2  
FIGURE 3.43 Residential-Scale Expression elements example #1  
FIGURE 3.45 Vertical Expression  
example #1  
FIGURE 3.47 Secondary 
Expression  example #1  
FIGURE 3.50 Vertical 
Expression  example #2  
FIGURE 3.52 Secondary 
Expression  example #2  
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 432 ---
104
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 3.53 Illustrative rendering of the Park Corridor as seen from across South Delaware Street in the Nineteenth Avenue Park neighborhood  
Note: Buildings shown only for context.

--- page 433 ---
105 
Housing 
Diversity
Parking and 
Loading  
•  The Plan Area must include at  
least one car-sharing stall for  ev-
ery 230 required off-street  motor 
vehicle parking stalls.   “Car-shar-
ing” means a service  that 
provides an integrated  network 
of neighborhood-based  automo-
biles available only to  members 
by reservation for  periods as short 
as one hour. 
•  Off-street motor vehicle facili-
ties  are encouraged to include  
charging stations for electric  
vehicles.  
Bicycle Parking Facilities 
The Plan focuses on pedestri-
ans  and bicyclists and provides 
non-motorized access to all parts  
of the Plan Area.  To support  this 
focus on bicyclists, bicycle  parking 
facilities shall be provided  in an 
amount equal to at least  five per-
cent (5%) of the required  number 
of off-street motor  vehicle parking 
stalls, and using  the following 
guidelines:   
•  Bicycle parking is permitted on  
streets and should be protected  
from encroachment by motor 
vehicles. 
Unit Types and Sizes 
•  Station Park Green should have  
multiple unit types, such as 
studio, 1-bedroom, 2-bedroom, 
and 3-bedroom.
•  Units should range in size among  
different unit types. 
Affordable Housing 
•  Pursuant to Municipal Code  
Section 27.16.050 and City  
Council Resolution 121 (2008),  
the Project shall provide BMR  
units in conformance with a  
BMR Agreement(s) between the  
building permit applicant and  
the City.  
Motor Vehicle Parking  
Facilities 
Off-street motor vehicle parking  
facilities shall be provided for  
each use in the amounts required  
under the Specific Plan, and using  
the following guidelines:  
•  All off-street parking facilities  
shall be designed and  main-
tained in compliance with  Sec-
tion 27.64.140 of the San  Mateo 
Municipal Code.
•  Off-street parking facilities acces-
sory to residential uses should be 
separated from parking dedicat-
ed to other uses.
 
•  During SPAR, the Planning  
Commission (and City Council)  
may consider allowing required  
off-street parking stalls to be  
space-efficient and loading  
facilities to be located on-street,  
without the need for a variance. 
 
•  Except as to space-efficient stalls, 
the stalls, aisles, turning radii,  
and turn-arounds for off-street  
parking facilities shall comply  
with Sections 27.64.120 through  
27.64.130 of the San Mateo  Mu-
nicipal Code.
•  Off-street bicycle parking should  
be in prominent locations near  
entrances to buildings, but shall 
not obstruct pedestrian access. 
•  Each bicycle shall be provided  a 
minimum of eighteen (18)  inch 
side clearance from the  center-
line of adjacent bicycles  and ten 
(10) inch clearance both  front 
and rear. 
•  Secured bicycle parking for each  
residential unit is encouraged. 
Loading 
Loading shall be provided for  
each use in the amounts required  
under the Specific Plan.  
 
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL URBAN DESIGN

--- page 434 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 435 ---
— mt

TOTO 2 ee



--- page 436 ---
The block guidelines  
address uses,  
edges, access, form,  
heights, and building  
expression on the  
block level.  The  
building elements  
guidelines address  
the design intent and  
character of and the  
relationships between  
buildings within each  
block, including their  
facades, roofs, ground  
floors and residential  
usable open spaces.

--- page 437 ---
109 
Chapter 4 
Blocks and Building  
Elements   
This chapter includes guidelines specific to each block in the Plan Area  as 
well as guidelines about the placement and character of building  elements. 
The block guidelines address uses, edges, access, form, heights, and 
building expression on the block level. The building elements guidelines 
address the design intent, character of, and relationships between buildings 
within each block, including their façades, roofs, ground floors, and 
residential usable open spaces. Diagrams and sample images shown in 
this chapter further illustrate  particular design characteristics, but are not 
intended to prescribe architectural style. Guidelines for the Plan’s open 
space blocks are provided in Chapter 2: Open Space. 
This chapter should be read in concert with Chapter 3: General Urban  
Design.     
Introduction  [ 109 ] 
Blocks and Open Spaces  [ 110 ] 
Block MU-1   [ 112 ] 
Block RE-2  [ 118 ] 
Block RE-3  [ 124 ] 
Block RE-4   [ 130 ]
Building Elements  [ 136 ]

--- page 438 ---
110
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.01 Plan Area Block and Open Space Plan
One block will have a mixed-use 
building, and three will be residential. 
The other eight (8) areas of the Plan 
Area comprise publicly accessible open 
space. All 12 areas have been labeled  
based upon their predominant  use: 
“MU” for mixed-use, “RE” for residen-
tial, and “OS” for open space:  
MU-1 Mixed-Use Block 1 
RE-2 Residential Block 2 
RE-3Residential Block 3 
RE-4 Residential Block 4 
OS-5 The Park 
OS-6 Park Corridor 
OS-7 Station Corridor
OS-8 Gateway Park 
OS-9 Community Park  
OS-10 Greenway Pocket Parks  
OS-11 RE-3 Courtyard  
OS-12 Delaware/Concar Plaza  
This chapter contains guidelines  
for all of the mixed-use and  resi-
dential blocks. Guidelines for OS-
5, OS-6, OS-7, OS-8, OS-9, OS-10, 
OS-11, and OS-12 are  in Chapter 
2: Open Space.  
Blocks and 
Open Space

--- page 439 ---
111 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.02 Illustrative site plan

--- page 440 ---
112
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.03 Block MU-1 illustrative plan  
FIGURE 4.04 The Park frontage example 
FIGURE 4.06 The Park frontage example  
4.05 Concar Drive frontage example  
Block MU-1  
Design Intent 
•   Provide a transition between the  
Plan Area and the  Nineteenth 
Avenue Park  neighborhood 
through lower massing and fine-
grained articulation along South 
Delaware Street.
 
•   Include a mix of uses.  
•   Create gateways to the Plan Area  
from South Delaware Street and  
from Concar Drive.  
•   Frame and activate the eastern  
side of The Park and “C” Street.  
•   Define the Concar Drive and South  
Delaware Street intersection. 
•   Provide a through-block pedestrian  
pathway (“The Paseo”).

--- page 441 ---
113 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.08 Example of corner treatment at 
intersection  of Concar Drive and South 
Delaware Street  
FIGURE 4.07The Paseo Example
OS-12
OS-6
Primary Pedestrian Entrance
Unit Entrance
Vehicular Access
Block Line
Active Use at Gournd Level/Build-to Line
Curb Cut Zone (required location)
Plan Area Boundary
Paseo 
“A” STREET
CONCAR DRIVE
“C” STREET
MU-1
Approximately 1.8 Acres
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
“B” STREET
MIN. 60’
MIN. 100’
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
MIN. 100’
FIGURE 4.09 Block MU-1 Placement guidelines

--- page 442 ---
114
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
South Delaware Street  
TABLE 4.01 Block MU-1 guidelines  
BLOCK MU-1  
 Land Use                                                                    (approximately 1.8 acres)  
Ground Floor	
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required on the frontage.
Upper Floors                                        Residential or Office uses are encouraged.
 
Concar Drive
Ground Floor	
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required.
Upper Floors	
Residential or Office uses are encouraged.
The Park Frontage
Ground Floor	
Retail/Services/Restaurants or other active uses are required.
  Priority retail locations are at the corners of “B” and “C” Streets and “A” and “C” Streets.
Upper Floors	
Residential or Office uses are encouraged.
Block Interior
Ground Floor	
Parking should be enclosed. The Paseo is required (see page 117).
Upper Floor                                   Parking should be enclosed. The Paseo is required (see page 117).

--- page 443 ---
Hold Corner/Edge
Height: 25’-35’
Height: 40’-55’
Block Line
Plan Area Boundary
Architectural Focal Point
“A” STREET
CONCAR DRIVE
“C” STREET
MU-1
Approximately 1.8 Acres
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
“B” STREET
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
45’ MIN
35’ HEIGHT LIMIT
A
A
50’ MIN
30’ MIN
MIN. 50’
MIN. 15’
PASEO
OS-12
OS-9
OS-6
MAX. 35’
Height Limit
Block Line
Max Height 55’
S. Delaware St.
Block Line
MU-1
45’
“A” Street
Breaks in roof lines 
encouraged
115 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.10 Block MU-1 massing guidelines
FIGURE 4.11 Block MU-1 Section A-A

--- page 444 ---
116
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Form
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.  
General
Primary massing shall be along Concar Drive, “A” Street, and “C” Street/The Park, and secondary massing along South Delaware Street. Please refer to 
the “Form” section of Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
Massing Articulation
Built mass should be broken into varying styles through perceptible changes in façade treatment and articulation, height, materials, etc.
Holding Corners
Buildings shall be built to the primary streetwall for a distance of at least 40 feet along each frontage at the corners of: Concar Drive/“A” Street; “A” 
Street/”C” Street; and “C” Street/”B” Street.
Stepbacks
Permitted above the ground floor, up to six-feet in depth beyond the primary streetwall, except within hold corner zone. Greater stepbacks are permitted 
for top floors.
Streetwall and Setback
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Primary Streetwall
Primary streetwall shall be zero feet to ten feet from the block line. Additional setbacks, projections, stepbacks, modulation of built mass, and articulation of 
the façade shall be defined relative to the primary streetwall.
Buildings shall occupy at least 70% of the primary streetwall on Concar Drive and “A” Street, and 60% of the primary streetwall on “C” Street along The 
Park.
Concar Drive Frontage
Build to primary streetwall.
South Delaware Street and 
Concar Drive Corner
Building entry should be recessed to create a pedestrian plaza.
South Delaware Street:
Mixed-Use Frontage
Build to primary streetwall.  Five-foot setback is permitted on South Delaware Street. 
“A” Street Frontage
Build to primary streetwall. Setback of no more than five feet is permitted for providing building articulation, screening of ground-floor surface parking, utili-
ties, and garage entrance.
The Park/”C” Street Frontage
Setback up to five feet is permitted at the entrance to the The Paseo.
“B” Street Frontage
Alternate alignments along “B” Street are permitted to open views of The Park from South Delaware Street.
Height*
Excludes rooftop structures.
General
Except as noted below, building heights shall be no less than 40 feet and no more than 55 feet.
South Delaware Street
Building heights shall be no more than 35 feet to a depth of 45 feet from South Delaware Street.
Building Envelope  
TABLE 4.01 Block MU-1 guidelines, continued   
* Measured as described in the Appendix under Building Heights

--- page 445 ---
117 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
Element
Garage Entrance
Residential garage access shall be from “A” Street. Maximum width of curb cut shall be 35 feet. 
Retail garage access shall be from “C” Street. Maximum width of curb cut shall be 35 feet.
Garage entrances shall be designed to minimize disruption of the pedestrian realm. Portions of the garage visible from the public realm should reflect the 
same architectural character employed throughout the rest of the building.
Building service areas, including loading areas, trash and recycle dumpsters, and garage access locations, should be located where they will not negatively 
impact the pedestrian environment.
Parking
Parking should be enclosed. Secured parking for residential units is encouraged. 
The Paseo
An at-grade pedestrian pathway with at least 12 feet in vertical clearance shall be provided through the block, connecting South Delaware Street to The 
Park. The width of The Paseo, no less than 15 feet, shall be determined during SPAR with reference to safety, privacy, desirability of living spaces, and other 
relevant factors. 
The Paseo is encouraged to be open to sky or partially covered for no more than 50% of its length. It should include pedestrian amenities, including street 
furniture, and lighting. 
Building frontages shall be designed to address security and to activate The Paseo. Active uses, building entrances, window openings and balconies are 
encouraged where possible to enliven The Paseo. Landscaped transition should be used for non-active uses.
Signs shall be placed at the corner of South Delaware Street and Concar Drive to indicate the location of The Paseo.
The Paseo planting, paving, site furnishing, and lighting should match the adjacent sidewalk treatment along South Delaware Street.
OS-10
Block OS-10 is The Park Corridor, a landscaped pedestrian connection providing clear and direct access from South Delaware Street to The Park. Please 
refer to Chapter 2: Open Space and Streetscapes.
Building Entrances
Park Frontage
At least two building entrances other than residential lobbies, and at least one residential lobby, should be provided on The Park frontage.  
Concar Drive
At least two building entrances other than residential lobbies should be provided on Concar Drive. 
Additional building entrances are encouraged and should be located along frontages with active uses, particularly along Concar Drive and The Park.
South Delaware Street 
At least two building entrances other than residential lobbies should be provided on South Delaware Street. 
Circulation and Access
TABLE 4.01 Block MU-1 guidelines, continued   
Articulation and Modulation
Mixed-Use Buildings
Please refer to the Building Elements section in this chapter for additional guidelines. The Park frontage is subject to The Park Frontages form area per 
Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
Architectural expression along South Delaware Street is encouraged to distinguish active ground-floor uses. 
Architectural Feature
A distinctive architectural feature or treatment shall address the corner of South Delaware Street and Concar Drive.  
To hold the west end of The Park, an architectural focal point should be located east of “C” Street.
Building Expression

--- page 446 ---
118
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.13 Block RE-2 illustrative plan  
FIGURE 4.14 The Park 
frontage example  
   
FIGURE 4.15 Common usable 
open space example 
FIGURE 4.16 Concar Drive frontage example  
Block RE-2 
Design Intent 
•   Include a mix of unit types 	
(studio, 1 bedroom, and 2 
bedroom).  
•   Achieve medium to high  
intensity to support Retail/  
Services/Restaurant uses 
at Block MU-1, transit, and 
amenities. 
•   Provide a defined streetwall  
along Concar Drive. 
•   Frame and activate The Park. 
•   Provide architectural focal 
points to identify the Station 
Corridor.

--- page 447 ---
119 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.18 “A” Street Frontage
FIGURE 4.17 Block RE-2 Placement guidelines
OS-8
Primary Pedestrian Entrance
Unit Entrance Encouraged
Vehicular Access
Block Line
Setback Line (0’ - 10’ Typ. from block line)
Curb Cut Zone (required location)
Plan Area Boundary
“A” STREET
CONCAR DRIVE
“C” STREET
RE-2
Approximately 1.9 Acres
MIN. 100’
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
VARIABLE
EVAE
EVAE

--- page 448 ---
120
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
“A” Street  
TABLE 4.02 Block RE-2 guidelines  
BLOCK RE-2  
 Land Use                                                                    (approximately 1.9 acres) 
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
Concar Drive
Ground Floor/Mezzanine	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
The Park Frontage
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged. 
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
The EVAE
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
  Upper Floors	
   Residential use is encouraged.

--- page 449 ---
“A” STREET
CONCAR DRIVE
“C” STREET
RE-2
Approximately 1.9 Acres
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
Hold Corner/Edge
Height: 40’-55’
Block Line
Plan Area Boundary
Architectural Focal Point
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
A
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 50’
MIN. 60’
MIN. 60’
OS-8
EVAE
Block Line
OS-8
Block Line
Max Height 55’
SETBACK 
(Variable)
RE-2
LIMITED LANDSCAPING 
(0’- 10’)
“A” STREET
EVAE
FIRST FLOOR MIN HEIGHT 1’
Breaks in roof lines 
encouraged
4.20 Block RE-2 massing guidelines
FIGURE 4.21 Block RE-2 Section A-A
121 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
EVAE

--- page 450 ---
122
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Form
Please refer to the Building Elements section in this chapter for additional guidelines.  
General
Massing should help to frame The Park along “C” Street and hold the street edge on Concar Drive.  Strong massing on the Hayward Park Station frontage 
should announce Station Park Green from the Caltrain line.  Please refer to the “Form” section of Chapter 3: General Urban 
Design.
Massing Articulation
Built mass should be broken into varying styles through perceptible changes in façade treatment and articulation, height, materials, etc.
Holding Corners
Buildings shall be built to primary streetwall for a distance of at least 40 feet along each frontage at the corners of: Concar Drive/“A” Street; “A” 
Street/”C” Street; and Concar Drive/EVAE.
Stepbacks
Permitted above the ground floor, up to six feet in depth beyond the primary streetwall, except within hold corner zone. Greater stepbacks are 
permitted for top floor.
Streetwall and Setback
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Primary Streetwall
Primary streetwall shall be within zero to ten feet of the block line. Additional setbacks, projections, stepbacks, modulation of built mass, and articulation of 
the façade shall be defined relative to the primary streetwall.
Buildings shall occupy at least 70% of the primary streetwall on Concar Drive and “A” Street, and 60% of the primary streetwall on “C” Street along 
The Park.
Concar Drive Frontage
Setback up to ten feet from the block line is permitted for landscape screening of ground-floor residential units, except at the “A” Street and EVAE hold 
corner zones. 
“A” Street Frontage
Setback up to ten feet from the block line is permitted for landscape screening of ground-floor residential units, except at the “C” Street and Concar Drive 
hold corner zones. 
The Park/”C” Street Frontage
Build to the primary streetwall along “C” Street, except as permitted in the “Building Elements” section in this chapter.
OS-7 Frontage
Setback of zero to ten feet is permitted. 
At-grade open space should be designed to reinforce both visual and physical connection, where possible.
Height*
Excluding rooftop structures.
General
Except as noted below, building heights shall be no less than 40 feet and no more than 55 feet.
Building Envelope  
TABLE 4.02 Block RE-2 guidelines, continued
* Measured as described in the Appendix under Building Heights

--- page 451 ---
123 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
Element
Garage Entrance
Maximum width of curb cut shall be 35 feet.
Garage access shall be on “C” Street, located a minimum of 100 feet from “A” Street.
Garage entrance shall be designed to minimize disruption of the pedestrian realm.
Garage and service entries should include translucent garage door panels. Portions of the garage visible from the public realm should reflect the same archi-
tectural character as the rest of the building.
Building service areas, including loading areas, trash and recycle dumpsters, and garage access locations, should be located where they will not negatively 
impact the pedestrian environment.
Parking
Parking should be enclosed.
Building Entrances
Park Frontage
At least one residential lobby should be provided on The Park frontage. Private residential unit entries (stoops) are encouraged along all park frontages.
Concar Drive/”A” Street
At least one residential lobby should be provided on Concar Drive.
Hayward Park Station Frontage
At least one residential lobby should be provided on Concar Drive.
Circulation and Access
Articulation and Modulation
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Residential Building
The Park frontage and OS-8 frontages are subject to The Park Frontage form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
Concar Drive frontage is subject to Concar Drive form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
Hayward Park Station Frontage is subject to Hayward Station Edge form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design
Architectural Feature
A distinctive architectural feature or treatment shall address the corners of: Concar Drive/Hayward Park Station edge, OS-7/Hayward Park Station edge, and 
OS-7/”C” Street.
Building Expression
TABLE 4.02 Block RE-2 guidelines, continued

--- page 452 ---
124
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.23 Block RE-3 illustrative plan  Note: Assumes EVAE along boundary with JPB property.  
FIGURE 4.24 The Park frontage example  
FIGURE 4.25 EVAE frontage example  
Block RE-3 
 
Design Intent
•   Include a mix of unit types 
(Studio, 1 bedroom, 2 bedroom, 
and 3 bedroom).  
•   Achieve medium to high  
intensity to support Retail/ 
Restaurant/Services uses at Block 
MU-1, transit, and amenities.  
•   Frame and activate The Park 
along “C” Street.
•  Provide an architectural focal 
point at the north edge of the 
site on Garvey Way Extension.  
•   Enhance the Plan Area’s visual  
identity from the Hayward Park  
Station and vary its appearance 
through pockets of landscaping, 
a variety of building forms, and 
dramatic variations in setback 
depth.

--- page 453 ---
“C” STREET
GARVEY WAY EXTENSION
RE-3
Approximately 1.8 Acres
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
EVAE
N
MIN. 80’
MIN. 150’
EVAE
OS-10
OS-11
Primary Pedestrian Entrance
Unit Entrance
Vehicular Access
Block Line
Active Use at Gournd Level/Build-to Line
Curb Cut Zone (required location)
Plan Area Boundary
125 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.26 Block RE-3 placement guidelines
Note: Assumes EVAE along boundary with the JPB property
FIGURE 4.28 Garvey Way Extension frontage example  
FIGURE 4.29 Example of frontage on The Park

--- page 454 ---
126
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Garvey Street Extension  
TABLE 4.03 Block RE-3 guidelines  
BLOCK RE-3  
 Land Use                                                                    (approximately 1.8 acres) 
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
“C” Street/The Park Frontage
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
EVAE 
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.

--- page 455 ---
OS-10
OS-11
“C” STREET
GARVEY WAY 
EXTENSION
RE-3
Approximately 1.8 Acres
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
EVAE
N
Hold Corner/Edge
Height: 40’-55’
Block Line
Setback Line (0’ - 10’ Typ. from block line)
Plan Area Boundary
Architectural Focal Point
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
A
A
Hold Corner
MIN. 45’
MIN. 60’
MIN. 70’
VARIABLE
EVA
EVAE
Block Line
Block Line
RE-3
EVAE
Max Height 55’
GARVEY WAY EXTENSION
SETBACK
(Variable)
LIMITED LANDSCAPING
(0’- 10’)
OS-9
FIRST FLOOR MIN HEIGHT 1’
Breaks in roof lines 
encouraged
4.30 Block RE-3 massing guidelines
Note: Assumes EVAE along boundary with the JPB property.
FIGURE 4.31 Block RE-3 Section A-A
127 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS

--- page 456 ---
128
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Form
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.  
General
Primary massing shall be along “C” Street, Emergency Vehicle Access Easement (“EVAE”), OS-10 and Garvey Way Extension. Please refer to the “Form” 
section of Chapter 3: General Urban Design. 
Massing Articulation
Built mass should be broken into varying styles through perceptible changes in façade treatment and articulation, height, materials, etc.
Hold Corner Zone
Buildings shall be built to the primary streetwall for a distance of at least 40 feet at the corners of: Garvey Way/”C” street and EVAE/Garvey Way Extension
Stepbacks
Permitted above the ground floor, up to six feet in depth beyond the primary streetwall, except within hold corner zone. Greater stepbacks are 
permitted for the top floor.
EVAE
A 20-foot wide EVAE may be provided along the western property line as a contingency if access cannot be provided using the adjacent JPB 
property.  The EVAE shall be composed of varied surface materials and landscaped to accommodate a walking/bike trail. 
Streetwall and Setback
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Primary Streetwall
Primary streetwall shall be within zero to ten feet of the block line. Additional setbacks, projections, stepbacks, modulation of built mass, and articulation of 
the façade shall be defined relative to the primary streetwall.
Buildings shall occupy at least 70% of the primary streetwall on “C Street along The Park, and 60% of the primary streetwall on Garvey Way Extension.
Garvey Way Extension Frontage
Setback of at least five feet is encouraged for landscaped stoop zone except at hold corner zone on “C” Street. 
On-grade open space should be designed to reinforce both visual and physical connections, where possible.
The Park/”C” Street Frontage
Build to the primary streetwall along “C” Street, except as permitted in the “Building Elements” section in this chapter.
EVAE Frontage
Build zero to ten feet within the Block Line, to allow for OS-10: Greenway Pocket Parks. 
Height*
Excludes rooftop structures
General
Except as noted below, building heights shall be no less than 40 feet and no more than 55 feet.
Building Envelope  
TABLE 4.03 Block RE-3 guidelines, continued   
* Measured as described in the Appendix under Building Height

--- page 457 ---
129 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
Element
Garage Entrance
Maximum width of curb cut shall be 35 feet.
Garage access should be from Garvey Way Extension, a minimum of 150 feet from “C” Street and a minimum of 60’ from the Plan Area boundary. Garage 
entrance shall be designed to minimize disruption of the pedestrian realm.
Portions of the garage visible from the public realm should reflect the same architectural character employed throughout the rest of the building.
Building service areas, including loading areas, trash and recycle dumpsters, and garage access locations, should be located where they will not negatively 
impact the pedestrian environment.
Parking
Parking should be enclosed.
Building Entrances
The Park Frontage
At least one residential lobby is encouraged on The Park frontage along “C” Street. 
Garvey Way Extension Frontage
At least one residential lobby is encouraged on Concar Drive.
EVAE Frontage
At least one residential lobby is encouraged on the EVAE Frontage. 
Private residential unit entries (stoops) are encouraged along all block edges. 
Circulation and Access
TABLE 4.03 Block RE-3 guidelines, continued   
Articulation and Modulation
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Residential Building
The Park frontage is subject to the Park Frontages form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
The EVAE Frontage is subject to the Hayward Park Station Edge form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
Architectural Feature
A distinctive architectural feature or treatment should be located at the corners of: Garvey Way Extension/”C” Street, and EVAE/Garvey Way Extension. 
Building Expression

--- page 458 ---
130
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.33 Block RE-4 Illustrative plan	
 
FIGURE 4.34 The Park frontage example  
Block RE-4  
Design Intent 
•   Achieve medium to high  
intensity to support Retail/ 
Services/Restaurant uses (at 
Block MU-1),  transit, and 
amenities. 
•   Create a transition along 
South Delaware Street to 
lower Residential-Scale 
Expression.
•   Support connections to 
South Delaware Street 
through OS-9.
•   Frame and activate The 
Park’s northern edge.

--- page 459 ---
131 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.35 South Delaware Street  
frontage example
Primary Pedestrian Entrance
Unit Entrance Encouraged
Vehicular Access
Block Line
Setback Line (0’ - 10’ Typ. from block line)
Curb Cut Zone (required location)
Plan Area Boundary
GARVEY WAY 
EXTENSION
“C” STREET
RE-4
Approximately 1.4 Acres
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
MIN. 60’
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
OS-9
MIN. 15’
FIGURE 4.37 Block RE-4 placement guidelines
FIGURE 4.36 South Delaware 
Street  frontage example

--- page 460 ---
132
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
TABLE 4.04 Block RE-4 Guidelines  
Garvey Street Extension  
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
“C” Street/The Park Frontage
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
South Delaware Street
Ground Floor	
Residential use is encouraged.
Upper Floors	
Residential use is encouraged.
BLOCK RE-4 
 Land Use                                                                  (approximately 1.4 acres)

--- page 461 ---
GARVEY WAY
EXTENSION
“C” STREET
RE-4
Approximately 1.4 Acres
S. DELAWARE STREET
45’
BLOCK LINE
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY
CURB LINE
N
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
MIN. 40’
Hold Corner
35’ HEIGHT LIMIT
Hold Corner/Edge
Height: 25’-35’
Height: 40’-55’
Block Line
Setback Line (0’ - 10’ Typ. from block line)
Plan Area Boundary
A
A
OS-9
MIN. 40’
MIN. 70’
MIN. 15’
MIN. 50’
MIN. 50’
MAX. 35’
Height Limit
Block Line
S. DELAWARE ST
Block Line
RE-4
OS-9
Max Height 55’
45’
GARVEY WAY 
EXTENSION
LIMITED LANDSCAPING
(0’- 10’)
LIMITED LANDSCAPING 
(0’- 10’)
FIRST FLOOR MIN HEIGHT 1’
Breaks in roof lines 
encouraged
4.38 Block RE-4 massing guidelines
FIGURE 4.39 Block RE-4 Section A-A
133 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS

--- page 462 ---
134
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Building Envelope  
TABLE 4.04 Block RE-4 guidelines, continued   
* Measured as described in the Appendix under Building Height 
Form
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.  
General
Primary massing shall be along “C” Street, OS-9 and Garvey Way Extension. Please refer to the “Form” section of Chapter 3: General Urban Design. 
Massing Articulation
Built mass should be broken into varying styles through perceptible changes in façade treatment and articulation, height, materials, etc.
Hold Corner Zone
Buildings shall be built to the primary streetwall for a distance of at least 40 feet along each frontage at the corners of: South Delaware Street/”C” Street and 
OS-9/”C” Street.
Stepbacks
Permitted above the ground floor, up to six feet in depth beyond the primary streetwall, except within hold corner zone. Greater stepbacks are 
permitted for the top floor.
Streetwall and Setback
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Primary Streetwall
Primary streetwall shall be within zero to ten feet of the block line. Additional setbacks, projections, stepbacks, modulation of built mass, and articulation of 
the façade shall be defined relative to the primary streetwall.
Buildings shall occupy at least 70% of the primary streetwall on “C” Street and 60% of the primary streetwall on South Delaware Street.
South Delaware Street Frontage
Setbacks of at least five feet from the block line is encouraged for landscaped stoop zone.
The Park/”C” Street Frontage
Build to the primary streetwall along “C” Street. 
Garvey Way Extension Frontage
Build to the primary streetwall along  the OS-9 boundary (block line).
Open space should be designed to reinforce both visual and physical connections, where possible.
OS-9 Frontage
A setback of at least 15 feet from the Plan Area boundary is required for landscaped walking path (OS-9).  A 20’ setback is encouraged for 50% of the building 
wall. 
Height*
Excludes rooftop structures.
General
Except within 45 feet of South Delaware Street, building heights shall be no less than 40 feet and no more than 55 feet.

--- page 463 ---
135 
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
Element
Garage Entrance
Maximum width of curb cut shall be 35 feet. Garage entrance shall be designed to minimize disruption of the pedestrian realm.
Garage access shall be located on “C” Street at least 60 feet from the block line of South Delaware Street.
Garage entrance shall be designed to minimize disruption of the pedestrian realm.
Building service areas, including loading areas, trash and recycle dumpsters, and garage access locations, should be located where they will not negatively 
impact the pedestrian environment.
Parking
Parking should be enclosed.
Pedestrian Circulation
Building Entrances
Primary building entrances should be located on “B” Street and at OS-9. 
Private residential unit entries (stoops) are encouraged along all block frontages. 
Circulation and Access
TABLE 4.04 Block RE-4 guidelines, continued   
Articulation and Modulation
Please refer to the “Building Elements” section in this chapter for additional guidelines.
Residential Building
The Park frontage is subject to the Park Frontages form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design.
The South Delaware Street frontage is subject to Delaware Street (RE-4) form area per Chapter 3: General Urban Design. 
Architectural Feature
Residential Buildings
The Park frontage should exhibit a higher degree of visual interest. 
South Delaware Street frontage should Residential-Scale Expression. 
Building Expression

--- page 464 ---
136
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.41 Example of possible materials, openings and projections  
Building Elements
This section addresses  
fundamental building design  
principles and guidelines for  
major building elements, such  as 
façades, roofs, residential usable 
open space, and signage,  as well 
as the relationship of these  with 
publicly accessible open  spaces.   
Design Intent  
The following principles  
summarize the design intent for  
buildings in the Plan Area:
•  Advance a diverse, cohesive  
identity for the Plan Area through 
the expression of building  
façades, projections, and  
architectural elements. 
•  Address uses, open spaces,  
landscape treatments, and solar  
orientation in the design of  
building elements.
•  Incorporate architectural variety  
and authenticity in building  
design. 
•  A single building should not  
overuse multiple architectural  
expressions.  
The following guidelines  
encourage the design of building  
elements to fulfill the intent of  
Station Park Green as a model  
sustainable neighborhood.  
 
FIGURE 4.40 Buildings should not overuse multiple architectural expressions

--- page 465 ---
137
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.42 Example of building  
transition  
FIGURE 4.43 Example of materials and  
colors  
Building Façades  
Design  
•  Façades along block perimeters  
should be articulated according  to 
their specific uses.  
•  Façade design should reference   
existing or designed façades for  
adjacent buildings in the Plan  
Area.  
•  Façades with southern  and 
western exposure are  encouraged 
to include passive  solar shading 
devices, including  overhangs, 
horizontal sun  shades, and vertical 
shading  (such as fins) to balance 
solar  access with the need to 
control  heat gain. 
•  Façades that transition between 
styles or form areas  should 
incorporate variations in height, 
recesses of the façade plane, 
or changes in materials  and/or 
openings, so these transitions are 
identifiable from street level. 
•  Tones and colors of materials  should 
be used to add visual  interest and 
also generally be in  keeping with 
those used in San  Mateo and the 
Bay Area. Accent  colors should be 
used with  moderation.  
•  Façades of courtyards should  
have greater diversity to address  
their intimate scale.  
Materials and colors  
•  Façades should have modulation  
and articulation to create  visual 
interest and architectural  diversity 
in the neighborhood.  
•  The façades of higher  buildings 
should generally adopt  a defined 
base, middle, and top  as a primary 
modulation.  
•  Timeless and durable materials  
are encouraged for building  
façades, including terra-cotta,  
stucco, clay brick, pre-cast or  
cast-in-place concrete, wood,  
steel, and glass.  
•  Large, uninterrupted expanses  of 
highly-reflective materials  which 
create glare, such as bright  
aluminum cladding, are not  
encouraged. 
 
•  The use of sustainable building  
materials, such as materials  with 
recycled content or those  regionally 
produced, is   encouraged.  
•  Materials should be located  in a 
manner that reflects their  traditional 
structural placement.  For instance, 
wood should be  placed above 
stone.  
•  The use of synthetic stucco, such  
as Dryvit, is not permitted.  
•  To maintain a pedestrian-friendly  
scale, building façades should  
take advantage of allowed  
setbacks or a change of material  
or fenestration at intervals of 75  
feet or less.  
•  Changes of materials and/or   
façade openings are encouraged  
to create diversity and to support  
the massing, transition, and  
modulation strategies.

--- page 466 ---
138
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.44 Example of projections  
Façade Openings,    
Projections, and    
Stepbacks   
Openings, projections, and   step-
backs are encouraged to   artic-
ulate façades and create  visual 
interest.  
Openings  
•  Tinted glazing is not permitted.   
•  Low-energy glazing is   
permitted.  
•  Main entrances should be   
located to encourage activity on  
the street. 
•  Building openings such as bay  
windows, loggias, and floor-
to-floor glazing, in addition to  
punched window openings, are  
encouraged to create diversity.  
•  Façades along streets and open  
spaces shall have windows.  
•  Shutters, when used, should  
be operable and not fixed or  
decorative.  
•  Window reveals should be a  
minimum of two-inches deep.   
  
•  Main entrances should be  
designed to create visual 
interest  for pedestrians  
•  The width of garages and  
parking entries should be  
minimized. Openings for  
garages and parking should  
be integrated into the façade 
design.   
  
•  For Blocks RE-2 and RE-3, a vertical 
clearance of 13.5-feet  shall be 
maintained above the  EVAE along 
the Joint Powers Board property. 
 
   
•  Unless specified differently in  
these guidelines, projections  shall 
maintain a minimum  distance of 
six feet from street  trees.   
Projections  
•  Façade projections such as  
bay windows or balconies are  
permitted above the ground-floor 
along all streets.   
•  Façade projections may extend  
up to four feet past the block  
line, provided that a minimum  
eight feet of vertical clearance is  
provided below.   
•  Projections in setback areas shall  
maintain a minimum seven-foot  
clearance from sidewall to lower  
edge of projection.  
•  Projections are encouraged  to 
respond to their immediate  
context to address issues such as  
noise levels, view corridors, and  
sunlight exposure
 
•  Purely decorative projections  such 
as cornices, eaves, sills, and  belt 
courses are permitted.  
Stepbacks   
•  Façade stepbacks such as loggias, 
balconies, terraces or other 
architectural treatments are 
permitted on all streets.  
FIGURE 4.45 Example of openings and  
recesses

--- page 467 ---
139
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.46 Roof form example  
FIGURE 4.47  Roofs should integrate green  
design features   
FIGURE 4.48 Mixed-use ground-floor  
transparency example  
Roofs and Mechanical   
Equipment  
Design Intent  
Roofs are critical visual elements  
in creating successful buildings  
and should be designed as a  
“5th façade” integrated into the  
building’s overall design.  
•  Green design features that  
generate renewable energy are  
encouraged on building roofs.  
Any green design features  should 
be integrated into   the overall 
building and roof  design.  
•  Roof designs with architectural  
features are encouraged for  
Blocks MU-1. 
•  The roof should include volumes  
and surfaces varying in form,  
massing, and height, as well 
as  design components that are  
attractive from both street level  
and adjacent buildings.  
Roof materials  
•  Utilize the roof’s available surface  
as an additional opportunity for  
usable open space or sustainable  
design strategies.  
Roof design  
•  Modulation and articulation  of 
rooflines within the height  limits 
is encouraged to minimize  
massiveness and uniformity of  
buildings.  
•  Roofs should use non-reflective  
materials and low-intensity color  
to minimize the heat-island  effect. 
Dark materials should be  avoided. 
  
•  Renewable/energy-generating  
materials are encouraged.  
•  Materials with potential  negative 
impacts on stormwater  quality, such 
as copper, are not  permitted.  
Mechanical Equipment  
•  Height variations and roof  
shapes should be used to create  
attractive rooflines.  
•  Roofs with usable open spaces,  
such as roof gardens or terraces,  
are encouraged.  
•  Rooftop enclosures should  be used 
to screen mechanical  units and 
generally should be  set back from 
the parapet.  Mechanical equipment  
enclosures, mechanical and  elevator 
enclosures, exit stair  enclosures and 
other roofscape  elements should be 
considered  as sculptural forms that 
can add  to the overall composition 
and  visual interest of the building  
when viewed from a distance.  
•  All mechanical equipment,  
ventilation exhausts, and other  
HVAC components should be  
integrated into roof design to  
minimize their visual impact from  
street level and from elevated  
points in adjacent buildings.

--- page 468 ---
140
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Mixed-Use Ground   
Floors and Pedestrian   
Scale  
Design Intent  
Create an attractive pedestrian  
experience with treatment and  
materials at the ground floor that  
are sensitive to the pedestrian  
scale. Encourage interaction  
between building interiors and  
outdoor spaces.  
Façade design  
•  Multiple entrances are  encouraged 
to foster activity and  interaction 
between buildings  and sidewalks.
  
•  Blank building walls are not  
encouraged.  
•  Façades without multiple  entrances 
should create visual  interest with 
varied materials and  storefront 
display windows or  other forms of 
transparency.   
•  Façades should use architectural  
features such as canopies,  awnings 
or signage.   
•  Designs are encouraged to  clearly 
define the base and  maintain a 
clear separation  between the 
ground floor and  the floors above.  
FIGURE 4.49 Awning example  
•  Providing human-scaled  
architectural features is  
particularly important in areas  
where pedestrian activity is  
encouraged; the highest level  
of detail should occur close to  
pedestrian areas, near streets  and 
entries, and around the  ground 
floor.  
Materials  
•  Ground-floor façades should be  
predominantly transparent with  
clear glass on Block MU-1.  
•  Any retail façade shall be  
a minimum of 70 percent  
transparent.  
•  Office façades should be  
a minimum of 50 percent  
transparent.   
•  The base of storefront windows  
should be raised at least six  
inches above sidewalk finished  
grade.  
•  Retail storefronts should remain  
unshuttered at night and provide  
clear views of interior spaces.  
Setbacks  
•  Minor setbacks of retail façades  
are permitted to add variety 
and accommodate seating and 
outdoor dining along the sidewalk. 
Such  setbacks shall be no more 
than   
FIGURE 4.50 Materials and setbacks example  
    six feet deep and at least 10 feet  
but no more than 36 feet long.  
•  Recessed doorways for retail  
uses are encouraged. The depth  
of recessed doorways should  
be a minimum of two feet and a  
maximum of four feet.   
 • Paving materials used for floor  
areas in contact with sidewalk  
should be of equal or superior  
quality to that of the sidewalk.   
 • Ground-floor setback areas  
adjacent to mixed-use and non-
residential façades should be  
treated as sidewalk extensions,  
providing additional area for  
walking as well as for benches,  
café tables, or landscape.  
Awnings  
•  Awnings, canopies, or marquees  
are encouraged to create a  
comfortable scale and sheltered  
spaces for pedestrians.  
•  Awnings that project from  
building façades should not  
conflict with street trees.  
•  Awnings shall maintain a  
minimum vertical clearance of 
eight feet.  
•  Architectural detailing of awnings 
is encouraged to incorporate  
design features related to the  
identity of the ground-floor uses.  
FIGURE 4.51 Retail façade example

--- page 469 ---
141
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.52 Example of entries that enhance pedestrian  character  
FIGURE 4.53 Example of entry that provides visual interest  and relates 
to building’s overall façade  
•  Retail and lobby entries are  
encouraged to be glazed  to 
provide a high degree of  
transparency to and from the  
outdoors, for visual interest as  well 
as increased safety.  
•  Frequent entries for retail or  
ground floor office space, in  
addition to the main building  
lobby, are recommended to  
activate the street edge.  
•  Detail and materials should  
address pedestrian scale.  
Entries  
•  Entrances on publicly-accessible  
streets enhance pedestrian  activity 
and convey an inviting  image 
to the community. They  should 
create a visible and  attractive 
visual element of the  building 
and be located on the  primary 
façades.
   
•  Placement of entries should  relate 
to upper floors and  should help 
create a sense  of hierarchy in the 
building’s  primary façade. When 
possible,  they should relate to 
surrounding  features such as park 
entrances,  pedestrian ways, or 
street view  corridors. 
 
•  Commercial lobbies and  larger 
retail units should be  designed 
with prominent entries  that 
provide visual interest,  orientation, 
and a sense of  invitation and 
welcome on  adjacent streets.   
 
•  Entry doors that face public  streets 
should incorporate  weather 
protection, either by  being 
recessed into the building  face 
or by having an awning  or other 
element projecting  over the 
entry. See “Setbacks”  (previous 
page) for minimum dimensions of 
recessed  doorways.

--- page 470 ---
142
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Residential    
Ground Floors and   
Pedestrian Scale  
Design Intent  
Establish a comfortable pedestrian  
experience and provide adequate  
transition from the street for  
ground level units.  
Façade design  
•  Residential ground floors are  
encouraged to include building  
lobbies, direct individual unit  
entrances, and/or common areas  
near the street.  
•  Building lobbies and common  
areas, such as community rooms,  
gyms, residential offices and  
media centers, are encouraged to  
have a high level of transparency.   
•  Ground-floor units are encouraged 
to be raised 18 to 24 inches above  
finished sidewalk grade.  
•  Façade designs for ground-floor  
units are encouraged to provide  
privacy.  
•  Exterior entrances to individual  
dwelling units are encouraged  to 
have stoops.
•  The use of continuous plantings  
of a height between four and  
eight feet above sidewalk  
grade to create a hedge is  
discouraged; however, trees  
are permitted provided they  
maintain visibility beneath their  
respective canopies.  
•  Architectural elements 
employed  in setback areas, 
such as stairs,  railings, low 
walls, and planters,  should use 
materials and details  that are 
similar to those of the  rest of 
the building.  
•  Stoops are encouraged to be 
perpendicular to the sidewalk.    
•  Openings for garage entrances  
should be minimized and  
integrated into the ground-
floor façade design. Placement  
of garage entrances shall be  
coordinated with the streetscape.  
•  Residential units adjacent to  any 
street or easement should  be 
designed to provide a level  of 
privacy while maintaining  visibility 
to that street or  easement.  
Materials  
•  Please refer to the “Materials  and 
Colors” subsection of  Building 
Façades on page 137.  
Setbacks  
•  Building setbacks are  encouraged 
to have stoops,  building lobbies, 
unit entrances,  awnings, and 
landscape to create  a pedestrian 
scale and transition  to the street.  
•  Entrances to units fronting The 
Park are encouraged to be 
coordinated with The Park’s design 
to create active engagement 
between the building and the 
landscape.
FIGURE 4.54 Materials and colors example  
FIGURE 4.55 Example of façade response to  
solar orientation  
FIGURE 4.56 Brise-soleil example

--- page 471 ---
143
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
•  Multi-unit building entries are encour-
aged to be glazed to provide a high 
degree of transparency to and from 
the outdoors, for visual interest as  
well as increased safety.  
•  Frequent entries for individual  units 
or communal space, in addition to 
the main building lobby, are recom-
mended to  activate the street edge.
  
•  Detail and materials should address 
pedestrian scale.  
Entries  
•  Entrances on public rights-of-way en-
hance pedestrian activity and convey 
an inviting image to the community. 
Buildings with street-facing façades 
should have a street-facing entry or 
clearly defined street access to an 
entry. 
•  Placement of entries should  relate to 
upper floors and  should help create 
a sense  of hierarchy in the building’s  
primary façade. When possible, they 
should relate to surrounding  features 
such as park entrances, pedestrian 
ways, or street view corridors. 
 
•  Multi-unit buildings should be  de-
signed with prominent entry  lobbies 
that provide visual  interest, orienta-
tion, and a sense  of invitation and 
welcome on adjacent public ways.  
  
•  Entry doors that face public rights-
of-way should incorporate weather 
protection, either by being recessed 
into  the building face or having an 
awning or other element projecting 
over the entry.

--- page 472 ---
144
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Residential Usable   
Open Space  
Design Intent  
Provide greenery and open space  for 
residents; create transitions  between 
buildings and their  adjacent public 
streets and open  spaces; and add 
visual interest to  building façades, 
roofs, and podium  areas.   
Private Usable Open   
Space  
•  Types of private usable open  
space are encouraged to include  
balconies, terraces, loggias,  patios, 
roof decks, and yards.  
•  Private usable open spaces  should 
be integrated into  façade design, 
roof design, and  landscape of 
adjacent streets  and park spaces. 
    
•  Screens, trellises, and minor  
architectural structures are  
encouraged to provide privacy  to 
private usable open spaces  where 
adjacent to common usable  open 
space.  
FIGURE 4.57 Common residential usable open space example  
Common Usable Open   
Space  
•  Types of common usable open  
space are encouraged to include  
roof decks, courtyards, and  
gardens.  
•  Common usable open spaces  
should be visually and/or  
physically linked to the publicly 
accessible open space system.  
•  Amenities not available in  
private usable open spaces 
are  encouraged for common 
usable  open spaces. Amenities 
such  as seating areas, gathering  
areas, planting areas, flower  
gardens, shade trees, lawn areas,  
sculptures, trellises, lighting,  
fountains, and barbecue facilities  
are encouraged.  
•  The on-site collection and  
treatment of stormwater from  
building roofs is encouraged in  
common usable open space.   
•  Any devices for the collection  and 
treatment of stormwater  should 
be integrated into the  design of 
the common usable  open space.   
FIGURE 4.58 Common residential usable open space example

--- page 473 ---
145
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.59 Planter on hardscape  example  
FIGURE 4.60 Planter on hardscape example  
FIGURE 4.61 Residential private us-
able  open space example  
FIGURE 4.62 Residential private usable open space example

--- page 474 ---
146
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 4.63 Example of signage on awning  
•  In general, only natural  
construction materials such 
as  wood, metals, ceramic, and  
stone should be used for signs.  
•  Contrasting colors should be  
used between the color of the  
background and the letters or  
symbols used.  Colors or color  
combinations that interfere with  
the legibility of the sign copy  
should be avoided.  
•  Signs within windows should  
integrate with window displays.   
Acceptable materials for window 
signs include vinyl or paint,  
applied to the inside face of  
glass.  
•  Signs should be externally or  
halo-illuminated.  Illumination  
should consist of incandescent,  
halogen, LED, metal halide, or  
other sustainable light sources  
only.  High-pressure sodium, low-
pressure sodium, and fluorescent 
lighting types are discouraged.  
Signage  
Design Intent  
Signage helps to give the public  
realm its character.  The following 
signage guidelines are meant to  
create lively street frontages in  
order to encourage pedestrian  
activity and help way-finding.   
They apply to all permanent and  
temporary signs installed in the  
Plan Area that are visible from  
publicly accessible open spaces  
or streets, including interior signs  
designed or arranged to be  
primarily visible from such public  
areas, except those signs that  
are exempt from the permit and  
fee requirements of Title XXV of  
the San Mateo Municipal Code  
(Signs).  
All Signs  
•  Signs within the Plan Area should 
comply with Section 25.06.070(b)  
[Regulations in all Commercial  
(C) Districts (C1, C2, C3, C4 and   
CBD Support)] of the San Mateo  
Municipal Code.  
•  Signs on high-rise buildings  
within the Plan Area should  
comply with the restrictions set  
forth in Section 25.06.050(b)(3) of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code.  
FIGURE 4.64 Example of blade signs

--- page 475 ---
147
CHAPTER 4 BLOCKS AND BUILDING ELEMENTS 
FIGURE 4.65 Retail signage example  
FIGURE 4.66 Building address and commercial signage example  
Business Signs  
•  Signs that identify a business or  
other establishment should be in  
proportion to the frontage such  
establishment has on publicly  
accessible open spaces and  
streets.  
•  The design, including color,  
of business signs should be  
appropriate to the establishment,  
conveying a sense of what type  of 
business is being advertised.  
•  Tenant improvements to  
storefronts should preserve  façade 
transparency. Curtains,  posters, 
or other opaque objects  or 
materials should not obstruct  
visibility of the interior from the  
sidewalk, except that temporary  
translucent sun screens to shade  
café and restaurant patrons are  
FIGURE 4.67 Retail signage example  
encouraged.  
•  Storefront signage should help  
create architectural variety from  
establishment to establishment.  
    In multi-tenant buildings,  signage 
should be used to create  interest 
and variety.  
•  Business signs--including face  
signs, projecting signs and  window 
signs--are encouraged  to be 
oriented primarily to  pedestrians.  
FIGURE 4.68 Address signage example

--- page 476 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 477 ---


--- page 478 ---
In the Plan Area,  
sustainable principles  
and strategies should  
be incorporated into  
the planning and  
design of buildings,  
streets and sidewalks,  
and public and private  
open spaces.

--- page 479 ---
151
Introduction  [ 151 ]  
LEED for Neighborhood Development  (LEED-ND)  [ 152 ]  
Stormwater Management  [ 153 ] 
Flood Control Strategy  [ 159 ]  
Site Preparation and Design  [ 160 ]  
Neighborhood Design and Community [ 160 ] 
Green Building Design [ 161 ]  
Chapter 5  
Sustainability  
In the Plan Area, sustainable principles and strategies should be  
incorporated into the planning and design of buildings, streets and  
sidewalks, and public and private open spaces. Development in the  Plan 
Area shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 23.70 “Green  Building 
Requirements” of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The San  Mateo County 
Sustainability Checklist, among other criteria, should also  be consulted 
during SPAR.   
The landowner has registered the Project in the LEED-ND Pilot Program,  
ensuring that certain sustainability criteria are applied to the Plan.

--- page 480 ---
152
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
LEED for Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND)  
•  Native and low water-consuming  
plantings should be used to help  
reduce water consumption.  
LEED, an acronym for Leadership  
in Energy and Environmental  
Design, is a program developed  
by the US Green Building  
Council (USGBC) to encourage  
and accelerate adoption 
of  sustainable development  
practices.  LEED has become a  
nationally recognized standard  
for the design, construction,  
and operation of high-
performance green buildings and  
developments.   
The USGBC selected Station Park   
Green for its LEED-ND Pilot 
Program;  the project achieved 
Gold Level  designation at stage 
one certification.   Feedback from 
participants in the  pilot program, 
including Station  Park Green, 
informed and helped  refine the 
LEED-ND rating system  which now 
has been endorsed and  adopted.  
Station Park Green had the  added 
distinction of inclusion in the  LEED-
In 2007, the USGBC, in  
conjunction with the Congress  
for New Urbanism (CNU) and  
the Natural Resource Defense  
Council (NRDC), launched 
a  pilot program for LEED for  
Neighborhood Development  
(LEED-ND).  LEED-ND is one of  
the first rating systems to measure  
sustainable developments based  
on principles of smart growth,  
urbanism and green building  
design.  
ND Focus Group.  This entitled   
Station Park Green to prioritized  
processing of its application for  
LEED-ND certification.  
Sustainability   
Measures   
Environmentally sustainable 
planning  and design principles 
should be  incorporated into the 
site design,  open spaces, and 
buildings of the  Plan Area.  This 
chapter covers  the integration 
of those measures  with the Plan 
Area’s approach to  sustainability 
in infrastructure. The  previous 
chapters include guidelines  for 
how building and landscape  
components address sustainable  
design.  
•  Trees, vegetation, and buildings  
should be placed to mitigate the  
potential of strong prevailing  winds 
creating a “wind tunnel”  effect in 
pedestrian and open  spaces.  
•  Passive landscape and  streetscape 
areas within the Plan  Area should 
be used for primary  treatment of 
stormwater using  drought-resistant 
plantings.  
•  Building design should  incorporate 
green building  practices, in 
accordance with the  city’s mandatory 
green building  program.  
The Plan Area’s broad sustainable  
measures include:  
•  Using the block pattern and  
generous pedestrian spaces 
to create an  inviting, walkable 
neighborhood.   
•  Stormwater management within  
the Plan Area shall comply with  
the City of San Mateo’s National  
Pollution Elimination Discharge 
System (NPDES) permit, and be        
designed not to affect adversely  
the existing storm sewer network  
or the watercourse in Leslie  
Creek.   
 •  Treatment of stormwater run-
off should employ biofiltration 
and low impact development 
techniques to the extent required 
to meet the requirements of 
the County of San Mateo’s C.3 
Stormwater Quality guidelines. In 
certain areas where biofiltration 
techniques are infeasible, 
alternative treatment methods 
such as tree wells and mechanical 
devices may be required to 
meet regulations and/or permit 
requirements
•  To help reduce the urban heat-
island effect to the maximum  
extent practical, pavement areas  
should be minimized, alternative  
and light-colored concrete and  
pavers should be used, and tree  
canopy over pavements should  
be maximized.

--- page 481 ---
153
CHAPTER 5 SUSTAINABILITY
FIGURE 5.01 Example of biofiltration in planter box  
FIGURE 5.02 Typical Filterra® layout  
Stormwater Management   
Stormwater    
Conveyance   
The stormwater system for  
the Plan Area shall consist of  
underground pipes in the main  
street sections and open spaces  
that convey run-off from the  
building parcels, streetscape, and  
open spaces to the existing City  
storm sewer systems in Concar  
Drive, South Delaware Street, and  
Garvey Way.  The new stormwater  
facilities shall be designed and  
constructed such that the existing  
City drainage system, Leslie Creek 
and its associated watershed are  
not negatively impacted.  
The effective run-off coefficient,   
C, by block type, should not  
exceed the following:  
•  Mixed-use blocks (MU): C = 0.75  
•  Residential blocks (RE): C = 0.7  
Quality   
Stormwater    
The stormwater quality design  
shall comply with requirements of  
the National Pollution Discharge  
Elimination System (NPDES)  
regulations and the City of  San 
Mateo’s Water Pollution   
Prevention Permit.   
Best Management Practices  
such as biofilters, rain gardens,  
permeable paving, and swales  
shall be integrated into the Plan  
Area, as described below and on  
the following pages:  
Water Quality in   
Streetscape  
The run-off from “A,”  “B,”  
“C,” Streets and “Garvey Way 
Extension” shall be treated using 
the following (or equivalent) 
permissible biofiltration 
methods:

--- page 482 ---
154
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Biofiltration Planters in    
Landscape Strip  
Planters in the landscape strip  
between the roadbed and  
sidewalks shall be configured 
to  permit stormwater flow in 
the  gutter to enter the planter at 
the upstream end (Figure 5.01).   
Water shall filter through the soil  
media during low-flow events.   
During higher-flow events, water  
exits the planter, either via an  
overflow drain connected to the  
storm drain system within the  
planter, or returns to the gutter  
via an outlet.    
Treated water flows out of  the 
system via an under-drain  
connected to a storm drain pipe  
or other appropriate outfall.  
The planters are not permitted to 
be used as stand-alone drainage  
facilities. Traditional catch basins  
shall be located downstream for  
effective bypass of flows during  
higher-intensity rainfall events.  
Permeable Pavements  
Permeable pavements  are 
encouraged in limited  
applications within streets.  
Permeable paving shall be   
engineered to account for the  
sub-soil conditions.  Design  
recommendations include:  
under-drain connected to a storm  
drain pipe or other appropriate  
outfall.   
•  The bottom of the stone  reservoir 
shall not exceed 2%  slope with 
an under-drain system  to ensure 
infiltration through the  entire 
surface.   
•  Porous pavement should be  
located at least two to five  feet 
above the seasonally high  
groundwater table.  
Filterra® units (or equivalent)    
These units consist of a concrete  
box, a mulch layer, approximately   
1.5 to 3.5 feet of a unique soil  filter 
media, an observation/ clean-out 
pipe, an under-drain system and 
an appropriate type of plant, i.e., 
flowers, grasses, shrubs, or trees. 
The top of the unit should be 
recessed to permit the specified 
sidewalk material to be laid on top 
of the box.   
Stormwater run-off drains directly  
from the impervious right-of-way  
surfaces through an inlet structure  
in the concrete box and flows  
through the mulch, plant, and  soil 
filter media. Treated water  shall 
flow out of the system via an   
Filterra® units, or the like, shall  
not be placed in sump conditions.  
Filterra® cannot be used as a  
stand-alone inlet.  A downstream  
catch basin should be provided  for 
effective bypass of flows  during 
higher-intensity rainfall  events.  
Surface flow shall not be  directed 
to Filterra® in a head-on 
configuration. A cross-linear  flow 
configuration (left-to-right or  right-
to-left) in the gutter in front  of the 
unit is encouraged.  
Plant types and tree grates should  
be consistent with the adjacent  
streetscape.   
Water Quality in Open   
Spaces  
The Park, Community Park, 
Gateway Park, and Greenway 
Pocket Parks as well as Green 
Corridors and other open spaces 
should be self-treating areas that 
incorporate planted areas that 
treat the stormwater run-off they 
generate. Additionally stormwater 
treatment areas, such as rain 
gardens, swales and biofiltration 
planters, incorporated into 
the open spaces should aid in 
treatment of the streets and parcel 
water quality.  
Rain Gardens  
A rain garden is a shallow,  
depressed area in the landscape,  
planted with vegetation that can  
withstand periodic inundations of  
water (Figure 5.04). Rain garden  
examples are shown in Figures   
5.06-5.08. Requirements for rain-
gardens include:  
•  Rain gardens should be located  
away from buildings so water is  
not directed toward foundation  
structures.   
•  Amended soil should be used. To  
increase infiltration, compaction  
of soil should be avoided.  
•  A sub-drain shall be provided to  
promote infiltration.  
•  Surrounding land should be  
sloped towards the rain garden.  
•  Overflow should be directed  to 
a discharge point such as an  
overflow drain within the rain  
garden.

--- page 483 ---
155
Overflow   
bypass  
Disconnected    
leader  
Water Quality in Buildings– 
Blocks and Open Spaces   
Run-off from the building roofs 
and hardscape in at-grade areas 
shall be treated using  one 
or more of the following (or  
equivalent) methods:    
Planter Boxes   
Planter boxes should be located  
within the block setbacks or within  
courtyards to treat roof run-off  
(Figure 5.05).  Roof leaders shall  
discharge directly to the planter  
boxes.  
Swales  
The following strategies shall 
be  considered in the design of a  
swale:  
•  Swales should be located  away 
from active use areas and  
buildings so water is not directed  
toward  foundations.    
•  Sides of the swale should be  
gently sloped to reduce erosion.  
•  Swales should be sized to meet  
capacity requirements.   
•   Overflow catch basins along  the 
length of the swale should  be 
provided to permit bypass  of flow 
during higher-intensity  rainfall 
events.  
•  Swales should be sloped  towards 
a storm drainage system  structure 
such as a catch basin or  manhole. 
•  Compaction of swale subsoils  
should not be permitted during  
construction.  
•  Sub-drains should be considered  
to promote infiltration.  
Disconnected Roof Leaders  
Splash blocks shall be used to  
reduce the velocity and impact  
of water entering rain gardens,  
planter boxes, swales, etc., from  
roof leaders (Figure 5.03).  Splash  
blocks shall be constructed from  
concrete, stone, glass or other  
durable materials.   
The following strategies shall be  
considered:  
•  Ground should be sloped at  least 
2% to direct run-off away  from the 
buildings.  
•  Ponding water next to buildings  is 
not permitted.  
•  Roof drainage should be  
distributed to more than one  
downspout.  
Permeable Pavement  
Although not suitable for  sole 
treatment, the use of  permeable 
paving is encouraged  in 
driveways, courtyards, and  
walkways to reduce the amount of  
treatment required.  
Permeable paving shall be  
engineered to account for the  
sub-soil conditions.  The following  
design recommendations shall be  
considered:  
•  The bottom of the stone  reservoir 
should be completely  flat to 
ensure infiltration through  the 
entire surface.   
•  Porous pavement should be  
located at least two to five  feet 
above the seasonally high  
groundwater table.  
•   Rain gardens and Biofiltration 
planters may also be used to treat  
runoff from the buildings.
FIGURE 5.03 Planter box with  
disconnected leader  
CHAPTER 5 SUSTAINABILITY

--- page 484 ---
156
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 5.04 Typical Rain garden section  
FIGURE 5.05 Typical planter box section  
Green Roofs  
Buildings are permitted to use  
green roofs to filter and reduce  
the volume of stormwater run-off.  
Cisterns  
Installation of cisterns is permitted 
to reduce the rate of stormwater  
run-off from the buildings,  
provided that:  
•  Cisterns shall be integrated into  
the building design.   
•  If a cistern holds greater than  six 
inches of water, it shall be  covered 
securely, or have a  top opening of 
fewer than four  inches. 
 
•  Cistern design and maintenance  
should minimize the potential  
for clogging by leaves and other  
debris.

--- page 485 ---
157
FIGURE 5.07 Rain garden example  
FIGURE 5.09 Stormwater management example  
FIGURE 5.08 Rain garden example  
FIGURE 5.06 Rain garden example  
CHAPTER 5 SUSTAINABILITY

--- page 486 ---
158
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FIGURE 5.10 Disconnected leader over podium example  
FIGURE 5.11  Disconnected leader over podium example  
FIGURE 5.12  Disconnected leader and rain garden over podium example

--- page 487 ---
159
Flood Control Strategy  
In early 2012, the City of San Mateo 
completed levee improvements that 
resulted in revisions to the FEMA 
flood insurance mapping in October 
2012. These improvements removed 
the Plan Area from the 100-year flood 
plain (1-percent chance annual flood). 
Parts of the site remain in Zone X, 
the 500-year flood plain (0.2 percent 
chance annual flood).
Due to this change, the requirements 
of San Mateo Municipal Code Chap-
ter 23.33, which were included in the 
2011 Specific Plan and Design Guide-
lines documents, no longer apply.
Currently, portions of the Plan Area 
(below +104.7 ft Adjusted City Datum) 
are susceptible to flooding in the 
unlikely event of failure of the Crystal 
Springs Reservoir Dam (Corridor Plan 
EIR).

--- page 488 ---
160
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Site Preparation 
and Design  
The following principles are   
encouraged:   
•   Site disturbance: Minimize  
impact on pre-existing native  
vegetation and permeable  
surfaces, including during  
construction. 
Neighborhood Design  
and Community
 
•   Heat-Island effect: Increase  
the amount of pervious 
and/ or shaded areas to 
reduce  microclimate impact. 
Discourage  dark roof 
materials. 
•   Infrastructure, energy   
efficiency: Consider energy- 
efficient infrastructure 
equipment. 
 
•   Recycled content for 
infrastructure: Consider 
materials with recycled content 
for infrastructure.  
•  Site forestation: Encourage site  
greening through a high density  
of trees and plants.  
•  Light pollution: Design open-
space lighting to minimize  
impact on the night sky.  
•  Construction waste 
management: Promote the  
diversion of construction  
waste and demolition debris  
from disposal in landfills and  
incinerators.  
The following principles are   
encouraged:   
Compact development: 
Optimize the allowed density 
through a strategy that fits with 
the community.  
Walkable streets: Promote  
pedestrian activity and public health 
through increased physical activity, 
using:   
•  Frequent use of building entries  
Parking footprint: Minimize  
off-street parking impact by  
encouraging integration of 
parking in building cores and/ 
or underground, such that the  
majority of street frontages will 
favor pedestrian activity.   
•  Street proportions that ensure  
space definition  
•  Limited traffic speed  
•  Limited and coordinated  setbacks 
for buildings framing  streets 
 •  Mixed-use building façades  primarily 
contiguous to sidewalks  
•  High level of transparency for  
non-residential uses and ground-floor 
façades fronting streets  
•  Minimized blank walls  
•  Regular rhythm of street trees  
between travel lanes and  sidewalk 
walking areas   
•  Ground floor of residential units  
should be at least two feet above  
finished sidewalk grade

--- page 489 ---
161
Green Building Design  
Bicycle network: Encourage  
bicycle use by providing bicycle  
lanes and storage facilities.  
Access to publicly accessible  
open space: Foster walking,  
physical activity and time spent  
outdoors, as well as social  
interaction, through access to and 
connectivity of parks.  
Housing Diversity: Offer a range  
of housing types to enable a  
variety of residents to live in the  
Plan Area.  
Universal accessibility: Provide a  
high level of accessibility through  
general street grades and  
individual designs which meet  
applicable ADA requirements.  
Internet accessibility: Consider  
wireless access for the Plan Area.  
The following principles are  
encouraged to ensure sustainable 
building design:   
•   Construction waste should  
be recycled and reused when  
possible.  
•   Roofs should reduce heat-
island  effect through design and  
materials selection.   
•   Façades of buildings with  
residential uses should be  
designed to take advantage of  
natural lighting and optimize  
solar gain.  
•   Façades of buildings with  
retail and office uses should be  
designed to shield peak gains  
and optimize natural lighting.  
•   Building design should  
incorporate operable windows  
and open-air courtyards to  
encourage natural and cross  
ventilation as part of the HVAC  
system.  
•   Building design should include  
water-efficient fixtures and  
plumbing such as faucets,  shower 
heads, and toilets that  reduce water 
consumption.  
•   Energy-efficient lighting,  
appliances, and HVAC  equipment 
should be used to  reduce the 
energy required for  building 
operation.  
•   Recycled or locally-produced  
building materials should  be used 
where practical and  appropriate.
  
•   Buildings should use rating  
systems to evaluate design  
and pursue green design  
certification.  
•   Additional green design features  
such as on-site renewable energy  
sources and green roofs should  be 
considered.  
CHAPTER 5 SUSTAINABILITY

--- page 490 ---
This page intentionally left blank.


--- page 491 ---


--- page 492 ---


--- page 493 ---
165
Appendix  
The following pages provide definitions of some of the more specialized  
terms used in the Design Guidelines.

--- page 494 ---
166
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
Definitions  
ACTIVE USE:   
Retail/services/restaurants,  
residential entrances, or other  
high-frequency uses such as  
brokerage offices, commercial  
lobbies, health facilities and  
professional offices  
AMENDED SOIL:   
A soil mix that allows adequate  
drainage through the soil to  
remove pollutants and provide  
efficient drainage  
APARTMENT:  
A room or suite of rooms used or  
designed for use as a residence  
by a family, located in a building  
containing two or more such  
rooms or suites  
ARCADE:   
A length of sidewalk covered by  
enclosed building mass above,  
which is supported by a series of  
arches on columns or piers  
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE:  
A visible treatment of building  
massing, fenestration, materials,  
or other distinctive details on a  
building  
ARTICULATION:   
BAY WINDOW:   
Variation in the massing, setback,  
height, or architectural features 
of  a building, such as changes 
in wall  plane, apparent height, 
materials  and colors, vertical 
recesses  and projections, floor 
levels,  roof forms, parapets or 
cornice  treatments, the location 
of garage  and residential 
entrances, or  window forms and 
patterns  
BALCONY:   
BLOCK OPENING:   
A window or group of windows  
that project(s) from a building wall 
BIOFILTRATION PLANTER:   
A break in the frontage or  
streetwall to allow for a visual or  
physical connection to the interior 
of a block  
A landscape element that is  
designed to capture runoff from  
streets and pavement areas to  
permit water-quality treatment by  
infiltration through soil media   
BIOFILTRATION UNIT:   
An open, habitable portion 
of  an upper floor that extends  
beyond or is recessed within a  
building’s exterior wall, and that  
is not supported from below by  
vertical columns or piers but is  
instead supported by a cantilever, 
brackets, or the building mass  
below  
BALUSTER:   
A vertical member used to  
support a railing or coping  
BALUSTRADE:   
A railing together with its  
supporting balusters or posts,  
often used at the front of a  
parapet  
A landscape element with  
openings that are designed to  
capture runoff from streets and  
pavement areas to permit water-
quality treatment by infiltration  
through an engineered medium  
or filter  
BLANK (BUILDING) WALL:   
A side of a building lacking any  
windows or architectural features  
BLOCK:   
A built area that is bounded by  
streets and/or open space  
BLOCK LINE:  
The boundary line that defines a  
block.  Typically, the block line is 
drawn at the back of sidewalk. 
BRISE SOLEIL:   
A horizontal projection extending  
from a building façade to shield  
glass from the sun, which may  
or may not include louvers to  
provide passive solar heating in  
the winter months  
BUFFER:   
Buildings, open spaces,  
landscaped areas, fences, walls,  
and plantings that screen one use  
or property from another, usually  
to mitigate noise or lights  
BUILD-TO BLOCK LINE:   
A line to which a building façade  
shall be built, for which criteria  
may set a minimum percentage or  
length per façade

--- page 495 ---
167
APPENDIX
Roof Plateline  
Building Height (H)   
Plan Area  
Existing Highest   
Elevation + 107’   
Roof Plateline  
Building   
Height (H)   
104.7’   
Flat Roof  
Slope Roof  
BUILDING FRONTAGE:   
A vertical side of a building that  
faces an open space or street and  
is built to the setback or build-to  
line  
Plan Area Existing    
Highest Elevation  
+107’  
Location of 107’ height measurement  
point  
BUILDING HEIGHT:   
CURB CUT:   
The height of the building,  
not including roof structures,  
measured from +107 feet adjusted 
City datum, (except for areas in   
A location where a driveway apron  
intersects a street curb     
CURB LINE:   
MU-1 and RE-4 within the 35-foot   
Method of height measurement 
along  35-foot Maximum Height Zone 
on  South Delaware Street  
Method of height measurement along 
graded parcel in Plan Area  
Location of roof plateline  
Maximum Height Zone along   
South Delaware Street) to the  
roof plateline. For the 35-foot  
Maximum Height Zone along   
A line where a sidewalk curb meets  
the edge of street pavement   
CURB RADIUS:  
South Delaware Street, height will  
be measured from 104.7 feet (City  
datum) to the roof plateline  
CATALOG FURNISHINGS:   
A curved edge of street paving at  
an intersection used to describe  
the sharpness of a corner  
Outdoor furnishings that are not  
custom made and are supplied  
through vendors    
COLONNADE:   
A row of columns set at regular  
intervals  
CORNICE:   
DROUGHT-TOLERANT PLANTS: 
Plants, many of them native, with  
the ability to survive with little or  
no irrigation other than rainfall   
EAVE:   
A projecting overhang extending  
from the lower edge of a roof   
EVAE:   
A molding along the top of a wall  
or building  
COURTYARD:  
Emergency Vehicle Access 
Easement
EXPRESSION LINE:   
An enclosed or semi-enclosed  
open space, with planted and/or  
paved areas, to which there may  
be public access    
A line, generally running the full  
length of a façade, expressed by a  
material change or by a continuous 
projection, such as a molding  or 
cornice, which delineates the  
transition between floor levels

--- page 496 ---
168
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
FAÇADE:   
An exterior wall of a building  
facing a street or open space (or  
the treatment given thereto)  
GARDEN WALL:   
FRONTAGE:   
Building width along a street or  
open space  
FREESTANDING BRICK PIER:   
A pillar of brickwork not  
connected to a wall  
FULL CUT-OFF LUMINAIRE:  
An outdoor light fixture that is  
shielded or constructed such  
that it emits no light above the  
horizontal plane, as certified by a  
photometric test report  
A freestanding wall along the  
property line dividing private  
areas from streets, alleys, and  
or adjacent lots; can occur  
within courtyards, mid-block  
connections, and common  
residential usable open spaces  
GREEN CORRIDOR:   
LAMPBLACK COLOR:   
A San Mateo City Standard  
concrete additive producing  
darker concrete that reduces  
signs of wear   
LIGHT POLLUTION:   
A narrow, linear park space linking 
two parks or a park with a street   
HOLD CORNER ZONE:   
The portion of a frontage which  
must maintain the build-to  
line to define block form at an  
intersection/corner of a block     
HORIZONTAL EXPRESSION:   
A building façade condition in  
which floors or a group of floors,  
window shapes, linear balconies,  
cornices, stepbacks, or roof lines  
are perceived in horizontal layers  
IMPERMEABLE:   
Excess or obtrusive light that  
disrupts ecosystems, wastes  
energy,  or intrudes on an  
otherwise low-light setting  
LIGHT TRESPASS:   
Light emitted by a luminaire that  
shines beyond the property on  
which the luminaire is installed   
LOGGIA:   
A roofed but open gallery or  
arcade along the façade of a  
building  
LUMINAIRE:   
LINTEL:   
A horizontal structural beam  
that spans an opening, such as  
between the posts of a door or  
window, or between two columns  
or piers  
MASSING:    
The volume or bulk of a building  
or structure  
MASSING TRANSITION:   
A lighting device including a light 
source, pole, and any necessary  
parts, decorations, and mounting  
brackets  
Not able to be infiltrated by 
water  
INFILTRATION:   
The movement of water through  
surface soil   
A significant change in façade  
plane, height, and/or material to  
differentiate two major parts of a  
building   
MARQUEE:   
A permanently roofed  
architectural feature, with vertical  
sides and intended for the display  
of signs, and which is supported  
entirely from an exterior wall of a  
building

--- page 497 ---
169
MODULATION:   
Major variations in the massing,  
façade, height, or setback of a  
building  
THE PARK:   
The approximately 1.1-acre  
publicly accessible open space  
located at the center of Station  
Park Green  
PARK FRONTAGE ZONE:   
The built area with edges facing   
The Park  
PAVEMENT:   
PERMEABLE:   
Allowing infiltration of water or  
other liquid  
PLAN AREA BOUNDARY:   
The boundary of the Station Park 
Green Specific Plan Area  
PLAZA:   
A designated open space that  
includes paved areas and a  
distinctive civic character  
A hard surface to facilitate  
pedestrian and potentially bicycle 
or vehicular passage    
PEDESTRIAN-ORIENTED:   
A condition in which the  
arrangement and location of  
active uses, buildings, streets,  
and open spaces are such that  
walking is safe, inviting, and  
efficient  
PRIMARY ACCESS:   
The main entry point of a 
building  
PRIMARY FAÇADE PLANE:   
PROJECTION:  
SECONDARY ACCESS:   
A part of the building façade 
that  extends outward beyond the 
primary façade plane  
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE OPEN   
SPACE:   
A building entry other than the  
primary access  
SETBACK:  
Open space to which there is a  
right to public access on a regular 
basis  
RECESS:  
An area on a lot within which  
certain types of structures may  
not be situated, measured  
perpendicular to lot lines, and  
extending for the full width or  
depth of the lot  
An indentation or small hollow,  
measured from the primary 
façade  
RESIDENTIAL USABLE OPEN   
SPACE:   
Open space to which there is no  
right to public access    
REVEAL:   
The vertical plane of a building 
not  including stoops, porches, 
or other  appurtenances  
PRIMARY STREET WALL:   
SHARED PARKING:   
A system of parking areas shared  
by multiple users, where each  user 
has peak parking demands  at 
different times within a 24-hour  
period, thereby allowing some  
parking spaces to be shared  
The horizontal distance between 
a  window or door opening and 
the  building façade, measured 
from  the dominant building 
surface to  the window or door 
frame  
ROOFTOP STRUCTURES:   
The predominant aggregate 
effect  of the façades/walls of 
buildings along a property line 
nearest to a public street or 
open space, which defines the 
public realm by framing  and/or 
engaging the street   
Architectural features added to  
the main body of a building, such  
as turrets, cupolas, spires, belfries, 
dormers, chimneys or mechanical  
equipment  
RESIDENTIAL-SCALE   
EXPRESSION:   
The method of designing and 
articulating a building facade 
with small scale elements. These 
elements can range between 10 
to15 feet in width and include 
frequent recesses and/or step 
backs in between the prominent 
architectural elements    
APPENDIX

--- page 498 ---
170
STATIONPARKGREEN DESIGN GUIDELINES  
STEPBACK:   
A portion of a building recessed  
a minimum distance from the  
façade  
STORY:   
An occupiable level within a  
building  
STOOP:   
A small platform and entrance  
stairway at a building entrance,  
sometimes covered by a  
secondary roof or awning  
STOREFRONT:   
The portion of a building at the  
first story of a retail frontage that  
is made available for retail use  
STREETWALL:   
UNIT PAVER:   
A high-quality paving material  
used to differentiate important  
public spaces and streets and,  
within streets, signal pedestrian  
priority; may include concrete  
unit pavers, cobblestones, and  
flagstones  
VERTICAL EXPRESSION:   
A building façade condition in  
which floors or a group of floors,  
window shapes, linear balconies,  
cornices, stepbacks, or roof lines  
are perceived in vertical divisions  
WARNING PAVER:   
Continuous façade of buildings  
generally situated on the property 
line, building line, or setback line,  
and facing a street or open space  
pedestrian pathway  
TOWNHOME-STYLE UNIT:  
A dwelling unit which: (i) shares at  
least one party or demising wall  
with an adjacent dwelling unit;  
and (ii) has an entrance which  
may be shared opening onto  an 
adjacent sidewalk or other   
A durable band of truncated  
domes that is located at edges  
where a pedestrian condition  
meets a vehicular condition, and  
taking the place of curbs where  a 
flush condition is needed to allow 
passage of emergency  vehicles, 
achieve adequate turning  radii, 
and/or maintain the safety  of 
the pedestrian. Must comply  
with applicable federal and state  
audibility requirements.  
SPECIAL PAVER:   
A man-made concrete or  
natural stone fabrication, usually 
two- to three-inches high and  
geometrically shaped, which can  
be laid in patterns for walkways,  
patios, driveways, or streets  
SILL:   
The horizontal member at the  
base of a window opening

--- page 499 ---
171
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 500 ---
<

1
ln
iz
i

ia
LAL
Ho
teil



--- page 501 ---
PA 14-055 
TITLE:  
Station Park Green 
Address: 
1700 & 1790 S. Delaware Street 
Parcel Number: 
035-200-060, -180 
Assigned Planner: Lorraine Weiss

--- page 502 ---
20 November 2014


--- page 503 ---
1 
 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
ADDRESS: 
Station Park Green 
430 Station Park Circle #100 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
APN: 
035-200-220 
 
PLANNING  
APPLICATION: 
Specific Plan Amendment to Station Park Green Specific Plan 
PROJECT  
LOCATION: 
Within an existing Station Park Green mixed-use building at Northwest corner 
of S. Delaware Street and Concar Drive 
MEETING  
DATE/TIME: 
Wednesday, March 19, 2025 from 6 to 7 PM 
MEETING  
LOCATION: 
Virtual Zoom meeting 
ZOOM LINK: 
Zoom Link  Passcode: hLths%4u 
MEETING  
RECORDING LINK: 
Zoom Link  Passcode: hLths%4u 
ATTENDEES: 
12 members of the community signed in during the one-hour meeting 
APPLICANTS  
AND/OR TEAM: 
Chris Kober, Vice President – Essex Property Trust, Inc.  
Katia Kamangar – Consultant to Essex Property Trust, Inc. 
 
PURPOSE OF MEETING: 
 
Neighborhood meeting for residents living within 1,000-foot radius of Station Park Green.  The 
purpose was to share information about the proposed plans to convert vacant retail space in the 
building to office use, to describe the associated landscape enhancements, discuss timeline and 
parking, and to offer an opportunity for residents to ask questions and provide feedback and 
comments. 
 
INTRODUCTION: 
 
Chris Kober and Katia Kamangar opened the meeting and presented the proposed project, 
including a vicinity map, a site plan, and several renderings of the proposed exterior and landscape 
enhancements.  The Station Park Green apartments were constructed in 2018 and the ground floor 
retail space has struggled to attract and retain tenants.  The proposal is to amend the Station Park 
Green Specific Plan to permit some of the long-vacant retail to be converted to office use to help 
activate the currently dark and empty spaces along Concar and S. Delaware streets.  The Essex

--- page 504 ---
2 
 
team also invited everyone to come visit an open house with refreshments the following week at the 
Community Room at Station Park Green (March 25th from 5 to 7 pm) and to see the space San 
Mateo residents can use, free of charge, by reserving the space via email at 
stationparkgreen@essex.com. 
 
QUESTIONS & ANSWERS: 
 
1. 
Q. When will the update happen? Please keep it clean during work. 
 
A. Project construction will likely occur next year (2026) after project approvals.  We will pay 
attention to keep the community clean as we go. 
 
2. 
Q. For the 1,400 businesses approached, what was the most popular reasons that they did 
not want to rent retail space in Station Park Green? 
 
A. The main reasons were lack of parking in front of the businesses, and lack of significant 
foot traffic (compared to downtown as an example). 
 
3. 
Q. For the employees that will be working at SPF, where will they park? Are they going to be 
using the retail parking? 
 
A. They will park in the garage that exists in the building.  There are sufficient spaces in this 
garage to account for both the office and the retail uses so the parking would be done with 
off-street parking within the garage. 
 
4. 
Q. Please ask Bay Club and Crunch to either appreciate the gym we have or keep  Starbucks 
here, thank you. 
 
A. We acknowledged that having Starbucks here was great but unfortunately they vacated 
the space before their lease ended. We hope to get another coffee shop here. 
 
5. 
Q. We appreciate the upgraded CalTrain and SamTrans are quite an asset also. 
 
A. We agree that those are both amenities that both the residents and office employees will 
benefit from. 
 
6. 
Q. Will this affect the price per unit; I currently pay $3,500 per month? 
 
A. As mentioned during the presentation, questions related to property repair or rent related 
matters will be deferred to the leasing team to address, if needed. 
 
 
7. 
Q. With the influx of employees, one major concern is traffic jam.  How do you manage that? 
Currently the Station Park Green circle is often occupied by delivery vehicles and it’s already 
sometimes hard to get around. 
 
A. The project benefits from excellent nearby freeway access.  At any given day, there would 
be about 40 to 50 people here given a flexible work schedule.  People are not arriving nor

--- page 505 ---
3 
 
departing at a given time.  Traffic was studied as part of original project approvals and will 
be studied under city guidance again for this application. 
 
8. 
Q. There are 46 retail parking spaces.  Are there other parking spaces in the building not 
being used? 
 
A. Yes, in fact, in the original entitlements some ground floor and some upstairs parking 
spaces were allocated for office and retail use.  Those will all be part of what’s available. 
 
9. 
Q. USPS is our next door neighbor; we all appreciate upgrades, please. 
 
A. The post office is part of federal government so it’s not something we control. We are not 
aware of any plans related to the post office but can try to find out.  
 
10. 
Q. Will Foster City Essex be included? 
 
 
A. Essex team asked for added clarification on this question but none was noted. 
 
11. 
Q. Security has always been an issue, package theft has been plaguing SPG, we need extra 
security measures to protect the residence area.  Are there any plans to do that? 
 
A. No response but attendees were told that these types of questions/comments would be 
forwarded to the leasing & property management teams as feedback and to address. 
 
12. 
Q. Will Essex be upgrading the plaza also? 
 
A. Yes, as part of the proposal, Essex will upgrade the corner plaza with new furniture, string 
lights and upgraded landscaping.  Goal is to refresh this space and to hopefully attract a 
restaurant or café type of tenant here, next to Beach Hut Deli. 
 
13. 
Q. The structure by Beach Hut Deli was projected to be a water structure; will that return? 
 
A. Yes, it is a water retention area so that rainwater collected on site goes into this area that 
we have as a planter.  The landscaping is the aesthetic part of it and the functional part is 
that the water goes back into the water table so it doesn’t run off into the Bay.  So that part 
exists today and will remain in function going forward. 
 
14. 
Q.  Thanks for the help. 
 
 
A. n/a 
 
15. 
Q. See you next week, thanks again. 
 
 
A. n/a 
 
16. 
Q. What happens next?

--- page 506 ---
4 
 
A. The next step in the process is the formal application to the city for the proposal.  
Whenever there’s an amendment to the specific plan, as the first step we do a 
neighborhood meeting to introduce the project.  The step after that is the filing of the 
application itself.  The application will be reviewed by the city and go through the formal 
public hearing process of the planning commission and city council later this year.  After 
that there will be tenant improvements (“TI”s), improvements inside the building spaces, 
and those will occur next year.  City will notify residents of relevant hearings. 
 
17. 
Q.  Please unlock the sales office. They sealed it off three years ago.  It is linked to 
Snowflake? 
 
 
A. n/a 
 
18. 
Q. Please address funnel leasing website leaving and bringing OnSite back. 
 
A. No response as unrelated to the proposal but attendees were told that these types of 
questions/comments would be forwarded to the leasing & property management teams. 
 
19. 
Q. Azara is the other apartment home site that has been damaged by City Hall of San 
Mateo.  We pay dearly to be treated better.  Thank you. 
 
 
A. No response as unrelated to the proposal.

--- page 507 ---
Station Park Green
430 Station Park Circle
(APN 035-200-220)
Addendum to the Station Park Green (PA 07-030) Initial Study/Mitigated 
Negative Declaration State Clearinghouse No. 2010082076 and to the 
Addendum for Station Park Green SPAR, SDP, and TM Application (PA 14-055)
A. INTRODUCTION
This environmental document is a second Addendum to the Station Park Green Project Initial Study/Mitigated 
Negative Declaration (State Clearinghouse No. 2010082076), adopted on January 18, 2011, by the City Council 
of the City of San Mateo (the “MND”). The MND tiered off of the Rail Corridor Plan EIR (State Clearinghouse 
No. 2003042170). The program studied in the MND matched that described in the Specific Plan and Design 
Guidelines, and authorized under the Development Agreement, all of which were also studied and approved 
by the City Council on January 18, 2011. That program includes:
•
Up to 599 dwelling units;
•
A minimum of 25,000 gross square feet (“gsf”) and up to 60,000 gsf of retail / services / 
restaurant uses;
•
A minimum of 10,000 gsf and up to 45,000 gsf of office use; and
•
Approximately 2.0 acres of privately maintained open space open to the general public.
In 2014, an application (PA 14-055) for a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Planning 
Application (SDPA), Vesting Tentative Parcel Map, and Amendments to the Station Park Green Specific Plan 
and Design Guidelines was submitted. Along with the application, an Addendum to the MND was provided. 
The City Council approved the application on February 2, 2015, and the approved program included:
•
599 dwelling units (1-BR, 2-BR and 3-BR Dwelling Units);
•
26,000 gross square feet (“gsf”) of retail / services / restaurant uses;
•
11,000 gsf of office uses; and
•
More than 2.0 acres of privately maintained open space open to the general public.
The project has since been completed. However, since the adoption of the Station Park Green Specific Plan 
and Design Guidelines and MND, the applicant proposes changes to the previously approved project, including 
modifying the minimum and maximum amounts of retail and office space that is permitted on the site. 
B. BACKGROUND
The City of San Mateo prepared the MND to address potentially significant environmental impacts resulting 
from the project. The range of potential environmental effects assessed included aesthetics, agriculture and 
forestry resources, air quality, biological resources, cultural resources, geology and soils, greenhouse gas 
emissions, hazards and hazardous materials, hydrology and water quality, land use and planning, mineral 
resources, land use and planning, noise, population and housing, public services, recreation, 
transportation/traffic, and utilities and service systems. The MND found that all impacts have been mitigated 
to below a level of significance through implementation of mitigation measures. In approving the original and 
subsequent projects, the City of San Mateo imposed a combined Conditions of Approval & Mitigation 
Monitoring Program.

--- page 508 ---
C. PURPOSE OF ADDENDUM
Once a project has been approved, the lead agency’s role in project approval is completed, unless further 
discretionary approval of that project is required (CEQA Guidelines 15162(c).) The Revised Project, however, 
does require further discretionary approval, including amendments to the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines. 
Accordingly, the City, as the lead agency, must determine whether a Subsequent EIR or MND is required for 
the Revised Project.
CEQA Guidelines Sections 15162 and 15164 set criteria for that determination. If the following criteria are all 
true, then a Subsequent EIR or MND is not required, and an Addendum is the appropriate document:
•
No new significant impacts will result from the project or from new mitigation measures.
•
No substantial increase in the severity of environmental impact will occur.
•
No new feasible alternatives or mitigation measures that would reduce impacts previously found not 
to be feasible have, in fact, been found to be feasible.
D.PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed revisions include the following:
•
Changing the allowable use ranges from 25,000 - 30,000 gross square feet (gsf) of 
retail/services/restaurant uses, and 10,000 - 15,000 gsf of office uses to 3,000 - 30,000 gsf of 
retail/services/restaurant uses and 10,000 - 35,000 gsf of office uses. 
•
Changing the floor area ratio (FAR) values for retail from 0.2 to 0.1 and changing office FAR from 0.1 
to 0.2. 
•
Expanding the office space allowances to in addition to retail/services/restaurants on the ground floor 
to support occupancy of this existing non-residential space and support increase economic vibrancy.  
For a detailed comparison of the current project to the original and previously approved projects please refer 
to Section E.2 below.
D.1PROJECT LOCATION AND SETTING
The project site comprises approximately 12 acres located at the southwesterly corner of the intersection of 
South Delaware Street and Concar Drive in the City of San Mateo (the “Site”). The completed development 
contains four structures with residential uses. The development is located adjacent to Hayward Park Caltrain 
Station and has interior streets enclosing a park. Building MU-1, located at the corner of S. Delaware Street 
and Concar Drive, features four levels of residential units above ground-floor retail and office spaces.  The Site 
is located adjacent to a variety of uses, including: commercial and office uses directly to the west (including 
the Delaware Street Post Office); multi-family and single-family uses to the north and east; retail uses to the 
east along the State Route 92 corridor; office uses directly to the south adjacent to the highway off-ramp; and 
the Hayward Park CalTrain Station, rail line and park-and-ride lot directly to the south. Both the City’s General 
Plan and its zoning code designate the entire Site for Transit Oriented Development (“TOD”).

--- page 509 ---


--- page 510 ---
D.2PROJECT REFINEMENTS SINCE MND ADOPTION
The revised project does not change the amount of residential units or existing structures’ setbacks, heights, 
or overall floor area ratios.  
Uses
Original Project
2014 Project
Revised Project
Residential Uses
Up to 599 units
599 units
599 units (no change)
Retail/Restaurant/Service
25,000-60,000 gsf
26,000 gsf
3,000-30,000 gsf
Office Uses
10,000-45,000 gsf
11,000 gsf
10,000-35,000 gsf
Public Open Space
2.0 acres
2.0+ acres
2.3 acres (no change)
The Rail Corridor Plan set all the development standards for the Site, and these standards were, in turn, 
reflected in the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines. See the table below for a comparison of the Revised 
Project to the Rail Corridor Plan:
Development Standard
Rail Corridor Plan
2014 Project
Revised Project
Max. Floor Area 
Ratio (All Uses)
3.0
2.3
No change
Max. Floor Area 
Ratio (Retail)
0.3
<0.3; 0.1 for office
0.1 for retail; 0.2 for 
office
Max. Building Height
55 feet (35 ft. along S. 
Delaware St. )
55 feet (35 ft. along 
S. Delaware St.)
No change
Min. Setbacks
None Required
None Required
No change
The revised project proposes parking ratios consistent with the Specific Plan. Station Park Green is intended 
as a pedestrian-friendly, mixed-use, transit-oriented development, which offers the opportunity to share 
parking stalls between uses with different parking demand periods.
The approved project required the following (pursuant to Sec. 27.90.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code):
LAND USE
PARKING REQUIREMENT
Studio Dwelling Unit
1.0 (stalls per unit)
1-BR Dwelling Unit
1.3 (stalls per unit)
2-BR Dwelling Unit
1.5 (stalls per unit)
3-BR Dwelling Unit
1.8 (stalls per unit)
Office
0.32 (stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.) 
Retail/Restaurant/Services
2.06 (stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.)
The previously approved project included 781 residential parking stalls, which is three (3) more than the 
required number. With approximately 11,000 square feet of Office, and approximately 26,000 square feet of 
Retail/ Restaurant/Services, the previously approved project only required 57 non-residential stalls to satisfy 
the Zoning Ordinance. The previously approved project actually provided 131 non-residential parking stalls,

--- page 511 ---
which is 74 more than the required number. Of the 131 non-residential stalls:
•
20 will be reserved for 9,000 square feet of proposed Office space;
•
94 will be shared by the remaining 28,000 square feet of non-residential space;
•
12 will be reserved for loading;
•
5 will be reserved for public car-sharing services.
The current project proposes no change in the overall number of parking spaces. However, due to the change 
in uses, the number of required non-residential spaces has decreased.  Now, only 25 spaces are required in 
order to meet the development’s TDM program. In the Trip Generation Study developed by Hexagon 
Transportation Consultants, Inc., the proposed conversion of retail space to office space would generate fewer 
vehicle trips during peak hours. Furthermore, since Assembly Bill 2097 was signed into law, additional parking 
for residential and commercial uses is not required for a project within a one-half mile of a major transit stop 
(Hayward Park Caltrain Station).
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
The following comparative analysis has been undertaken pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Sections 15162 and 
15164, to provide the City with the factual basis for determining whether any changes in the Original Project, 
changes in circumstances, or new information since the MND was adopted require preparation of a 
Subsequent EIR or MND.
The refinements to the previously approved projects are described in Section E (Project Description), above. 
The environmental analysis provided in the MND remains current and applicable to the Revised Project in 
areas unaffected by the refinements for the environmental topics, as listed below:
•
Aesthetics: The standard regulates projects that may have an impact on scenic vistas, scenic 
resources, or create a new source of substantial light or glare. The proposed amendment would not 
result in additional impacts to aesthetic resources beyond those identified in the MND, as there are 
no scenic vistas, resources, or light impacts on the site as the building has completed construction. 
The revised project does not change the structure configuration or overall building design. All changes 
to the tenant spaces are proposed in the interior of Building MU-1. 
•
Agriculture and Forestry Resources: The standard regulates projects located on prime or unique 
farmland, farmland of statewide importance, land zoned for agriculture, or forested land. The 
proposed refinements would not result in additional impacts to agriculture or forestry beyond those 
identified in the MND because there are no prime, unique, or statewide important farmlands in the 
project study area. The MND did not identify any impacts to agricultural uses; therefore, mitigation 
was not required. No new mitigation measures are required for the revised project, either.
•
Air Quality: The standard regulates projects that conflict with an air quality plan, would result in a 
considerable increase of pollutants, expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollution 
concentrations, or result in other emissions that would adversely affect people. The proposed 
refinements would not result in additional impacts to air quality beyond those identified in the MND. 
The background conditions, construction, equipment mix, and works hours identified in the MND 
have not changed significantly, and the proposed refinements would not result in any operational 
changes to the project once constructed.  Therefore, as described in the MND, the project would not 
exceed any Bay Area Air Quality Management District (“BAAQMD”) standards or contribute to air 
quality deterioration beyond BAAQMD projections. No new mitigation measures are required for the 
proposed refinements. The proposed amendment would not trigger a substantial increase in

--- page 512 ---
pollutants, as future work to the building will primarily be in the interior of the structure. 
•
Biological Resources: The standard regulates projects that would have substantial effect on animal 
species, habitats, wetlands or marshlands, wildlife corridors, or have any other impact on established 
conservation plans. The proposed refinements would not result in additional impacts to biological 
resources beyond those identified in the MND would not increase impacts to biological resources, 
either directly or indirectly. The structure is existing, and there are no hydrological resources or 
otherwise protected animal habitats on the site. No new mitigation measures are required for the 
proposed refinements.
•
Cultural Resources: The standard regulates projects that may impact historic resources, archeological 
resources, or disturb human remains. The Site is located in a “low-sensitivity” archaeology zone, and 
there are no known historic resources located at the Site. The project does not propose any site 
disturbances that may impact potential cultural resources, as the proposed project would effect the 
interior of the existing structure. No new mitigation measures are required for the proposed 
refinements.
•
Energy: The standard regulates projects that would create environmental impacts due to wasteful, 
inefficient, or unnecessary consumption of resources or would otherwise obstruct a state or local plan 
for renewable energy efficiency. The proposed amendment would not result in wasteful or inefficient 
energy consumption as the office uses would not increase energy use intensity. No new mitigation 
measures are required. 
•
Geology and Soils: The standard regulates projects that may be impacted from earthquakes, soil 
erosion, or located on soils are unstable or otherwise cannot support the structure. The proposed 
refinements would not result in substantially different geophysical impacts beyond those identified 
in the MND. The project does not propose any grading or other impacts to the soil, as the amendment 
would impact interior construction of an existing building. No new mitigation measures are required 
for the proposed refinements.
•
Greenhouse Gas Emissions: The standard regulates projects that may significantly impact the 
environment or conflict with an applicable plan or policy that reduces greenhouse gases, The project 
does not impact greenhouse gas emissions due to the proposed amendment or construction. 
Accordingly, the proposed refinements would not result in an increase in greenhouse gas emissions 
or related impacts to global climate change or conflicts with applicable climate change plans, policies, 
or regulations. Additionally, due to the reduction of retail, there is an estimated net reduction of 
vehicle trips that would lower greenhouse gas emissions to the site. No new mitigation measures are 
required for the proposed refinements. 
•
Hazards and Hazardous Materials: The standard regulates projects that would create a significant 
hazard to the public, emit hazardous materials, be on a hazardous materials site, or impact emergency 
response plans. The proposed project would not increase risks related to hazards or hazardous 
materials relative to the previously approved projects. The prior project mitigated potential hazards 
associated with removal of underground storage tanks as well as asbestos-containing materials, lead-
based paint residues, mercury and PCB-based materials, as applicable. For the current project, the 
proposed amendment would not increase the spread of hazardous materials or waste. No new 
mitigation measures are required for the proposed refinements.
•
Hydrology and Water Quality: The standard regulates projects that may degrade onsite water quality,

--- page 513 ---
interfere with groundwater recharge, substantially impact drainage, or otherwise obstruct the 
implementation of a water quality control plan. The proposed project does not impact hydrology and 
water quality requirements, and future interior construction shall comply with all applicable water-
quality regulations. No new mitigation measures are required for the proposed refinements.
•
Land Use and Planning: The standard regulates projects that would divide an established community 
or cause a significant environmental impact due to a conflict with a land use plan, policy, or regulation. 
The proposed project would not divide an established community. The project will meet the same 
land use and planning goals, objectives, and policies as the studied and approved previously, in 
addition to meeting the goals and policies in the subsequently adopted General Plan 2040 (including 
Land Use Policy LU 3.2, Commercial Development; LU 3.10, Office Park Evolution; LU 3.9, Workplaces; 
and Community Design and Historic Preservation Policy CD 8.2, Human-Scale Design). The project still 
proposes to implement a Transportation Demand Management (“TDM”) Program that would meet 
the requirements of the Rail Corridor Plan, as well as the previously approved projects’ combined 
Conditions of Approval & Mitigation Monitoring Plan.
•
Mineral Resources: The standard regulates projects that would result in a loss of the availability of a 
valuable known mineral resource. The proposed refinements would not result in additional impacts 
to mineral resources beyond those identified in the MND, and because the Site is not located within 
an area of known mineral resources, either of regional or local value, the MND did not identify any 
impacts to mineral resources; therefore, mitigation was not required. No new mitigation measures 
are required for the proposed refinements.
•
Noise: The standard regulates projects that generate a substantial temporary or permanent increase 
in ambient noise levels in the vicinity, generate excessive ground vibration, or impact an airstrip or 
airport. The proposed project would not result in additional impacts due to noise or vibration beyond 
those identified in the MND. The proposed refinements to the previously approved projects would 
not result in design or operational changes to the project site or surrounding area from that analyzed 
in the MND. The proposed amendment to allow for increase office uses would not generate a 
permanent increase in noise levels. No new mitigation measures are required for the Revised Project.
•
Population and Housing: The standard regulates projects that induce substantial unplanned 
population growth or displace existing housing or people. The amended project would not have any 
effect on population, housing, or employment in the City or region at large, as is the case for the 
previously approved projects. No adverse impacts would occur in this regard as the proposed 
amendment would not change the number of residential units on the site. No new mitigation 
measures are required for the proposed refinements. 
•
Public Services: The standard regulates projects that may result in an adverse impact to government 
facilities or impact public services. The proposed refinement to the previously approved projects 
would not result in additional impacts to public services/utilities beyond those identified in the MND, 
because they would not result in operational changes to the project beyond those evaluated in the 
MND for the original project. The MND did not identify any potentially significant impacts to public 
services; therefore, mitigation was not required. No new mitigation measures are required for the 
Revised Project.
•
Recreation: The standard regulates projects that may deteriorate nearby parks or would require 
construction or expansion of recreational facilities that might have an adverse effect on the 
environment. The proposed refinements will not result in additional impacts to recreation beyond

--- page 514 ---
those identified in the MND. The MND did not identify any permanent impacts to recreational 
resources; therefore, mitigation was not required. The proposed construction would not impact 
existing park resources, and the site contains an existing park that is not in the scope of work. 
Accordingly, no new mitigation measures are required for the proposed refinements.
•
Transportation/Traffic: The standard regulates projects that conflict with existing transportation or 
circulation plans, increase hazards due to design, or result in inadequate emergency access. A Traffic 
Impact Analysis (TIA) was prepared for the original project in 2010 and was included in the MND. The 
MND did not identify any near-term project-specific impacts to transportation/traffic and only 
identified that the project would result in cumulative traffic. In 2014, a TIA prepared by Hexagon 
Transportation Consultants for the stated that the revised project would not result in additional 
impacts to transportation/traffic beyond those identified in the MND. The report concluded that the 
TIA was expected to generate fewer trips that the original project. 
Hexagon Transportation Consultants provided a supplemental Trip Generation Study Report for the 
proposed changes to the office and retail uses on the site. The proposed conversion would generate 
197 fewer daily trips, including 14 fewer trips during the morning peak hour and 22 fewer trips during 
the afternoon peak hour.  The project does not propose any changes to the existing parking 
configuration, and the applicants have provided information that sufficient parking is provided for the 
change in use. Based on these findings, it has been determined that no new mitigation measures are 
required for the proposed refinements.
•
Tribal Cultural Resources: The standard regulates projects that may cause a substantial adverse 
change to a tribal cultural resource that is eligible for listing in local or state historic register or if 
evidence is found that a cultural resource exists on the site. The Site is located in a “low-sensitivity” 
archaeology zone, and there are no known cultural or historic resources located at the Site. No new 
mitigation measures are required for the project. 
•
Utilities and Service Systems: The standard regulates projects that require relocation or Constuction 
of new or expanded water treatment , drainage, power, natural gas, or telecommunications facilities, 
or otherwise impact water supplies, wastewater, or solid waste regulations. The proposed 
amendment would not require or result in the construction or expansion of any public utilities beyond 
those required for the original or previously approved projects. No new mitigation measures are 
required for the proposed refinements.
•
Wildfire. The standard regulates projects that would impact emergency response plans or are in a 
location that would exacerbate wildfire risks. The proposed amendment is not located within a High 
Fire Hazard Severity Zone and would not increase the risk of wildfire. No new mitigation measures are 
required for the proposed project. 
•
Mandatory Findings of Significance: The standard regulates projects that may degrade the quality of 
the environment, substantially reduce wildlife habitats, or adversely impact humans. The potential 
impacts of the proposed project with regard to biological resources, cultural resources, and direct and 
indirect effects on human beings would be essentially the same as under the prior projects. As impacts 
under the project would be similar to or reduced relative to the prior projects, impacts would be less 
than significant in this regard and no mitigation measures are required.
F. CONCLUSIONS

--- page 515 ---
Based upon the information outlined above, the amendments to the Specific Plan will not result in any new 
impacts or increase the severity of any impacts previously identified in the MND because the updated use 
ranges allowed for the ground floor of Building MU-1 are within the ranges for office and retail uses that were 
originally studied and allowed in the Specific Plan adopted in 2011. Nor are there any previously infeasible 
alternatives that are now feasible. None of the other factors set forth in Section 15162(a)(3) [new information 
of substantial importance] is present. An Addendum is appropriate because the project will not result in any 
significant effects not discussed in the prior negative declaration; there are no effects previously examined 
that will be more severe than what was shown in the prior negative declaration; and no previously infeasible 
or considerably different mitigation measures were found to substantially reduce the significant effects on 
the environment. As such, an addendum is appropriate because none of the changes described in Section 
15162 call for a subsequent EIR (Section 15164(a)) and only minor technical changes are necessary (Section 
15164(b)). The City has prepared this Addendum to address the environmental effects of the Revised Project 
compared to both the previously approved and original projects.
The conclusions of the analysis in this Addendum remain consistent with those made in the previously-
adopted MND. Specifically, based upon substantial evidence in the light of the whole record:
•
No substantial changes are proposed in the previously approved project that will require major 
revisions of the MND due to the involvement of new significant environmental effects or a substantial 
increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects;
•
No substantial changes have occurred with respect to the circumstances under which the Revised 
Project is undertaken that will require major revisions to the MND due to the involvement of new 
significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified 
significant effects; and
•
No new information of substantial importance, which was not known and could not have been known 
with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the MND was adopted shows that:
o
The revised project will have one or more significant effects not discussed in the MND;
o
Significant effects previously examined will be substantially more severe than shown in the 
MND; and
o
No mitigation measures or alternatives previously found not to be feasible would, in fact, be 
feasible and would substantially reduce one or more significant effects of the Revised Project, 
but the Project Applicant declines to adopt them.
Based on the information provided above, the proposed amendments to the previously approved Specific 
Plan would not result in a measurable increase in any environmental impacts over what was previously 
analyzed in the MND and first addendum. No new significant impacts have been identified, nor is the severity 
of newly identified impacts substantially greater than the conclusions of the MND and first addendum. Based 
upon this substantial evidence, the Specific Plan Amendments would not result in a substantial change in the 
conclusions and analysis included in the MND. This second addendum shall be maintained as a part of the 
administrative record files at City offices.

--- page 516 ---
1
Steven Lizzarago
From:
Linda Tolosano 
Sent:
Friday, October 17, 2025 12:54 PM
To:
Steven Lizzarago;
 ckober@essex.com
Subject:
PA-2025-048 Station Park Green Specific Plan and Design Guidelines Amendment
We just received Notice of Planning Commission Public Hearing for the subject project. 
 
We want to go on record with the following concern: 
 
In general, we have no issue with conversion of retail space to office space. It would be great to see a local 
coffee shop where Starbucks used to be. From the plan it looks like Beach Hut Deli and former Starbucks space 
are the only retail spaces left. However, the notice does not specify how many employees will be on site. Our 
concern is enough parking for employees. We live in 19th Avenue Park across the street from Station Park 
Green. We do not want to see employees parking in the neighborhood. 
 
Chris Kober did confirm via email on March 20, 2025 (see excerpt below), that Essex would address any 
parking issues, but I want to go on record with the City of San Mateo with our concern. 
 
"As to your question of parking, yes off-street parking garage spaces exist today in our project’s original 
construction.  They have basically been sitting vacant all these years just like retail stores have been 
vacant.  So that will be the office parking for our employees.  In the event that you or anyone else has any 
issue with our project you may reach out to me directly and/or contact stationparkgreen@essex.com to reach 
the apartment staff there." 
 
 
Thanks, 
Linda Tolosano

--- page 517 ---
Station Park Green
Steven Lizzarago, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department
Amendments to the Specific Plan and 
Design Guidelines 
(PA-2025-048)
Planning Commission
October 28, 2025

--- page 518 ---
Project Site
430 Station Park Circle
Hayward Park 
Caltrain Station

--- page 519 ---
Background
2011: PA-2007-030 approved
• Specific Plan, Design Guidelines, 
Initial Study/Mitigated Negative 
Declaration
2015: PA-2014-055 approved
• Project completed construction 
in 2018, includes:
• Four buildings across 11.97 
acres;
• 599 housing units;
• 2.3 acre park;
• 36,058 square feet of office 
and retail space; and
• Community room space
2025: PA-2025-048 submitted
• Specific Plan and Design 
Guidelines amendment
Site Plan of Station Park Green
Building MU-1

--- page 520 ---
Background
• Building MU-1
• 11 retail tenant spaces
• Two office tenant spaces
• Community room
• Parking garage
• Corner Plaza
• Property owner has 
struggled filling the retail 
and restaurant spaces with 
tenants. Currently, all 
tenant spaces are empty. 
Existing Ground Floor Plan 
for Building MU-1 
S. Delaware St
Community 
Room
Corner 
Plaza

--- page 521 ---
Project Description
•
Specific Plan Changes:
•
Modify language to incorporate 
office uses
•
Design Guidelines Changes:
•
Modify language to allow for 
ground floor office
•
Other Changes:
•
Reconfigure retail and office spaces
•
Minor changes to the plaza and 
pathway to enhance the pedestrian 
experience
Proposed Ground Floor Plan
S. Delaware St
Retail A
Retail I
Retail J
Community 
Room
Corner 
Plaza
Path

--- page 522 ---
Project Description
•
Increase office space; decrease retail space requirements
 Proposed Floor 
Area Ratio
 ExisƟng Floor 
Area Ratio
 Proposed Square 
Footage Range
 ExisƟng Square 
Footage Range
 Type
 0.2
 0.1
 10,000 – 35,000
 10,000 – 15,000
 Oﬃce
 0.1
 0.2
 3,000 – 30,000
 25,000 - 30,000
 Retail
 No change
 No change
 3,122
 3,034
 Amenity
(Community
Room)
•
No changes to overall structural square footage 
•
No changes to parking

--- page 523 ---
Retail Analyses
Retail Analysis by Applicant
• Market factors
• Lack of clear visible parking
• Lack of retail synergy
City-led Consultant Analysis
• Construction and design 
limitations
• Infrastructure costs
• Lack of retail synergy
• Lack of clear signage

--- page 524 ---
Consultant 
Recommendations
• Provide tenant improvements or rental 
assistance 
• Potential flex retail/office space for a 
nonprofit tenant
• Signage improvements
• Enhance public spaces
• Community benefits
Conditions of Approval
•
Signage improvements
•
Keep existing corner 
space for 
restaurant/coffee shop
•
Quasi-retail flexibility 
for nonprofit tenant

--- page 525 ---
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Addendum to the Mitigated Negative Declaration 
provided in 2014 per CEQA Sections 15162 and 
15164
• A subsequent addendum is provided for the 
current application

--- page 526 ---
Applicable Codes 
and Policies
• Within the Mixed-Use Medium II 
land use designation per the 
General Plan 2040
• With the Transit Oriented 
Development (TOD) Zoning 
District and Hayward Park 
Station Overlay 
• Station Park Green Specific Plan

--- page 527 ---
Public Comments and Next Steps
• The applicant held a neighborhood informational meeting on March 
19, 2025 that was attended by 18 guests. 
• One public comment was received.
• Planning Commission makes a recommendation to the City Council 
for final action.
• The City Council hearing is tentatively scheduled for November 17, 
2025.

--- page 528 ---
CEQA Finding 
The Planning Commission recommends that the City Council finds on the basis of the 
whole record before it that there is no substantial evidence that the Project will result 
in any new impacts or increase the severity of any impacts previously identified in the 
Addendum to the Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND), originally adopted on 
February 2, 2015.  An Addendum is appropriate because the Project will not result in 
any significant effects not discussed in the prior MND. There are no effects previously 
examined that will be more severe than what was shown in the prior MND and no 
previously infeasible or considerably different mitigation measures were found to 
substantially reduce the significant effects on the environment.  As such, an Addendum 
is appropriate because none of the changes described in Section 15162 call for a 
subsequent EIR (Section 15164(a)) and only minor technical changes are necessary 
(Section 15164(b)). The City has prepared this Addendum to address the environmental 
effects of the Project compared to both the previously approved and original projects.  
Based upon this substantial evidence, the Project will not result in a substantial change 
to the conclusions and analysis in the MND.

--- page 529 ---
Recommendation
Planning Commission make a recommendation to City Council to:
• Adopt an addendum to the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act Sections 15162 and 
15164, based on the Findings for Approval and Subject to the Conditions of 
Approval; and 
• Adopt a resolution to amend the Station Park Green Specific Plan and 
Station Park Green Design Guidelines to change the mix of floor area 
allowed for retail and office uses.

--- page 530 ---
Thank You
Steven Lizzarago, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department
slizzarago@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7205

--- page 531 ---
Station Park Green
• Built in 2018
• 599 homes
• New public park
• Adjacent to Hayward Park Caltrain station
• Ground floor retail/office space
City of San Mateo Planning Commission, October 28, 2025

--- page 532 ---
Failed Retail
• In the last 7 years only 3 of the 10 retail 
spaces have ever had a tenant.
• All 3 failed and left before their lease was up.
• Brokers have approached over 1,400 
retailers to come to Station Park.
• City commissioned a retail study by outside 
expert to confirm that this is a very difficult 
retail site.
• Result has been empty store fronts, dark feel 
to street scape. Led to thoughts that whole 
community was vacant.

--- page 533 ---
Proposal to Re-Energize Community
• Allow some of the failed retail to be used as 
office instead. No new space will be added, just 
changing use of existing.
• Essex, a Fortune 500 company, would have their 
headquarters in the space.
• Provide incentives in the form of TIs and 
reduced rent to help new retailers succeed.
• New Community Room, situated on visible train 
corridor for use by public.
• $50,000 contribution to City for use to enhance 
the nearby neighborhood parks (Concar and 
Sunnybrae).
• We held community meeting to introduce idea 
and held an open house to review plans; no 
community objections.

--- page 534 ---
New Community Room



--- page 535 ---
Benefits of New Plan
• Activate and elevate the streetscape including new 
lights, seating and landscape.
• New effort to attract retail; supported by office 
workers.
• New look plaza at key corner of Delaware and Concar
with string lights, seating and refreshed landscaping.
• Brand new Community Room free to all San Mateo 
residents.
• Funding towards upgrades of neighborhood parks 
(Concar and Sunnybrae).
• Completely parked within the Station Park buildings; 
adjacent to transit and freeways.
• Retain a Fortune 500 employer in the city.

--- page 536 ---
Office
Retail
~ Community Room



--- page 537 ---
1
From:
Joseph Batchelder 
Sent:
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 9:23 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Subject:
Re: Planning Commission Regular Meeting 10/28
Good evening,  
I was the gentleman who called in this evening with a question for the presenter from station Park Green. 
I was a little perturbed that I was not given a chance to clarify my comments after they were 
misinterpreted by both the representative and the council. I understand that there is only so much time 
for public comment but given that I was the only member of the public present I felt it would have been 
appropriate if I could have reiterated my question so that it could be better understood.  
My question was in no way attempting to speak to my perceived lack of value from the inability of station 
Park Green to fill their retail spaces but in reality, to the perceived lack of value that the current 
apartment tenants will receive from their proposed change of use.  
I understand the focus of the meeting was primarily about the retail space and whether or not Essex 
could make adjustments to potentially get tenants in the door. And I understand as a planning counsel 
your primary goal is to keep a large corporation that does lots of business in the area happy, I'm sure that 
the $50,000 donation they were making to local park renovations in no way factored into your decision.  
The city of San Mateo wants local businesses to thrive and tax revenue to come in and, they definitely 
didn't want Essex to move their HQ from the building by the Kaiser and whole foods somewhere out of 
San Mateo entirely. 
So the comitte making the concession for them to save probably tens of thousands of dollars a month by 
moving their employees into a building they already own, made sense. In addition to the hardships 
presented by both COVID and the current political climate I'm sure it made it difficult for existing 
businesses or new businesses to expand, especially into retail spaces that were not necessarily ready to 
occupy as it seemed from some of your comments. 
My concerns come from the fact that the representative stated, what I believe to be facetiously, that the 
additional staff presence in the complex will present no additional complications or parking challenges. 
I wanted to stay for the record that as it stands the complex already has difficulty with tenants being able 
to find parking in this area and surrounding streets. It's unclear if the area inside of the complex is 
technically public street? But large portions of it are regularly occupied by employees who work at local 
businesses outside of the complex, but park here and walk to their offices instead of parking elsewhere. 
I did email Chris the year previous with my concerns with the complexes lack of ability to enforce their 
community guidelines including loose dogs and excessive noise, parking and the like, but as you would 
expect I was given mostly empty corporate platitudes.  
I did shoot him another email after we concluded reiterating and clarifying my question to see if there 
would be any benefit to the actual tenants who live here, instead of just a nebulous "local community"

--- page 538 ---
2
that may or may not potentially get a couple extra restaurants in an area with lots of traffic and limited 
parking. 
 
I did appreciate that one of the comitte members called out the fact that this move would be a potential 
windfall for essex saving on rent, and while I'm happy they are maybe making some rent concessions to 
potential future tenants, making the "community center" easier to access, and writing a check to the city, 
I feel as though none of those do anything to address the fact that the rent in this complex is absurdly 
high, considering the fact that they do such a poor job living up to the promises they laid out when I and 
other tenants agreed to rent here. 
 
I'm sure if you talk to any of the tenants that actually live here they would much prefer a 5% rent 
reduction, as opposed to three additional overpriced fast casual dining opportunities in the area, and 
100 Essex employees fighting for parking near by. 
 
Appreciate your time.