--- page 1 ---
San Marcos City Council ends Flock Safety contract, seeking new
options
by Tara Brolley
Fri, December 5, 2025 at 12:01 PM
(Photo: CBS Austin)
Share
Comment
0
67°
WAT CH

--- page 2 ---
SAN MARCOS, Texas — The San Marcos City Council directed staff Tuesday to discontinue
the city's contract with Flock Safety and explore alternative camera technology options.
The decision came after months of debate over the license plate reader system, which the
city has used since 2022.
City Manager Stephanie Reyes acknowledged the technology's policy implications before
launching into a "comprehensive timeline," covering the history of the relevant discussions
in the city.
ADVERTI SEM EN T
"I want to begin by acknowledging the use of license plate reader technology with Flock is a
significant policy consideration," Reyes said.
The city entered into its initial agreement with Flock Group Inc. in April 2022. Staff signed a
revised two-year contract in December 2023 that included three successive one-year
renewal terms.
The council has debated expanding the camera system throughout 2025. In June, the
council denied an amendment to add 19 cameras to the Flock contract.
TOPICS:
SAN MARCOS
FLOCK SAFETY
CITY COUNCIL
LICENSE PLATE READER
CAMERA TECHNOLOGY
PRIV
67°
WAT CH

--- page 3 ---
Staff made several adjustments to the program this year, including deactivating information
sharing and opting out of Flock's use of anonymized data for machine learning purposes.
RELATED | Flock CEO responds to Austin backlash as city contract nears expiration
"One of the things that we can all unequivocally agree on is that we want our community to
be safe," Councilmember Amanda Rodriguez said. "I haven't heard any of you... assert
anything different."
Mayor Jane Hughson said she sees value in network cameras but prefers a different brand
than Flock.
"I prefer it not be Flock brand," Hughson said. "I hope we can change companies next year."
Rodriguez said that opposition to Flock has "crossed many community lines," and she has
heard from people who disagree with the use of the cameras.
"We have talked about as a body that surveillance itself does not prevent crime, that safety
that exists only as an illusion is deceptive," Rodriguez said.
Hughson said the council lacked the votes needed to renew the contract.
"We are at the end of our contract and we do not have 4 votes or more to say to renew,"
Hughson said. "We are a no."
Police Chief Stan Standridge described how the cameras helped solve a downtown homicide
in October. He said the system identified a suspect vehicle's license plate by narrowing eight
possible matches.
The decision follows similar actions in the region. Hays County Commissioners Court voted
3-2 in October to terminate its Flock contract, with County Judge Ruben Becerra citing
privacy concerns. Austin also halted its Flock camera program over privacy issues.
67°
WAT CH

--- page 4 ---
67°
WAT CH

--- page 5 ---
67°
WAT CH

--- page 6 ---
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
UPDATED Three people found dead home
near Pflugerville, person of interest
detained
Baseball-sized hail hits Hill Country as
rare morning supercells tear through
region
1 dead, 4 ho
shooting; s
say
TRENDING
67°
WAT CH

--- page 7 ---
Terms & Conditions
Copyright Notices
EEO Public File Report
FCC Info
FCC Applications
Public File Assistance
Contact
News Team
Careers
Contests
News
Weather
Sports
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell or Share
Cookie Preferences
© 2026 Sinclair, Inc.
67°
WAT CH