San Marcos City Council ends Flock Safety contract, seeking new options Skip to main content Download the App Get your news faster with our mobile experience Install News News Austin Mayor Kirk Watson adopt two rescue bulldogs Austin Mayor Kirk Watson and his family recently adopted a pair of rescue dogs from Austin Bulldog Rescue.The new additions are a male English Bulldog, approxim Two Texans were aboard cruise ship tied to hantavirus deaths Two Texas residents were among passengers aboard a cruise ship at the center of a deadly hantavirus outbreak, state health officials confirmed Thursday. Both ar Texas AG investigates Central Texas school districts over Ten Commandment displays Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has launched a statewide investigation into dozens of school districts to determine whether they are complying with state laws Three people found dead home near Pflugerville, person of interest detained The Travis County Sheriff's Office is investigating after three people were found dead in a Pflugerville home Thursday morning. Local Nation & World Entertainment Offbeat Marshals' Most Wanted Connect to Congress Armstrong Army Strong Inside Your World Beyond The Podium Amazing America Spotlight on America Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson Traffic Polls Crisis in the Classroom ProAdvice Texas Politics Tech this Out Where's our Water? Rising Waters Criminally Obsessed Weather Current Weather Austin Partly Cloudy 67 F 69 / 62 Today 69 / 62 Friday 78 / 68 Saturday 88 / 69 Latest Weathercast Latest Weathercast Radar Maps Cams Weather Alert Days Hurricane Center Allergens Weather Blog Weather App We Are Austin We Are Austin Austin Shakespeare under the stars returns to Zilker Park with "Much Ado About Nothing" If you’re looking for the perfect way to spend a spring evening in Austin, here’s your sign: grab a blanket, pack a picnic, and head to Zilker Park for a little I Didn’t Know That! with Dr. Liam: Exploring the Science of Powered Flight A new edition of &ldquo;I Didn’t Know That!&rdquo; on We Are Austin is taking viewers to the skies with a closer look at the science of powered flight.Dr. Liam Norris from Alamo Drafthouse Brings Movie Parties, Mother’s Day, Shrek, and Meryl Mania to May Lineup Austin, TEXAS-- Movie lovers have plenty to look forward to this month as Alamo Drafthouse Cinema rolls out a packed May lineup full of themed screenings, inter Amazon Report Highlights Economic Growth, AI Innovation, and Job Creation Across the U.S. As conversations surrounding jobs, affordability, economic growth, and artificial intelligence continue to dominate headlines, new data fromAmazon’s 2025 U.S. Road Trippin' My Hometown Sinclair Cares Partner Spotlight Holiday Gift Guide Kindness in the Air Sports Sports World Cup hotel bookings short of expectations in Texas amid anti-U.S. sentiment abroad World Cup hotel bookings short of expectations in Texas amid anti-U.S. sentiment abroad Former Texas WR Jordan Shipley joins 'THE STAMPEDE' Former Texas WR Jordan Shipley joins "THE STAMPEDE" to discuss the fire that nearly took his life in January, his amazing recovery and his UT playing career. Dallas Wings beat Las Vegas Aces in first-ever WNBA game played in Austin The Dallas Wings defeated the Las Vegas Aces 101-84 Sunday night at the Moody Center, marking the first WNBA game ever played in Austin.The preseason exhibition Mack Brown, Vince Young recap 2026 NFL draft on 'THE STAMPEDE' This week on "THE STAMPEDE: A Podcast on the Texas Longhorns," Mack Brown and Vince Young join CBS Austin's Bob Ballou to recap the 2026 NFL draft. High School College Professional TICKETS City Guide Money Watch Live Now 67 ° Fri 79 ° Sat 84 ° Watch News Local Nation & World Entertainment Offbeat Marshals' Most Wanted Connect to Congress Armstrong Army Strong Inside Your World Beyond The Podium Amazing America Newsletter Sign Up Spotlight on America Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson Traffic Polls Crisis in the Classroom ProAdvice Texas Politics Tech this Out Where's our Water? Rising Waters Criminally Obsessed Newsletter Sign Up Weather Weather Home Radar Maps Cams Weather Alert Days Hurricane Center Allergens Weather Blog Weather App We Are Austin We Are Austin Home Road Trippin' My Hometown Sinclair Cares Partner Spotlight Holiday Gift Guide Kindness in the Air Sports Sports Home High School College Professional TICKETS City Guide Money Money Home Deposits Investing Mortgages Loans Credit Cards Chime In Memorials Newsletter Sign Up Station Station Home Contact People Careers EEO Terms Copyright Privacy Mobile Apps Contests Schedule Commercial Production Newsletter Sign Up NextGen TV Community Partner Program Safe Driving Legal Terms & Conditions Copyright Notices EEO Public File Report FCC Info FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact News Team Careers Contests ACCESSIBILITY San Marcos City Council ends Flock Safety contract, seeking new options by Tara Brolley Fri, December 5, 2025 at 12:01 PM (Photo: CBS Austin) 0 Comment Share topics: San Marcos Flock Safety City Council License plate reader Camera technology Privacy concerns Surveillance Public safety SAN MARCOS, Texas — The San Marcos City Council directed staff Tuesday to discontinue the city's contract with Flock Safety and explore alternative camera technology options. The decision came after months of debate over the license plate reader system, which the city has used since 2022. City Manager Stephanie Reyes acknowledged the technology's policy implications before launching into a "comprehensive timeline," covering the history of the relevant discussions in the city. "I want to begin by acknowledging the use of license plate reader technology with Flock is a significant policy consideration," Reyes said. The city entered into its initial agreement with Flock Group Inc. in April 2022. Staff signed a revised two-year contract in December 2023 that included three successive one-year renewal terms. The council has debated expanding the camera system throughout 2025. In June, the council denied an amendment to add 19 cameras to the Flock contract. Staff made several adjustments to the program this year, including deactivating information sharing and opting out of Flock's use of anonymized data for machine learning purposes. RELATED | Flock CEO responds to Austin backlash as city contract nears expiration "One of the things that we can all unequivocally agree on is that we want our community to be safe," Councilmember Amanda Rodriguez said. "I haven't heard any of you... assert anything different." Mayor Jane Hughson said she sees value in network cameras but prefers a different brand than Flock. "I prefer it not be Flock brand," Hughson said. "I hope we can change companies next year." Rodriguez said that opposition to Flock has "crossed many community lines," and she has heard from people who disagree with the use of the cameras. "We have talked about as a body that surveillance itself does not prevent crime, that safety that exists only as an illusion is deceptive," Rodriguez said. Hughson said the council lacked the votes needed to renew the contract. "We are at the end of our contract and we do not have 4 votes or more to say to renew," Hughson said. "We are a no." Police Chief Stan Standridge described how the cameras helped solve a downtown homicide in October. He said the system identified a suspect vehicle's license plate by narrowing eight possible matches. The decision follows similar actions in the region. Hays County Commissioners Court voted 3-2 in October to terminate its Flock contract, with County Judge Ruben Becerra citing privacy concerns. Austin also halted its Flock camera program over privacy issues. Trending Three people found dead home near Pflugerville, person of interest detained The Travis County Sheriff's Office is investigating after three people were found dead in a Pflugerville home Thursday morning. Baseball-sized hail hits Hill Country as rare morning supercells tear through region Right as many were just starting their day at 9 a.m., a supercell entered the Hill Country, quickly intensifying, dropping large hail in Mason and Llano, near q 1 dead, 4 hospitalized in Pflugerville shooting; suspects detained, police say A man was fatally shot early Wednesday at a Pflugerville restaurant after a disturbance inside spilled into the parking lot, leaving four others hospitalized, A Roadway reopens after truck loses its cargo on US 290 in Manor Manor police warned drivers Wednesday afternoon that Westbound lanes of US 290 at FM 973 are currently closed.The police department stated just before 12:30 p. A mother’s dream lives on inside a Hutto's "What's the Tea?" shop Hutto family honors mother’s legacy by keeping her Vietnamese tea shop alive, sharing culture, creativity, and community after her unexpected passing. NEWS IN PHOTOS: " Local " 3 Austin Mayor Kirk Watson adopt two rescue bulldogs 5 Three people found dead home near Pflugerville, person of interest detained 8 FBI: Austin's Sixth Street mass shooter acted alone 19 Elderly woman hospitalized after pit bull attack in Northwest Side neighborhood ACCESSIBILITY Download Our Mobile Apps: Terms & Conditions Copyright Notices EEO Public File Report FCC Info FCC Applications Public File Assistance Contact News Team Careers Contests News Weather Sports Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share Cookie Preferences 2026 Sinclair, Inc.