--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
By Madilynne Medina, News Reporter
Updated April 2, 2024 5:56 p.m.
Oakland to install network of nearly 500
surveillance cameras
FILE: Oakland freeways. 
Steve Proehl/Getty Images
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
Oakland to install network of nearly 500 surveillance
cameras
About 6 Minutes
1x
LATEST April 2, 5:55 p.m. The California Highway Patrol provided additional
details to SFGATE about the 480 surveillance cameras set to be installed on
Oakland streets and six East Bay freeways, as Gov. Gavin Newsom’s office
announced Friday.
Jaime Coffee, a CHP spokesperson, told SFGATE that Interstate 580 will have 78
cameras, Interstate 80 will have 21, Interstate 880 will have 45, Interstate 980 will
have 11, state Route 13 will have 25, and state Route 24 will have 17 cameras. These
are the first cameras CHP is using from a contract with Flock Safety, Coffee said. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Friends of SFGATE enjoy ad-free reading and more in our new app.
GET IT NOW
The Flock Safety cameras allow law enforcement agencies to search the data
they capture for crime-linked vehicles and receive real-time alerts about them,
Coffee said. The company allows data retention up to 60 days, but CHP’s
contract will only allow it to collect, store and share data from the cameras for up
to 28 days.
In response to privacy concerns, CHP said it will put cameras in public spaces
only to “solve crimes such as freeway shootings, carjackings, and auto theft.”
The footage will not be viewable by third parties except for California law
enforcement agencies and officials, Coffee said. That includes the investigating
agency, the district attorney and the California attorney general.
Saira Hussain, senior staff attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a
nonprofit digital rights group, called the move a form of “mass surveillance.”
She told SFGATE she believes that the footage can be dangerous because it
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
shows people’s whereabouts, including when they're visiting a place of worship,
participating in a protest or seeking medical treatment. 
She’s also concerned that California laws about not sharing automatic license
plate reader data with out-of-state law enforcement won’t be followed. “I think
that there’s also concerns about exactly who has access to this information,”
Hussain said.
ALPR cameras are often more concentrated in communities of color, she
continued, and it could be concerning if those groups were tracked and put
under more security than other groups. Hussain said she believes other
alternatives could be used.
“I think the best way is probably not to use ALPR at all because of the type of
information that it can reveal in terms of the location of individuals,” she said. “If
law enforcement agencies are in fact going to be using these cameras, then we
believe that a warrant is needed in order for them to be able to search so that
they can collect information.”
April 1, 5:33 p.m. More than a month after he briefly deployed California Highway
Patrol units to fight crime in Oakland, California Gov. Gavin Newsom isn’t quite
finished with confronting public safety concerns in the city.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
In a news release Friday, the governor’s office said CHP will install a network of
480 surveillance cameras throughout Oakland streets and East Bay freeways to
help law enforcement identify vehicles associated with crimes. But the plan is
also drawing fire from privacy advocates.
Besides reading license plate numbers, the cameras can help law enforcement
track vehicles by identifying them based on vehicle type, make and color; state;
missing or covered plates; and bumper stickers, decals and roof racks. The
camera system will alert law enforcement immediately when it spots a vehicle
linked to a crime, the governor’s office said. 
Newsom’s office did not reveal the specific locations of the cameras, but the
release said 290 will be installed on Oakland streets and 190 will be on East Bay
highways. In a video of Newsom explaining the new security cameras, posted
Friday on X, formerly known as Twitter, the governor is shown standing in front of
the high-crime Hegenberger corridor near Oakland International Airport. 
480 new high-tech cameras are being installed along freeways and in Oakland to make the area safer.
These will help law enforcement identify vehicles linked to crimes using real-time information and alerts.
We’re building safer, stronger communities for all Californians. pic.twitter.com/x6kekxUK3e
— California Governor (@CAgovernor) March 29, 2024
The cameras come from a state contract with Flock Safety, an Atlanta startup
that promises to help communities “eliminate crime.”
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The company has contracts with cities in many states, including California. It’s
also expanding in the Bay Area by securing contracts with cities like San Jose, San
Mateo and Berkeley.
Neighborhood associations in Oakland, including Lakeshore, Crestmont and
Oakmore, have also been looking into using Flock’s cameras, Oaklandside
reported last week. The cameras would be installed on private property and
would monitor cars entering a neighborhood.
But despite the spread of this technology, some community members have
raised concerns about the new network of cameras, including Brian Hofer, a
member of the Oakland Privacy Advisory Commission. The commission is
responsible for providing city leaders with privacy advice on surveillance
equipment, according to its website. 
Hofer told the Mercury News the number of new cameras is a “significant
amount” for the size of Oakland. “I just hope people understand — going from 300
cameras to now almost 500 — a really significant amount of location data is now
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
going to be in the hands of the state, and mischief can arise from that,” Hofer told
the outlet. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based digital rights group,
has also criticized automated license plate readers, including Flock’s. The group
has questioned whether the camera networks are effective and is concerned that
the ALPR data could be misused to wrongly implicate someone in a crime. 
The California governor’s office said the new camera network in Oakland will store
data for only 28 days and the information will not be disclosed to third parties
“beyond California law enforcement.”
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
GET IT NOW
The surveillance cameras are the latest initiative from the governor’s office this
year to combat rising crime, including a raft of smash-and-grab robberies in the
area where Newsom filmed his announcement. According to a citywide report,
crime in 2023 across Oakland increased 17% over the previous year, with the
biggest jumps in motor vehicle theft and robberies. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
In February, the governor’s office deployed 120 CHP officers in Oakland and the
greater East Bay to assist with cracking down on crime trends in the area,
including auto burglaries, retail theft, vehicle theft and violent crime. The surge led
to 71 arrests and 145 recovered stolen vehicles immediately after it
concluded Feb. 9. 
In Newsom’s video announcing the new surveillance cameras, he said the
increased CHP presence has led to 200 arrests and more than 400 recovered
vehicles. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
April 1, 2024 | Updated April 2, 2024 5:56 p.m.
Madilynne Medina
NEWS REPORTER
Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area,
she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive
editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not
out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The
Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com.
Most Read
News | Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980
Local | San Francisco's AI-run store is losing money fast
Education | Another Calif. college ranked above UC Berkeley this year
News | 'It's a s—t show': Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water
Read our stories ad-free on the new SFGATE app.
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
If You're Collecting
Under $3950 In SS a
Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Restaurants In Santa
Clara With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Timeshare Resorts
Forced To Refund
Owners - Is Yours On the
List?
By SilverPenny
Stop Eating These 3
Foods That Are Known to
Cause Parasites
By Paratoxil
If You Get Social
Security, Don't Skip This
September Benefit
Check
By Super Saving Online
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors
Miss
By SmoothSpine
Caitlin Clark Steps out
With Her New Partner
and Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out
the Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Remember Her? Try Not
to Choke When You See
Her Now
By gowdr
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 11 ---
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Ba
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).