--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
By Madilynne Medina, News Reporter
June 17, 2024
SF rolls out first 100 license plate reader
cameras to combat crime
An aerial view from a drone shows an empty Interstate 280 on March 26, 2020, leading into San
Francisco. With millions of San Francisco Bay Area residents under orders to shelter in place
due to the coronavirus outbreak, few cars are on the roads.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
SF rolls out first 100 license plate reader cameras to
combat crime
About 3 Minutes
1x
San Francisco city officials are promising all 400 cameras in a new network of
automated license plate readers will be installed by July. 
On Tuesday, the San Francisco Police Department announced on social media
that it recently installed its 100th camera. The installation has been a gradual
process that began in March, Allison Maxie, an SFPD spokesperson, told SFGATE. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
The ALPR cameras are different from the traffic enforcement speed cameras
coming to the city by 2025. Once installed in approximately 100 intersections,
the ALPR cameras are meant to combat retail theft, motor vehicle theft and other
public safety issues, according to the San Francisco Mayor’s Office. 
Law enforcement is not sharing the location of the cameras, but the first were
placed in the Inner Sunset district, the mayor’s office told SFGATE. The cameras
are visible from the street but police are not disclosing their exact locations
because it could allow criminals to avoid them, Maxie said, and “expose the
network to either targeted or widespread vandalism or disruption.” 
Legislation to allow the ALPR cameras, which are funded by a $17 million state
grant intended to help crack down on organized retail theft, was first introduced
by Mayor London Breed in November. After introducing the legislation, Breed
asked Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin to “expedite the legislation” so
it would be approved in weeks, rather than months, according to the mayor’s
office. 
City leaders said the first round of cameras have helped lead to several arrests,
on accusations of organized retail theft, carjacking, robbery and sexual assault,
according to a joint news release Wednesday from SFPD and the mayor’s office.
SFPD doesn’t have any statistics to provide at this time about the technology
leading to arrests, Maxie said. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
But even as the city continues to expand camera programs, some privacy groups
have raised concerns about them. Cooper Quintin, senior staff technologist at
San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation, told SFGATE that technology
creates a large repository of people’s locations. 
“ALPRs are a form of dragnet surveillance,” Quintin said. “They record everyone's
movements all across the city. They don't just record the movements of criminals
to help stop crime, but they are also recording everywhere you go.”
Quintin added that the cameras create “a large repository of people's locations,
which could go back for several months, depending on how long SFPD decides to
keep it, and it could represent some really personal information.”
San Francisco Police plan to use more forms of technology for public safety
efforts, according to the June 12 news release. It’s a move that voters have
backed.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
In March, voters approved Prop E, a ballot measure that allows the SFPD to use
drones and public safety cameras in their work. The Electronic Frontier
Foundation was one of the opponents of Prop E, arguing that measure would
create less police accountability.
Even so, the mayor’s proposed budget allots $3.7 million for public safety
technology, which could be used to install additional cameras and drones. 
“This new technology is just one new tool we are using that is helping us make San
Francisco safer for all and it is delivering results,” Breed said. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
June 17, 2024
Madilynne Medina
NEWS REPORTER
Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area,
she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive
editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not
out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The
Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com.
More News
— High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room
— Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog
— Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community
— Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980
Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
MD It’s Not Your Joints –
Here’s What’s Really
Causing Your Pain
By Wellness Guide
If You're Collecting
Under $3950 In SS a
Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Restaurants In Santa
Clara With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
If You Get Social
Security, Don't Skip This
September Benefit
Check
By Super Saving Online
Timeshare Resorts
Forced To Refund
Owners - Is Yours On the
List?
By SilverPenny
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors
Miss
By SmoothSpine
Caitlin Clark Steps out
With Her New Partner
and Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
Taylor Swift, 34, Takes
off Makeup, Leaves Us
With No Words
By Your Health Agent
Remember Her? Try Not
to Choke When You See
Her Now
By gowdr
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out
the Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Ba
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).