Oakland to install network of nearly 500 surveillance cameras Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State Oakland to install network of nearly 500 surveillance cameras By Madilynne Medina , News Reporter Updated April 2, 2024 5:56 p.m. FILE: Oakland freeways. Steve Proehl/Getty Images LATEST April 2, 5:55 p.m. The California Highway Patrol provided additional details to SFGATE about the 480 surveillance cameras set to be installed on Oakland streets and six East Bay freeways, as Gov. Gavin Newsom’s office announced Friday. Jaime Coffee, a CHP spokesperson, told SFGATE that Interstate 580 will have 78 cameras, Interstate 80 will have 21, Interstate 880 will have 45, Interstate 980 will have 11, state Route 13 will have 25, and state Route 24 will have 17 cameras. These are the first cameras CHP is using from a contract with Flock Safety, Coffee said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The Flock Safety cameras allow law enforcement agencies to search the data they capture for crime-linked vehicles and receive real-time alerts about them, Coffee said. The company allows data retention up to 60 days, but CHP’s contract will only allow it to collect, store and share data from the cameras for up to 28 days. In response to privacy concerns, CHP said it will put cameras in public spaces only to “solve crimes such as freeway shootings, carjackings, and auto theft.” The footage will not be viewable by third parties except for California law enforcement agencies and officials, Coffee said. That includes the investigating agency, the district attorney and the California attorney general. Saira Hussain, senior staff attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights group, called the move a form of “mass surveillance.” She told SFGATE she believes that the footage can be dangerous because it shows people’s whereabouts, including when they're visiting a place of worship, participating in a protest or seeking medical treatment. Advertisement Article continues below this ad She’s also concerned that California laws about not sharing automatic license plate reader data with out-of-state law enforcement won’t be followed. “I think that there’s also concerns about exactly who has access to this information,” Hussain said. ALPR cameras are often more concentrated in communities of color, she continued, and it could be concerning if those groups were tracked and put under more security than other groups. Hussain said she believes other alternatives could be used. “I think the best way is probably not to use ALPR at all because of the type of information that it can reveal in terms of the location of individuals,” she said. “If law enforcement agencies are in fact going to be using these cameras, then we believe that a warrant is needed in order for them to be able to search so that they can collect information.” April 1, 5:33 p.m. More than a month after he briefly deployed California Highway Patrol units to fight crime in Oakland, California Gov. Gavin Newsom isn’t quite finished with confronting public safety concerns in the city . Advertisement Article continues below this ad In a news release Friday, the governor’s office said CHP will install a network of 480 surveillance cameras throughout Oakland streets and East Bay freeways to help law enforcement identify vehicles associated with crimes. But the plan is also drawing fire from privacy advocates. Besides reading license plate numbers, the cameras can help law enforcement track vehicles by identifying them based on vehicle type, make and color; state; missing or covered plates; and bumper stickers, decals and roof racks. The camera system will alert law enforcement immediately when it spots a vehicle linked to a crime, the governor’s office said. Newsom’s office did not reveal the specific locations of the cameras, but the release said 290 will be installed on Oakland streets and 190 will be on East Bay highways. In a video of Newsom explaining the new security cameras, posted Friday on X, formerly known as Twitter, the governor is shown standing in front of the high-crime Hegenberger corridor near Oakland International Airport. 480 new high-tech cameras are being installed along freeways and in Oakland to make the area safer. These will help law enforcement identify vehicles linked to crimes using real-time information and alerts. We’re building safer, stronger communities for all Californians. pic.twitter.com/x6kekxUK3e — California Governor (@CAgovernor) March 29, 2024 The cameras come from a state contract with Flock Safety, an Atlanta startup that promises to help communities “eliminate crime.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad The company has contracts with cities in many states, including California. It’s also expanding in the Bay Area by securing contracts with cities like San Jose, San Mateo and Berkeley . Neighborhood associations in Oakland, including Lakeshore, Crestmont and Oakmore, have also been looking into using Flock’s cameras, Oaklandside reported last week . The cameras would be installed on private property and would monitor cars entering a neighborhood. But despite the spread of this technology, some community members have raised concerns about the new network of cameras, including Brian Hofer, a member of the Oakland Privacy Advisory Commission . The commission is responsible for providing city leaders with privacy advice on surveillance equipment, according to its website. Hofer told the Mercury News the number of new cameras is a “significant amount” for the size of Oakland. “I just hope people understand — going from 300 cameras to now almost 500 — a really significant amount of location data is now going to be in the hands of the state, and mischief can arise from that,” Hofer told the outlet. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based digital rights group, has also criticized automated license plate readers, including Flock’s. The group has questioned whether the camera networks are effective and is concerned that the ALPR data could be misused to wrongly implicate someone in a crime. The California governor’s office said the new camera network in Oakland will store data for only 28 days and the information will not be disclosed to third parties “beyond California law enforcement.” BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW The surveillance cameras are the latest initiative from the governor’s office this year to combat rising crime, including a raft of smash-and-grab robberies in the area where Newsom filmed his announcement. According to a citywide report, crime in 2023 across Oakland increased 17% over the previous year, with the biggest jumps in motor vehicle theft and robberies. Advertisement Article continues below this ad In February, the governor’s office deployed 120 CHP officers in Oakland and the greater East Bay to assist with cracking down on crime trends in the area, including auto burglaries, retail theft, vehicle theft and violent crime. The surge led to 71 arrests and 145 recovered stolen vehicles immediately after it concluded Feb. 9. In Newsom’s video announcing the new surveillance cameras, he said the increased CHP presence has led to 200 arrests and more than 400 recovered vehicles. Most Read News | Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980 Local | San Francisco's AI-run store is losing money fast Education | Another Calif. college ranked above UC Berkeley this year News | ' It's a s—t show': Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water Read our stories ad-free on the new SFGATE app . April 1, 2024 | Updated April 2, 2024 5:56 p.m. Madilynne Medina News Reporter Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area, she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com. CA Mini Crossword 97 people are playing right now. 159 players solved today. Can you? 28 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 97 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)