San Francisco rolls out first 100 license plate reader cameras Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State SF rolls out first 100 license plate reader cameras to combat crime By Madilynne Medina , News Reporter June 17, 2024 An aerial view from a drone shows an empty Interstate 280 on March 26, 2020, leading into San Francisco. With millions of San Francisco Bay Area residents under orders to shelter in place due to the coronavirus outbreak, few cars are on the roads. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images San Francisco city officials are promising all 400 cameras in a new network of automated license plate readers will be installed by July. On Tuesday, the San Francisco Police Department announced on social media that it recently installed its 100th camera. The installation has been a gradual process that began in March, Allison Maxie, an SFPD spokesperson, told SFGATE. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The ALPR cameras are different from the traffic enforcement speed cameras coming to the city by 2025. Once installed in approximately 100 intersections, the ALPR cameras are meant to combat retail theft, motor vehicle theft and other public safety issues, according to the San Francisco Mayor’s Office. Law enforcement is not sharing the location of the cameras, but the first were placed in the Inner Sunset district, the mayor’s office told SFGATE. The cameras are visible from the street but police are not disclosing their exact locations because it could allow criminals to avoid them, Maxie said, and “expose the network to either targeted or widespread vandalism or disruption.” Legislation to allow the ALPR cameras, which are funded by a $17 million state grant intended to help crack down on organized retail theft, was first introduced by Mayor London Breed in November. After introducing the legislation, Breed asked Board of Supervisors President Aaron Peskin to “expedite the legislation” so it would be approved in weeks, rather than months, according to the mayor’s office . City leaders said the first round of cameras have helped lead to several arrests, on accusations of organized retail theft, carjacking, robbery and sexual assault, according to a joint news release Wednesday from SFPD and the mayor’s office. SFPD doesn’t have any statistics to provide at this time about the technology leading to arrests, Maxie said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad But even as the city continues to expand camera programs , some privacy groups have raised concerns about them. Cooper Quintin, senior staff technologist at San Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation, told SFGATE that technology creates a large repository of people’s locations. “ALPRs are a form of dragnet surveillance,” Quintin said. “They record everyone's movements all across the city. They don't just record the movements of criminals to help stop crime, but they are also recording everywhere you go.” Quintin added that the cameras create “a large repository of people's locations, which could go back for several months, depending on how long SFPD decides to keep it, and it could represent some really personal information.” San Francisco Police plan to use more forms of technology for public safety efforts, according to the June 12 news release. It’s a move that voters have backed. Advertisement Article continues below this ad BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW In March, voters approved Prop E , a ballot measure that allows the SFPD to use drones and public safety cameras in their work. The Electronic Frontier Foundation was one of the opponents of Prop E, arguing that measure would create less police accountability. Even so, the mayor’s proposed budget allots $3.7 million for public safety technology, which could be used to install additional cameras and drones. “This new technology is just one new tool we are using that is helping us make San Francisco safer for all and it is delivering results,” Breed said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad More News — High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room — Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog — Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community — Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980 Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email June 17, 2024 Madilynne Medina News Reporter Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area, she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com. CA Mini Crossword 97 people are playing right now. 159 players solved today. Can you? 28 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 97 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)