SF's new speed cameras to automatically issue tickets up to $500 Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State San Francisco's new speed cameras to automatically issue tickets up to $500 In an aerial view, traffic backs up on Interstate 80 in San Francisco on Nov. 27, 2024. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images By Madilynne Medina , News Reporter Updated March 21, 2025 4:50 p.m. Driving in San Francisco can be a challenge, and keeping track of all the different types of cameras scanning the city’s roads makes it even more difficult. Though street cameras aren’t new to San Francisco, the coming years will include more of the technology than ever before. Some street cameras, like those deployed by the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency, aim to slow down speeding drivers or drivers running red lights at a time when traffic deaths continue to skyrocket . Other sets of cameras installed by the San Francisco Police Department and permitted by recent legislation are aimed at helping mitigate crime. Here are the kinds of cameras you can expect when driving in San Francisco. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Speed cameras Speeding drivers are the first group the SFMTA is targeting through 33 automated cameras it’s installing across the city. As of March 20 , the registered owner of any vehicle going at least 11 mph over the speed limit will receive a ticket in the mail and, after a 60-day grace period , be stuck with a fine . Take note, speed racers, as the fee will vary according to how fast you’re going: $50 for driving 11 to 15 miles per hour over the posted speed limit, $100 for 16 to 25 miles over, $200 for 26 or more miles over, and a hefty $500 fine for drivers going at least 100 miles per hour (reduced fees will be offered to anyone who qualifies for a low-income fee waiver ). The citations will also only be a civil penalty and won’t result in a DMV point, according to Assembly Bill 645 , the 2023 law passed by the legislature that authorized the cameras and set the fine amounts. The cameras, which will be operated by Verra Mobility, a transportation company based in Mesa, Arizona, won’t use facial recognition in accordance with the legislation. Advertisement Article continues below this ad People crossing the street near Union Square in San Francisco. Alexander Spatari/Getty Images The cameras will be located on high-injury streets, in school zones and in areas with a history of sideshows; the SFMTA website has a map and list of the camera locations. All of the streets are part of the High Injury Network , a map created by the city’s Department of Public Health that shows the corridors with the most severe traffic injuries or fatalities. One of the main goals of the cameras is to help eliminate severe traffic collisions and traffic deaths. In 2024, San Francisco recorded 41 traffic deaths, including 24 pedestrians, resulting in its highest traffic death rate in more than a decade. In recent years, community members and city officials have called for safer streets, with a series of high-profile traffic deaths sparking widespread discussion. One collision involved a family of four, including a 1-year-old child and an infant, that was killed after a crash at a West Portal bus stop in March 2024, while another involved a 4-year-old pedestrian who was killed by a driver near Oracle Park nearly a year earlier. Advertisement Article continues below this ad A campaign from SFMTA with ads and billboards launched in late January, with the goal of making the public aware of the speed camera locations. “This will help people adjust to a new form of speed enforcement that’s coming to San Francisco,” the agency said on its website. Shannon Hake, the SFMTA’s Vision Zero program manager, said in a Dec. 17 San Francisco County Transportation Authority Board meeting that the work that delayed the cameras has been resolved. “I am very, very confident that these will be launching in March,” she said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Traffic backs up at the Bay Bridge toll plaza in Oakland, Calif., on Aug. 24, 2022. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images The cameras are also coming to five other California cities, as outlined by AB 645. Besides San Francisco, you'll also find them in Los Angeles, San Jose, Oakland, Glendale and Long Beach as part of a five-year program. Red-light cameras Red light cameras have been in San Francisco since the 1990s, but the SFMTA is expanding the network beyond the current 13 intersections. By fall 2025, the agency is slated to install more cameras at busy intersections across the city, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. (The Chronicle and SFGATE are both owned by Hearst but have separate newsrooms.) Advertisement Article continues below this ad The cameras are activated when drivers enter the intersection after a traffic signal has turned red, SFMTA said. The vehicle is detected by a 3D traffic radar, which takes three photographs and a short video clip. Some of the cameras are also programmed to cite people who make an illegal right turn on a red light. The photographs show two full rear views of the vehicle, a close-up of the license plate and of the driver. The citations, which range from $100 to $500, are sent to the vehicle owner’s address within 15 days. Automated license plate readers, surveillance Another network of cameras that will be watching the city’s roads are automatic license plate readers. Advertisement Article continues below this ad San Francisco plans to install 400 AI-powered cameras made by the Atlanta-based company Flock Safety that are intended to help with criminal investigations. In acquiring the technology, the city joins other cities and neighborhoods throughout the Bay Area and across the state, including Berkeley, Oakland, Palo Alto and San Jose . At least 100 Flock Safety cameras were installed across San Francisco in June of last year, with the remaining 300 set to go up by July, according to the San Francisco Mayor’s Office. The San Francisco Police Department is not revealing the exact location of the cameras, but they are visible from the street, the mayor’s office previously told SFGATE. The cameras are used to track down suspects in crimes such as retail theft, carjacking, robbery and sexual assault cases. The technology is also used to detect sideshows , locate victims of crimes, find missing people and identify potential terrorism threats, according to SFPD. The ALPR cameras capture license plates, and that data, along with the location, time and date, is uploaded to a database. After checking each license plate, the data is compared against law enforcement databases, and information linked with suspected crimes or stolen vehicles is used by police, according to the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Only one to two vehicles out of 1,000 activate an alert in the system, and the information is not shared with private companies. But while the cameras have helped police identify and arrest suspects , some privacy groups have argued that ALPRs are a form of surveillance and create less police accountability. The technology was authorized by Prop E., which was passed by San Francisco voters in March 2024 and allows SFPD to use drones and other surveillance devices, including those with facial recognition. BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW A different network surveillance of cameras contracted by LiveView Technologies, which is based in American Fork, Utah, have also been deployed as part of SFPD’s public safety efforts that Prop E. authorized. These panoramic lens cameras, which sit on 22-foot masts with floodlights and speakers for playing announcements, are used for “round-the clock” security monitoring. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Currently, several of the cameras are operating in the Mission and Bayview neighborhoods. An additional location has been proposed at the 16th Street and Mission Street intersection, which was discussed last month in a community meeting. This story has been updated. More News — High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room — Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog — Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community — Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980 Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email February 4, 2025 | Updated March 21, 2025 4:50 p.m. Madilynne Medina News Reporter Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area, she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com. CA Mini Crossword 97 people are playing right now. 159 players solved today. Can you? 28 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 97 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)