--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
By Madilynne Medina, News Reporter
Aug 5, 2025
How to avoid San Francisco's new automatic
speeding tickets
San Francisco drivers who exceed the speed limit on certain streets now face the possibility of a fine
in the mail.
Getty Images
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
SF's speed cameras are now issuing real tickets. Here's what to
know.
About 9 Minutes
1x
San Francisco drivers will be wise to stay under the speed limit starting Tuesday as the
city begins to automatically issue fines with tickets for those caught speeding. 
Though the 33 automated speed cameras around San Francisco went live in March, up
until now, drivers caught going too fast were issued only warnings as part of a several
monthslong grace period meant to acquaint them with the new system. But now, the
citations that will land in your mailbox will come with penalties that range from $50 to
$500. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Watch More
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
Here’s what to know about the new cameras:
Where are the new cameras?
The speed enforcement cameras are scattered around the city on streets that are the
most prone to traffic injuries, have a history of sideshows or are in school zones,
according to the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. A map and list of the
33 camera locations is on SFMTA’s site.
As of Tuesday, all of the cameras are installed and operational. Erica Kato, an SFMTA
spokesperson, told SFGATE that the cameras are visible to drivers. Anyone using Google
Maps or Apple Maps, both of which include speed camera locations in navigation
directions, may receive a warning from their navigation system as well. Though neither
Google nor Apple responded to SFGATE’s questions about whether they’ve already
added the SF camera locations to their systems, when SFGATE drove by a camera last
week, Apple Maps announced, “Speed camera ahead.”
How fast do you need to go to be issued a ticket?
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Any vehicle going at least 11 mph over the posted speed limit is going to be stuck with a
fine.
SFMTA will automatically mail speeding tickets to the registered owner of the vehicle,
but the amount of the fine depends on how fast drivers are going. The citations will only
be a civil penalty and won’t show up as a DMV point. 
For drivers going 11 to 15 mph over the limit, the fine is $50. Those going 16 to 25 mph
over the limit will receive a $100 ticket, and drivers going 26 mph or more over the limit
will receive a $200 ticket. Any vehicle going 100 mph or more in any location will be
fined $500. To pay the fine, drivers can visit the SFMTA speed safety camera payment
portal.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Some drivers may qualify for a lower fee, such as low-income drivers or those
participating in public assistance programs like SNAP and Medi-Cal. Low-income
drivers can apply for the fee waiver on the agency’s site. SFMTA’s speed camera site
lists the lower fee rates as well. 
Can you fight the ticket?
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Kato said that as with other citations from the agency, drivers can appeal the speeding
tickets. And according to SFMTA, drivers can perform community service instead of
paying the ticket. In the case that someone’s car is stolen and they receive an
automatic speeding ticket, drivers will be able to submit an affidavit of nonliability,
according to the agency.
Where have people been getting the most
tickets? 
Since the cameras went live in March, SFMTA said three-month data from the warning
period shows that drivers are already slowing down. Speeding dropped by more than
30% between the first week and the seventh week of the period, SFMTA said in a news
release shared with SFGATE. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
About half of the warnings were sent to San Francisco residents, the release said. After
receiving one warning, more than 70% of drivers have not been issued a second
warning.  
The biggest shifts are in high-traffic corridors. Those areas saw speeding go down
between 40% and 63%, SFMTA said. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
The intersections with the most improvement include Fulton Street between Arguello
Boulevard and Second Avenue, with a 63% decrease in speeding. When the cameras
launched, about 4 in every 100 vehicles were speeding, and by week 13, fewer than 2 per
100 vehicles were speeding. 
Geneva Avenue, between Prague Street and Brookdale Avenue, and Bayshore Boulevard,
between the Highway 101 off-ramp and Tunnel Avenue, also saw drastic shifts in driver
behavior. The two intersections had a 45% and 40% decrease in speeding, respectively. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
A public dashboard last updated on June 30 shows that Fulton Street between Arguello
Boulevard and Second Avenue had the most violations, with 17,626 warnings issued. The
intersection with the second most was Bryant Street between 2nd and 3rd streets, with
14,158 warnings sent. 
SFMTA also released data showing which intersections had the most speeding drivers
in April. (Data analysis from May, June and July is not yet available.) That month, the
same stretch of Fulton Street between Arguello Boulevard and Second Avenue
accounted for 44% of the average daily violations. Geary Boulevard between Webster
and Buchanan streets had the second most daily speeding violations and the fastest
driver, who was going 65 mph in a 30 mph zone. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
SFTMA also found that a majority of the speeders, 77%, were driving 11 to 15 mph over
the posted limit. The most speeding happened during morning commute times, from
7 to 8 a.m., and the day with the most violations was Tuesdays. 
Though the recent data shows improvement, Robert Schneider, a former Bay Area
resident who is now a professor of architecture and urban planning at the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, told SFGATE that it’s important to consider how many cars pass
through the city’s concentrated streets every day. At Geneva Avenue, for example,
where the speed limit is 30 mph, 14 in 100 vehicles were reported speeding per day
when the cameras first launched, according to SFMTA data. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
“Another way to think about that is if there is a street that has 10,000 vehicles per day,
and I think Geneva is slightly above that, that translates to 1,400 vehicles per day
traveling at 40 mph,” he said.
How are the cameras different from other
cameras in San Francisco?
The automated speed cameras aren’t the only cameras on San Francisco’s streets.
Red-light cameras, also operated by SFMTA, are installed at 13 busy intersections
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
throughout the city. The cameras have been operating since the 1990s, and the agency
plans on expanding the network in the future. 
Vehicles running red lights are detected with a 3D traffic radar that takes a photo of the
rear views of the vehicle, a close-up of the license plate and the driver. Tickets from the
red-light cameras range from $100 to $500. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The other network of cameras, called ALPRs, or automatic license plate readers, is
operated by the San Francisco Police Department for surveillance and tracking down
crime suspects. There are 400 AI-powered cameras set to be installed across the city,
with at least 100 of those already live. 
What do the cameras photograph exactly?
According to California Assembly Bill 645, legislation passed in 2023 that authorized
the cameras, the new speed cameras aren’t allowed to use facial recognition. SFMTA
said only the rear license plate of the speeding vehicle is captured by the cameras and
the data is stored with the agency for up to 120 days. The information will not be shared
with other agencies unless “court ordered to do so,” SFMTA said.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
San Francisco is the first city in the state to officially launch the program, but the
Legislature authorized the program in Los Angeles, San Jose, Oakland, Glendale and
Long Beach. The pilot program will operate until January 2032, according to the bill
text. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Why do officials believe the program is
important?
The cameras, which are part of a five-year program, are intended to reduce several and
fatal traffic collisions, SFMTA said on its site. The agency said speeding is the number
one cause for collisions that result in injuries in the city. 
San Francisco has been trying to mitigate traffic deaths for over a decade with its
Vision Zero program. The initiative, adopted in 2014, aimed to help the city reach zero
traffic deaths by 2024. But the city failed to reach that goal, and recorded its deadliest
year in more than a decade for pedestrians in 2024. City leaders, though, are banking
on the new cameras to help the city reach its goal. 
Schneider, whose research encompasses traffic safety throughout the U.S., said he is
optimistic about the cameras. He pointed to research from the Federal Highway
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Administration that shows that slower speeds have consistently led to fewer crashes,
deaths and injuries.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
“You have less of a likelihood that somebody will die if the speed of the car that they’re
hit by is slower, so it’s purely physics,” Schneider said. 
He added that the recent data also shows a shift in driver behavior on the streets with
and without cameras, which he expects will accelerate. 
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
“One thing that the speed safety cameras are doing, it’s sort of making people more
conscious of their speed, saying, ‘Hey, you know, I could get a ticket if I’m going too
fast,’” Schneider said. “… And so what I hope and think is that speed safety cameras are
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 11 ---
Aug 5, 2025
helping change the driver’s mindset into one that’s a more aware mindset about traffic
safety and about their neighbors on the streets.”
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
In addition to improving safety, he said he hopes the cameras will make San Francisco
streets more comfortable for pedestrians. 
“When cars are going slower, [streets] become more welcoming and more comfortable
places to be,” he said. “… People will be less afraid to go out in their cars, but also
especially go out on the streets, walking and biking, and that is really important.”
More News
— High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room
— Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog
— Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community
— Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980
Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 12 ---
Madilynne Medina
NEWS REPORTER
Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area, she
earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive editor for
the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not out in the field
reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The Weeknd. You can contact
her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com.
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
Why People With Sleep
Apnea Are Switching to
This Butterfly-Shaped
Pillow
By Life Picks
If You Get Social Security,
Don't Skip This September
Benefit Check
By Super Saving Online
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
Neuropathy and Numb
Feet? This is The Simplest
Method Doctors Won't Tell
You
By SmoothSpine
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 13 ---
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
By Health Weekly
Don't Borrow from the
Bank If You Own a Home,
Borrow from Yourself
Instead (I...
By Comparisons.org
Maximize Your Online
Store's Potential Today
By CheckSiteScore
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 14 ---
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).