--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
By Madilynne Medina, News Reporter
Updated March 21, 2025 4:50 p.m.
San Francisco's new speed cameras to
automatically issue tickets up to $500
In an aerial view, traffic backs up on Interstate 80 in San Francisco on Nov. 27, 2024. 
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
San Francisco's new speed cameras to automatically issue tickets
up to $500
About 7 Minutes
1x
Driving in San Francisco can be a challenge, and keeping track of all the different
types of cameras scanning the city’s roads makes it even more difficult. Though
street cameras aren’t new to San Francisco, the coming years will include more of
the technology than ever before. 
Some street cameras, like those deployed by the San Francisco Municipal
Transportation Agency, aim to slow down speeding drivers or drivers running red
lights at a time when traffic deaths continue to skyrocket. Other sets of cameras
installed by the San Francisco Police Department and permitted by recent
legislation are aimed at helping mitigate crime. 
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Friends of SFGATE enjoy ad-free reading and more in our new app.
GET IT NOW
Here are the kinds of cameras you can expect when driving in San Francisco.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Speed cameras
Speeding drivers are the first group the SFMTA is targeting through 33 automated
cameras it’s installing across the city. 
As of March 20, the registered owner of any vehicle going at least 11 mph over the
speed limit will receive a ticket in the mail and, after a 60-day grace period, be
stuck with a fine. Take note, speed racers, as the fee will vary according to how
fast you’re going: $50 for driving 11 to 15 miles per hour over the posted speed
limit, $100 for 16 to 25 miles over, $200 for 26 or more miles over, and a hefty
$500 fine for drivers going at least 100 miles per hour (reduced fees will be
offered to anyone who qualifies for a low-income fee waiver).
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
The citations will also only be a civil penalty and won’t result in a DMV point,
according to Assembly Bill 645, the 2023 law passed by the legislature that
authorized the cameras and set the fine amounts. The cameras, which will be
operated by Verra Mobility, a transportation company based in Mesa, Arizona,
won’t use facial recognition in accordance with the legislation.
The cameras will be located on high-injury streets, in school zones and in areas
with a history of sideshows; the SFMTA website has a map and list of the camera
locations. All of the streets are part of the High Injury Network, a map created by
the city’s Department of Public Health that shows the corridors with the most
severe traffic injuries or fatalities. 
People crossing the street near Union Square in San Francisco.
Alexander Spatari/Getty Images
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
One of the main goals of the cameras is to help eliminate severe traffic collisions
and traffic deaths. In 2024, San Francisco recorded 41 traffic deaths, including 24
pedestrians, resulting in its highest traffic death rate in more than a decade.  
In recent years, community members and city officials have called for safer
streets, with a series of high-profile traffic deaths sparking widespread
discussion. One collision involved a family of four, including a 1-year-old child and
an infant, that was killed after a crash at a West Portal bus stop in March 2024,
while another involved a 4-year-old pedestrian who was killed by a driver near
Oracle Park nearly a year earlier. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
A campaign from SFMTA with ads and billboards launched in late January, with
the goal of making the public aware of the speed camera locations.
“This will help people adjust to a new form of speed enforcement that’s coming to
San Francisco,” the agency said on its website.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Shannon Hake, the SFMTA’s Vision Zero program manager, said in a Dec. 17 San
Francisco County Transportation Authority Board meeting that the work that
delayed the cameras has been resolved. 
“I am very, very confident that these will be launching in March,” she said.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
The cameras are also coming to five other California cities, as outlined by AB 645.
Besides San Francisco, you'll also find them in Los Angeles, San Jose, Oakland,
Glendale and Long Beach as part of a five-year program. 
Red-light cameras
Red light cameras have been in San Francisco since the 1990s, but the SFMTA is
expanding the network beyond the current 13 intersections. By fall 2025, the
agency is slated to install more cameras at busy intersections across the city, the
San Francisco Chronicle reported. (The Chronicle and SFGATE are both owned by
Hearst but have separate newsrooms.)
Traffic backs up at the Bay Bridge toll plaza in Oakland, Calif., on Aug. 24, 2022. 
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The cameras are activated when drivers enter the intersection after a traffic
signal has turned red, SFMTA said. The vehicle is detected by a 3D traffic radar,
which takes three photographs and a short video clip. Some of the cameras are
also programmed to cite people who make an illegal right turn on a red light.
The photographs show two full rear views of the vehicle, a close-up of the license
plate and of the driver. The citations, which range from $100 to $500, are sent to
the vehicle owner’s address within 15 days. 
Automated license plate readers,
surveillance 
Another network of cameras that will be watching the city’s roads are automatic
license plate readers. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
San Francisco plans to install 400 AI-powered cameras made by the Atlanta-
based company Flock Safety that are intended to help with criminal
investigations. In acquiring the technology, the city joins other cities and
neighborhoods throughout the Bay Area and across the state, including Berkeley,
Oakland, Palo Alto and San Jose.
At least 100 Flock Safety cameras were installed across San Francisco in June of
last year, with the remaining 300 set to go up by July, according to the San
Francisco Mayor’s Office. The San Francisco Police Department is not revealing
the exact location of the cameras, but they are visible from the street, the
mayor’s office previously told SFGATE.
The cameras are used to track down suspects in crimes such as retail theft,
carjacking, robbery and sexual assault cases. The technology is also used to
detect sideshows, locate victims of crimes, find missing people and identify
potential terrorism threats, according to SFPD. 
The ALPR cameras capture license plates, and that data, along with the location,
time and date, is uploaded to a database. After checking each license plate, the
data is compared against law enforcement databases, and information linked with
suspected crimes or stolen vehicles is used by police, according to the Northern
California Regional Intelligence Center.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Only one to two vehicles out of 1,000 activate an alert in the system, and the
information is not shared with private companies. But while the cameras
have helped police identify and arrest suspects, some privacy groups have
argued that ALPRs are a form of surveillance and create less police
accountability. 
The technology was authorized by Prop E., which was passed by San Francisco
voters in March 2024 and allows SFPD to use drones and other surveillance
devices, including those with facial recognition. 
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 11 ---
A different network surveillance of cameras contracted by LiveView Technologies,
which is based in American Fork, Utah, have also been deployed as part of SFPD’s
public safety efforts that Prop E. authorized. These panoramic lens cameras,
which sit on 22-foot masts with floodlights and speakers for playing
announcements, are used for “round-the clock” security monitoring. 
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Currently, several of the cameras are operating in the Mission and Bayview
neighborhoods. An additional location has been proposed at the 16th Street and
Mission Street intersection, which was discussed last month in a community
meeting.
This story has been updated.
More News
— High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room
— Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog
— Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community
— Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 12 ---
February 4, 2025 | Updated March 21, 2025 4:50 p.m.
Madilynne Medina
NEWS REPORTER
Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area,
she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive
editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not
out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The
Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com.
Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
If You're Collecting
Under $3950 In SS a
Month: You're Eligible
for These 10 ...
By SilverPenny
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out
the Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 13 ---
Timeshare Resorts
Forced To Refund
Owners - Is Yours On the
List?
By SilverPenny
Restaurants In Santa
Clara With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
Seniors Born 1939-1969
Receive 11 Benefits This
Month If They Ask
By Super Saving Online
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors
Miss
By SmoothSpine
Maximize Your Online
Store's Potential Today
By CheckSiteScore
Caitlin Clark Steps out
With Her New Partner
and Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
Do You Remember Her?
Take a Deep Breath
Before Looking at Her
Today
By Yourhealthagent
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Ba
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 14 ---
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality,
analytics, targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this
website and the Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).