How to avoid San Francisco's new automatic speeding tickets Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State How to avoid San Francisco's new automatic speeding tickets By Madilynne Medina , News Reporter Aug 5, 2025 San Francisco drivers who exceed the speed limit on certain streets now face the possibility of a fine in the mail. Getty Images San Francisco drivers will be wise to stay under the speed limit starting Tuesday as the city begins to automatically issue fines with tickets for those caught speeding. Though the 33 automated speed cameras around San Francisco went live in March, up until now, drivers caught going too fast were issued only warnings as part of a several monthslong grace period meant to acquaint them with the new system. But now, the citations that will land in your mailbox will come with penalties that range from $50 to $500. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Here’s what to know about the new cameras: Where are the new cameras? The speed enforcement cameras are scattered around the city on streets that are the most prone to traffic injuries, have a history of sideshows or are in school zones, according to the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency . A map and list of the 33 camera locations is on SFMTA’s site. As of Tuesday , all of the cameras are installed and operational. Erica Kato, an SFMTA spokesperson, told SFGATE that the cameras are visible to drivers. Anyone using Google Maps or Apple Maps , both of which include speed camera locations in navigation directions, may receive a warning from their navigation system as well. Though neither Google nor Apple responded to SFGATE’s questions about whether they’ve already added the SF camera locations to their systems, when SFGATE drove by a camera last week, Apple Maps announced, “Speed camera ahead.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad How fast do you need to go to be issued a ticket? Any vehicle going at least 11 mph over the posted speed limit is going to be stuck with a fine. SFMTA will automatically mail speeding tickets to the registered owner of the vehicle, but the amount of the fine depends on how fast drivers are going. The citations will only be a civil penalty and won’t show up as a DMV point. For drivers going 11 to 15 mph over the limit, the fine is $50. Those going 16 to 25 mph over the limit will receive a $100 ticket, and drivers going 26 mph or more over the limit will receive a $200 ticket. Any vehicle going 100 mph or more in any location will be fined $500. To pay the fine, drivers can visit the SFMTA speed safety camera payment portal. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Some drivers may qualify for a lower fee, such as low-income drivers or those participating in public assistance programs like SNAP and Medi-Cal. Low-income drivers can apply for the fee waiver on the agency’s site . SFMTA’s speed camera site lists the lower fee rates as well. Can you fight the ticket? Kato said that as with other citations from the agency, drivers can appeal the speeding tickets. And according to SFMTA, drivers can perform community service instead of paying the ticket. In the case that someone’s car is stolen and they receive an automatic speeding ticket, drivers will be able to submit an affidavit of nonliability, according to the agency. Where have people been getting the most tickets? Since the cameras went live in March, SFMTA said three-month data from the warning period shows that drivers are already slowing down. Speeding dropped by more than 30% between the first week and the seventh week of the period, SFMTA said in a news release shared with SFGATE. Advertisement Article continues below this ad About half of the warnings were sent to San Francisco residents, the release said. After receiving one warning, more than 70% of drivers have not been issued a second warning. The biggest shifts are in high-traffic corridors. Those areas saw speeding go down between 40% and 63%, SFMTA said. The intersections with the most improvement include Fulton Street between Arguello Boulevard and Second Avenue, with a 63% decrease in speeding. When the cameras launched, about 4 in every 100 vehicles were speeding, and by week 13, fewer than 2 per 100 vehicles were speeding. Geneva Avenue, between Prague Street and Brookdale Avenue, and Bayshore Boulevard, between the Highway 101 off-ramp and Tunnel Avenue, also saw drastic shifts in driver behavior. The two intersections had a 45% and 40% decrease in speeding, respectively. Advertisement Article continues below this ad A public dashboard last updated on June 30 shows that Fulton Street between Arguello Boulevard and Second Avenue had the most violations, with 17,626 warnings issued. The intersection with the second most was Bryant Street between 2nd and 3rd streets, with 14,158 warnings sent. SFMTA also released data showing which intersections had the most speeding drivers in April. (Data analysis from May, June and July is not yet available.) That month, the same stretch of Fulton Street between Arguello Boulevard and Second Avenue accounted for 44% of the average daily violations. Geary Boulevard between Webster and Buchanan streets had the second most daily speeding violations and the fastest driver, who was going 65 mph in a 30 mph zone. SFTMA also found that a majority of the speeders, 77%, were driving 11 to 15 mph over the posted limit. The most speeding happened during morning commute times, from 7 to 8 a.m., and the day with the most violations was Tuesdays. Though the recent data shows improvement, Robert Schneider, a former Bay Area resident who is now a professor of architecture and urban planning at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, told SFGATE that it’s important to consider how many cars pass through the city’s concentrated streets every day. At Geneva Avenue, for example, where the speed limit is 30 mph, 14 in 100 vehicles were reported speeding per day when the cameras first launched, according to SFMTA data. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “Another way to think about that is if there is a street that has 10,000 vehicles per day, and I think Geneva is slightly above that, that translates to 1,400 vehicles per day traveling at 40 mph,” he said. How are the cameras different from other cameras in San Francisco? The automated speed cameras aren’t the only cameras on San Francisco’s streets. Red-light cameras , also operated by SFMTA, are installed at 13 busy intersections throughout the city. The cameras have been operating since the 1990s, and the agency plans on expanding the network in the future. Vehicles running red lights are detected with a 3D traffic radar that takes a photo of the rear views of the vehicle, a close-up of the license plate and the driver. Tickets from the red-light cameras range from $100 to $500. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The other network of cameras, called ALPRs, or automatic license plate readers, is operated by the San Francisco Police Department for surveillance and tracking down crime suspects. There are 400 AI-powered cameras set to be installed across the city, with at least 100 of those already live. What do the cameras photograph exactly? According to California Assembly Bill 645 , legislation passed in 2023 that authorized the cameras, the new speed cameras aren’t allowed to use facial recognition. SFMTA said only the rear license plate of the speeding vehicle is captured by the cameras and the data is stored with the agency for up to 120 days. The information will not be shared with other agencies unless “court ordered to do so,” SFMTA said. San Francisco is the first city in the state to officially launch the program, but the Legislature authorized the program in Los Angeles, San Jose, Oakland, Glendale and Long Beach. The pilot program will operate until January 2032, according to the bill text. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Why do officials believe the program is important? The cameras, which are part of a five-year program, are intended to reduce several and fatal traffic collisions , SFMTA said on its site. The agency said speeding is the number one cause for collisions that result in injuries in the city. San Francisco has been trying to mitigate traffic deaths for over a decade with its Vision Zero program. The initiative, adopted in 2014, aimed to help the city reach zero traffic deaths by 2024. But the city failed to reach that goal, and recorded its deadliest year in more than a decade for pedestrians in 2024. City leaders, though, are banking on the new cameras to help the city reach its goal. Schneider, whose research encompasses traffic safety throughout the U.S., said he is optimistic about the cameras. He pointed to research from the Federal Highway Administration that shows that slower speeds have consistently led to fewer crashes, deaths and injuries. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “You have less of a likelihood that somebody will die if the speed of the car that they’re hit by is slower, so it’s purely physics,” Schneider said. He added that the recent data also shows a shift in driver behavior on the streets with and without cameras, which he expects will accelerate. BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW “One thing that the speed safety cameras are doing, it’s sort of making people more conscious of their speed, saying, ‘Hey, you know, I could get a ticket if I’m going too fast,’” Schneider said. “… And so what I hope and think is that speed safety cameras are helping change the driver’s mindset into one that’s a more aware mindset about traffic safety and about their neighbors on the streets.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad In addition to improving safety, he said he hopes the cameras will make San Francisco streets more comfortable for pedestrians. “When cars are going slower, [streets] become more welcoming and more comfortable places to be,” he said. “… People will be less afraid to go out in their cars, but also especially go out on the streets, walking and biking, and that is really important.” More News — High school coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room — Man dies in Shasta Lake trying to save pet dog — Woman accused of killing husband at upscale Calif. community — Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980 Sign up for SFGATE's breaking news email Aug 5, 2025 Madilynne Medina News Reporter Madilynne Medina is a news reporter for SFGATE. Born and raised in the Bay Area, she earned a B.S. in journalism from San Jose State, where she served as executive editor for the Spartan Daily, and has also worked at NBC Bay Area. When she’s not out in the field reporting, she’s likely trying a new workout or listening to The Weeknd. You can contact her at madilynne.medina@sfgate.com. CA Mini Crossword 97 people are playing right now. 159 players solved today. Can you? 28 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 97 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)