What are Flock cameras, and why do some people oppose them? Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News What are Flock cameras, and why do some people oppose them? By Hearst Television Aug 11, 2026 Surveillance cameras owned by the company Flock Safety are being vandalized across the country , and it may lead you to ask, What are Flock cameras and what are they used for? Related video above: Map reveals Flock cameras are spreading across Southwest Florida, raising privacy concerns Here's what to know. Advertisement Article continues below this ad What are Flock cameras? Flock Safety makes surveillance camera systems that record and analyze everything that passes them. The company sells its services as a crime-fighting tool, and some law enforcement agencies that have contracts with Flock use the cameras' automated license plate readers to track or reconstruct movements of vehicles in criminal investigations. Flock says it has 120,000 automated license plate reader (ALPR) and pan, tilt, and zoom (PTZ) cameras throughout the U.S., which capture billions of data points each month. Flock's ALPRs automatically scan the license plates that pass them, while PTZs record live footage that can be reviewed and analyzed. Because Flock cameras are all connected, it creates a nationwide latticework of recorded activity. Across the majority of states, a police officer in one state can be alerted if a car they're looking for pops up in another and can inform the local authorities. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Why are people vandalizing Flock cameras? Over the last few months, people have cut down Flock cameras with an electric saw in upstate New York, thrown paint on them in Oakland, California, and rammed a truck into them in Idaho. One man in Florida sits in a lawn chair holding up a piece of cardboard on a pole to block the camera's view. City governments have joined in by deactivating the cameras or canceling contracts with Flock in Fort Collins, Colorado; Eugene, Oregon; Madison, Wisconsin; Knoxville, Tennessee; Syracuse, New York; and Walla Walla, Washington. While some argue that Flock cameras help solve crimes, like this kidnapping in South Carolina , others say they're an invasion of privacy. Flock CEO Garrett Langley recently responded to those stances in an interview with CNN, saying that "as a country, as a society, as a species, we have proven over and over and over again that we can have safety and privacy." Advertisement Article continues below this ad Can Flock cameras really be used to track people? Though Flock has denied that the cameras are used to track people on foot and that the company does not use facial recognition technology, 404 Media reported that a Flock capability called "FreeForm" allows users to search camera records based on what someone was wearing, their tattoos or even their race. The site also reported that, despite Flock not sharing data with agencies like U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, police officers have been performing searches to aid in immigration sweeps . Flock said in a statement to 404 Media that FreeForm includes "guardrails" that alert system administrators when someone uses search terms that include "race, ethnicity, religion, nationality." Cameras are everywhere these days. What's so different about Flock? The 21st century has already seen - literally - a long-running expansion of surveillance. Cameras are ubiquitous on American streets and in other public spaces; internet traffic leaves a trail of everything anyone has looked at on their devices; mobile advertising data companies have created startlingly precise maps of where everyone goes with their personal phones. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Is Flock any different? Some of it has to do with something else Americans have a universal affinity for: their cars. "There's the idea of the open road, the freedom to drive," said Dave Maass, director of investigations at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights group. "A lot of people treat their cars like an extension of their homes." The idea that a company constantly tracks what a car does, whether it was involved in a crime or not, manages to violate people's expectations of privacy in their personal space and of freedom of movement simultaneously. But Maass also said Americans are more aware now of exactly how these cameras operate than they used to be. In the past, people understood cameras mounted outside of a store or on a street corner as simple contraptions: a video gets recorded, is retained for a given period of time based on local jurisdiction policies, and then gets deleted. Flock's default setting is to retain data from its cameras for 30 days, though local police departments can shorten or extend that time based on state and local rules. But the system's nationwide searchability also makes it different from previous generations of surveillance systems. "Once people start learning about the massive scale of the data that's being collected and who it's being accessed by, it starts to freak them out," Maass said. The cameras are also not foolproof in their authorized uses. On June 28, Joel Feder, a journalist and car reviewer at The Drive, said he was in Plymouth, Minnesota, behind the wheel of a Range Rover he was test-driving, when the vehicle was suddenly swarmed by four police cars . The officers told him the plates had been reported stolen. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "The car was owned by Land Rover North America, it was impossible for it to be stolen," Feder said. After a protracted conversation, Feder said he found out that a license plate with a similar number had been reported missing in Los Angeles several weeks prior. An incomplete version of the number was apparently entered into the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), a national database maintained by the FBI that Flock pulls data from. BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW Flock's technology seemed to overlook the mix of large and small numbers on the Land Rover's New Jersey dealer tags. "The Flock camera saw my entire plate, but it still flagged it as a match," said Feder, who reviewed the photos the Flock camera had taken of his vehicle during his conversation with law enforcement. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Maass is quick to note that for all of the anti-Flock activism, it is not the only security company deploying connected security cameras. Vigilant Solutions and Motorola also operate ALPR cameras, and there are signs that Axon, a major provider of body cameras to police departments, is starting to take over public contracts from cities that have worked with Flock in the past. CNN contributed to this story. Aug 11, 2026 Hearst Television CA Mini Crossword 103 people are playing right now. 165 players solved today. Can you? 30 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 103 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Don't let Google decide who you trust. Make SFGATE a preferred source so your search results prioritize writing by actual people, not AI. Add Preferred Source Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)