--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
Aug 5, 2026
San Mateo Co.: Civil Grand Jury Calls For
Stronger Oversight Over Alpr Camera Use
FILE - A Flock Safety camera, an automatic license plate reader system, operates in Ukiah, Calif. on
Tuesday, March 18, 2025. Flock Safety camera systems are used by law enforcement and communities
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
San Mateo Co.: Civil Grand Jury Calls For Stronger Oversight Over
Alpr Camera Use
About 3 Minutes
1x
The San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury released a report this week calling for stricter
oversight for law enforcement agencies' use of automated license plate reader
cameras.
Police departments use the ALPR cameras to investigate crimes like stolen vehicles. But
privacy watchdogs have raised concerns about federal agencies being able to access
the camera data -- a potential violation of state law -- and using it for targeted
surveillance of immigrants and other vulnerable groups.
ADVERTISEMENT
to capture vehicle license plate photos to identify vehicles that are connected to ongoing criminal
investigations. (Sydney Fishman/Bay City News)
Watch More
Sydney Fishman/Sydney Fishman/Bay City News
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Article continues below this ad
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
Over the last few months, many Bay Area cities and counties have been reexamining
their contracts with Flock Safety, the manufacturer of these cameras, considering the
federal administration's crackdown on immigrants and the company's checkered record
of sharing ALPR data with federal agencies like U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
For its report, the Civil Grand Jury, comprising 19 volunteer members, reviewed publicly
available information about ALPR use published by 18 law enforcement agencies in the
county, including the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office. They also examined contracts,
policy documents, and audit reports from each agency, and conducted interviews with
officers and Flock Safety representatives.
California's civil grand jury system provides independent investigations into issues in
counties and is composed of residents who select which areas or problems they want
to explore. The jury creates its report and then requires leaders such as boards of
supervisors, city councils or city or county departments to respond.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
The report noted that the county's law enforcement agencies have made
improvements in the operation of the ALPR cameras, but many policy documents
governing their use are deficient or in need of revision.
Also, though the agencies were vigilant about not sharing ALPR data with out-of-state
agencies, there remain inconsistencies in their audit procedures.
"Most operators did not document criteria, process, or controls governing in-state
sharing in a manner sufficient to demonstrate compliance with law," the report said.
For example, California law requires that law enforcement agencies only share ALPR
data with other public agencies in the state. However, all but one of the 18 law
enforcement agencies shared data with private university security departments
without establishing whether that entity qualified as a public agency.
A lack of established criteria for in-state data sharing and insufficient compliance
language in contracts with Flock Safety were other common issues identified across
agencies.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Aug 5, 2026
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
San Mateo County Sheriff Ken Binder and all local city councils in the county will be
required to respond to the report.
"The Sheriff's Office is committed to ensuring the technology is being used for its
intended purpose and has a strict ALPR policy governing its use," a spokesperson for
the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office said in an email statement. "Compliance is
verified through periodic audits conducted by the Sheriff's Office personnel."
Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or
redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area.
Around The Web
Powered by
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
Doctor Begs Seniors: Do
This to Stop Losing Muscle
By ApexLabs
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors Miss
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
By ApexLabs
By SmoothSpine
Caitlin Clark Steps out
With Her New Partner and
Stuns Fans
By Rank Upwards
Remember Her? Try Not to
Choke When You See Her
Now
By gowdr
Taylor Swift's Actual
Height And Weight Will
Make You Look Twice
By Vetob
Put a Toilet Paper Roll
Under The Toilet Seat at
Night if Alone (Here's Why)
By LifeHacks Insider
Doctors Name 5 Common
Foods Now Tied to
Memory Loss After 60 (See
The List)
By Neuro Sharp
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
By Health Weekly
Home Invasion Leads to
Breakthrough Solar
Discovery (12x Better Than
Panels)
By The Lost Generator
Skip 5 Skincare Steps: Try
This All-In-One Serum
By DRMTLGY
1 Simple Hack to Save on
Your Electric Bill (Try
Tonight)
By HomeWise Journal
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).