--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
June 18, 2026
SF: Flock Denies That Feds Directly Accessed
Camera System
A Flock Safety License Plate Reader. (Flock Safety via Bay City News)
Flock Safety/Flock Safety via Bay City News
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
SF: Flock Denies That Feds Directly Accessed Camera System
About 3 Minutes
1x
License plate reader camera manufacturer Flock Safety said Thursday that no federal
agencies directly accessed the San Francisco Police Department's camera system after
a police audit determined that it was "improperly queried" hundreds of times.
At a Police Commission meeting Wednesday night, SFPD officials said they disabled
access to the department's Flock automated license plate reader cameras after a
routine audit revealed that an authorized user conducted improper searches.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Watch More
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
According to the audit, the agency that performed the searches was the Northern
California Regional Intelligence Center, a public safety information sharing agency that
shares intelligence between federal, state, and local agencies.
"Upon discovering the improper searches, Chief Derrick Lew immediately turned off
NCRIC's access to SFPD's ALPR system and initiated an internal review," police said.
The department said it previously authorized license-plate data sharing with NCRIC as
allowed by state law. No out-of-state or federal agencies ever had direct access to
SFPD's Flock system, police said.
Flock Safety officials echoed that NCRIC was an authorized user, and that the cameras
were not directly accessed by federal agencies.
"This was not the result of a software malfunction, platform issue, unauthorized access,
or any failure of the Flock system," a Flock Safety spokesperson said. "It involved
searches conducted by authorized users at a California state agency that were later
determined to be inconsistent with California's ALPR data-sharing requirements."
While NCRIC is an authorized user, police said that the systems were improperly
queried on behalf of out-of-state and federal agencies. California law places clear
restrictions on sharing license plate reader information with out-of-state or federal
agencies.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Police said that the Western States Information Network , a federally funded intelligence
sharing group, accessed the camera data.
"NCRIC and WSIN's access to SFPD ALPR network currently remains disabled," police
said.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Police said that the inquiries were unrelated to immigration enforcement or
reproductive rights investigations, a concern that has fueled public resistance to Flock
cameras.
"The audit did not find any inquiries referencing immigration enforcement or
reproductive rights investigations, and the federal agencies identified do not include
Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Department of Homeland Security,"
police said Wednesday night in a statement.
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
June 18, 2026
GET IT NOW
Automatic license plate reader technology provides a tracker system that helps
multiple law enforcement agencies identify vehicles associated with criminal suspects,
witnesses and victims, as well as point out drug trafficking, stolen vehicles and Amber
Alerts.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Some Bay Area cities have ousted Flock after privacy watchdogs raised concerns about
federal agencies being able to access the camera data and using it for targeted
surveillance.
Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or
redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area.
Around The Web
Powered by
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Forget Collagen, Use This
Household Item Instead
By Hartford Review Journal
7 Things Changing for
Seniors On Social Security
In 2027
By HealthyWallet
Stop Eating These 3 Foods
That Are Known to Cause
Parasites
By Paratoxil
Seniors Born 1939-1969
Receive 11 Benefits This
Month If They Ask
By Super Saving Online
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
Top Doctor: If You Eat Eggs
Every Day, This Is What
Happens
By Health Club Journal
Here Are the 29 Coolest
Gifts for This Year
By PopularDiscovery
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).