Monterey Co.: Pismo Beach Man Arrested On Suspicion Of Vandalizing License Plate Reader Cameras Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State Monterey Co.: Pismo Beach Man Arrested On Suspicion Of Vandalizing License Plate Reader Cameras By Bay City News Service July 28, 2026 Video still from footage collected by the Monterey County Sheriff's Office that allegedly shows the pickup truck of Marcus Bee, 40, plowing into an automated license plate reader pole in the county. Bee was arrested on Tuesday, July 28, 2026, on suspicion of felony vandalism. (Monterey County Sheriff's Office via Bay City News) Monterey County Sheriff's Office via Bay City News A Pismo Beach man was arrested for allegedly vandalizing license plate reader cameras, the Monterey County Sheriff's Office said Tuesday. Marcus Bee, 40, is accused of intentionally vandalizing at least three Flock Safety Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) cameras throughout the county, according to the Sheriff's Office. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Investigators allege that Bee traveled to Monterey County and damaged multiple cameras, causing thousands of dollars in damage in Lockwood and Bradley. Detectives say they have surveillance footage of Bee damaging the cameras and he was arrested on suspicion of felony vandalism. Photos provided by the Sheriff's Office show a black pickup truck appearing to ram into an ALPR camera pole. BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW As of Tuesday evening, Bee was still in custody and being held on $30,000 bail. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited. Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area. July 28, 2026 CA Mini Crossword 103 people are playing right now. 165 players solved today. Can you? 30 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 103 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING Shopping How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. Shopping How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. Shopping The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Shopping Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)