SF: Flock Denies That Feds Directly Accessed Camera System Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State SF: Flock Denies That Feds Directly Accessed Camera System By Bay City News Service June 18, 2026 A Flock Safety License Plate Reader. (Flock Safety via Bay City News) Flock Safety/Flock Safety via Bay City News License plate reader camera manufacturer Flock Safety said Thursday that no federal agencies directly accessed the San Francisco Police Department's camera system after a police audit determined that it was "improperly queried" hundreds of times. At a Police Commission meeting Wednesday night, SFPD officials said they disabled access to the department's Flock automated license plate reader cameras after a routine audit revealed that an authorized user conducted improper searches. Advertisement Article continues below this ad According to the audit, the agency that performed the searches was the Northern California Regional Intelligence Center, a public safety information sharing agency that shares intelligence between federal, state, and local agencies. "Upon discovering the improper searches, Chief Derrick Lew immediately turned off NCRIC's access to SFPD's ALPR system and initiated an internal review," police said. The department said it previously authorized license-plate data sharing with NCRIC as allowed by state law. No out-of-state or federal agencies ever had direct access to SFPD's Flock system, police said. Flock Safety officials echoed that NCRIC was an authorized user, and that the cameras were not directly accessed by federal agencies. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "This was not the result of a software malfunction, platform issue, unauthorized access, or any failure of the Flock system," a Flock Safety spokesperson said. "It involved searches conducted by authorized users at a California state agency that were later determined to be inconsistent with California's ALPR data-sharing requirements." While NCRIC is an authorized user, police said that the systems were improperly queried on behalf of out-of-state and federal agencies. California law places clear restrictions on sharing license plate reader information with out-of-state or federal agencies. Police said that the Western States Information Network , a federally funded intelligence sharing group, accessed the camera data. "NCRIC and WSIN's access to SFPD ALPR network currently remains disabled," police said. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Police said that the inquiries were unrelated to immigration enforcement or reproductive rights investigations, a concern that has fueled public resistance to Flock cameras. "The audit did not find any inquiries referencing immigration enforcement or reproductive rights investigations, and the federal agencies identified do not include Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Department of Homeland Security," police said Wednesday night in a statement. BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW Automatic license plate reader technology provides a tracker system that helps multiple law enforcement agencies identify vehicles associated with criminal suspects, witnesses and victims, as well as point out drug trafficking, stolen vehicles and Amber Alerts. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Some Bay Area cities have ousted Flock after privacy watchdogs raised concerns about federal agencies being able to access the camera data and using it for targeted surveillance. Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited. Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area. June 18, 2026 CA Mini Crossword 103 people are playing right now. 165 players solved today. Can you? 30 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 103 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)