--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
Sep 19, 2019
Alpr Used To Find Stolen Vehicle, Driver
Arrested
DANVILLE (BCN)
A Bay Point man was arrested Thursday morning in Danville after the allegedly stolen
vehicle he was driving passed by an automated license plate reader, according to
police.
"This was a situation where having the technological assistance of the ALPR allowed our
officers to pinpoint their search for this stolen vehicle, recover that vehicle, and take a
criminal into custody," police Chief Allan Shields said in a statement.
Officers found 26-year-old Arba Sullivan in the parking lot of a restaurant in the 800
block of Camino Ramon with a 2018 Honda Accord that had been reported stolen out of
San Ramon last week.
They searched the vehicle, finding stolen backpacks and mail with personal identifying
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Sep 19, 2019
information. They also found airsoft weapons that appeared to be real firearms and a BB
gun.
Sullivan has been booked into jail on suspicion of possession of a stolen car, possession
of stolen property, possession of burglary tools, burglary and identity theft.
Copyright © 2019 by Bay City News, Inc. Republication, Rebroadcast or any other Reuse
without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
Watch More
Around The Web
Powered by
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
By Health Weekly
A Teaspoon on an Empty
Stomach Burns All
Parasites Extremely Fast!
By Paratoxil
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
Seniors Born 1939-1969
Receive 11 Benefits This
Month If They Ask
By Super Saving Online
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
If You Get Social Security,
Don't Skip This September
Benefit Check
By HealthyWallet
10 Strangely Useful
Walmart Finds Nobody
Thinks Of
By PopularDiscovery
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).