--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
Sep 16, 2019
Alpr Detection On I-80 Leads To High-Speed
Chase
Controversial automated license plate reader technology picked up a stolen vehicle on
Interstate Highway 80 early Sunday morning, prompting a high-speed chase throughout
western Contra Costa County that ended with the driver eluding arrest.
Hercules police staged near the Willow Avenue off-ramp around 1:10 a.m. and started
following the 2004 Saturn Vue eastbound while waiting for backup.
The driver exited at Cummings Skyway, heading north towards state Highway 4, fled
from an attempted traffic stop and eventually headed east on Highway 4.
The driver exited at Pacheco Boulevard, then got back on Highway 4 heading west in the
eastbound lanes, prompting pursuing law enforcement officers to terminate their chase
for public safety.
Police say the pursuit lasted eight minutes and reached speeds of 90 mph, but no one
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
got hurt.
The use of automated license plate readers has generated protest in Contra Costa
County and elsewhere due to privacy concerns associated with tracking vehicles
without any reasonable suspicion that their occupants could be connected to a crime.
Immigration advocates, in particular, have raised concerns about data collected
through ALPR systems being shared with federal immigration agents.
Copyright © 2019 by Bay City News, Inc. Republication, Rebroadcast or any other Reuse
without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
Watch More
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Sep 16, 2019
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
Protein Isn't Enough -
Here's What Really Builds
Muscle After 60
By ApexLabs
If You Get Social Security,
Don't Skip This September
Benefit Check
By Super Saving Online
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
By Health Weekly
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
A Teaspoon on an Empty
Stomach Burns All
Parasites Extremely Fast!
By Paratoxil
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
Here Are the 29 Coolest
Gifts for This Year
By PopularDiscovery
7 Things Changing for
Seniors On Social Security
In 2027
By HealthyWallet
Don't Borrow from the
Bank If You Own a Home,
Borrow from Yourself
Instead (I...
By Comparisons.org
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).