--- page 1 ---
NEWS
By Hearst Television
Aug 11, 2026
What are Flock cameras, and why do some
people oppose them?
Surveillance cameras owned by the company Flock Safety are being vandalized across
the country, and it may lead you to ask, What are Flock cameras and what are they
used for?
Watch More
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Related video above: Map reveals Flock cameras are spreading across Southwest
Florida, raising privacy concerns
Here's what to know.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
What are Flock cameras?
Flock Safety makes surveillance camera systems that record and analyze everything
that passes them. The company sells its services as a crime-fighting tool, and some law
enforcement agencies that have contracts with Flock use the cameras' automated
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
license plate readers to track or reconstruct movements of vehicles in criminal
investigations.
Flock says it has 120,000 automated license plate reader (ALPR) and pan, tilt, and zoom
(PTZ) cameras throughout the U.S., which capture billions of data points each month.
Flock's ALPRs automatically scan the license plates that pass them, while PTZs record
live footage that can be reviewed and analyzed.
Because Flock cameras are all connected, it creates a nationwide latticework of
recorded activity. Across the majority of states, a police officer in one state can be
alerted if a car they're looking for pops up in another and can inform the local
authorities.
Why are people vandalizing Flock cameras?
Over the last few months, people have cut down Flock cameras with an electric saw in
upstate New York, thrown paint on them in Oakland, California, and rammed a truck into
them in Idaho. One man in Florida sits in a lawn chair holding up a piece of cardboard
on a pole to block the camera's view. City governments have joined in by deactivating
the cameras or canceling contracts with Flock in Fort Collins, Colorado; Eugene, Oregon;
Madison, Wisconsin; Knoxville, Tennessee; Syracuse, New York; and Walla Walla,
Washington.
While some argue that Flock cameras help solve crimes, like this kidnapping in South
Carolina, others say they're an invasion of privacy.
Flock CEO Garrett Langley recently responded to those stances in an interview with
CNN, saying that "as a country, as a society, as a species, we have proven over and over
and over again that we can have safety and privacy."
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Can Flock cameras really be used to track
people?
Though Flock has denied that the cameras are used to track people on foot and that
the company does not use facial recognition technology, 404 Media reported that a
Flock capability called "FreeForm" allows users to search camera records based on what
someone was wearing, their tattoos or even their race.
The site also reported that, despite Flock not sharing data with agencies like U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, police officers have been performing searches
to aid in immigration sweeps. Flock said in a statement to 404 Media that FreeForm
includes "guardrails" that alert system administrators when someone uses search terms
that include "race, ethnicity, religion, nationality."
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Cameras are everywhere these days. What's so
different about Flock?
The 21st century has already seen - literally - a long-running expansion of surveillance.
Cameras are ubiquitous on American streets and in other public spaces; internet traffic
leaves a trail of everything anyone has looked at on their devices; mobile advertising
data companies have created startlingly precise maps of where everyone goes with
their personal phones.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Is Flock any different?
Some of it has to do with something else Americans have a universal affinity for: their
cars. "There's the idea of the open road, the freedom to drive," said Dave Maass, director
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
of investigations at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights group. "A
lot of people treat their cars like an extension of their homes." The idea that a company
constantly tracks what a car does, whether it was involved in a crime or not, manages to
violate people's expectations of privacy in their personal space and of freedom of
movement simultaneously.
But Maass also said Americans are more aware now of exactly how these cameras
operate than they used to be. In the past, people understood cameras mounted
outside of a store or on a street corner as simple contraptions: a video gets recorded, is
retained for a given period of time based on local jurisdiction policies, and then gets
deleted. Flock's default setting is to retain data from its cameras for 30 days, though
local police departments can shorten or extend that time based on state and local
rules. But the system's nationwide searchability also makes it different from previous
generations of surveillance systems. "Once people start learning about the massive
scale of the data that's being collected and who it's being accessed by, it starts to freak
them out," Maass said.
The cameras are also not foolproof in their authorized uses. On June 28, Joel Feder, a
journalist and car reviewer at The Drive, said he was in Plymouth, Minnesota, behind the
wheel of a Range Rover he was test-driving, when the vehicle was suddenly swarmed by
four police cars. The officers told him the plates had been reported stolen.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
"The car was owned by Land Rover North America, it was impossible for it to be stolen,"
Feder said.
After a protracted conversation, Feder said he found out that a license plate with a
similar number had been reported missing in Los Angeles several weeks prior. An
incomplete version of the number was apparently entered into the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC), a national database maintained by the FBI that Flock pulls
data from.
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
Flock's technology seemed to overlook the mix of large and small numbers on the Land
Rover's New Jersey dealer tags. "The Flock camera saw my entire plate, but it still
flagged it as a match," said Feder, who reviewed the photos the Flock camera had taken
of his vehicle during his conversation with law enforcement.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
Aug 11, 2026
Hearst Television
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Maass is quick to note that for all of the anti-Flock activism, it is not the only security
company deploying connected security cameras. Vigilant Solutions and Motorola also
operate ALPR cameras, and there are signs that Axon, a major provider of body
cameras to police departments, is starting to take over public contracts from cities that
have worked with Flock in the past.
CNN contributed to this story.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
Seniors Born 1939-1969
Receive 11 Benefits This
Month If They Ask
By Super Saving Online
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Scientists Reveal a
Shocking Link Between
Dementia and This
Common Routine
By Neuro Sharp
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Doctor Said "Knee
Replacement." He Tried
This Joint Supplement 1st
By Wellness Guide
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
Forget Collagen, Use This
Household Item Instead
By Hartford Review Journal
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).