--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
July 28, 2026
Monterey Co.: Pismo Beach Man Arrested On
Suspicion Of Vandalizing License Plate Reader
Cameras
Video still from footage collected by the Monterey County Sheriff's Office that allegedly shows the
pickup truck of Marcus Bee, 40, plowing into an automated license plate reader pole in the county.
Bee was arrested on Tuesday, July 28, 2026, on suspicion of felony vandalism. (Monterey County
Sheriff's Office via Bay City News)
Monterey County Sheriff's Office via Bay City News
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
Monterey Co.: Pismo Beach Man Arrested On Suspicion Of
Vandalizing License Plate Reader Cameras
About 1 Minute
1x
A Pismo Beach man was arrested for allegedly vandalizing license plate reader cameras,
the Monterey County Sheriff's Office said Tuesday.
Marcus Bee, 40, is accused of intentionally vandalizing at least three Flock Safety
Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) cameras throughout the county,
according to the Sheriff's Office.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
July 28, 2026
Investigators allege that Bee traveled to Monterey County and damaged multiple
cameras, causing thousands of dollars in damage in Lockwood and Bradley.
Detectives say they have surveillance footage of Bee damaging the cameras and he was
arrested on suspicion of felony vandalism.
Photos provided by the Sheriff's Office show a black pickup truck appearing to ram into
an ALPR camera pole.
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
As of Tuesday evening, Bee was still in custody and being held on $30,000 bail.
Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or
redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Around The Web
Powered by
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
If You Get Social Security,
Don't Skip This September
Benefit Check
By Super Saving Online
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Forget Collagen, Use This
Household Item Instead
By Hartford Review Journal
7 Things Changing for
Seniors On Social Security
In 2027
By HealthyWallet
Scientists Reveal a
Shocking Link Between
Dementia and This
Common Routine
By Neuro Sharp
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Just Add 1 Drop Of This
Household Item To Any
Dark Spot and Wait 3
Minutes
By Gundry MD
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
Top Doctor: If You Eat Eggs
Every Day, This Is What
Happens
By Health Club Journal
Here Are the 29 Coolest
Gifts for This Year
By PopularDiscovery
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).