San Mateo Co.: Civil Grand Jury Calls For Stronger Oversight Over Alpr Camera Use Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business News | Bay Area & State San Mateo Co.: Civil Grand Jury Calls For Stronger Oversight Over Alpr Camera Use By Bay City News Service Aug 5, 2026 FILE - A Flock Safety camera, an automatic license plate reader system, operates in Ukiah, Calif. on Tuesday, March 18, 2025. Flock Safety camera systems are used by law enforcement and communities to capture vehicle license plate photos to identify vehicles that are connected to ongoing criminal investigations. (Sydney Fishman/Bay City News) Sydney Fishman/Sydney Fishman/Bay City News The San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury released a report this week calling for stricter oversight for law enforcement agencies' use of automated license plate reader cameras. Police departments use the ALPR cameras to investigate crimes like stolen vehicles. But privacy watchdogs have raised concerns about federal agencies being able to access the camera data -- a potential violation of state law -- and using it for targeted surveillance of immigrants and other vulnerable groups. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Over the last few months, many Bay Area cities and counties have been reexamining their contracts with Flock Safety, the manufacturer of these cameras, considering the federal administration's crackdown on immigrants and the company's checkered record of sharing ALPR data with federal agencies like U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. For its report, the Civil Grand Jury, comprising 19 volunteer members, reviewed publicly available information about ALPR use published by 18 law enforcement agencies in the county, including the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office. They also examined contracts, policy documents, and audit reports from each agency, and conducted interviews with officers and Flock Safety representatives. California's civil grand jury system provides independent investigations into issues in counties and is composed of residents who select which areas or problems they want to explore. The jury creates its report and then requires leaders such as boards of supervisors, city councils or city or county departments to respond. The report noted that the county's law enforcement agencies have made improvements in the operation of the ALPR cameras, but many policy documents governing their use are deficient or in need of revision. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Also, though the agencies were vigilant about not sharing ALPR data with out-of-state agencies, there remain inconsistencies in their audit procedures. "Most operators did not document criteria, process, or controls governing in-state sharing in a manner sufficient to demonstrate compliance with law," the report said. For example, California law requires that law enforcement agencies only share ALPR data with other public agencies in the state. However, all but one of the 18 law enforcement agencies shared data with private university security departments without establishing whether that entity qualified as a public agency. A lack of established criteria for in-state data sharing and insufficient compliance language in contracts with Flock Safety were other common issues identified across agencies. Advertisement Article continues below this ad BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP. Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more. GET IT NOW San Mateo County Sheriff Ken Binder and all local city councils in the county will be required to respond to the report. "The Sheriff's Office is committed to ensuring the technology is being used for its intended purpose and has a strict ALPR policy governing its use," a spokesperson for the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office said in an email statement. "Compliance is verified through periodic audits conducted by the Sheriff's Office personnel." Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited. Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area. Aug 5, 2026 CA Mini Crossword 92 people are playing right now. 151 players solved today. Can you? 25 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 92 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room SHOPPING How to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300 without cable today Here's how to watch the NASCAR Enjoy Illinois 300, including start time, TV channel and live streaming options without cable. How to watch the NFL this season without cable Find out how to stream every NFL game this season with Sling TV, Paramount+, Peacock, Netflix, Prime Video and NFL Sunday Ticket. The best iPhone 18 Pro cases you can order right now Protect your new iPhone 18 Pro with the best cases from Nomad, OtterBox, Casetify, ESR, Spigen, Torras and Zagg. Elegoo 3D printers are up to 40% off for a limited time Elegoo is discounting 3D printers, filament and resin through Sept. 29, with savings of up to 40% across its lineup. Best Of Best Of Chosen by the Bay The winners and finalists of Best of Bay Area 2026 have been revealed. Meet the winners! Best Of Why homeowners use USA Bath for bathroom upgrades If your bathroom feels outdated, USA Bath specializes in remodels. Learn about tub-to-shower conversions, walk-in tub options and more. Best Of These San Mateo plumbers should be in your favorites The best plumbing pros for your piping woes. Best Of Dispensaries on the Peninsula for canna-fans of all kinds Your favorite cannabis products available close to home. Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)