Alpr Used To Find Stolen Vehicle, Driver Arrested Skip to main content GET OUR AD-FREE APP Home Classifieds Standards & Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE Newsletters News Bay Area California Wildfires Education Tech North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A's Warriors Travel California Parks Central Coast Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Horoscope Food + Drink Culture Los Angeles California National Parks Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home & Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of SFGATE Store Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Paid Press Releases Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business GET OUR AD-FREE APP Sign in GET OUR AD-FREE APP News | Bay Area & State Alpr Used To Find Stolen Vehicle, Driver Arrested By Bay City News Service Sep 19, 2019 DANVILLE (BCN) A Bay Point man was arrested Thursday morning in Danville after the allegedly stolen vehicle he was driving passed by an automated license plate reader, according to police. "This was a situation where having the technological assistance of the ALPR allowed our officers to pinpoint their search for this stolen vehicle, recover that vehicle, and take a criminal into custody," police Chief Allan Shields said in a statement. Officers found 26-year-old Arba Sullivan in the parking lot of a restaurant in the 800 block of Camino Ramon with a 2018 Honda Accord that had been reported stolen out of San Ramon last week. They searched the vehicle, finding stolen backpacks and mail with personal identifying information. They also found airsoft weapons that appeared to be real firearms and a BB gun. Sullivan has been booked into jail on suspicion of possession of a stolen car, possession of stolen property, possession of burglary tools, burglary and identity theft. Copyright © 2019 by Bay City News, Inc. Republication, Rebroadcast or any other Reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited. Sep 19, 2019 CA Mini Crossword 103 people are playing right now. 165 players solved today. Can you? 30 people finished in under a minute. We created a crossword puzzle just for Californians. 103 people are playing right now. Play Now Most Popular 1 . California woman killed by stalker after years of terror 2 . No one wants to buy LA's most famous midcentury house 3 . 'It's a s—t show': Wealthy Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water 4 . Horoscope for Sunday, 09/13/26 by Christopher Renstrom 5 . Tracy High coach arrested after phone found recording in locker room Let's Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Copyright and Reprints Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Newsletters © 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)