--- page 1 ---
NEWS | BAY AREA & STATE
ByBay City News Service
Sep 5, 2026
Calmatters: California Kills Bill Regulating
Flock Cameras Even As Public Rage Grows
The CalMatters logo. CalMatters is a nonpartisan and nonprofit news organization covering California
(CalMatters via Bay City News)
CalMatters/CalMatters via Bay City News
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
Listen Now:
Calmatters: California Kills Bill Regulating Flock Cameras Even As
Public Rage Grows
About 7 Minutes
1x
CalMatters
Amid a growing nationwide backlash against license-plate cameras, California this week,
for the fifth year running, failed to enact regulations on the technology.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Watch More
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
A bill in the Legislature would have strengthened privacy protections on how license
plate data is collected and shared. It also would have guarded against misuse of
automated license plate readers by law enforcement officers.
But after clearing the state senate the bill was stopped in the Assembly by majority
leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry on Monday, the final day the Legislature meets this year,
before it could be introduced for a floor vote. It was one of a handful of bills that
enjoyed strong support from lawmakers and looked poised to pass but died under
mysterious circumstances.
All the bills California lawmakers have proposed since 2022 to reform or update
regulations on license plate tracking by law enforcement agencies have failed to pass or
become law. A similar bill passed last year but was vetoed by Gov. Gavin Newsom.
"It's a really disappointing outcome at a time when there is bipartisan concern about
this mass surveillance tool," UC Berkeley Center for Law & Technology codirector
Catherine Crump told CalMatters. Crump testified in support of the bill in July.
Lawmakers pushing for more regulation of the readers point to police misuse of the
data they collect, including illegally using it to help federal immigration enforcers and
stalking people.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
But law enforcement agencies say many of the proposed regulations would cripple a
tool they say has helped solve a wide range of crimes.
"We were concerned that this bill was going to limit the utility of ALPR data to solve
crimes, find missing persons, exonerate innocent individuals, and so the fact that it did
not pass, we're glad for that," California State Sheriff's Association legislative director
Cory Salzillo told CalMatters.
Mounting privacy concerns
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Failure to pass the bill or even bring it up for a final vote comes at a time when
opposition to license plate readers is growing in and beyond California. Police in Los
Angeles and Redwood City and elected officials in California localities like El Cerrito and
Campbell have ended contracts with the license plate reader company Flock Safety in
recent weeks. Nationwide, more than 200 cities or law enforcement agencies ended
license plate reader contracts in August, more than any other month since 2021,
according to Secure Justice, a group led by Brian Hofer, a Bay Area privacy advocate
who was held at gunpoint after a license plate reader incorrectly told sheriff's deputies
he was driving a stolen car.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
License plate readers use cameras and artificial intelligence to log the plate numbers of
passing cars. The readers are joined into networks used by law enforcement and
information from them can be shared locally or nationwide. The tech can locate criminal
suspects or missing persons, but it's also been tied to police misconduct and
immigration enforcement in violation of state law. More than 230 California police or
sheriff's departments currently use license plate readers, according to bill author
Senator Sabrina Cervantes, a Democrat from Riverside.
"It's unfortunate that Senate Bill 1013 did not get the chance to be voted on before the
deadline passed, but I look forward to continuing to fight for the privacy rights of
Californians next year," she wrote in a statement shared with CalMatters.
Cervantes argued in July that protections in the bill are necessary to prevent unlawful
data sharing, because license plate readers routinely collect information about the
movement of millions of law-abiding Californians, and to stop other forms of police
misconduct. Lawmakers say license plate readers were unlawfully used by law
enforcement officers to stalk or harass private citizens in Los Angeles, Marin, Orange,
Riverside, Sacramento, San Diego, and Shasta counties.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Enforcement agencies outside of California have put the technology to even more
controversial use. Oakland activist Crystal Zermeo, who attended a protest against the
technology outside City Hall last month, said she's concerned about the tech being
used to track women who get abortions or by federal authorities. After Cervantes' bill
died, she asked, "How could we not as a state have the political will to do this in a
moment when all of these [federal immigration enforcement] attacks are happening
and we have limited defense?"
Cervantes' Senate Bill 1013 would have restricted state law enforcement agencies to
using license plate data only for locating criminal suspects or missing people, would
have made police take privacy and cybersecurity training, would have restricted sharing
with national databases by default, and would have required the attorney general's
office carry out random audits of license plate reader activity for misuse.
Had the bill come up for a vote, it still might have died, given support for the readers as
tools of law and order. Nearly 40 law enforcement agencies and police unions opposed
the bill.
Regulations in the measure had already been weakened, trading a requirement that
police delete license plate data after 30 days for one that they "archive" it after 60
days, at which point they would need to obtain a warrant to search the data, unless it
was connected to an active investigation or vehicle hunt. Police argued that old license
plate data had helped solve cold cases and missing people investigations, and some,
like the California State Sheriff's Association, opposed the bill even after it was watered
down. Newsom vetoed last year's bill in part because it would have ordered police to
delete license plate data after 60 days.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
CalMatters reporting last year and this year found that local law enforcement agencies
across Southern California repeatedly shared information with federal immigration
agencies, a violation of a state law. A 2020 state audit and investigation by Attorney
General Rob Bonta found similar violations of state law that prohibits sharing license
plate reader data with out-of-state or federal law enforcement agencies. Since June
2024 the California Attorney General's Office has contacted 18 law enforcement
agencies about possible or known violations of Senate Bill 34 and filed a lawsuit against
the city of El Cajon near San Diego to stop the practice.
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
There are roughly 70 documented instances nationwide where police officers misused
automated license plate readers to do things like track their wives, stalk former partners
or pursue love interests, according to the Washington Post, including former Riverside
County sheriff's deputy Alexander Vanny, who used Flock to stalk his former fiancee
and was sentenced to six years in prison in February.
The technology can also inaccurately label some drivers as criminal suspects, leading to
potentially violent confrontations. A Los Angeles Police Department audit released in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
Sep 5, 2026
July found that one out of three vehicles identified as stolen by Flock cameras were
inaccurately identified.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Copyright © 2026 Bay City News, Inc. All rights reserved. Republication, rebroadcast or
redistribution without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.
Bay City News is a 24/7 news service covering the greater Bay Area.
Around The Web
Powered by
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
The Supportive Bra
Women Over 50 Are
Loving
By imgainting
Seniors Born 1939-1969
Receive 11 Benefits This
Month If They Ask
By Super Saving Online
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
Misconceptions About
Multiple Sclerosis
By GoodRx is NOT insurance
If You're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month:
You're Eligible for These 10
...
By SilverPenny
Cardiologist Warns
Americans: "Pour Out the
Bottled Water"
By Gundry MD
Surgeon Says: "If You Have
Dark Spots, Do This
Immediately" (It's Genius!)
By Gundry MD
Restaurants In Santa Clara
With Good Senior
Discounts
By Comparisons.org
Timeshare Resorts Forced
To Refund Owners - Is
Yours On the List?
By SilverPenny
Don't Borrow from the
Bank If You Own a Home,
Borrow from Yourself
Instead (I...
By Comparisons.org
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
If You Get Social Security,
Don't Skip This September
Benefit Check
By HealthyWallet
Let's Play
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).