--- page 1 ---
CULTURE
Eggers' latest novel, 'Contrapposto,' was released June 9
By Dan Gentile, Senior Culture Editor
June 12, 2026
Dave Eggers doesn't need a smartphone, the
internet or your Flock camera
San Francisco author Dave Eggers, co-founder of 826 Valencia and Art + Water.
Brecht von Maele
GET OUR AD-FREE APP
Sign in
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 2 ---
D
Listen Now:
Dave Eggers doesn't need a smartphone, the internet or your
Flock camera
About 6 Minutes
1x
ave Eggers does his best thinking on his bicycle. The San Francisco author, artist
and literary activist rides an old British production bike that he picked up for
$300 in North Beach. A few weeks back while riding between outdoor concerts in
the Mission during SF Porchfest, inspiration struck. Without a pen and paper handy, he
was stuck texting the idea to himself. The problem? Eggers doesn’t own a smartphone.
“It takes 20 minutes to write a sentence,” Eggers said.
Read all the good stuff without the ad breaks. Try our new app.
GET IT NOW
Watch More
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 3 ---
It’s a funny predicament for Eggers, given that he’s arguably the city’s biggest
proponent of the written word.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
Eggers is speaking with me at the offices of McSweeney’s, a nonprofit publishing
company on Valencia Street. It’s run in the back of the International Library of Young
Authors, which houses 2,000 works by people under the age of 18. To enter the offices,
you walk through a secret door in the form of a mirrored armoire, then emerge into a
room of wall-to-wall books that the imprint has published: issues of McSweeney’s
Quarterly shaped like trapper keepers, pocket-sized hardcover novellas from Eggers’
“Forgetters” series, curious nonfiction titles like a reissue of a 100-year-old
autobiography by the founder of Hollister, the San Benito County city now known for its
annual biker rally.
Eggers moved to the Bay Area from Illinois in the early 1990s and started working as a
graphic designer, then writing for Salon.com. In 2000, he released a memoir called “A
Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius” that was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize. He’s
since published in just about every medium you can imagine — a dozen novels, 20
children’s books, short story collections, nonfiction works. He also co-founded the
educational writing nonprofit 826 Valencia, which doubles as a store that sells pirate
accessories.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 4 ---
Now age 56, Eggers’ latest book is called “Contrapposto.” Released this week, it follows
childhood friends Cricket and Olympia as their lives intersect over the course of
decades. Cricket is a principled artist who abhors the spotlight and commercialization,
whereas Olympia has an uncanny ability to charm her way through the art world as a
curator.
A visual artist himself, Eggers doesn’t suffer from the same afflictions as Cricket. “I really
have always been very comfortable with selling the pieces of paper that you’ve created
art on to help pay for something,” he said.
The book is a gripping treatise on artistic principles, friendship and the messy
boundaries of platonic love. Pulitzer Prize-winning author and fellow SF resident Andrew
Sean Greer called it “ravishing.” By the end of the novel, you feel you’ve lived alongside
the two characters as they’ve traveled across the globe from Indiana to Philadelphia,
Turkey and Paris. Although it’s truly just the story of two friends, the passage of time
makes it feel grandiose in scope.
“I think that when you’re my age, you definitely have a better grip on the whole sweep of
life and what changes and doesn’t change,” he said. “And more importantly, how many
things don’t in terms of your oldest friends and how you relate to them.”
Most Read
News | Calif. to change license plate sequence for first time since 1980
Local | San Francisco's AI-run store is losing money fast
Education | Another Calif. college ranked above UC Berkeley this year
News | 'It's a s—t show': Bay Area town enraged by brown tap water
Read our stories ad-free on the new SFGATE app.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 5 ---
On writing days, Eggers bikes to his sailboat docked near the Golden Gate Bridge. He
writes using a hefty 1998 Mac that has never been connected to the internet. On the
boat, he keeps “banker’s hours,” working 9 to 5 without any meetings or interruptions
except for the occasional wildlife visit.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
“You’re there with the cormorants and the occasional porpoise and sea lions and seals,
and when you want to take a break, you walk around and you’re in the thick of it, one of
the most beautiful spots on Earth,” he said. “Especially coming from the Midwest, it
never gets old.”
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 6 ---
Given Eggers’ decidedly low-tech existence, it’s not surprising that the current state of
San Francisco gives him pause, but there’s a streak of hope that underlies his concerns.
He abhors the growing surveillance technology that’s gripping the city, refusing to get
into Ubers that use recording devices, but he feels a well-written ballot measure about
Flock cameras could potentially save our dwindling privacy. ChatGPT’s effects on the
art of writing are demoralizing, but he welcomes that teachers are re-embracing pencil
and paper, with cursive making a big comeback. The wave of artificial intelligence ads
blanketing bus stops imploring companies to stop hiring humans are so over the top,
they’d sound cliché if he were to include them in one of his dystopian tech industry
novels like “The Circle” or “The Every,” but tech philanthropy has helped many of his
projects flourish.
Dave Eggers’ new novel “Contrapposto” was released on June 9.
Mark Davis / Random House
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 7 ---
Case in point, Art + Water, a new art space scheduled to open next year on Pier 29
funded largely by art world donations. Eggers stumbled onto the building, an enormous
empty warehouse begging for a purpose, while biking down the Embarcadero. Co-
founded with the artist JD Beltran, the space is slated to operate as an old-school
apprenticeship system, hosting 10 artists in residence mentoring 20 students, all free of
charge. There are also plans for rotating art shows, starting off with an exhibition of sets
and props from Boots Riley’s films, plus the unveiling of a large-scale wooden model of
the city circa 1940. The ultimate goal is to break down the financial barriers that keep
students from pursuing art.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 8 ---
“The costs have ballooned to an irrational place and a really stratifying place. … It’s
super exclusionary, and it should be the most wide open and accepting,” he said.
Creating an environment for art to flourish is something that Eggers is particularly adept
at, with 826 Valencia as a prime example. It’s grown into three locations, but the flagship
remains on Valencia Street, with its pirate shop being a whimsical way to both skirt
retail zoning regulations and establish a stigma-free environment that encourages
creativity.
Got a tip? Send us the scoop.
DO IT NOW
FILE: Pier 29 on Feb. 7, 2017, in San Francisco.
S.F Chronicle/Getty Images
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 9 ---
BECOME A FRIEND. GET OUR AD-FREE APP.
Access our new app with ad-free reading, curated maps and more.
GET IT NOW
“Once you unleash the weird, then you’re golden, you have kids that are passionate
about reading and writing forever,” he said.
ADVERTISEMENT
Article continues below this ad
The 826 Valencia offices in the Mission and Tenderloin have also given him greater
appreciation of how those neighborhoods have changed — and remained the same —
over time. Eggers is quick to point out his other favorite San Francisco places. He loves
Golden Gate Park, noting his Newbury Award-winning children’s novel “The Eyes and the
Impossible” is set there. The waterfront is particularly important to him, as well, as are
Crissy Field and the Presidio Tunnel Tops, which he calls one of the best urban projects
in his lifetime. Ultimately, though, he’s simply a San Francisco optimist at heart.
“There’s really no part of the city that I don’t love,” he said.
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 10 ---
June 12, 2026
Dan Gentile
SENIOR CULTURE EDITOR
Dan Gentile is the senior culture editor at SFGATE, where he has covered music, movies
and San Francisco subcultures since 2019. Previously he was the founding editor
of Thrillist Austin and worked as a freelance writer for over 15 years with stories appearing
in outlets like Texas Monthly, Wax Poetics, Rolling Stone, Defector, The Ringer and more.
He won San Francisco Press Club awards in 2022 and 2023 for commentary and
investigative reporting.
Best of SF culture
— The San Francisco tradition that snowballed into 'bro-mageddon'
— 'It was chaos': The history of San Francisco's most unforgettable TV ad
— 'A rite of passage': Customers keep stealing one San Francisco bar's property
— How a once-famous San Francisco building spiraled into pure anarchy
— He has 1.6 million followers, but he's never leaving his small Bay Area city
Around The Web
Powered by
After 60, Leg Strength
Comes From One Simple
Daily Move
By ApexLabs
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
By Health Weekly
A Teaspoon on an Empty
Stomach Burns All
Parasites Extremely Fast!
By Paratoxil
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 11 ---
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden
Cause Most Doctors Miss
By SmoothSpine
Taylor Swift, 34, Takes off
Makeup, Leaves Us With
No Words
By Your Health Agent
Remember Her? Take a
Deep Breath Before You
See Her Now
By gowdr
Put a Toilet Paper Roll
Under The Toilet Seat at
Night if Alone (Here's Why)
By LifeHacks Insider
Valerie Bertinelli's Son
Wolfgang Van Halen's
Transformation Will Drop
Your Jaws
By Suburban Finance
Top Doctor - This Weird
'Joint Jello' Discovery is
Like Wd40 for the Joints
By Healthier Living Tips
Home Invasion Leads to
Breakthrough Solar
Discovery (12x Better Than
Panels)
By The Lost Generator
1 Easy Tip to Save on Your
Electric Bill (Try Tonight)
By HomeWise Journal
Remember Her? Try Not to
Choke When You See Her
Now
By gowdr
Let's Play
Cross|word
Pile-Up Poker
Typeshift
Really Bad Che
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).

--- page 12 ---
About
Contact
Services
Quick Links
© 2026 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice at Collection
Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light)
DAA Industry Opt Out
Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)
Top
We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics,
targeted advertising, and other purposes. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. You agree that your use of this website and the
Hearst Services is governed by the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures).