source: packet.pdf
sha256: effc2795f49c72f43aaac8e46c591e5488ccd1eecea63c96cc7ac27cc9940228
pages: 355
ocr_pages: 60
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
July 12, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 12, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 876 7139 6903      Passcode: 970597
UPDATE: Commissioner Patel will be attending this meeting in person.
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular Meetings of 5.24.2022, 6.14.2022, and 6.28.2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the

--- page 2 ---
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
2.
415 Fairfax Avenue – New Single-Family Residence (PA-2021-066)
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Special Use Permit (SUP) for demolition of an existing single-family residence,
and Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for construction of a new 3,910 square-feet single-family
residence, with an attached two-car garage and attached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) located at 415 Fairfax
Avenue; and accept the Categorical Exemption from environmental review under Class 1 section 15301(l) and
Class 3 section 15303 of the California Environmental Quality Act, based on the Findings for Approval and subject
to the Conditions of Approval.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/28/22
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, June 28, 2022
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in-person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Remote: 
Chair Margaret Williams, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Seema Patel, and Martin Wiggins
Absent: 
Vice Chair Ebneter
PUBLIC COMMENT: None.
PUBLIC HEARING
1.
1701 Leslie Street – Special Use Permit and Parking Variance for a New Commercial Recreation Use (PA-2021-058)
Associate Planner Somer Smith presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project.
Applicant Regan Fletcher presented the project.
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked questions of staff about signage, equipment, parking usage, maximum capacity, bicycle racks, 
and the “Traffic and Parking Statement Memo.”
Public Comment:
No public comment.
Commissioners Comments: 
Most Commissioners discussed the project’s similarity to the previous dance studio use, which was classified as a 
school. Commissioners suggested adding a locker room, including gender neutral restrooms, and encouraging transit 
usage. The Commission expressed overall support for this project.
The Commission moved to Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit and Parking Variance to allow a 
commercial recreation use to occupy an existing building in the Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) zone and allow 
shared parking facilities located at 1701 Leslie Street, and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical 
Exemption under Class 3, Section 15303 from further environmental review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in the Conditions of Approval.
Moved:
Wiggins, Seconded: Patel
Ayes:
Williams, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/28/22
2
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Ebneter
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
reports from the Chair, Commissioners, or City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:46pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/14/22
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, June 14, 2022
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Williams, Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Seema Patel, and Martin Wiggins
Absent: 
None
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of 4.26.2022 and 5.10.2022 and the Special meeting of 5.3.2022. 
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Wiggins
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins
Noes:
None
Absent: 
None
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Public commenter Diana Pettit raised concerns about studies for Senate Bill 9 in the North Central neighborhood citing 
reasons of traffic, safety, and lack of privacy. Public commenter Drew discussed the May 24th Planning Commission 
meeting and disagreed with staff comments for grade separation throughout the downtown area.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Pre-Application for a Proposed Four-Story Residential Building at 477 E. Hillsdale Boulevard (PA-2022-021)
Associate Planner Wendy Lao presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project. 
 
Applicant Dusan Miletich and Architect Padru Kang presented the project.        
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on constraints of one- and two-bedroom units, transportation impact fees, 
housing vouchers, preliminary traffic study data, egress, zoning, safety of pedestrians and bicyclists, trash staging, 
setbacks, Senate Bill 330 requirements, engineering plans, and cut through traffic mitigation plans.  
Public Comments: 
The following public commenters addressed the Commission with concerns for the project: Dennis Murphy, Julie 
Lindsay, Brian O’Neill, Roger Talarera, Matt Leonard, Mary McCormick, Holly Hansen, Holly Hayashida, Sharon Hall,

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/14/22
2
Charlie Drechsher, Will, Bob, Raayan Mohtashemi, Adam Loraine, KH, Steven Sangervasi, Corina Laguna, Karen, 
Zachary Rozlen, and Nancy Hammer. These concerns included health and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists, large 
number of units, egress difficulties, lack of parking, carbon dioxide levels, increased traffic, and difficulty getting to 
public transportation. Public commenter Jordan Grimes expressed support for the project due to the need for 
housing.
Commissioner Comments: 
All Commissioners were in favor of more two- and three-bedroom units. Commissioners suggested breaking up the 
elevation, expanding the landscape design, adding an onsite playground, including an electric bicycle charging 
station, and moving the bicycle storage to ground level. Most Commissioners discussed the need to either add more 
parking spaces or incentivize using alternative means of transportation. Commissioners noted the need to make the 
health and safety of pedestrians and bicyclists a priority due to the “F-Rated” intersection within the proximity of 
the project. Most Commissioners hoped this project will help create awareness for safer bicycle and pedestrian 
paths, such as a bicycle and pedestrian overcrossing over Highway 101. Most Commissioners supported the building 
design but wanted to see more traditional architectural elements incorporated. Commissioners discussed the 
potential to either add a second parking garage entrance or move the garage entry to aid with the traffic congestion 
and egress concerns.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Election of Officers
 Election of Chair and Vice Chair, annual rotation. Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, reviewed and presented options 
for electing a new Chair and Vice-Chair.
Nomination of Margaret Williams as Chair and John Ebneter as Vice Chair.
Moved:
Patel, Seconded: Wiggins
Ayes:
Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins
Noes:
None
Absent: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. There were no 
reports from Chair, Commissioners, or City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:43 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/24/22
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, May 24, 2022
Hybrid 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting was held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspended certain requirements of the Brown 
Act. The meeting was open to in person and remote attendance.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
OATH OF OFFICE
Planning Commissioner Martin Wiggins was administered the oath from Assistant to the City Clerk, Erin Fellers.
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Vice Chair John Ebneter, Commissioners Adam Nugent, Seema Patel, and Martin Wiggins
Absent: 
Chair Margaret Williams
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
1651 Coyote Point Drive – Findings of General Plan Conformance – Resolution Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to find that the proposed purpose and extent of San Mateo County’s redevelopment of the 
existing CuriOdyssey science museum and zoo located at 1651 Coyote Point Drive conforms to the General Plan.
Moved:
Nugent, Seconded: Patel
Ayes:
Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Williams 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Public commenter Ed Evans wanted to see more discussion about local labor standards, better paying jobs, 
opportunities, and healthcare benefits for carpenters.
PUBLIC HEARING
2.
500 E. 3rd Avenue (Block 21) – New Six-Story Office/Residential Mixed-Use Building (PA-2021-063)
Senior Planner Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project.
Applicant Mike Field presented the project.
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked questions of potential design changes, ownership of the vacant lot at 402 S. Delaware Street, 
conformance of the Pedestrian Master Plan and zoning code, and removal of street trees.
Public Comments:

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/24/22
2
Public commenters Matthew Thomson, Richard Hedges, Kendra Ma, Vince Rocha, Ken Chan, Ali Sapirman, and 
Michael Weinhauer all voiced their support for the project, including provision of affordable housing, proximity to 
public transit, and project design. Public commenters David Light, George, Laurie Watanuki, and Michael Weinhauer 
expressed concern for the project such as the lack of family housing, lack of retail uses, tree removal, and lack of 
traditional elements in the design.
Commissioner Comments: 
All Commissioners supported the project because of the additional housing and multiple affordable housing units. 
Most Commissioners also liked the design of the project. Commissioners expressed concerns regarding the removal 
of the trees. Most Commissioners discussed the need for family housing units.
The Commission moved to recommend to City Council adoption of a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, Site Development Planning Application, and Tentative Parcel Map for Block 21 located at 500 
E. 3rd Avenue; and a Special Use Permit for construction staging located at 402 S. Delaware Street; and,
Recommended City Council adoption of a Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the 
project based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
Moved:
Patel, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Ebneter, Nugent, Patel, Wiggins
Noes:
None
Absent: 
Williams
STUDY SESSION
3.
Pre-Application for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Office and Residential Building at 477 9th Avenue (PA-2022-
004)
Associate Planner Linda Ly presented an overview of the architectural and site design of the proposed project. 
 
Applicant Stephen Siri presented the project.        
       
Commissioner Questions: 
Commissioners asked clarifying questions on State housing laws, height standards, setback requirements, design 
guidelines, multi-family design guidelines, temporary biking facility plans, and preservation of eucalyptus trees.
Public Comments: 
Public commenters Laurie Watanuki, Michael Weinhauer, Richard Hedges, and Drew expressed concerns with the 
project such as the design, traffic, pedestrian safety, grade separation of railroad tracks, tree preservation, noise, 
parking, and lack of family housing. Bennett Lebherz, the owner, further explained the project, confirmed (Oak) tree 
preservation efforts, and addressed concerns of commenters and commissioners.
Commissioner Comments: 
All Commissioners expressed support for the project due to a need for housing. Commissioners suggested more 
three-bedroom units to accommodate family housing. Most Commissioners supported a timeless, Spanish Revival 
architectural style and discussed projects in other cities that utilize that style. Commissioners also suggested 
landscape elements, such as tree canopies and live walls.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS

--- page 9 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/24/22
3
Planning Manager Manira Sandhir provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. She also 
requested the election of Chair and Vice Chair to be added to the next Planning Commission meeting agenda. There 
were no reports from Vice Chair, Commissioners, or City Attorney.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:52 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Ashley Snodgrass, Administrative Assistant

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-3111
File ID: 22-6300
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
415 Fairfax Avenue – New Single-Family Residence (PA-2021-066)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Special Use Permit (SUP) for demolition of an existing single-family residence, and Single-
Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for construction of a new 3,910 square-feet single-family residence, with an 
attached two-car garage and attached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) located at 415 Fairfax Avenue; and accept the 
Categorical Exemption from environmental review under Class 1 section 15301(l) and Class 3 section 15303 of the 
California Environmental Quality Act, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval 
(Attachment 1).
BACKGROUND:
On October 29, 2021, Eric Nyhus of Nyhus Design Group (the applicant) submitted a planning application to demolish the 
existing two-story single-family dwelling and construct a new two-story single-family dwelling with an attached accessory 
dwelling unit (ADU) at 415 Fairfax Avenue in the City’s Baywood neighborhood. Prior to submittal of the application, the 
applicant held a neighborhood meeting in which neighbors expressed opposition to the project. During the project review 
period, City staff continued to receive public comments expressing opposition to the proposed project. The main concerns 
from the neighbors include demolition of the existing residence, the proposed building design, and the proposed tree 
removal. 
As part of the project review, the City consulted with its historic preservation consultant, Bridget Maley of architecture + 
history, to prepare a historic resources evaluation, which determined that the existing residence does not qualify as a 
historic resource. In response, neighbors provided additional comment letters and a historic report by Richard Brandi 
(historic preservation consultant) asserting that the Baywood neighborhood qualifies as a historic district and that the 
subject residence is a contributor to this historic district.  
Municipal Code Section 27.06.020 does allow the Zoning Administrator to take action on the project; however, staff has 
referred this application to the Planning Commission due to a potential conflict with findings to approve a requested tree 
removal. In addition, given the public controversy and neighborhood concerns, the applicant requested that the Planning 
Commission review this application rather than the Zoning Administrator. 
Project Site
The project site is located at 415 Fairfax Avenue on the southeast side of Fairfax Avenue in a larger lot single-family 
neighborhood. The site is zoned R1-B (One Family Dwellings) and has a parcel area of 10,558 square-feet. An existing two-
story single-family residence that is 2,612 square feet in size with a Spanish Colonial Revival style of architecture is located 
on the site. The immediate neighborhood consists primarily of single-family residences with a variety of period revival 
architectural styles including Spanish, Mediterranean, Monterey, Colonial, Tudor, French, and Cape Cod Cottage. Many of

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the existing residences in the immediate neighborhood are two stories in height. A location map showing the project and 
its vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
Project Description
The proposed project includes full demolition of the existing single-family residence and construction of a new 3,910 
square-foot, two-story, single-family residence with an attached, 798 square-foot accessory dwelling unit (ADU). The 
project also includes an attached 470 square-foot two-car garage as well as one uncovered parking stall, resulting in a total 
of three (3) off-street parking stalls. In addition, the project includes the proposal for removal of one large Coast Live Oak 
tree located in the rear yard, which qualifies as a Protected Tree.
The overall architectural character of the proposed residence is best categorized as Transitional in that the design 
combines both contemporary and traditional architectural features. The project employs a gabled roof form with a 5:12 
roof slope and has an overall height of 27 feet, 10-½ inches measured from existing grade to the highest roof ridge. Project 
plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, and elevations are included in Attachment 3.
The project requires two planning entitlements: a Special Use Permit (SUP) for the complete demolition of the existing 
residence and a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for the new two-story single-family residence. 
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Single Family. A list of applicable General Plan policies and 
discussion of the project’s compliance is included in Attachment 1 (Findings for Approval).
Consistent with its land use designation, the project site is zoned R1-B (One Family Dwellings), which permits one-family 
detached dwellings as well as ADUs. The R1-B zone is subject to the development standards in Municipal Code Section 
27.18 including floor area ratio (FAR), building height, daylight plane, setbacks, and off-street parking. 
The project proposes a total floor area of 3,910 square-feet total floor area, which is within the site’s maximum floor area 
of 3,911 square-feet. The project includes a 798 square-foot ADU which is exempt from FAR calculations pursuant to 
Municipal Code Section 27.19.050. The project proposes an overall building height of 27 feet, 10-½ inches measured to 
roof peak, and 21 feet, 2-¾ inches measured to the highest plateline, both of which are measured from existing grade. 
These measurements are within the maximum roof peak height of 32 feet and maximum plateline height of 24 feet. A 
project data table is included as Attachment 4 and shows compliance with all applicable Zoning Code standards. 
Special Use Permit (SUP) for Substantial Removal of an Existing Residence
Because the applicant is requesting complete demolition of the existing residence, the project requires a SUP for 
substantial removal of an existing residence, which is considered the demolition of 50 percent or more of the structure’s 
exterior walls and/or roof in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.18.035. The Municipal Code also requires that the 
application for a new residence be submitted concurrently with the SUP application, which the applicant complies with. In 
addition, the City must find that the granting of the SUP will not adversely affect the general health and safety of the 
community and that the SUP will not cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property through impacts such as traffic, 
noise, or dust.
As a condition of approval, the applicant is also required to obtain a demolition permit from the Building Division and 
comply with noise, dust control, and material hauling measures during the project’s construction period. The City also 
engaged its historic preservation consultant, Bridget Maley of architecture + history, to prepare a historic resources 
evaluation (Attachment 5), which concludes that the existing residence does not qualify as a historic resource. As such, 
staff’s evaluation of the proposed demolition of the existing residence is that findings to approve the SUP can be made, 
which are discussed in greater detail within Attachment 1.
Single Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR)
The proposed construction of a new two-story single-family residence requires a SFDDR in accordance with Municipal

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Code Section 27.08.032. The Municipal Code requires the project be consistent with the Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Guidelines in addition to findings that the development will not be detrimental to the growth of the City, impair 
investment or occupation in the vicinity, and the public health, safety, or welfare. 
The project contributes to the growth and investment of the City through the establishment of a new residence that 
employs similar building materials and colors and proposes an architectural style utilizing traditional architectural features 
such as decorative corbels, oriel bay windows, and decorative columns which are compatible with residences found in the 
neighborhood. The project contributes to the growth of the City by providing an additional dwelling unit through the 
proposed ADU. Lastly, the project meets the applicable General Plan policies and Zoning Codes for required development 
standards. As such, staff’s evaluation of the proposed design of the residence is that findings to approve the SFDDR can be 
made, which is discussed in greater detail in Attachment 1.
City of San Mateo Single-Family Design Guidelines
As discussed above, the project has been evaluated in accordance with the Single-Family Design Guidelines (Design 
Guidelines), which provide guidance on the design of new single-family dwellings and second-story additions. The Design 
Guidelines contain provisions that address a building’s size, architectural character, and relationship to the street and 
nearby residences. It should be noted that the Design Guidelines are not intended to require an identical, regimented 
design for every residence. There may be instances when strict adherence to these guidelines is inappropriate and result in 
deviation from the Design Guidelines. The guidelines are designed to identify key characteristics and components which 
help define neighborhoods within the context of the project site and to be implemented accordingly. 
Staff finds that this project is in substantial conformance with the Design Guidelines, by utilizing materials and colors which 
are found in the neighborhood, and maintaining a consistent building scale, massing, and height as established by other 
residences in the neighborhood. Additional detail about the Design Guidelines are discussed in greater detail in 
Attachment 1 and the Design Review section below.
Senate Bill 330 Preliminary Application
The applicant submitted a Preliminary Application under the Housing Crisis Act (HCA) or Senate Bill 330 (SB330) in 
accordance with Government Code Section 65941.1(a) and 65589.5 on May 27, 2022. The proposed single-family 
residence with an attached ADU is considered a housing development project, as defined in Government Code Section 
65589.5. As such, the project is eligible for a Preliminary Application under HCA, which prohibits the City from conducting 
more than five public hearings, and imposing ordinances, policies, and standards after the Preliminary Application was 
submitted unless required to lessen impacts of the project under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), or 
revisions to the project result in number of units or square-footage changes by 20 percent or more. 
Housing Accountability Act
Government Code Section 65589.5 outlines application review limitations for projects subject to Housing Accountability 
Act (HAA). The proposed single-family residence with an attached ADU is considered a housing development project as 
defined in Government Code Section 65589.5(h)(2). Projects subject to HAA limit local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the 
density of, or render housing development projects infeasible if objective standards are met. Staff has evaluated the 
proposed project and finds that it meets all applicable objective standards in the General Plan and Zoning Code. 
Neighborhood Concerns 
Since application submittal, staff has received several public comment letters in opposition of the project. The main 
concerns raised by neighbors include the City’s historic analysis of the existing residence; the proposed residence’s 
architectural design and ADU; and the proposed Protected Tree removal.
Historic Analysis
As part of the project review, the City’s historic preservation consultant, Bridget Maley of architecture + history, completed 
an historical resources evaluation (Attachment 5). The evaluation concluded that the existing residence is not individually 
eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources. It should be noted that the City completed a Historic 
Building Survey in 1989 that identifies historic resources throughout the City. However, some neighborhoods, including

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Baywood, were not included in the survey. The Office of Historic Preservation (OHP) letter from January 22, 1990, 
identifies there are several neighborhoods which may be register-eligible residential districts, one of which includes 
Baywood, however a complete evaluation of eligibility, boundaries, and contributors has not yet been completed. Please 
refer to Attachment 6 for the 1989 Historic Building Survey and 1990 OHP letter. 
A primary issue raised by neighbors is that the existing residence and Baywood neighborhood appear to qualify as a 
potential contributing historical resource to a potential historic district respectively. A neighbor to the proposed project, 
Laurie Hietter, submitted a letter to the Mayor on February 1, 2022 (Attachment 7) raising concerns under the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) that the demolition of four residences in Baywood, including the proposed project, 
would result in a “cumulative impact” and have an “adverse effect” to the potential historic district and requires an 
Environmental Impact Report (EIR). None of these four sites are considered individually eligible, nor has the neighborhood 
provided letters for the other three projects. The City issued a response letter on March 10, 2022 (Attachment 8) 
explaining that the proposed demolition does not preclude the use of a Categorical Exemption under CEQA, since the sites 
are not considered individual resources or contributors since the neighborhood is not a fully-studied and recognized 
historic district. 
On April 18, 2022, Rachel Mansfield-Howlett submitted a letter to the City (Attachment 9) and a Historic Assessment 
Analysis report prepared by Richard Brandi on behalf of the Baywood Neighborhood Association (Attachment 10) as well 
as a letter dated April 4, 2022 (Attachment 11). Rachel Mansfield-Howlett’s letter conveys that the Baywood neighborhood 
and the existing residence must be treated as historic resources under CEQA since the report concludes that Baywood 
appears to be eligible for listing as a National Register of Historic Places and the residence at 415 Fairfax Avenue would be 
a potential contributor to this potentially eligible district. The report prepared by Richard Brandi, however, does not 
appear to be a complete analysis of the Baywood neighborhood in that it does not indicate a district boundary and does 
not identify or rank contributors to the district. Given the absence of a fully documented and defined Baywood historic 
district, the concerns that the demolition of the residence at 415 Fairfax Avenue would result in a “cumulative impact” or 
“adverse effect on the historic district” such that it would cause a “substantial adverse change in the significance of a 
historical resource” are not justified. The focus of the City’s CEQA analysis is based on whether the structure proposed to 
be demolished qualifies individually as a historic resource, which it does not, as determined by the project’s historic 
resources evaluation.
Design Review
Several comment letters included concerns with respect to the proposed building scale, specifically the second-story 
placement, massing, and building height. The adjacent neighbor at 411 Fairfax Avenue expressed a concern pertaining to 
the placement and massing of the proposed second story, and that it is inconsistent with the Design Guidelines. While the 
project proposes a smaller, 10-foot second-story setback along the project’s left side (adjacent to 411 Fairfax Avenue), the 
proposed setback conforms with the minimum required five-foot setback and the Daylight Plane as required in Municipal 
Code 27.18. Staff also found other examples of residences with similar second-story placement and massing including 300 
Harvard Road and 439 Fairfax Avenue. Concerns were also raised about the proposed building height, noting that the 
residence appears taller than other residences in the surrounding neighborhood. Staff’s evaluation of the proposed 
residence height is that it is similar to that of other residences in the vicinity and is within the City’s maximum height 
requirement of 32 feet measured to roof peak. 
Concerns were also raised about the design of the residence, mentioning that the proposed design is contemporary in 
nature and does not match the existing traditional Spanish-style architecture of the existing residence nor does the 
proposed project complement the various Period-Revival architectural styles of the existing neighborhood. It should be 
noted, however, the Design Guidelines do not preclude any particular architectural style. The proposed Transitional 
architectural style combines both traditional architectural features such as decorative corbels, oriel bay windows, and 
front entry columns, and contemporary colors and materials, which staff has evaluated to be compatible with the existing 
neighborhood. Staff also finds that the project utilizes materials, such as lap siding, asphalt shingle roof tiles, and earth-
toned exterior colors which are similar to materials and colors found in the neighborhood to further compatibility. 
Lastly, neighbors expressed concerns about the proposed ADU, noting that the proposed 798 square-foot ADU is too large

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and is proposed as a way for the homeowners to exceed the allowable floor area limits. However, Municipal Code Section 
27.19 outlines that the initial 800 square-feet of an ADU is exempted from the site’s maximum floor area. In addition, 
Government Code Section 65852.2 provides that the City’s review of ADUs is ministerial, not discretionary. This precludes 
the City from applying the Single Family Design Guidelines and from requiring a reduction in the size of the ADU. 
In consideration of the neighborhood comments pertaining to design review and staff’s evaluation of the building design, 
staff finds that the project substantially conforms to the Design Guidelines, which is discussed in detail in Attachment 1. 
Protected Tree Removal
The project includes a proposal to remove a large Protected Tree located in the rear yard, which is a 33-inch Coast Live Oak 
tree, identified as “Tree #1” in the project’s Arborist Report, included as part of the project plans in Attachment 3. 
Neighbors opposed removal of this tree and asserted that the existing tree provides both privacy and shade to the 
neighboring residences. The applicant’s Arborist Report explains that removal of the tree is necessitated by the subject 
tree’s proximity to proposed ADU. It should be noted, however, that the tree is not located within the footprint of the 
proposed ADU. Thus, since there does not appear to be sufficient evidence to justify removal, staff has included Condition 
of Approval No. 9 which requires that the Oak tree be preserved as part of the project and employ appropriate tree 
protection measures. Should the applicant continue to pursue removal of the subject tree, the Condition of Approval 
requires the applicant file a Tree Removal Permit through the City’s Parks and Recreation Department and requires the 
applicant demonstrate that the construction of the ADU would be detrimental to the health of the tree. Demonstration of 
detriment to the health of the tree include preliminary excavation to show the root locations and demonstrate how the 
construction of the ADU will cause adverse effects on the tree. If the ADU construction does not require removal, the Oak 
tree will need to be preserved, and appropriately protected during construction.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held an informal neighborhood informational meeting on August 4, 2021 and received comments from eight 
members of the public. The applicant’s summary of the neighborhood meeting is included in Attachment 12. Participants 
of the meeting commented on the following:
•
Demolition of the existing residence 
•
Contemporary design
•
ADU size and location
•
Heritage tree removal
On January 6, 2022, City Staff met with three representatives of the interested parties from the surrounding neighborhood 
to discuss the project application status, City process in reviewing Planning Applications, Design Guidelines, State-wide 
accessory dwelling unit guidelines, historic preservation ordinance, and to field any additional questions. 
Staff has also received approximately 60 public comments during the formal planning application review, which are 
included in Attachment 13. A substantial portion of the public comments were received between November and 
December of 2021. Public comments on the project generally pertained to: 
•
Historic resource impacts
•
Design review
•
Heritage tree removal
•
Accessory dwelling unit size
Public comments received after publishing of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and 
consideration at the Public Hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post 
Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Staff has determined that the project is categorically exempt from further review under the California Environmental

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Quality Act (CEQA) under Class 1 Section 15301(l)(1) Demolition and removal of one single-family residence; and Class 3 
Section 15303(a) New construction of one single-family given that the project includes demolition of one single-family 
residence which does not qualify as a historic resource and includes construction of one single-family dwelling with an 
attached ADU on an urban lot. The exceptions to the use of a categorical exemption (Section 15300.2) do not apply as the 
project would not result in a cumulative impact nor does it result in a substantial adverse change in the significance of a 
historical resource. The existing residence was constructed in 1933 and was not included in the City’s Historic Building 
Survey conducted in 1989. Since the structure is greater than 45 years old, the City conducted a Historic Resource 
Evaluation which determined the existing residence at 415 Fairfax Avenue is not a historic resource under CEQA. Based on 
this evaluation, the project is exempt from further CEQA analysis.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements in Chapter 
27.08.050, this hearing was noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in city-wide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval 
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data Sheet
Att 5 – Historic Resource Evaluation – June 14, 2021
Att 6 – Excerpt from City of San Mateo’s Historic Building Survey and Office of Historic Preservation Letter (1989 and 1990)
Att 7 – Letter from Laurie Hietter – February 1, 2022
Att 8 – City Response to Laurie Hietter – March 10, 2022
Att 9 – Rachel Mansfield-Howlett Letter – April 18, 2022
Att 10 – Richard Brandi’s Historic Asset Analysis
Att 11 – Richard Brandi Letter – April 4, 2022
Att 12 – Applicant’s Neighborhood Meeting Summary 
Att 13 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO DEMOLISH AN EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING AND 
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW TO CONSTRUCT A NEW SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING WITH AN 
ATTACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AT 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE (APN 034-033-100). 
 (PA-2021-066, 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE SUP + SFDDR)
WHEREAS, Eric Nyhus (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a planning application PA-2021-
066 with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit and Single Family Dwelling Design Review to demolish an 
existing single family residence and construct a new 3,910 square-feet single-family residence, with an attached 
two-car garage and attached accessory dwelling unit at 415 Fairfax Avenue, APN 034-033-100 (collectively 
referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
 WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.020 authorizes the Zoning 
Administrator to refer applications to the Planning Commission for hearing and action;
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, a historical resources evaluation was completed on June 14, 2021 by the City’s Historic 
Preservation consultant, which finds that the existing residence does not qualify as an historical resource;
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15301(l)(1) and 
15303(a); and
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies, 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on July 12, 2022 duly noticed, 
at which all public comments were considered;
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:
1.   The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not have 
a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the provisions of 
CEQA under CEQA Section 15301(l)(1) and 15303(a).
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element policies of the City’s General Plan. 
a.
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9, which encourages the preservation of single-family areas 
and limiting new development to low-density residential uses, the proposed Project

--- page 17 ---
maintains the single-family use as delineated on the Land Use Map by proposing a 
replacement single family home and an accessory dwelling unit.  
b.
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9a, which encourages the livability of San Mateo 
neighborhoods by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design Review planning applications for 
compatibility with the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines, the Project has been evaluated 
for compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood and incorporates guidance from the 
City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines by scaling and reducing the massing to be similar to 
surrounding residences. The Project also uses high quality materials, such as shiplap siding 
and ledgestone, which helps further compatibility with the neighborhood and residences. 
2.
The Project conforms to Policy H 2.7 of the Housing Element policies of the City’s General Plan. In 
accordance with Policy H 2.7, which allows for the creation of secondary units on residentially zoned 
properties and requires the design of secondary units to be compatible with the main residence and 
neighborhood, the Project includes the creation of a new secondary unit (accessory dwelling unit) 
which is designed to be compatible with the main residence and is in conformance with applicable 
development standards.
3.
The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.12 of the Urban Design Element of the City’s General Plan, which 
encourages single-family dwellings to substantially conform to the City’s Single-Family Design 
Guidelines and preserve the neighborhood scale, materials, architectural style, privacy, and views. 
The Project has been evaluated to conform with the City’s Design Guidelines and preserves and 
enhances the neighborhood through maintaining similar building scale as existing residences and 
high-quality materials such as shiplap siding and asphalt shingle roof. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE, SFDDR + SUP, PA-2021-066 AT 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE, APN 034-
033-100 BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED 
IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application and associated Conditions 
of Approval are approved based on the finding that granting of the Special Use Permit for the full 
demolition of the existing single-family residence will not adversely affect the general health, safety 
and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by 
traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste 
in that the project has been conditioned to minimize impacts of dust and noise to surrounding 
neighborhood. The proposed residential use is compatible with existing residential uses to the 
north, south, east, and west. The existing single-family residence to be demolished is estimated to 
have been built in the year 1933 and is best characterized as Spanish Revival style architecture. The 
existing residence was evaluated by the City’s Historic Preservation consultant who found that the 
existing residence does not qualify as an historical resource pursuant to CEQA, therefore allowing 
for removal of the existing residence.  
2.
The Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.032) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:

--- page 18 ---
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The Project is well integrated into the existing architectural character of the 
neighborhood. The surrounding neighborhood consists of a variety of architectural 
styles. These styles primarily include traditional Period-Revival include, but are not 
limited to, Spanish, Mediterranean, Monterey, Colonial, Tudor, French, and Cape Cod 
Cottage. The Project proposes a Transitional architectural style which combines both 
Traditional architectural elements, such as decorative corbels, front entry columns, 
and double hung oriel bay window, and Contemporary colors and materials, such as 
earth-toned beige exterior colors and shiplap siding, which integrates the residence 
into the neighborhood. 
ii.
The Project reduces the visual impact of the two-car garage by proposing two single-
car garage doors which reduces the massive appearance of the garage and visually 
deemphasizes the garage design. The addition of the trellis structure over the garage 
provides relief to the overall massing and appearance of the second-story over the 
garage. 
iii.
The Project will include new landscaping in all yard areas. The proposed landscaping 
includes a variety of different shrubs and plants which will contribute to the 
neighborhood cohesiveness. The proposed landscaping will also include new 
landscape screening evergreen trees along the side and rear property lines to address 
privacy concerns regarding the new two-story residence by adjacent residences. 
iv.
The proposed exterior material palette utilizes a variety of finishes and colors. The 
dominant exterior material is shiplap siding which surround the exterior walls for both 
levels. The roof material is asphalt shingle roof which is a common roof material found 
in the neighborhood. The exterior also utilizes a ledgestone material along the bottom 
portion of the residence to establish a base, which provides balance to the residence 
and helps create visual interest throughout the residence. The proposed exterior 
beige color is similar to those colors found in the surrounding neighborhood and helps 
integrate the proposed residence into the immediate neighborhood. 
v.
The proposed second-story is located further from the property lines and provides a 
10-foot setback from the side property lines, which exceeds the minimum required 
setback of five feet. The second-story is also 40 feet, nine and one-half inches away 
from the rear property line, which also exceeds the minimum required rear setback 
required of 25 feet. The increased setbacks from the side and rear property lines 
provide additional privacy to neighboring residences and allows for preservation of 
natural light. The Project also meets the City’s daylight plane requirement and other 
height and setback requirements. 
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that the Project has been evaluated in accordance with the San Mateo Zoning Code and 
adheres to the maximum floor area ratio and building height. 
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that the Project

--- page 19 ---
is designed with high quality materials which will contribute to the architectural character of 
the surrounding neighborhood. The Project will also be constructed in compliance with all 
building codes and fire codes. 
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. 
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City’s Security 
ordinance.

--- page 20 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2021-066, 415 FAIRFAX AVE., SUP + SFDDR
415 FAIRFAX AVE, SAN MATEO,
 PARCEL # 034033100
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON ________.
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
4 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)

--- page 21 ---
5 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – (use for projects demolishing a full structure) The applicant shall 
submit an asbestos demolition and renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District. (BAAQMD). (BUILDING)
6 DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING)
7 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
8 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
9 TREE PROTECTION AND APPROVED PROTECTED TREE REMOVAL PERMIT – The applicant 
shall obtain and provide proof of an approved Tree Removal Permit from the Parks and 
Recreation Department for the removal of Heritage trees. Specific to the 34-inch Oak tree 
(identified as Tree #1 by the Project Arborist), the applicant shall either protect the subject 
tree during construction or, if seeking removal, shall submit a Protected Tree Work 
Application along with a Certified Arborist report. The report shall contain the following 
elements, at a minimum:
(A) Assessment of tree health and condition;
(B) Review of proposed construction;
(C) Exploratory root excavation to determine the size and number of roots that may be 
impacted by the proposed accessory dwelling unit design;
(D) Discussion of impact level to tree based on visual observations of the trees below 
ground roots;
(E) Photo documentation of observed roots; and
(F) Measures that will lessen damages to the tree and/or allow the tree to be retained.

--- page 22 ---
The Tree Removal Permit application shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
City’s Managing Arborist, or his/her designee, and any decision can be appealed in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 13.40.130. Should the Tree Removal Permit be 
denied, the plans and arborist report shall be revised to specify that Tree #1 is to be 
preserved and protected during construction. (CDD ARBORIST)
10 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures are 
properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification letter 
prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes photographs 
showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future 
inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
Public Works Department (PA)
11 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior to any 
work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
12 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the vertical 
elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show existing topo and 
features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show existing topography, 
label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, and all other property 
encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
13 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per Stormwater 
Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, 
Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment Form located 
here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
14 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
15 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required fees and posting 
the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the stormwater pollution 
prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39.170. The

--- page 23 ---
fee amount will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time the building 
permit application is made. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Building Division (PA)
16 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
17 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms 
are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)
Public Works Department (PA)
18 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans shall show drainage designed into landscaping with 
the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawing 3-1-120 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase 
to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform 
to any non-point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. 
Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and 
shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The building permit plans 
for the superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
19 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project 
fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s property and out of 
the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
20 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy. 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal

--- page 24 ---
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way 
or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on 
the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building permit 
submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any changes to 
the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their 
sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project 
specifications shall be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public 
Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of way: 
(A) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall remove and replace to existing City damaged sidewalk 
along the project frontage behind and adjacent to the site driveway approach.  Sidewalk 
replacement shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
[Sidewalk width determined per Pedestrian Master Plan.  Include Curb and Gutter if no 
planting strip]  
 
(B) DRIVEWAY REMOVAL – The applicant is to remove and replace the existing driveway 
approach located along Fairfax Avenue as shown on the approved planning application 
plans, and replace it with new driveway per City Standard 3-1-149.  (PUBLIC WORKS).
21 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION – As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection 
and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of 
Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 
7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to building permit issuance. 
The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public Works. If the Form indicates a 
failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer lateral shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit issuance. In addition, 
if the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer 
lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, 
prior to occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS)
22 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within the 10' 
triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets the requirements of a minimum vertical

--- page 25 ---
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground 
structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
23 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall 
be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
24 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
25 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 (2006). The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
26 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway and 
walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be 
improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants 
and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not 
proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new landscaping as described 
above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the building permit plans prior to 
permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed prior to final inspection, subject to 
the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
27 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for 
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
28 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the

--- page 26 ---
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform 
to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
29 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – In accordance with the City’s Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a licensed 
landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation designer shall 
complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation in 
Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the certification of completion shall be 
submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject to the review and approval of the 
Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
30 FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection and 
submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final arborist report 
shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were implemented and shall 
assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to existing Protected Tree(s) shall 
be subject to replacement and/or penalties in accordance with Municipal Code Section 
13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
31 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
32 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)

--- page 27 ---
33 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection documenting 
the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, and/or any damages 
to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST)
34 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain in 
place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant or 
contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to 
be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, 
excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures requires 
approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST)
Public Works Department (PA)
35 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
36 MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING - For material delivery 
vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as 
defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms 
to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 11.28.040 for the approval of the City 
Engineer.  The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using 
“compression release engine brakes” on residential streets.  A letter from the applicant 
confirming the intention to use approved hauling route shall be submitted to the 
Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits.  All 
material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, 
hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the 
responsibility of the applicant.  All storage and office trailers will be kept off the public 
right-of-way.  Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed.  The 
applicant must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site.  
Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed 
immediately.  No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be allowed.  All material hauling 
activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of 
approval.  Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
37 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning

--- page 28 ---
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)
38 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to 
ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)
39 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
40 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 29 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA-2021-066
SUP + SFDDR
Address(es): 
Parcel Number(s): 
415 Fairfax Ave
San Mateo, CA 94402
034-033-100
Project Site

--- page 30 ---
ND

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

415 FAIRFAX AVE., SAN MATEO, CA 94402

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21

/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

aN Response to Comments 4/18/22

The
Alston

Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title

Cover

Sheet

Scale

NA

Date 10/13/2021

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

AOOI!


--- page 31 ---
ns"
| FP
=

az

= |
ee |)
=
=a

428 FAIRFAX AVE

ALSTON RESIDENCE

415 FAIRFAX AVE., SAN MATEO, CA 94402

REFERENCE PHOTOS

250 HARVARD RD

LOCATION MAP

425 FAIRFAX AVE

NNN eae Se

WGS_1984_Web_Mercator_Auxiliary_Sphere
@ Latitude Geographics Group Ltd.

This map is a user generated static output from an Internet mapping site and is for
reference only. Data layers that appear on this map may or may not be accurate.
current, or othensise reliable.

THIS MAP IS MOTTO BE USED FOR NAVIGATION

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

EW 3,910 SF HOUSE ON THIS LOT. IT WILL INCLUDE A PARTIAL SECOND FLOOR AREA, NEW POOL, AND
TACHED ADU. THE STYLE OF THE HOME IS TO BE A TRANSITIONAL HOME WITH WOOD SIDING, ASPHALT
SHINGLE ROOFING AND A STONE BASE. IT WILL INCLUDE 4 BEDROOMS AND 5.5 BATHS IN THE MAIN HOUSE

D ADU. ATTACHED ADU TO BE 796 SF.

, A FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM SHALL BE INSTALLED THROUGHOUT THE DWELLING IN ACCORDANCE WITH NDPA 13D. ‘
> FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS SHALL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL. THE FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW  <
> AND APPROVAL BY THE FIRE MARSHAL PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A FIRE SPRINKLER PERMIT. .

> PV SOLAR SYSTEM |S REQUIRED AND WILL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL BY OTHERS.

II

ND

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

a

PROJECT STATISTICS

APPLICANT/ PROPERTY OWNER:
GENE AND NICOLE ALSTON

PROJECT ADDRESS:
A415 FAIRFAX AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

ZONING:
RIB

OCCUPANCY:
R3/U

NUMBER OF STORIES:
2 + GARAGE

F.A.R. CALCULATION (5Q.FT.)

MAIN HOUSE

A.P.N.:
034-033-100

LOT AREA:
10,556 S.F.

CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
TYPE VB

AUTO. SPRINKLER:
YES

EXISTING

PROPOSED

GROUND FLOOR:

SECOND FLOOR:
ATTACHED GARAGE:
FRONT PORCH:

FRONT PORCH EXEMPTION:

ATTACHED ADU (NOT COUNTED TOWARDS FAR)

TOTAL FLOOR AREA:

PERCENT OF LOT AREA:

MAX FAR (50% X GOOO) + (20% X 4558)

= 3,911 SP

TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS (MIN. 1O0'X 18):
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS (TANDEM NOT PERMITTED

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21

/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES INCLUDING SPECIES € SIZE: 33 IN COAST LIVE OAK

15 |
16 |
47 |
16 |
16 |

CUBIC YARDS OF SOIL DISTURBANCE:

PARKING CALCULATION (SQ.FT.)

TOTAL FLOOR AREA
DEDUCT COVERED PARKING
TOTAL:

EXISTING

2,612
(292)
2,320

BIRCH

BIRCH

COAST LIVE OAK
LONDON PLANE
LONDON PLANE

OCF.

PROPOSED

3,910
(470)
3,440

3,000 SQ.FT. - 3,749 5Q. FT. = 2 COVERED; | UNCOVERED PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
NOTE: PARKING SPACES NOT ALLOWED IN FRONT OR SIDE YARD SETBACKS

APPLICABLE CODES

All work performed by the Contractor shall conform to the following codes: Th
C

9 California Residential Code
2 California Plumbing Code

2 California Energy Code
2 California Fire Code
ornia State Titles 19 and 24
2 California Building Code

9 Mechanical Code.
9 Electrical Code.

2 California Green Building Code

2 California Existing Building Code

The latest edition of the Uniform Housing Code.

Alston

Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Also, any additional City of San Mateo Municipal Code requirements.

Drawing Title

Project Data
& Reference Photos

Scale

NA

Date 10/13/2021

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

A002


--- page 32 ---


--- page 33 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD INPUT DATA REVIEW GRAPHIC N LD G

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

& -NEIGHBOR COMMENTS 1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 9401
RECIEVED BY APPLICANT Ne sometes

©) -NEIGHBORS WITH NO
COMMENTS OR INPUT

-RESIDENT COMMENTS
RECIEVED BY APPLICANT
OUTSIDE 500 FT RADIUS

-KEITH WEBER

-PAMELA MCCARTHY HUDSON

-KIM RANDICK (462 NEVADA)

-MARTHA MOORE

-RODGER & SUSAN OSER (533 EDINBURGH)

-PETER & ANNE SORTWELL

ce BRUCE & RITA
RONG

-BRIAN HAVERTY (646 ALHAMBRA)

-KEN & LINDA HERZ (210 CASTILLION)

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022
-BRIAN & LISA MAH (316 FRANKLIN) —_—WHsHf—a

he & KEREN Revisions Date
WITZ

Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21

Planning Review 10/26/21

/\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title

Neighbor Graphic

Scale

NA

Date 8/11/21

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

A004


--- page 34 ---


--- page 35 ---
33"OAK
16"BIRCH
16"BIRCH
17"TREE
18"TREE
13"YUCCA
6"TREE
9"TREE
4
3
2
5
6
1
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
B
C
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
A
A
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
1
V
G1
G1
1
V
1
V
1
V
E
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
14
14
14
8
8
8
8
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
11
11
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
11
11
6
6
6
13
13
13
5
5
5
5
5
5
2
2
2
2
2
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
2
2
2
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
16
16
16
16
16
16
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
13
13
13
13
13
13
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
12
15
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
5
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
1
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
5
5
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
15
15
14
14
14
14
14
14
1
1
1
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
47" OAK TREE
7
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
F A I R F A X      A V E N U E
50' R.O.W.
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N) AUTOMATIC
POOL COVER
(N) COPING STONE
(N)
SPA
(N) SWIM OUT 
(N) LOUNGE 
CHAIRS
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N) STONE FIREPIT
*NATURAL GAS
(N) GRAVEL
PATH
30"
(N)
LAWN
(N)
LAWN
(N)
TOLERANT
GROUNDCOVER
DROUGHT
(N) 3' TALL BBQ /
COUNTERTOP W/
STORAGE BELOW
(N) STONE
PATH
(N) STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
15'-0" SETBACK
(E) WATER
METER
(E) LODON
PLANE TREES
TO REMAIN
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES
(N) STORAGE 
AREA
(N) STONE
STEPS
(N) STONE
PATH
(N) EVERGREEN 
VINES
(E) FENCING 
TO REMAIN
(N) EVERGREEN 
PRIVACY TREES
(E) BIRCH TREE
TO REMAIN
(N) 6'-0" SOLID WOOD
FENCING PLUS 12" LATTICE
*7'-0" TALL TOTAL
(E) BIRCH TREE
TO REMAIN
(E) OAK TREE
TO BE REMOVED
(N) 6'-0" SOLID WOOD
FENCING PLUS 12" LATTICE
*7'-0" TALL TOTAL
(E) OAK TREE
TO REMAIN
(N) STONE
PORCH
(N) STONE RETAINING
(N) STONE
LANDING / STEPS
(N)  STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N) WOOD ARBOR
*SEE ARCH DWGS
6' SOLID
3' SOLID
(N)
(N)
WOOD
WOOD
(N) SPECIMEN 
TREE 36' BOX SIZE
6' SOLID
6' SOLID
(N)
(E)
WOOD
WOOD
FENCING FENCING
FENCING FENCING
FENCING
WOOD
(E)
(N)
FENCING
3' SOLID
(N) STONE
RETAINING WALL
WOOD GATE
(N) 3' SOLID 
(E) LODON
PLANE TREES
TO REMAIN
(N) STONE
LANDING / STEPS
CL
CL
(N) CONCRETE 
DRIVEWAY APRON
*PER TOWN STDS
(E) 2' CONC 
CURB
(N) STONE PATIO
(N) GROUNDCOVER
(N) DRYSTACK STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N) GROUNDCOVER
(N) EVERGREEN 
PRIVACY TREES
WALL *3'-0" TALL
(N) EVERGREEN
PRIVACY TREES
(N) LOUNGE 
CHAIRS
*3'-0" TALL
*3'-0" TALL
(E) WALL TO
REMAIN
*18" TALL
*3'-0" TALL
(N) ADU WOOD
*SEE ARCH DWGS
 ARBOR POSTS (2)
(N) BBQ / BUFFET
COUNTER
*3'-0" TALL
(N) SPECIMEN TREE
(N) GRANITE FINES
PARKING AREA
9'-0"
18'-9"
GUEST PARKING
(E) YUCCA TREE
TO BE REMOVED
1
01/24/2022
M.C.
L1.0
DATE:
MARCH 2, 2022
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
LANDSCAPE PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
LANDSCAPE
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
GENERAL NOTES
1.
CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN ALL PERMITS NECESSARY TO COMPLETE PROPOSED WORK PER CITY REQUIREMENTS.
2. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ON SITE ALL GRADES, PROPERTY LINES, EASEMENTS, SETBACKS, UTILITIES, SITE IMPROVEMENTS, WATERPROOFING
AND UNDERGROUND PIPING BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS.   THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT ASSUMES NO LIABILITY FOR DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN
THE PLANS AND ACTUAL FIELD CONDITIONS.  ALL DISCREPANCIES OR PROBLEMATIC SITE CONDITIONS SHALL BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF
THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
3. WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT OF WAY IS SUBJECT TO INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY THE CITY.  CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN AN ENCROACHMENT
PERMIT FROM PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT OF WAY.  THIS WORK MAY INCLUDE LANDSCAPING IN THE RIGHT OF
WAY, NEW CURB DRAINS, AND PARKING STRIP.
4. FINISHED GRADES SHALL PROVIDE POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM STRUCTURES AND SHALL BE PROPERLY INSTALLED TO PREVENT ANY STANDING
WATER.  ALL HARDSCAPE SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM GRADE OF 2% UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.  JUTE MESH EROSION CONTROL NETTING SHALL BE
USED ON ALL 3:1 OR GREATER SLOPES & STAKED APPROPRIATELY.
5. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE PROTECTION FOR EXISTING TREES BY INSTALLING TEMPORARY FENCING AROUND THE TREES AS CLOSE AS
POSSIBLE TO THE DRIPLINE.  IN THE EVENT THAT TREE ROOTS OVER 6" ARE DISCOVERED, THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT SHOULD BE CONTACTED.
6. CONTRACTOR SHALL REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL, CIVIL, & OTHER ENGINEERING DRAWINGS / DOCUMENTS FOR WORK IN RELEVANT AREAS.
7. THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT MAY MAKE SITE OBSERVATIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION BUT SHALL NOT BE UTILIZED TO SUPERVISE CONSTRUCTION
ONSITE.
8. THIS PLAN IS NOT A SURVEY OR CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENT.  IT IS CONCEPTUAL IN NATURE AND SHOULD BE USED FOR PLANNING PURPOSES.
PLANTING NOTES
1. LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY PLANT AND SOD QUANTITIES PRIOR TO SUBMITTING BID FOR WORK.
2. ALL PLANT MATERIAL SHALL COMPLY WITH THE LATEST STANDARDS OF NURSERY STOCK, PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN NURSERY & LANDSCAPE
ASSOCIATION.
3. PLANT MATERIAL CANNOT BE GUARANTEED AS DEER RESISTANT DUE TO CHANGING HABITS OF DEER.
4. ALL PLANTING AREAS SHALL BE COVERED WITH A LAYER OF BARK MULCH TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 2 INCHES, WITH A CHIP SIZE OF NO LESS THAN
ONE INCH.  A 2 INCH LAYER OF GREENWASTE MULCH UNDER THE BARK MULCH IS RECOMMENDED.
5. SOIL AMENDMENTS SHALL BE USED AS NECESSARY.  SOIL AMENDMENT SHALL BE FREE OF DEBRIS.  ROCKS LARGER THAN ONE INCH DIAMETER
WILL NOT BE PERMITTED.  SOIL AMENDMENTS ARE NOT PERMITTED IN TYPICAL NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREAS.
6. PLANTING HOLES SHALL GENERALLY BE 2x - 3x THE SIZE OF THE ROOT BALL.  THE WALLS AND BASES OF PLANT HOLES SHALL BE SCARIFIED.
HOLES SHALL BE BACKFILLED WITH 5% ORGANIC COMPOST & 95% EXISTING SOIL.  PLANTING HOLES OF NATIVE PLANT MATERIAL SHOULD BE
INOCULATED WITH MYCORRHIZAL FUNGI, PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECS.
7. TREES SHALL BE STAKED WITH TWO PRESSURE TREATED 2" DIA. POLES.  TREE TRUNK SHALL BE SECURED WITH TWO RUBBER TIES OR STRAPS
FORMING A FIGURE-EIGHT BETWEEN TRUNK AND STAKE.
8. RESIDUAL WEED PRE-EMERGENT SHALL BE APPLIED BY THE CONTRACTOR AS NECESSARY.  APPLICATION SHALL BE ACCORDING TO
MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS.
9. LAWN SHALL NOT BE INSTALLED ON SLOPES GREATER THAN 25%.  ALL TURF AREAS SHALL BE FERTILIZED AT TIME OF INSTALLATION.
1
1
1
7/31/2022
2
02/15/2022
M.C.
2
2

--- page 36 ---
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES 
(N) STONE PATIO
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
H
2
MX
3
MX
4
MX
5
MX
11
MX
12
MX
8
MX
7
6
MX
H
10
9
MX
MX
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
(N) BACKFLOW
PREVENTION
DEVICE
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
1" MAINLINE
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) SPRAY
IRRIGATION
F A I R F A X      A V E N U E
50' R.O.W.
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
L2.0
DATE:
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
IRRIGATION PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
IRRIGATION
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
RAINBIRD XERI-POP W/ MPR NOZZLE
HUNTER MPR40 BODY W/ MP ROTATOR SERIES
30-55
(C)-CORNER, (1)-1000 etc.
(5)-5 SERIES, (8)-8 SERIES
C
L
(L)-LEFT, (S)-SIDE, (R)-RIGHT
RAINBIRD XERI-POP W/ SQ NOZZLE
(Q)-QUARTER, (H)-HALF, (F)-FULL
5
FILTER / PRESSURE REGULATOR
FEBCO 825Y REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
PVC SCH 40 SLEEVING
IRRIGATION LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
PVC SCH 40 LATERAL PIPING
PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
IRRITROL 100 SERIES CONTROL VALVE
SHUT-OFF VALVE
SYM
UNDER ALL PAVING / WALLS 
AS NEEDED PER MFR'S SPECS
SIZING TBD BY CONTRACTOR
W/ GLOBE VALVE
W/ SHUT-OFF VALVES
BRASS BALL VALVE
REMARKS
SEE PLAN FOR SIZING
W/ WEATHER STATION
WEATHERMATIC SMARTLINE SERIES CONTROLLER
HOSEBIB
30" TALL BRASS LINE & FIXTURE
60-100
30-55
-
-
60-100
60-100
-
175 max.
PSI
30-55
10-30
60-100
20-50
20-50
RAINBIRD XERI-BUBBLER SPIKE *NOT SHOWN
AS NEEDED, SEE DETAIL
15-30
-
INSTALL PER MFR'S SPECS
HUNTER MPR40 BODY W/ MP STRIP SERIES
GPM
.07-2.63
.14-.55
-
-
-
-
-
.02-.41
.13-.52
.02-.22
-
-
-
-
-
-
Q
SIZING TBD BY CONTRACTOR
IRRIGATION METHOD
WATER USE
(SPY: SPRAY  DRP: DRIP  BUB: BUBBLER  SUB: SUB-SURFACE)
(VL: VERY LOW  L: LOW  M: MEDIUM  H: HIGH  MX: MIXED)
MX
DRP
NETAFIM TECHLINE CV DRIPLINE
NETAFIM TECHLINE CV (SUBSURFACE)
FEBRUARY 14, 2022

--- page 37 ---
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
L2.5
DATE:
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
DETAILS
NOTES /
REVISIONS
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE
THESE PLANS COMPLY WITH THE CRITERIA OF THE WATER CONSERVATION
IN LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM FOR THE EFFICIENT USE
OF WATER IN THE LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN.
WEATHERMATIC
SMART CONTROLLER
SCALE:  NTS
B
SMARTLINE SL4800
CONDUIT 24v AC
CONTROLLER
POWER SUPPLY
WIRES
GROUND WIRE
SLW10
WEATHER
STATION
CONDUIT 115v AC
*WALL-MOUNT
RAIN STAT WIRES
*OPTIONAL
MASTER VALVE WIRE
*OPTIONAL
COMMON NEUTRAL WIRE
PUMP CIRCUIT WIRES
*OPTIONAL
VALVE CONTROL WIRES
*ONE PER VALVE
EXPANSION COILS
WATERPROOF
CONNECTIONS
CONTROL
VALVE
NOTE:
ALL ELECTRICAL WORK TO COMPLY
WITH APPLICABLE CODES
*12-48 ZONES
RAINBIRD XERI-BUBBLER
SPIKE MOUNT BUBBLERS
SCALE:  NTS
H
*SPIKE MOUNT
1/4" DISTRUBUTION TUBING
*STAKE *5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
1/4" BARB CONNECTOR
*INCLUDED ON SPIKE
1/2" or 3/4" POLY TUBING
MULCH
FINISHED GRADE
NOTE:
USE RAINBIRD XERI-MAN TOOL TO
INSERT BARB INTO POLY TUBING
EMITTER /
EMITTER SPACING
SCALE:  NTS
G
EMITTER /
LARGE SHRUB
SMALL SHRUB
1/2" - 3/4"
POLY TUBING
1/4" DISTRIBUTION
TUBING *STAKED
1/2" - 3/4"
POLY TUBING
5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
BUBBLER
BUBBLER
OR TREE
1/4" DISTRIBUTION
TUBING *STAKED
5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
NOTES:
1.  SPACE EMITTERS TO CREATE AN EVEN WET ZONE ABOUT THE SIZE
OF THE CANOPY OF ALL NEW SHRUBS, NEW TREES, & EXISTING
2.  PLACE EMITTERS AS TO AVOID AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IRRIGATING
OAK TREES & ANY OTHER EXISTING, MATURE NATIVE OR DROUGHT
TOLERANT PLANTS.
IMMATURE NON-NATIVE EXISTING TREES.
CONTROL VALVE
SCALE:  NTS
C
FINISHED GRADE
VALVE BOX
WATERPROOF WIRE
CONNECTIONS
IRRITOL 100 SERIES
CONTOL VALVE
PVC MALE ADAPTER
PVC SCH 40 SxT ELL
PVC SCH 80 NIPPLE
*6" LONG
PVC LATERAL LINE
*ANGLE TO CORRECT
DEPTH W 450 ELL'S
TYP BRICK
PEA GRAVEL *12" DEEP
PVC SCH 80 PIPE
COMMON & CONTROL
WIRES TO CONTROLLER
MAIN LINE PIPING
W/ FITTING
NOTE:
ALL ELECTRICAL WORK
TO COMPLY WITH
APPLICABLE CODES
FEBCO 825Y REDUCED
REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
SCALE:  NTS
A
12" MIN.
PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
FINISHED GRADE
NOTE:
REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
TO BE INSTALLED PER MFR'S
FEBCO PRV SERIES
PRESSURE REGULATOR
*AS NEEDED
BRASS WYE-FILTER
*100 MESH SCREEN
SHUT-OFF VALVE
*BOTH SIDES
BRASS UNION
*BOTH SIDES
RISER PIPE
*COPPER TYPE 'K'
OR BRASS
SPECS & APPLICABLE CODES
IRRIGATION NOTES
1.  THE CONCEPTS ON THE IRRIGATION PLAN ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
CONTRACTOR.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE ADJUSTMENTS AS NECESSARY BASED ON ACTUAL SITE CONDITIONS.
2.  ALL IRRIGATION SYSTEM COMPONENTS SHALL BE INSTALLED PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS.  MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS
SUPERSEDE ANY SPECS ON THESE PLANS / DETAILS.
3.  IRRIGATION SYSTEM SHALL USE PRESSURE REGULATORS AS NEEDED TO KEEP ALL COMPONENTS WITHIN OPTIMAL PSI RANGE, PER
MANUFACTURER'S SPECS.
4.  CONTROLLER TYPE SHALL BE A SMART CONTROLLER.  RAIN SENSORS AND / OR WEATHER STATIONS ARE RECOMMENDED.
5.  CONTROLLER SHALL BE SET TO IRRIGATE BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 8PM AND 10AM.  CONTROLLER SHALL BE SET TO IRRIGATE DEEPLY AND LESS
FREQUENTLY TO ENCOURAGE DROUGHT RESISTANT ROOT GROWTH.  IRRIGATION SCHEDULE TO BE DETERMINED BY AUDITOR / CONTRACTOR.
6.  PIPING BETWEEN THE WATER METER AND A REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY SHALL BE BRASS OR COPPER TYPE 'K'.
7.  THE BOTTOM OF THE REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY SHALL BE INSTALLED MIN. 12" ABOVE THE GROUND.
8.  A 100 MESH FILTER SHALL BE INSTALLED ON THE MAINLINE BEFORE THE REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY.
9.  VALVES SHALL BE HOUSED IN WEATHER-PROOF PLASTIC BOXES, WITH LOCKABLE LIDS MARKED WATER.
10.  CONTROL WIRE CONNECTIONS SHALL BE MADE WITH WATERPROOF PLASTIC WIRE NUTS.
11.  MAIN SUPPLY LINES & FITTINGS SHALL BE PVC SCH 40, SIZE AS NOTED ON PLAN, BURIED 12" - 16" DEEP.
12.  LATERAL SUPPLY LINES & FITTINGS SHALL BE PVC SCH 40, SIZE TO BE DETERMINED BY CONTRACTOR, BURIED 9" - 12" DEEP.
13.  FLEXIBLE POLY PIPE TO BE  12" -34", DETERMINED BY CONTRACTOR .  ALL  14" FLEXIBLE DISTRIBUTION LINES TO BE A MAXIMUM OF 5'-0" IN LENGTH
& ARE TO BE STAKED.
14.  BUBBLERS SHALL BE SPACED TO CREATE AN EVEN WET ZONE ABOUT THE SIZE OF THE CANOPY OF ALL NEW SHRUBS, NEW TREES & EXISTING
IMMATURE NON-NATIVE TREES.  BUBBLERS SHALL BE PLACED TO AVOID AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IRRIGATING OAK TREES & ANY OTHER EXISTING,
MATURE NATIVE OR DROUGHT TOLERANT PLANTS.
15.  HOSE BIBS SHALL BE MOUNTED ON GALVANIZED STEEL RISERS 30" ABOVE FINISHED GRADE.  SECURE TO A #4 STEEL BAR DRIVEN 18" INTO
SOLID GROUND.
16.  CHECK VALVES SHALL BE INSTALLED ON ALL DOWNHILL DRIPLINE & DISTRIBUTION LINE.
17.  RISER HEIGHT IN LAWN AREAS SHALL BE 4".  RISER HEIGHT IN MEADOW AREAS AND OTHER LANDSCAPE AREAS SHALL BE 12".  THE RISERS FOR
SPRINKLERS ON SLOPES SHALL BE SET APPROXIMATELY PERPENDICULAR TO THE PLANE OF THE SLOPE.
18.  IF LOCATION OF A SUPPLY LINE INTERFERES WITH THE DRILLING OF THE PLANT HOLES, THE PLANT HOLES SHALL BE LOCATED AS TO CLEAR THE
SUPPLY LINES.
18.  ALL LINES SHALL BE THOROUGHLY FLUSHED OUT PRIOR TO ATTACHMENT OF VALVES, SPRINKLERS, EMITTERS, & OTHER TERMINAL FITTINGS.
19.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE FINAL ADJUSTMENTS TO THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM TO ENSURE PROPER COVERAGE AND PREVENT WATER RUN-OFF
AND EXCESS SPRAY.
20.  ALL SPRAY AND DRIP ZONES TO BE MIN. 5'-0" AND PREFERABLY 10'-0" AWAY FROM OAK TREE TRUNKS.
SPRAY HEAD & BODY
SCALE:  NTS
D
FINISH GRADE
HUNTER MPR40 BODY
HUNTER MP ROTATOR
W/ CHECK VALVE
HUNTER PRO-FLEX TUBING,
(2) HSBE-050 ELBOWS &
(1) MARLEX STREET ELBOW
SWING JOINT:
LATERAL TEE OR ELL
LATERAL PIPE
SPRAY NOZZLE
NOTE:
LAWN SPRAY RISER: 6" POP-UP
MEADOW SPRAY RISER: 12" POP-UP
FINISHED GRADE
POP-UP MICROSPRAY 
SCALE:  NTS
F
XERI-POP MICROSPRAY
1/2" or 3/4" POLY TUBING
1/4" SELF-PIERCING
BARB CONNECTOR
1/4" DISTRIBUTION TUBING
NOTE:
LAWN SPRAY RISER: 6" POP-UP
MEADOW, SHRUB SPRAY RISER: 12" POP-UP
DRIPLINE SAMPLE LAYOUT
SCALE:  NTS
E
AUTOMATIC FLUSH VALVE
PLUMBED TO PVC OR POLY
EXHAUST HEADER
TECHLINE TEE
TECHLINE DRIPLINE
*CENTERED ON BERM
TECHLINE DRIPLINE
TECHLINE START
CONNECTION
AIR / VACUUM RELIEF
PLUMBED TO TECHLINE
AT EACH HIGH POINT
SUPPLY HEADER
REMOTE CONTROL
VALVE WITH DISC
FILTER AND PRV
SOIL BED
SPACING
TECHLINE
MULCH
FINISHED GRADE
PER SOIL
CONDITIONS
DRIPLINE
MALE ADAPTER
1/2" PVC IRRIGATION
POT IRRIGATION / DRAINAGE
SCALE:  NTS
I
W/ XERI-BUBBLER
& LASER LINE
BITUTHENE
WATER-PROOFING
FILTER FABRIC
4" DEEP PEA GRAVEL
PAVING
WATERPROOF SEAL
*PREVENT DRAINAGE
TO PAVING
4" PVC SLEEVE / DRAIN
FINISHED
GRADE
POT *PER OWNER
SUPERSOIL
*OR EQ.
CONNECT TO SITE
DRAINAGE / IRRIGATION
3"
4"
SEPTEMBER 00, 2015

--- page 38 ---
33"OAK
16"BIRCH
16"BIRCH
17"TREE
18"TREE
13"YUCCA
6"TREE
9"TREE
4
3
2
5
6
1
47" OAK TREE
7
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
LAWN
(N)
LAWN
(N)
TOLERANT
GROUNDCOVER
DROUGHT
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
(N) STONE PATIO
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES
(N)
STONE
PATIO
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
L6.0
DATE:
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
/ TREE PROTECTION PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
PROTECTION
REVISIONS
TREE
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT
APRIL 20, 2022
TREE PROTECTION FENCING
SCALE:  NTS
BLACK CHAINLINK FENCING
BASEROCK FOOTING
3" DIA. STEEL POST *8'-0" O.C. MAX.
A
12"
18"
6'-0" MAX.
COMPACT
17.  NO MATERIALS SHALL BE STORED WITHIN THE TREE PROTECTION ZONE;
18.  NOTHING SHALL BE ATTACHED TO THE TREES WITHIN THE TPZ;
19.  UTILITY SERVICES SHALL NOT BE LOCATED WITHIN THE TPZ;
20.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST SHALL BE RETAINED FOR PERIODIC MONITORING OF THE TREES AND PROTECTION MEASURES;
21.  THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTACTING THE PROJECT ARBORIST IN A TIMELY MANNER TO HAVE THE PROJECT ARBORIST PRESENT FOR ALL WORK PERFORMED
WITHIN THE TPZ OF PROTECTED TREES;
22.  NO SELF-PROPELLED EQUIPMENT MAY ENTER THE TPZ;
23.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST IS TO MONITOR ALL WORK WITHIN THE TPZ;
24.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST IS TO DETERMINE THE IRRIGATION SCHEDULE FOR PROTECTED TREES. THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS EXPECTED TO APPLY SUPPLEMENTAL WATER AT THE
DIRECTION OF THE PROJECT ARBORIST.
*TPZ: TREE PROTECTION ZONE.
7/31/2022
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL - TREE PROTECTION / TREE REPLACEMENT
11.  RECOMMENDATIONS BY CONSULTING ARBORIST - THE RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE CONSULTING ARBORIST, INCLUDING THE MITIGATION MEASURES
OUTLINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION REGARDING TREE PRESERVATION, PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT PLANTINGS, AND ANY MODIFICATIONS IMPOSED THROUGH THE APPROVAL
PROCESS, SHALL BE INCORPORATED INTO THE FINAL DESIGN OF THE PROJECT AND WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE PLANNING DIVISION PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT AND WILL BE
MONITORED BY ROUTIME INSPECTIONS BY THE PLANNING, BUILDING AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS AND THROUGH MONTHLY REPORTS SUBMITTED FOR REVIEW TO THE PLANNING DIVISION BY THE
PROJECT ARBORIST AND APPLICANT.  (PLANNING, BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS
12.  TREE PROTECITON - THE APPLICANT SHALL PROTECT ALL MAJOR VEGETATION DESIGNATED TO REMAIN FROM DAMAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION.  TREE PROTECTION SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL
PROVISIONS OF THE HERITAGE TREE ORDINANCE, APPROMED ARBORIST'S REPORT, AND ANY REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED BY THE CITY.  THE FOLLOWING TREE PROTECTION MEASURES SHALL BE SHOWN
ON BUILDING PERMIT DRAWINGS:
A)  PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE LOCATED AT THE DRIP LINE OF EXISTING MAJOR VEGETATION TO REMAIN.  THIS PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED OF CHAIN LINK IN FOOTINGS AND
SHALL REMAIN IN PLACE UNTIL FINAL INSPECTION PER THE ARBORIST'S REPORT.
B)  ALL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREE PRESERVATION - INCLUDING ROOT PRUNING, PRUNING, FERTILIZATION AND MULCHING - CONTAINED IN THE APPROVED ARBORIST REPORT, AND / OR ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED BY THE CITY.
IN ADDITION, THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE COMPLIED WITH AT ALL TIMES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
C)  OIL, GAS, CHEMICALS, TOPSOIL, CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS, VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT SHALL NOT BE STORED WITHIN THE DRIP LINE OF TREES THAT ARE DESIGNATED TO BE PRESERVED.
D)  SIGNS, WIRES, OR OTHER TYPED OF OBSTRUCTIONS SHALL NOT BE ATTACHED TO TREES.
E)  TRENCHING UNDER THE DRIP LINE OF TREES IS TO BE AVOIDED.  IF TRENCING IS NECESSARY, TRENCHES ARE TO BE HAND DUG AND MAJOR ROOTS RETAINED.
F)  TO MITIGATE THE REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION AND HERITAGE TREES, REPLACEMENT LANDSCAPING WILL BE PROVIDED.  THE SIZE OF PROPOSED PLANTINGS INCLUDE:  50 (15-GALLON TREES),
28 (24-INCH BOX TREES), AND 8 (36-INCH BOX TREES).
ALL TREE PROTECTION MEASURES SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A GRADING PERMIT, DEMOLITION PERMIT, OR BUILDING PERMIT.  THE APPLICANT SHALL CONTACT THE PLANNING
DIVISION TO INSPECT THE TREE PROTECTION MEASURES PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF ANY PERMITS ON THE PROPERTY.  (PLANNING)
13.  TREE PROTECTION - THE APPLICANT SHALL PROTECT ALL MAJOR VEGETATION DESIGNATED TO REMAIN FROM DAMAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION.  TREE PROTECTION SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL
PROVISIONS OF THE HERITAGE TREE ORDINANCE AND SHALL DEMONSTRATE AND INCLUDE THE MITIGATION MEASURES OUTLINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION REGARDING TREE
PRESERVATION, PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT PLANTINGS ON THE BUILDING PERMIT DRAWINGS.  THE MITIGATION MEASURES IN THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE  CONSULTING ARBORIST SHALL BE
INCORPORATED INTO THE PROJECT PLANS AND WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE PLANNING DIVISION PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT AND WILL BE MONITORED BY ROUTINE INSPECTIONS BY
THE PLANNING, BUILDING AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS.  IN ADDITION, THE PROJECT ARBORIST WILL PROVIDE MONTHLY REPORTS (DURING PRE-DEMOLITION, DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES) REGARDING THE HEALTH OF ALL TREES PROPOSED TO BE RETAINED.  THESE REPORTS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING DIVISION FOR REVIEW.  (PLANNING,
BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS)
14.  FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR TREE PRESERVATION - THE APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT FINANCIAL SECURITIES TO ENSURE THE PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A
BUILDING PERMIT.  TREE PRESERVATION FEES SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE LANDSCAPE UNIT (LU) VALUE AT A RATE OF NINETY DOLLARS ($90) PER LU.  IN ORDER TO RECLAIM FINANCIAL SECURITIES,
THE APPLICANT SHALL REQUEST A FINAL PROJECT INSPECTION BY THE PLANNING DIVISION.  IF THE APPLICANT DOES MEET THE OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE TERMS OF THE SECURITIES THAT MONEY SHALL
BE USED TO ACCOMP0LISH THE PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES.  (PLANNING)
15.  TREE REPLACEMENT / IN LIEU FEES - THE APPLICANT SHALL PLANT TREES EQUIVALENT TO THE LANDSCAPE UNIT (LU) VALUE OF TREES TO BE REMOVED OR PAY A FEE IN LIEU OF PLANTING TREES AT
THE RATE OF NINETY DOLLARS ($90) PER REQUIRED LU PER THE ARBORIST REPORT AND THE MITIGATION MEASURES CONTAINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION.  THE APPLICANT SHALL PAY
THE REQUIRED LU FEES PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.  THE FEES WILL GO INTO THE CITY'S PRESERVATION FUND TO ENSURE THAT REPLACEMENT PLANTING ARE PLANTED WITHIN THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO.  (PLANNING, PARKS AND RECREATION)
16.  PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION - THE APPLICANT SHALL OBTAIN A SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FROM THE PLANNING DIVISION FOR REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION (TREES 6"
DIAMETER OR LARGER) PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A GRADING OR BUILDING PERMIT.  FEES FOR TREE REMOVAL SHALL BE BASED ON THE NUMBER OF TREES TO BE REMOVED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
CITY REGULATIONS.  (PLANNING)
TREE PROTECTION NOTES
1.  THE CONCEPTS ON THE TREE PROTECTION PLAN ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED
BY THE CONTRACTOR.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE ADJUSTMENTS AS NECESSARY BASED ON ACTUAL SITE CONDITIONS.
2.  PRIOR TO INITIATING ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY IN THE AREA, INCLUDING GRADING, TEMPORTY PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE INSTALLED AT
EACH SITE TREE.  FENCING IS IDEALLY LOCATED AT OR BEYOND THE CANOPY DRIPLINE AND AS MUCH DRIPLINE AS POSSIBLE WILL BE PROTECTED BY
FENCING.
3.  FENCING SHALL BE MINIMUM OF 5' TALL AT ALL LOCATIONS, AD SHALL FORM A CONTINUOUS BARRIER WITHOUT ENTRY POINTS AROUND ALL
TREES, OR GROUPS OF TREES.  BARRIER TYPE FENCING SUCH AS CHAINLINK IS PREFERRED, AND THE USE OF SIMPLE POST AND CABLE FENCING IS
DISCOURAGED.  ANY ENCROACHMENT INTO THE DRIPLINE FOR FENCING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES SHOULD BE DISCUSSED AND AGREED UPON IN
ADVANCE WITH THE PROJECT ARBORIST.
4.  THIS FENCING SHALL SERVE AS A BARRIER TO PREVENT DRIPLINE ENCROACHMENT OF ANY TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE TO BARK, ROOT CROWN, OR LIMBS MAY INCREASE POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE DECLINE.
5.  CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS SHALL DIRECT ALL EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL TO REMAIN OUTSIDE THE FENCED AREA AT ALL TIMES
UNTIL PROJECT IS COMPLETE, AND SHALL INSTRUCT EMPLOYEES AS TO THE PURPOSE AND IMPORTANCE OF FENCING.
6.  A WARNING SIGN SHALL BE POSTED AT EACH TREE INDICATING THE PURPOSE OF THE FENCING.
7.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST SHALL BE RESPOSIBLE FOR INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF THE FENCING PRIOR TO ANY GRADING OPERATIONS.
8.  FENCING MUST REMAIN IN PLACE AND SHALL NOT BE REMOVED UNTIL ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ARE COMPLETED.  THIS SHALL INCLUDE
GRADING AND COMPACTION ACTIVITIES, INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND, ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND ANY OTHER CONSTRUCTION OR
ACTIVITY WHICH IS SCHEDULED PRIOR TO LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION.
9.  ROOTS OF SINGLE STANDING TREES OFTEN EXTEND UP TO THREE TIMES THE DISTANCE OF THE ACTUAL DRIPLINE AD FUNCTION PRIMARILY IN THE
UPTAKE OF NUTRIENTS AND WATER.  THE DRIPLINE IS ARBITRARILY ESTABLISHED AS THE MINIMUM ROOT AREA GENERALLY REQUIRED TO PRESERVE
TREE HEALTH.  AS MUCH AREAS AROUND THE CIRCUMFERENCE OF THE TREE SHOULD HAVE MINIMUM INTRUSION TO FURTHER ENSURE TREE
SURVIVAL AND HEALTH.
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT NOTES
1.  MAINTAIN A FIREBREAK BY REMOVING AND CLEARING AWAY ALL FLAMMABLE VEGETATION AND OTHER COMBUSTIBLE GROWTH WITHIN 30 FEET OF
EACH BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, WITH CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS PURSUANT TO PRC §4291(A). SINGLE SPECIMENS OF TREES OR OTHER VEGETATION MAY
BE RETAINED PROVIDED THEY ARE WELL SPACED, WELL-PRUNED, AND CREATE A CONDITION THAT AVOIDS SPREAD OF FIRE TO OTHER VEGETATION OR
TO A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  CHIMNEY AND STOVEPIPE OUTLETS SHALL BE MAINTAINED WITH 10 FEET CLEARANCE TO ADJACENT VEGETATION.
2.  DEAD AND DYING WOODY SURFACE FUELS AND AERIAL FUELS WITHIN THE REDUCED FUEL ZONE SHALL BE REMOVED. LOOSE SURFACE LITTER,
NORMALLY CONSISTING OF FALLEN LEAVES OR NEEDLES, TWIGS, BARK, CONES, AND SMALL BRANCHES, SHALL BE PERMITTED TO A DEPTH OF 3
INCHES. THIS GUIDELINE IS PRIMARILY INTENDED TO ELIMINATE TREES, BUSHES, SHRUBS AND SURFACE DEBRIS THAT ARE COMPLETELY DEAD OR
WITH SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF DEAD BRANCHES OR LEAVES/NEEDLES THAT WOULD READILY BURN.  THE ROOF OF THE STRUCTURE SHALL BE
MAINTAINED FREE OF LEAVES, NEEDLES, AND OTHER VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
3.  DOWN LOGS OR STUMPS ANYWHERE WITHIN 100 FEET FROM THE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, WHEN EMBEDDED IN THE SOIL, MAY BE RETAINED
WHEN ISOLATED FROM OTHER VEGETATION. OCCASIONAL (APPROXIMATELY ONE PER ACRE) STANDING DEAD TREES (SNAGS) THAT ARE WELL-SPACE
FROM OTHER VEGETATION AND WHICH WILL NOT FALL ON BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES OR ON ROADWAYS/DRIVEWAYS MAY BE RETAINED.
4.  WITHIN THE REDUCED FUEL ZONE, ONE OF THE FOLLOWING FUEL TREATMENTS (4A. OR 4B.) SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED. PROPERTIES WITH GREATER
FIRE HAZARDS WILL REQUIRE GREATER CLEARING TREATMENTS. COMBINATIONS OF THE METHODS MAY BE ACCEPTABLE UNDER §1299(C) AS LONG AS
THE INTENT OF THESE
GUIDELINES IS MET.
4A. REDUCED FUEL ZONE: FUEL SEPARATION
IN CONJUNCTION WITH GENERAL GUIDELINES 1, 2 AND 3 ABOVE, MINIMUM CLEARANCE BETWEEN FUELS SURROUNDING EACH BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE WILL RANGE FROM 4 FEET TO 40 FEET IN ALL DIRECTIONS, BOTH HORIZONTALLY AND VERTICALLY.  CLEARANCE DISTANCES BETWEEN
VEGETATION WILL DEPEND ON THE SLOPE, VEGETATION SIZE, VEGETATION TYPE (BRUSH, GRASS, TREES), AND OTHER FUEL CHARACTERISTICS (FUEL
COMPACTION, CHEMICAL CONTENT ETC.).  PROPERTIES WITH GREATER FIRE HAZARDS WILL REQUIRE GREATER SEPARATION BETWEEN FUELS.  FOR
EXAMPLE, PROPERTIES ON STEEP SLOPES HAVING LARGE SIZED VEGETATION WILL REQUIRE GREATER SPACING BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL TREES AND
BUSHES (SEE PLANT SPACING GUIDELINES BELOW).  GROUPS OF VEGETATION (NUMEROUS PLANTS GROWING TOGETHER LESS THAN 10 FEET IN TOTAL
FOLIAGE WIDTH) MAY BE TREATED AS A SINGLE PLANT.  GRASS GENERALLY SHOULD NOT EXCEED 4 INCHES IN HEIGHT.  HOWEVER, HOMEOWNERS MAY
KEEP GRASS AND OTHER FORBS LESS THAN 18 INCHES IN HEIGHT ABOVE THE GROUND WHEN THESE GRASSES ARE ISOLATED FROM OTHER FUELS
OR WHERE NECESSARY TO STABILIZE THE SOIL AND PREVENT EROSION.  CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS INCLUDE:
• HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN TREE CANOPIES ON 0%-20% SLOPES SHALL BE 10 FEET, ON 20%-40% SLOPES 20 FEET, AND ON GREATER
THAN 40% SLOPES, 30 FEET.  HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN SHRUB CANOPIES ON 0%-20% SLOPES SHALL BE 2 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT, ON
20%-40% SLOPES 4 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT, AND ON GREATER THAN 40% SLOPES 6 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT WITH A MINIMUM OF 4 FEET
CLEARANCE AND A MAXIMUM ON 40 FEET.  HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE HELPS STOP THE SPREAD OF FIRE FROM ONE FUEL TO THE NEXT.
• VERTICAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN LOWER LIMBS OF AERIAL FUELS AND THE NEAREST SURFACE FUELS AND GRASS / WEEDS SHALL BE 3 TIMES THE
HEIGHT OF THE VEGETATION WITH A MINIMUM OF 4 FEET CLEARANCE AND A MAXIMUM ON 40 FEET.  VERTICAL CLEARANCE REMOVES LADDER FUELS
AND HELPS PREVENT A FIRE FROM MOVING FROM THE SHORTER FUELS TO THE TALLER FUELS.
4B. REDUCED FUEL ZONE: DEFENSIBLE SPACE WITH CONTINUOUS TREE CANOPY
TO ACHIEVE DEFENSIBLE SPACE WHILE RETAINING A STAND OF LARGER TREES WITH A CONTINUOUS TREE CANOPY APPLY THE FOLLOWING
TREATMENTS:
• GENERALLY, REMOVE ALL SURFACE FUELS GREATER THAN 4 INCHES IN HEIGHT. SINGLE SPECIMENS OF TREES OR OTHER VEGETATION MAY BE
RETAINED PROVIDED THEY ARE WELL-SPACED, WELL-PRUNED, AND CREATE A CONDITION THAT AVOIDS SPREAD OF FIRE TO OTHER VEGETATION OR TO
A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
• REMOVE LOWER LIMBS OF TREES (“PRUNE”) TO AT LEAST 6 FEET UP TO 15 FEET (OR THE LOWER 1/3 BRANCHES FOR SMALL TREES). PROPERTIES
WITH GREATER FIRE HAZARDS, SUCH AS STEEPER SLOPES OR MORE SEVERE FIRE DANGER, WILL REQUIRE PRUNING HEIGHTS IN THE UPPER END OF
THIS RANGE.

--- page 39 ---
L6.5
DATE:
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
DETAILS
NOTES /
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
APRIL 20, 2022
7/31/2022

--- page 40 ---
“ALL WORK WITHIN 13 FT FROM
“THE TREE IS REQUIRED TO BE

| SUPERVISED UNDER THE PROJECT
“ARBORIST.

>» ALL WORK WITHIN 13 FT FROM

© THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER) |S

» REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED BY
~ HAND WHILE UNDER THE PROJEGT
- ARBORIST SUPERVISION.

—

» 6! CHAIN LINK i
| FENCE PER TREE
~ PROTECTION IN
( ARBORIST REPORT _

6 CHAIN LINK

\ )

\ FENCE PER TREE

/

~ PROTECTION IN {
. ARBORIST REPORT

AA_ALA

ND

NYHUS DESIGN

GROUP

| HEDGE ¢ LANDSCAPE
] FT HIGH OR MAINTAIN Vinoow 6! CHAIN LINK
GROWTH OF A MATURE -_ FENCE PER TREE
TREE LOWER THAN 7 FT IN / PROTECTION IN 5
THE 10! SIGHT TRIANGLE / ~ ARBORIST REPORT j
|0-0' | 6-0! _ [2 Caeeeueeuareeee
J’TRER \ i © Oo < ° > ° ° © ° °
oe: oS ~ ts ve a SpE? mate Z e 7
}o 5 , WAL AA AL %y S%, sc S% S M TRE —_ 9 rm
IY \7 MEOW) UNCOVERE “| — aie /
| || CORT A PARKING a — ——— WV
— AL10 3/4) J | SPOT TOTAly _|s
() yee —a ~ FOUNDATION WHEN WITHIN 12 FT
| SETBA a4 um ~ FROM THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER)
| cK | \ | ~ S REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED
[| laa, | BY HAND WHILE UNDER THE
boa 2/'.3 3/: (
[|= _ | i ° - PROJECT ARBORIST
Of Y ra — — SUPERVISION.
= = 20:0" | | | | |
o> GARAGE! | i— ee |
SETBACK TREE °
\ wl
W v | 4 ° - TRELLIS POST HOLES AND STONE |
EEE | ty » FROM THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER)
l \ | , ~ |S REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED
nO @YAQ = | " | > BY HAND WHILE UNDER THE
| IN —_ | PROJECT ARBORIST
; b | : SUPERVISION.
a - |X le 0.0"/492.00) ee eee eneeee :
fe 34h 7 —y NN [= Fics toe 7 -
| 7 sv | C
|
i | ~ 6! CHAIN LINK FENCE PER ©
i ~~ 7” NZ | TREE PROTECTION IN )
A TSR) e sos Si ~—! 7 > ARBORIST REPORT ;
/OLSi \ J
I | ~ 2 EXISTING HOUSE | ~ A
7 | SHOWN DASHED fe.
a
/ _|
HEDGE ¢ LANDSCAPE 1. .
SHALL BE LESS THAN 3 °
FT HIGH OR MAINTAIN . —
GROWTH OF A MATURE x ~
TREE LOWER THAN 7 FT IN . = 25
THE 10! SIGHT TRIANGLE = w .
° > x Wy, LMM, Pe
e = E,, SE E
° Ss eV IF IS K
POOL WITHIN 39.2 FT FROM THE 4 (0
TREE (1 OX DIAMETER) IS ~
REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED BY ~
HAND WHILE UNDER THE PROJECT -
ARBORIST SUPERVISION.

GENERAL NOTES:
|. Refer to Sheet L6.O for Tree Protection Measures

Site Plan
CE reso aeerereerrererrrrrerrererrnnrererrnerrneneeenreennnnenenennennenennnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnEnEEEEEEEEEEEEEIEEIEEREREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

Date

Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21
/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22
aN Response to Comments 4/18/22
The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title

Proposed Site

Plan

1/8" = 1'-0"

10/13/21

Drawn By

Job Number

20-128

Drawing Number

A100


--- page 41 ---
NDG

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

OTHER POSSIBLE LOCATION ee | |
_- _~e Architecture: Plannin g
7 ~ 1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010

OF DETACHED ADU L
7 - >»
y N Tel: 650.242.1553

ON ON OO
SE? | ee A ASI Sy |

ne 1

“
7 SATLICOA OOS Cee So) |

JOS

\\T

UIE OSU ACS

Date

\
Nt

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

|
|
|
|
W = E> ie
C) W | \ = \ Revisions
Cl) 5M | W i w~Cn 4 X
2 a Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
(FZ ar |
Planning Review 10/26/21
/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22
aN Response to Comments 4/18/22

rr in aaa
[ Ope oe

I

_—__ 4
Sususw

=
rr

The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

SAS

Drawing Title

Tree Protection

Zone Diagram

mee 3/16" = 1'-0"

Date

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

OTHER POSSIBLE LOCATION

Drawing Number

A102

OF DETACHED ADU

Tree Protection Zone Diagram
( 3/16" = 1'-0"


--- page 42 ---
ND

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010

Tel: 650.242.1553

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21

/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

aN Response to Comments 4/18/22

The
Alston

Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Tlf

==

Drawing Title

Renders
Scale NA
pare 10/13/21
Drawn By
Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

A103



--- page 43 ---


--- page 44 ---


--- page 45 ---


--- page 46 ---


--- page 47 ---


--- page 48 ---


--- page 49 ---


--- page 50 ---


--- page 51 ---


--- page 52 ---
G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 - 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

= =
S26
= < EE Ooo
inal to
ul S 8s
wt i no
N Oo
oO
©
< S Ee
©
: ALSTON RESIDENCE BS
WD ©
: ! O 5
> "es Ic S Wd eg
o € Xe 3°
Pa xt
< >O
2 coc
gs
25
SAN MATEO, CA 94402 5
PROJECT :
wire YY
cd
we
ai
ke
<x
\
\
\ oy
\ \
\
N.T.S. \ N.T.S.
\ \ é
n
ABBREVIATIONS \ \ \ EXISTING proposep LEGEND: >
\ wd
AB AGGREGATE BASE /
AC ASPHALT CONCRETE / \ —ss——  s- —>— SANITARY SEWER
AD AREA DRAIN J \ \ —sp—— ss ——sp-—— STORM DRAIN
ATD ATRIUM DRAIN °
BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTION DEVICE / a STORM SUB-DRAIN (PERFORATED PIPE)
BW BOTTOM OF WALL ELEVATION — --— TRANSITION FROM PERF. PIPE TO SOLID PIPE
cL CENTER LINE ee
cs CRAWL SPACE ELEVATION —LAw }+— =—LE + - FIRE WATER LINE
CIP CAST IRON PIPE
_ \ W —i}— DOMESTIC WATER SERVICE
CONC CONCRETE ~_ | somone
DD DECK DRAIN J \ cee RR —Ore}+— IRRIGATION SERVICE
DDCV DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE Lor 11
DG DECOMPOSED GRANITE \ yo = 4 ° — CAS —— NATURAL GAS
DIP DUCTILE IRON PIPE ) ag ma fp ELECTRIC
DS ROOF DOWN SPOUT be a7 6 a,
DWy DRIVEWAY * a ___gebeou mas ne ke JT JT JOINT TRENCH
(E) EXISTING i Bo TO TNE C , Xx o_o FENCE
ELEC ELECTRICAL ie
Re 7.72 fo) CLEAN OUT
EM ELECTRICAL METER | aN | | Onlken sco °
EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT i 7 > ; i dtc ian so DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE
FC FACE OF CURB ELEVATION L :
FDC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION Uo , GARAGE | PROPOSED. RES CEs - POST INDICATOR VALVE
FF FINISHED FLOOR ELEVATION 7 _ FE = 920 pe @ @ VALVE
FG FINISHED GROUND ELEVATION a AT Ne 2 “
FL FLOW LINE ELEVATION / 8 = os air atts = Fy TA CRAWL SPACE a bx & METER BOX
FM FORCE MAIN LINE iS eum we es —o STREET LIGHT
FS FINISHED SURFACE ELEVATION = | Ee Sasez0r—— LOT 10, 5 stucco nouse | @ e e AREA DRAIN
FP FINISHED PAVEMENT ELEVATION sy pe ° 1 We
FW FIRE WATER LINE E; op am ere | CATCH BASIN
GB GRADE BREAK = of ol
Ue on : Ld o FIRE HYDRANT
GM GAS METER . GIMNEY i
GR GRATE ELEVATION . EP Stone Ce Oo OC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
GV GATE VALVE Pay eH STONE
HP HIGH POINT / RS ‘i 7 “ BENCHMARK
HW HEATED WATER LINE > = a woo Sy SZ ) MANHOLE
/ = e BORDER, we IEK a ©
INV PIPE INVERT ELEVATION ~ . <— ee eau YC: SIGN
JT JOINT TRENCH ye . _ = a
JP JOINT POLE ) 8 yon} “ ° ° DOWNSPOUT
LD LANDSCAPE DRAIN * — :
LF LINEAR FEET / , Se 2 mven — c> SPLASH BLOCK
LP LOW POINT / / f "S37 a } CONTOURS
(N) NEW / CONCRETE RETAINING es a 24°2V/A9"TS*O e J —— = — — - -§ ——
PIV POST INDICATOR VALVE / loro at aa S@ a on —~ . PROPERTY LINE
POC POINT OF CONNECTION ke | oa SS py) So nn SETBACK
RIM RIM ELEVATION fe ; BY ‘ —— _ _ GRASS SWALE
Ss SLOPE & . ceryfinc ° ~
SAP SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS y ke \ a ~ ~~ ezzzzzzza RETAINING WALL/ BUILDING STEMWALL Al
SBD STORM SUB DRAIN ig i /
SBDCO STORM SUB DRAIN CLEANOUT / Co / a >< (E) TREE TO BE REMOVED O
SD STORM DRAIN Jo LLI w=
SDCO STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT Ss “& Ly’ LU —
SGR SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT L / 7 ZO)
SICB SIDE INLET CATCH BASIN Ue / SHEET INDEX O Lu
SLP SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS an / — Z
SPP SEE PLUMBING PLANS / [— Lu > <
ss SANITARY SEWER / 0 20 40 SHEET NO. DESCRIPTION Q <q ©
SSCO SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT x ; LL
SSP SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS & | ee ———| C-0 TITLE SHEET n
TW TOP OF WALL ELEVATION fey C1 NOTES SHEET aa “) 2 O
TYP TYPICAL GRAPHIC SCALE
VD PIPE VERTICAL DROP C-2 GRADING PLAN Vy) oO LL =
WM WATER METER LINE C-3 UTILITY PLAN Z ‘ad x
C-4 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN LL O <x >
& C-4.1 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) | — LL
EARTHWORK QUANTITIES s/ C-5 DETAIL SHEET — 7) lp Zz
AM 96.52 —! ™ <
GROSS QUANTITIES: QUANTITY BREAKDOWN: INv=e7 82 _— qrw
CUT 445 CY. BUILDINGS:
FILL 40 CY. CUT 130 C.Y. iS) HYDROLOGY Date:
TOTAL TOBE MOVED 485 C.Y. FILL 10 C.Y. a (E) IMPERVIOUS | (N)IMPERVIOUS | REQUIRED | STORAGE VOL. 01/19/2022
BALANCE 405 C.Y. CUT (OFF-HAUL) POOL: / AREA AREA STORAGE VOL. PROVIDED
CUT 170 CY.

NET QUANTITIES (BUILDING AND SITE WORK:
STRUCTURES OMITTED CUT 145 CY.

Drawing Number:

CUT 145 C.Y. nn '
FILL 30 C.Y. 30 CY. wou

TOTAL TO BE MOVED 175C.Y. INV=81.78
BALANCE 115 C.Y. CUT (OFF-HAUL)

EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ABOVE ARE FOR PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY.
CONTRACTOR SHALL CALCULATE THEIR OWN EARTHWORK QUANTITIES, AND USE
THEIR CALCULATIONS FOR BIDDING AND COST ESTIMATING PURPOSES.

C-O

PEC 21-125



--- page 53 ---
E

CAUTION: DEMOLITION NOTES : GRADING NOTES: GENERAL UTILITY SYSTEM NOTES : SANITARY SEWER NOTES: YEE 8

2th 38

1. THE LOCATIONS, SIZES AND/OR DEPTHS OF EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES 1. PRIOR TO BEGINNING DEMOLITION WORK ACTIVITIES, CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE POSITIVE SURFACE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM ALL STRUCTURES BY 1. UNDERGROUND UTILITIES OR STRUCTURES ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE 1. USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE 7 > ss S
AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAN WERE OBTAINED FROM SOURCES OF VARYING INSTALL EROSION CONTROL MEASURES OUTLINED IN THE EROSION CONTROL SLOPING THE FINISHED GROUND SURFACE AT LEAST 5%, UNLESS OTHERWISE LOCATIONS AND EXTENT BASED UPON FIELD OBSERVATION ONLY. NO SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH > V3
RELIABILITY. THE CONTRACTOR IS CAUTIONED THAT ONLY ACTUAL EXCAVATION PLAN & DETAILS. NOTED ON THE PLANS. SLOPE LANDINGS 2% (1/4" PER FOOT) AWAY FROM, GUARANTEE IS MADE TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE "CAUTION-BURIED SANITARY SEWER LINE BELOW". 5 D ok
WILL REVEAL THE TYPES, EXTENT, SIZES, LOCATIONS AND DEPTHS OF SUCH STRUCTURES UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON PLANS. ANY AREAS ON THE SITE INFORMATION SHOWN. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY THE TYPE, SIZE, > S © ©
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. (A REASONABLE EFFORT HAS BEEN MADE TO LOCATE 2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE NOT CONFORMING TO THESE BASIC RULES DUE TO EXISTING CONDITIONS OR LOCATION AND DEPTH OF ALL THE UTILITIES AND CROSSINGS TO ENSURE THEY 2. ALL SEWER WORK SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE CITY OR APPROPRIATE ra ) re
AND DELINEATE ALL KNOWN UNDERGROUND UTILITIES). CONTRACTOR SHALL RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY DISCREPANCIES IN THE DOCUMENTS ARE TO BE REPORTED TO THE CIVIL ARE CORRECT AS SHOWN. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE CAUTION WHEN SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT. ©
VERIFY LOCATION AND DEPTH PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION OR IMPROVEMENT. AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. ENGINEER PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH PLACEMENT OF BASE ROCK OR EXCAVATING AND SHALL PROTECT ALL EXISTING UTILITIES FROM DAMAGE DUE Zz -

FORMWORK FOR CURBS AND/OR FLATWORK. TO CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS. 3. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER MAIN AND SERVICE LINE 4-INCH 1S)

2. CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT UNDERGROUND SERVICE ALERT FOR LOCATION 3. CONTRACTOR IS TO COMPLY WITH ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL THROUGH 8-INCH WITH A MINIMUM OF TWENTY FOUR (24) INCHES OF COVER D °
OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AT LEAST 48 HOURS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE SAFETY AND HEALTH CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE EARTHWORK QUANTITIES BASED ON THE 2. CONTRACTOR SHALL PREPARE AN ACCURATE COMPOSITE UTILITY PLAN THAT SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 26 GREEN SEWER PIPE AND SHALL CO =
CONSTRUCTION- PHONE (800) 642-2444. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY, THE GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION AND THE TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE ACTUAL LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF ASTM DESIGNATION D 3034-73 WITH wd an
EXISTING UTILITIES AND SHALL CLEARLY MARK (AND THEN PRESERVE THESE HAZARDOUS MATERIAL(S). PROPOSED SURFACE THICKNESS AND BASE THE BID ACCORDINGLY. IT IS THE DETERMINED DURING THE DEMOLITION WORK, AND ALL PROPOSED UTILITIES GLUED JOINTS. ALL DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL BE MADE WITH WYE ge 3s
MARKERS) FOR THE DURATION OF CONSTRUCTION OF ALL TELEPHONE, DATA, CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO CONFIRM IF A SEPARATE DEMOLITION SHOWN ON THE CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, JOINT TRENCH AND FIRE SPRINKLER CONNECTIONS, 22.5° ELBOWS or 45° ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE ee
STREET LIGHT, SIGNAL LIGHT AND POWER FACILITIES THAT ARE IN OR NEAR THE 4. CONTRACTOR'S BID IS TO INCLUDE ALL VISIBLE SURFACE AND ALL SUBSURFACE CONTRACT HAS BEEN ISSUED TO TAKE THE SITE FROM THE WAY IT IS AT THE DRAWINGS. PROHIBITED. >O
AREA OF CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO BEGINNING ANY WORK ON THIS SITE. FEATURES IDENTIFIED TO BE REMOVED OR ABANDONED IN THESE DOCUMENTS. TIME OF THE BID TO THE CONDITIONS DESCRIBED IN THESE DOCUMENTS. BRING cw

ANY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE STATE IN WHICH THE SITE IS DELIVERED TO 3. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTACTING APPROPRIATE 4. ALL LATERALS SHALL HAVE A CLEANOUT AT FACE OF BUILDING, AT THE 88

3. THESE DRAWINGS DO NOT ADDRESS CONTRACTOR MEANS AND METHODS OF 5. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR A SITE INSPECTION TO FULLY THE CONTRACTOR AND THESE DOCUMENTS TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CIVIL UTILITIES AND REQUESTING VERIFICATION OF SERVICE POINTS, FIELD PROPERTY LINE AND AS SHOWN ON PLANS PER THE CITY STANDARD OR =
CONSTRUCTION OR PROCESSES THAT MAY BE ASSOCIATED WITH ANY TOXIC ACKNOWLEDGE THE EXTENT OF THE DEMOLITION WORK. ENGINEER. VERIFICATION OF LOCATION, SIZE, DEPTH, ETC. FOR ALL THEIR FACILITIES AND APPROPRIATE SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT. om
SOILS IF FOUND ON SITE. THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLYING TO COORDINATE WORK SCHEDULES. 5
WITH ALL CITY AND COUNTY STANDARDS AND APPROPRIATE REGULATIONS IF 6. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR OBTAINING ANY AND ALL ALL FILL SHALL BE COMPACTED PER THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND THE 5. IF (E) SEWER LATERAL IS TO BE USED, CONTRACTOR SHALL CONDUCT WATER °
TOXIC SOILS ARE ENCOUNTERED OR SUSPECTED OF BEING CONTAMINATED. PERMITS NECESSARY FOR ENCROACHMENT, GRADING, DEMOLITION, AND CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE AND COMPLY WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL 4. CONTRACTOR SHALL REPLACE ALL COVERS AND GRATE LIDS FOR MANHOLES, PRESSURE TEST AND A VIDEO INSPECTION ON THE ENTIRE SECTION OF EXISTING

DISPOSAL OF SAID MATERIALS AS REQUIRED BY PRIVATE, LOCAL AND STATE ENGINEER TO TAKE THE APPROPRIATE TESTS TO VERIFY COMPACTION VALUES. VAULTS, CATCH BASINS, ETC., WITH VEHICULAR-RATED STRUCTURES IN ALL LATERAL FROM HOUSE TO SEWER MAIN. CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM ANY

GENERAL SITE NOTES: JURISDICTIONS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY ALL FEES ASSOCIATED WITH THE TRAFFIC ACCESSIBLE AREAS. NECESSARY CLEANING AND/OR REPAIRS WITHIN THE LATERAL AND AT THE

MENENAL WII INV IThwW DEMOLITION WORK. IMPORT SOILS SHOULD MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SOILS REPORT AND CONNECTION.

SPECIFICATIONS. 5. TRENCHES SHALL NOT BE LEFT OPEN OVERNIGHT IN EXISTING PUBLIC STREET ti

1. CONTRACTOR SHALL VISIT THE SITE PRIOR TO BIDDING ON THIS WORK AND 7. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE AREAS. CONTRACTOR SHALL BACKFILL TRENCHES, OR PLACE STEEL PLATING Ee
CONSIDER THE EXISTING CONDITIONS AND SITE CONSTRAINTS IN THE BID. RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY DO NOT ADJUST GRADES ON THIS PLAN WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL OF WITH ADEQUATE CUTBACK TO PREVENT SHIFTING OF STEEL PLATE AND/OR WATER SYSTEM NOTES: Pa
CONTRACTOR SHALL BE IN THE POSSESSION OF AND FAMILIAR WITH ALL AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. THE CIVIL ENGINEER. HOT-MIX ASPHALT REQUIRED TO PROTECT OPEN TRENCHES AT THE END OF THE ot ehhOSan_auauy=s—=>»

APPLICABLE GOVERNING AGENCIES STANDARD DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS WORKING DAY. | USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE
PRIOR TO SUBMITTING OF A BID. 8. BACKFILL ALL DEPRESSIONS AND TRENCHES FROM DEMOLITION. REMOVAL OF SITE STRIPPINGS THAT CONTAIN ONLY ORGANIC MATERIAL (NO DEBRIS TRASH, SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH
LANDSCAPING SHALL INCLUDE ROOTS AND ORGANIC MATERIALS. BROKEN CONC. OR ROCKS GREATER THAN 1" IN DIAMETER) MAY BE USED IN 6. ALL TRENCHES SHALL BE BACK FILLED PER THE SPECIFICATIONS WITH "CAUTION-BURIED WATER LINE BELOW"

2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE LANDSCAPE AREAS, EXCEPT FOR AREAS IDENTIFIED AS IMPORT TOP SOIL BY THE APPROPRIATE TESTS BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER TO VERIFY COMPACTION
RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY 9. REMOVAL OF LANDSCAPING SHALL INCLUDE ROOTS AND ORGANIC MATERIALS LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS. EXCESS STRIPPINGS SHALL BE REMOVED FROM SITE. VALUES. > ALL WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS. INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WATER
AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. "VALVES TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT AIR RELEASE VALVES AND BLOW OFF

ROUGH GRADING TO BE WITHIN 0.1' AND FINISH GRADES ARE TO BE WITHIN 0.05", 7. CLEAN OUTS, CATCH BASINS, MANHOLES, AREA DRAINS AND UTILITY VAULTS ARE VALVES. SHALL BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY/COUNTY OR

3. ALL WORK ON-SITE AND IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY SHALL CONFORM TO ALL 10. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT FROM DAMAGE ALL EXISTING HOWEVER CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT CONSTRUCT ANY IMPROVEMENTS THAT TO BE ACCURATELY LOCATED BY THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO THE BUILDING, APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS

APPLICABLE GOVERNING AGENCIES STANDARD DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS. IMPROVEMENTS FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES WHICH ARE TO REMAIN. ANY WILL CAUSE WATER TO POND OR NOT MEET REQUIREMENTS IN GRADING NOTE FLATWORK, ROOF DRAINS, AND/OR CURB LAYOUT, NOT BY THE LENGTH OF PIPE
ITEMS DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR OR HIS AGENTS OR ANY ITEMS REMOVED #1. SPECIFIED IN THE DRAWINGS (WHICH IS APPROXIMATE). CONTRACTOR SHALL -
4. CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE FOR HIS USE SHALL BE REPLACED IN EQUAL OR BETTER CONDITION AS STAKE LOCATIONS OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITY EQUIPMENT (BACKFLOW 3. RIOR ON AND CRE RTE LINES IN A OCORDANGE Wits TIE EST EDITION Y
RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF APPROVED BY THE OWNER. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE EXTREME CARE TO CONFORM TO THE LINES, PREVENTOR, TRANSFORMER, UTILITY METERS, ETC.) AND MEET WITH OWNER TO OF THE UNIFORM/CALIFORNIA SNUNBING AND FIRE CODES. (ALL FIXTURE UNIT ro)
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT INCLUDING SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND GRADES, SECTIONS, AND DIMENSIONS AS SET FORTH ON THESE PLANS. ALL REVIEW LOCATION PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. COUNTS SHALL BE REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY THE anys BUILDING AND/OR 7)
PROPERTY THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE 11. COORDINATE ALL UTILITY SHUT-DOWN/DISCONNECT LOCATIONS WITH GRADED AREAS SHALL CONFORM TO THE VERTICAL ELEVATIONS SHOWN WITH A a
LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR SHALL APPROPRIATE DRAWINGS (ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, ARCHITECTURAL, ETC.). TOLERANCE OF ONE-TENTH OF A FOOT. WHERE GRADED AREAS DO NOT 8. CATHODIC PROTECTION MAY BE REQUIRED ON ALL METALLIC FITTINGS AND WATER DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.) x
DEFEND INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER, THE CONSULTING ENGINEER AND CONTRACTOR IS TO SHUT OFF ALL UTILITIES AS NECESSARY PRIOR TO CONFORM TO THESE TOLERANCES, THE CONTRACTORS SHALL BE REQUIRED TO ASSEMBLIES THAT ARE IN CONTACT WITH THE SOIL, IF RECOMMENDED BY THE 4. ALL WATER LINES SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH 36" MINIMUM COVER
THE CITY HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN DEMOLITION. CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS WITH DO CORRECTIVE GRADING, AT NO EXTRA COST TO THE CLIENT. GEOTECHNICAL REPORT. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE TO FULLY ENGINEER Pf} pp fe
CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING THE OWNER. DO NOT INTERRUPT SERVICES TO ADJACENT OFF-SITE OWNERS. AND INSTALL THIS SYSTEM AND COORDINATE ANODE AND TEST STATION 5. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE WATER MAIN AND WATER SERVICE LINE4" THROUGH
FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ANY EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES TO BE ABANDONED, SHOULD BE IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONFIRM THE GROUND LOCATIONS WITH PROJECT MANAGER AND HOME OWNER. "  42-INCH SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) AND SHALL MEET AWWA C900
CONSULTING ENGINEER. REMOVED FROM WITHIN THE PROPOSED BUILDING ENVELOPE AND THEIR ENDS ELEVATIONS AND OVERALL TOPOGRAPHY OF THE SITE PRIOR TO THE START OF RATED FOR 200 PSI CLASS PIPE WITH cB Goey Of ATED DUGTILE IRON FITTINGS
CAPPED OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING ENVELOPE. CONSTRUCTION AS TO THE ACCURACY BETWEEN THE WORK SET FORTH ON 9. ALL UTILITY SYSTEMS (SANITARY SEWER, STORM DRAIN, WATER SYSTEM, ETC.) AND FUSION EPOXY COATED GATE VALVES. ALL JOINTS SHALL BE FACTORY

5. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SECURING THE JOB SITE AND THESE PLANS AND THE WORK IN THE FIELD. ANY DISCREPANCIES SHALL BE ARE DELINEATED IN A SCHEMATIC MANNER ON THESE PLANS. CONTRACTOR IS MANUFACTURED WITH BELL AND SPIGOT ENDS AND RUBBER GASKETS
SHALL TAKE NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS TO PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 12. THIS PLAN IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF ALL EXISTING IMMEDIATELY BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION MANAGER TO PROVIDE ALL FITTINGS, ACCESSORIES AND WORK NECESSARY TO COMPLETE
ON THE JOB SITE BY PROVIDING A CONSTRUCTION FENCE AROUND THE ENTIRE STRUCTURES AND UTILITIES. THIS PLAN INTENDS TO DISCLOSE GENERAL AND CIVIL ENGINEER IN WRITING PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION WHICH THE UTILITY SYSTEM SO THAT IT IS FULLY FUNCTIONING FOR THE PURPOSE 6. ALL WATER LINES 2" OR SMALLER SHALL BE TYPE K COPPER WITH SILVER
AREA OF DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION, INCLUDING ALL STAGING AND INFORMATION KNOWN BY THE ENGINEER AND TO SHOW THE LIMITS OF THE AREA MAY REQUIRE CHANGES IN DESIGN AND/OR AFFECT THE EARTHWORK INTENDED. "  BRAZED JOINTS. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY PRESSURES FROM EXISTING LINES
STORAGE AREAS. CONSTRUCTION FENCE SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF A 6' HIGH WHERE WORK WILL BE PERFORMED. THIS PLAN SHOWS THE EXISTING FEATURES QUANTITIES. ARE ADEQUATE TO SERVICE BUILDINGS AS SPECIFIED BY THE PLUMBING PLANS
GALVANIZED CHAIN LINK WITH GREEN WINDSCREEN FABRIC ON THE OUTSIDE OF TAKEN FROM A FIELD SURVEY, FIELD INVESTIGATIONS AND AVAILABLE 10. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL EXISTING INVERT ELEVATIONS FOR STORM
THE FENCE. INFORMATION. THIS PLAN MAY OR MAY NOT ACCURATELY REFLECT THE TYPE OR THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ADJUST TO FINAL GRADE ALL EXISTING MANHOLES, DRAIN AND SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF 7 CONNECTIONS TO THE EXISTING WATER MAIN SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE

EXTENT OF THE ITEMS TO BE ENCOUNTERED AS THEY ACTUALLY EXIST. WHERE CURB INLETS, CATCH BASINS, VALVES, MONUMENT COVERS, AND OTHER ANY WORK. ALL WORK FOR STORM AND SANITARY SEWER INSTALLATION SHALL "APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY THE

7. EXISTING PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS, BIKE PATHS AND ACCESSIBLE PATHWAYS EXISTING FEATURES ARE NOT SHOWN, IT IS NOT IMPLIED THAT THEY ARE NOT TO CASTINGS WITHIN THE WORK AREA TO FINAL GRADE IN PAVEMENT AND BEGIN AT THE DOWNSTREAM CONNECTION POINT TO ALLOW FOR ANY ACTUAL COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM ALL

SHALL BE MAINTAINED, WHERE FEASIBLE, DURING CONSTRUCTION. BE DEMOLISHED OR REMOVED. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM A LANDSCAPE AREAS UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS TO BE MADE PRIOR TO THE INSTALLATION OF THE EXCAVATION, PREPARE THE SITE FURNISH ALL MATERIALS. INSTALL TAPPING
THOROUGH FIELD INVESTIGATION AND REVIEW OF THE SITE WITHIN THE LIMIT OF ENTIRE LINE. IF THE CONTRACTOR FAILS TO BEGIN AT THE DOWNSTREAM TEE. VALVE AND ALL THRUST BLOCKS. BACKFILL. RESTORE THE SURFACE. AND

8. IF ACONFLICT ARISES BETWEEN THE SPECIFICATIONS AND THE PLAN NOTES, WORK SHOWN IN THIS PLAN SET TO DETERMINE THE TYPE, QUANTITY AND CONNECTION POINT AND WORKS UP STREAM, HE SHALL PROCEED AT HIS OWN CLEAN UP. THE APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS WILL PROVIDE THE

THE MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENT SHALL GOVERN. EXTENT OF ANY AND ALL ITEMS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SOLELY STORM DRAIN NOTES RISK AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY ADJUSTMENTS NECESSARY. CONTRACTOR CONTRACTOR WITH A LIST OF APPROVED CONTRACTORS FOR MAKING WET
RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE EXTENT OF EXISTING STRUCTURES AND VCIVAN VURAIN NV Too SHALL VERIFY LOCATION OF SANITARY SEWER LATERAL WITH OWNER PRIOR TO TAPS
9. ALL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL UTILITIES AND QUANTITY OF WORK INVOLVED IN REMOVING THESE ITEMS FROM CONSTRUCTION.
REPORT BY PGSOILS, INC. DATED NOVEMBER 2021. THE SITE. USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE 8. ALL WATER VALVES SHALL BE CLUSTERED. UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY
SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH 11. CONTRACTOR SHALL UNCOVER AND EXPOSE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES WHERE THE CITY/COUNTY OR APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT.
EXISTING CONDITIONS: "CAUTION-BURIED STORM DRAIN LINE BELOW". THEY ARE TO BE CROSSED ABOVE OR BELOW BY THE NEW FACILITY BEING
a TREE/PLANT PROTECTION NOTES: CONSTRUCTED IN ORDER TO VERIFY THE GRADE AND TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS 9. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTING AND DELIVERING
——s=soeoeowowwm]: OS “OMSTI!!_S—OoOmvO—oeoms-> PRIVATE STORM DRAIN LINE 4-INCH THROUGH 12-INCH IN NON-TRAFFIC AREAS SUFFICIENT HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CLEARANCE. BRING ANY WATER SAMPLES FOR ANALYSIS TO A CITY/COUNTY/APPLICABLE WATER
1. EXISTING TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS PERFORMED BY LEA & BRAZE ENGINEERING SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH A MINIMUM OF EIGHTEEN (18) INCHES OF COVER AND DISCREPANCIES TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CIVIL ENGINEER PRIOR TO DISTRICT APPROVED LAB.
ON FEBRUARY 9, 2021 (JOB #2201777). GRADES ENCOUNTERED ON-SITE MAY 1. PRIOR TO BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION ON SITE, CONTRACTOR SHALL IDENTIFY SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 35. ALL DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL INSTALLATION.
VARY FROM THOSE SHOWN. CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW THE PLANS AND AND PROTECT EXISTING TREES AND PLANTS DESIGNATED AS TO REMAIN. BE MADE WITH WYE CONNECTIONS, 22.5° ELBOWS, 45° ELBOWS OR LONG SWEEP ;
CONDUCT FIELD INVESTIGATIONS AS REQUIRED TO VERIFY EXISTING ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE PROHIBITED. 12. VERTICAL SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS: 10. ALL ON AND OFF-SITE LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SHALL BE IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS AND

CONDITIONS AT THE PROJECT SITE. 2. PROTECT EXISTING TREES TO REMAIN FROM SPILLED CHEMICALS, FUEL OIL, SPECIFICATIONS AND SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE EXISTING AND/OR NEW
MOTOR OIL, GASOLINE AND ALL OTHER CHEMICALLY INJURIOUS MATERIAL; AS PRIVATE STORM DRAIN LINE 4-INCH THROUGH 12-INCH WITHIN VEHICULAR A MINIMUM OF SIX (6) INCHES VERTICAL CLEARANCE SHALL BE PROVIDED WATER SYSTEM AND METERED ACCORDINGLY
2. CLIENT AGREES TO HOLD ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL WELL AS FROM PUDDLING OR CONTINUOUSLY RUNNING WATER. SHOULD A SPILL TRAFFIC AREAS SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH A MINIMUM OF EIGHTEEN (18) INCHES BETWEEN CROSSING UTILITY PIPES, EXCEPT THAT THE MINIMUM VERTICAL ,

OCCURRENCES RESULTING FROM THE INACCURACIES OF THE CLIENT SUPPLIED OCCUR, STOP WORK IN THAT AREA AND CONTACT THE CITY'S OF COVER AND SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 35 PIPE. ALL CLEARANCE BETWEEN WATER AND SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES SHALL BE 44. INSTALL CITY/COUNTY/APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT APPROVED PRESSURE
TOPOGRAPHIC AND/OR BOUNDARY SURVEY (PREPARED BY OTHERS). ENGINEER/INSPECTOR IMMEDIATELY. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL BE MADE WITH WYE CONNECTIONS, OBTUSE 12 INCHES AND ALL NEW WATER PIPES SHALL BE TYPICALLY INSTALLED TO "REGULATOR AND REDUCED BACKFLOW PREVENTOR ON WATER LINE AT
SURVEYOR'S NOTES MITIGATE DAMAGE FROM SPILLED MATERIAL AS WELL AS MATERIAL CLEAN UP. ELBOWS OR LONG SWEEP ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE PROHIBITED. CROSS ABOVE/OVER EXISTING SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES. ENTRANCE TO BUILDING. REFERENCE PLUMBING PLANS FOR MORE DETAIL.

|
a oO S——ormvmwoowoow 3. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ONGOING MAINTENANCE OF ALL PAINT THE TOP OF THE CURBS ADJACENT TO EACH CATCH BASIN INSTALLED WHERE NEW WATER PIPELINES ARE REQUIRED TO CROSS UNDER EXISTING

BENCHMARK:

CITY OF SAN MATEO BM "H386"

BRASS DISK NE'LY END OF SMALL TRIANGULAR ISLAND
IN INTERSECTION OF PARROTT DR AND 3RD, AVE.
ELEVATION = 45.125'

(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM)

TO THE OWNER PRIOR TO FINAL ACCEPTANCE .

SITE MAINTENANCE

1.

UPON PROJECT COMPLETION THE OWNER SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE TO
ROUTINELY INSPECT AND MAINTAIN ALL ON-SITE STORM DRAIN FACILITIES.
STORM DRAIN FACILITIES INCLUDE; ROOF GUTTERS AND DOWNSPOUTS,
SURFACE DRAINS SEDIMENTATION BASIN, TRENCH DISSIPATER, PUMP(S) AND
DISCHARGE POINTS (BUBBLE UP BOX). STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SHALL BE
CLEANED AND/OR FLUSHED ON A BIANNUAL BASIS OR AS FOUND NECESSARY.

TREES DESIGNATED TO REMAIN AND FOR MAINTENANCE OF RELOCATED TREES
STOCKPILED DURING CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR WILL BE REQUIRED TO
REPLACE TREES THAT DIE DUE TO LACK OF MAINTENANCE.

HORIZONTAL CONTROL NOTES:

AND SECTION 39 "ASPHALT CONCRETE" PER LATEST EDITION OF CALTRANS
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.

UNDER THIS WORK OR ADJACENT TO THIS SITE WITH THE WORDS "NO DUMPING".
WORDING TO BE BLUE 4" HIGH LETTERS ON A PAINTED WHITE BACKGROUND.

ALL AREA DRAINS AND CATCH BASINS GRATES WITHIN PEDESTRIAN ACCESSIBLE
AREAS SHALL MEET ADA REQUIREMENTS.

DRAINS SHOWN ON CIVIL PLANS ARE NOT INTENDED TO BE THE FINAL NUMBER

CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE ANY VENT WELL DRAINS AND RAT SLAB DRAINS
WITH PERIMETER SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR VENT
WELL LOCATIONS. SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS FOR FOUNDATION AND RAT SLAB.

INSTALL SEPARATE SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM BEHIND RETAINING WALLS PER
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND CONNECT TO STORM DRAIN SYSTEM AT SUMP
PUMP.

AND/OR NEW SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES, THE MINIMUM VERTICAL
SEPARATION SHALL BE 12 INCHES. WATER LINE PIPE ENDS SHALL BE
INSTALLED NO CLOSER THAN 10' MINIMUM HORIZONTAL DISTANCE FROM
CENTERLINE OF UTILITY CROSSINGS, WHERE FEASIBLE.

HORIZONTAL SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS:

FIRE PROTECTION NOTES:

1.

CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL THE DESIGN BUILD FIRE SERVICE LINE, BACKFLOW
PREVENTOR, SPRINKLERS AND EQUIPMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRE
PROTECTION CONSULTANT'S PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, LATEST EDITION OF THE
UNIFORM/CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE AND CITY/TOWN STANDARDS.

1. ALL DIMENSIONS ON THE PLANS ARE IN FEET OR DECIMALS THEREOF UNLESS AND LOCATION OF ALL DRAINS. PLACEMENT AND NUMBER OF LANDSCAPING A MINIMUM HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN NEW PIPELINES AND ANY 2. THE UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM INSTALLER SHALL PREPARE
ITE BENCHMARK: SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT AS FEET AND INCHES. DRAINS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON GROUND COVER TYPE AND PLANT EXISTING UTILITIES SHALL BE 5' FEET, EXCEPT THAT THE MINIMUM SHOP DRAWINGS SHOWING ALL INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE LOCAL FIRE
SURVEY CONTROL POINT MATERIAL. CONTRACTOR SHALL ADD ADDITIONAL AREA DRAINS AS NEEDED AND HORIZONTAL SEPARATION FOR WATER AND SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES MARSHAL, INCLUDING ANGLES, THRUST BLOCKS, VALVES, FIRE HYDRANTS, PIV's,
' AS DIRECTED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT/OWNER. SHALL BE 10' MINIMUM, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. WHERE WATER LINES FDC's, BACKFLOW ASSEMBLIES, FLEXIBLE CONNECTIONS, VAULTS, ETC.
MAG AND SHINER SET IN ASPHALT PAVEMENT SECTION: HAVE TO CROSS SANITARY SEWER LINES, DO SO AT A 90° ANGLE AND
= JU. WHERE FEASIBLE ALL DOWNSPOUTS SHALL DISCHARGE TO A SPLASHBLOCK OR WATER LINES SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 12" ABOVE TOP OF SANITARY SEWER 3. SHOP DRAWINGS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL, THE
(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM) 1. SREDAR RONG DRAWINGS FOR BUILDING SLAB SECTIONS AND PAD IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AND FLOW TO LANDSCAPED FEATURES BEFORE LINES. RATING AGENCY AND THE PROJECT MANAGER, ALLOWING TIME FOR REVIEW AND
ENTERING THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM. USE OF AREA DRAINS (RATHER THAN DIRECT ACCEPTANCE, PRIOR TO START OF WORK.
2. SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT FOR ALL FLATWORK, VEHICULAR PAVEMENT CONNECTION TO DRAINAGE SYSTEM) TO COLLECT ROOF/SURFACE WATER IS A MINIMUM HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN NEW PIPELINES AND JOINT
RECORD DRAWINGS: SECTIONS, BASE AND COMPACTION REQUIREMENTS. STRONGLY ENCOURAGED IN CONFORMANCE WITH COUNTYWIDE C.3 TRENCH SHALL BE 5 FEET. 4. THE UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM INSTALLER SHALL OBTAIN ALL
STZ ——o—orweanerr Oe cv Ee — Ooo—o—v—or—oser''- REQUIREMENTS. OTHERWISE, DOWNSPOUTS SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE APPROVALS AND PERMITS PRIOR TO ORDERING MATERIALS, FABRICATING
1. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP UP-TO-DATE AND ACCURATE A COMPLETE 3. THE FINAL OR SURFACE LAYER OF ASPHALT CONCRETE SHALL NOT BE PLACED ROC TE Ue CLANS POR XACT LOOM IGN OF THE NOWN spourg SYSTEMS OR ANY INSTALLATION.
RECORD SET OF PRINTS OF THE CONTRACT DRAWINGS SHOWING EVERY UNTIL ALL ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED, INCLUDING ALL 5. GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFICATION OF ALL DIMENSIONS
CHANGE FROM THE ORIGINAL DRAWINGS MADE DURING THE COURSE OF GRADING, AND ALL UNACCEPTABLE CONCRETE WORK HAS BEEN REMOVED AND
CONSTRUCTION INCLUDING EXACT FINAL LOCATION, ELEVATION, SIZES, REPLACED, UNLESS OTHERWISE APPROVED BY THE CITY/COUNTY ENGINEER SOO COE SO OOO Ee AMOUNT FO LON eR ORNS EROMN AND EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS. RISER LOCATIONS ARE SHOWN ON
MATERIALS, AND DESCRIPTION OF ALL WORK. RECORDS SHALL BE "REDLINED" AND/OR DEVELOPER'S CIVIL ENGINEER U U U ARCHITECTURAL AND PLUMBING DRAWINGS AND ARE TO BE COORDINATED WITH
ON A SET OF CONSTRUCTION PLAN DRAWINGS. A COMPLETE SET OF ENTERING THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. ACTUAL FIELD CONDITIONS.
CORRECTED AND COMPLETED RECORD DRAWING PRINTS SHALL BE SUBMITTED 4. ALL PAVING SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH SECTION 26 "AGGREGATE BASE"

LSTON RESIDENCE
15 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

NOTES SHEET

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

Drawing Number:

C1

PEC 21-125



--- page 54 ---
, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

Avenue

fax

ves\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fair

G:\Shared dri
01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

€
PAVEMENT LEGEND: \ \ S26 8
SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT BY PGSOILS, INC. DATED NOVEMBER 2021 FOR EXACT \ we SE <a}
PAVEMENT SECTIONS, OVER-EXCAVATION AND COMPACTION REQUIREMENTS. SEE \ \ i = Be
ARCHITECTURAL PLAN(S) FOR EXACT MATERIAL SELECTION. \ \ \ W ne a8
\ G 2 88
_—_ BRICK UNIT OVER A THIN LEVELING COURSE OF SAND OVER 6" MIN \ \ S fe) a)
| OF CLASS Il AGGREGATE BASE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS \ \ uJ "s
| | STONE RECOMMENDATIONS. COLOR AND TYPE TO BE APPROVED BY THE / \ > i
| | OWNER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. INSTALL EDGE CONSTRAINT / \ \ SG
—— SUCH AS A FLUSH CURB. SAP. / \ \ i> a
_____, PAVER UNIT OVER A THIN LEVELING COURSE OF SAND OVER 6" MIN / \ O 2
| OF CLASS Il AGGREGATE BASE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS / \ ra Da
| CONCRETE PAVERS RECOMMENDATIONS. COLOR AND TYPE TO BE APPROVED BY THE \ \ ne 3s
| | OWNER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. INSTALL EDGE CONSTRAINT / \ \ “ oo
——— SUCH AS A FLUSH CURB. SAP. \ \ >O
ae / Se
[oo / | an Si
| | GRASSCRETE SAP / \ \ sg
Lovo \ m
\ 2
| DG SAP \ \ -
\ -_
\ 2m z
| GRASS/LAWN SLP NEIGHBORING
| \ HOUSE
_ RP=113.26 I
LOT 11 |
| OO ane ¥ xO |
/ | io 2 a ww oy =~ |
/ 87.08 Z2Q | / x“ | i |
/ ane J 2 fo a
; °* | BUBBLE BOX , 4 us I
; 2% GR 87.8f (6) 7.75” RISERS . (3) 7.5” RISERS ~~ - I
z= 1.920 _—— 6 y / ‘bj
= FS 91.92 STAC WALL, ; oy Zz
I \\ - 87.9 FS 89.98 \ _ — nfsr9's’w oY > 59.98 89.6 * FENCE 90.0 yo 90.3 f 90.8 FE | ~ 2
&, a> %—— --- SS 1B-W = _|—- —_— + = —- —__ ~Twl91.83 D
os | , a = FG 90.02 = —— 90.04 90.35 ‘uifhett BW 91.08 i
o 87.56 [> ‘ FG 88.26 88.7 Yo 89.3 Se 89.47 OT TREE, > Ise S 91.85 05 S ~ ] ad
ST sober —— _2%t — | TZ jo 2) 888 song OE S 917722" eect oy
81.82 TY — F or arnae Ah = Z ee a
| OMe | i S_89.85 og , a H TESS 5% ° | La V9 Pt tt td
. RS 488-584 oh Ssco | oon 2 89.24 ¢ a See =} 898 a | | )
; i} ® BE-CHMOVERH : < ws | | yw
I 4 : agree es RIM 89-9851 LIN SYYSUMP* PUMP Er 22.00 83. NES 91-92 S \ 05 | \
~__{& SB aeaes RIM 90.2+ : 4 rai
| INSTALL (N) | WIDE DRIVEWAY A b7 i . : , 90; | -- ae = Pits / 160
APRON PER [CITY STANDARDS. Xvauss 46 / 0” PUBLIC
| Uo ab | GAR GE f = 7 PROPOSED RESIDENCE . | una FASEMENT
o, =59. ae yom SN 16 MAPS 3
le sar ana ancamramipememanen SLOP ae RISERS FF —_ 92 on LAWN [|| oa
4 WO ee ‘ ao5Pt a RAINS ini, tye pot ae
/ n 93.9RIM 91.8+ 914 y
aa FOASANILING. ant aoa 2) || |l| | eeRM RI8 CRAWL SPACE = 89,00 .' = |
5 WFLENC LOT L887: a oo a | |ATD GR 91 > —_—— — - — —__ - — —— — — —_ — — —___
z 1.8% oSAL 9 las BNE ; 93.94 FF_92.00 sf! _-EE_92.00 FS 91.92 ATD ~
isl a BIAS OSES 1”) LIP_ AT FF FS 91.92 (72°) FS 91.92 915 z | GR 92.04
< z 30.00. oR LOT 10, BBLOCRQTS, Fo tstucce nese ys 2% | cals ra
: : “te a SY Le awe
&, > \ 90.6 SBDCO 16 M 21. ‘ Lut [— SEES LILES ‘.BS" 93.2 ) ,
Qe 90.6 TOO OCK 8 RIM 90.0+ 0,558 SCF ~~ STEPS o Z aa St oO | a
= = a |
= / oh cit FS 90:18" oe “FF 92.00 EF 92.00" A o cs =i — es bts _ | ioonl
Rey 90 r Ly , AIES_91.92. FS 91.92 \ a SS eh BIRCH |E — FENCY
~ pb. Ge FS 90:3 aS MNEY N x 04.2 7GREOT.4£ Soy ds 92.7 ® |
si 90. 92.0 {92.18 92.47. CFF NI Set 927 a TW 93.33
é t o_O ; ( oy 5 s \ em SW | NESMENINSSS, NUA\_94 19 o ye 7“T BW! 91.83
TL eee ea a aL [Ss 93.47Bw | OT 16
= EP S¥one Rar, 3) ] Of (fj 91.84 i 7 TH [S58 ts ~(N) \ coal FPS 4 BK 93.6 Ie
“= FS 92.00 ~~ °//RISE - / ; | ° = : ‘ aos Ah: oa
19 97.6 . ATD = 94.12 a XY —FLAT | “
S yy, 9a a SL aE ' COPING = 91. 2 L : aw RIM 91.6+ _> | aD
~ YUCCA 92.11 924 SLOT DRA T_DRAIN QD GR 92.94
a ne _~ ~—“—_. ) ° : 3 LODcc oe: “91, RICK | 91.8+ L y. C $5.59 |
~ 3 \ TYP \ 228 PLANTER VAI, ae )
oY . a mi 4 “He \ _TW195.83
7 NS * 4.5% Too QU = =s 92790 1 | | xs 23.4 € SS j Su 1VBWI 91.83
/ 7 SS oe SER <7 ns == {1 i yee we oF. BW |
/ / area WNT CA 4 é \ a —
= 33.73 AID = CONCRETE a og 94 I
ASIN” GR 91.24 ey eecueceen ba yon 192 © \LD=FLAT,/ 945 -
SEDIMENTATION BASIN < STONE a aeeeee eee z “RIM 91.7 |
RIM 92.1 J AT. ST'59°5 75 ~ - 7 Sane A .
GR ATD 5 icv ( YL ROCK ———
oy 13> | ~~ —)
( 93.83/ GR O3at oS : 66.44TW fo ™ N
BW 91.92 TW 93.83 ae = / ATD = Ii" / )! ~ SN O
/ BW 21° AINING 94.7 nm 24°21 18'N5’ AK wt
LOT 9 RIM 93.64 = FENCE a c 95.2 (i) BW'9T. RETAINING ; ~ =
% ~ = WIT, WOOD \ —_ 7 LU T
| BW; 2 AD 5 [x FEWCE } _ O Z Oo
| - S 62 72 / oT 17; ~ < LL
| GR 94.72 Ss 1 ; =~ z> <x
( “YF ? ~ —! Wi
\ 98.06 TWy RETAWNING ; ~ ‘al Q <I O
\ 96.762 Al — NS Tp)
cHaNGe ; ~ >< O
/ ae / / » “.__ — | Or ction
/ / a Z or
oN e / J OQ Zz a <
— Pi
me .~A*’ ~N <<
/ 7 / jAW<_
__
/ O 7)

'

SEE SHEET C-O FOR ee
LEGEND AND SHEET ——o | C-2
C-1 FOR NOTES GRAPHIC SCALE

Ks PEC 21-125

C70
~

7a



--- page 55 ---
, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

Avenue

ir fax

\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 - 415 Fa

G:\Shared drives
01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

\ \
O92 :
\ \ ZzQ 5°
\ \ ans 33
bul = S 26
\ \ \ \ Lt] a Qo
\ Zz 5 3&3
\ \ \ GO 2 84
\ \ z= 8 2S
\ \ w o
/ \ \ z= a
A \ \ ie °
/ \ \ O 5
© \ a= sz
j \ =o
\ 2.
( \ \ o5
\ Of
5a

\ \ ——
\ _7
\
\ oe u

\ Lu
L <
/ a *
| / ~ CONTRACTOR TO INSTALL 4” SS LINE AS SHOWN. NEIGHBORING )
\ / | FIELD LOCATE, POTHOLE, AND CONNECT TO (E) HOUSE |
/ SSCO AND ENSURE THAT A 2% MINIMUM SLOPE RP=113.26 |
/ CAN BE ACHIEVED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. LOT 11 |
/ \ BRING ANY DISCREPANCIES TO THE ATTENTION |
/ = OF THE CIVIL ENGINEER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. I
J o'| | SEE SANITARY SEWER NOTE NUMBER 5. 7 LU a]
= oY .
| / ° || BUBBLE Box / 6 c yo a he
| / aS GR 87.84 \c-4 . - wa |
/ Os NV 86.44 = / —EXTEND SD FOR (N) RAT Uo - I .
\ 22 : STUCCO WALL, TYP vf SLAB DRAINA SEE STORM vO f | oy g
| Who —Kusrgisy —_135.30\_ DRAIN: NOTE NUMBER 9. , FENCE : 6
re in —— SSS SS <x = i CHANG a)
| D3 e ae 4” SD 4” SD oo cy 3 rf
i. — S=2% Two fy S=2% r I , or
eS — — SS ( — -92|—- — \
| SO am as L L Jans Ett
: ° 2 co ED WOO — + PE TS ~~ — — = a,
( DECKRIOVERHEA A
| ~~ \C-5/ RI oot LIN MP. PUMP 16 Flom y I
yE----, : : 30 RIM 90.2+ C_5 4 UBDRAIN/ 12 | 5
| 0 \ D NV 88,0 INV IN 86.64 ne GR OLA | 7.60 PUBLIC
| YC GARAGE | PROPOSED RESIDENCE INV 90.04. ne ULITY EASEMENT
fa Na | —— ae “ rr APS 3
~B 1 < or prawn. ,,. PF = 92.00 Oy NECTION OW? | foo
o> Ide 0 —5/RIM 01.84 : _ "AT Ubi de |
> RIM=88.83 PILLAR ILITY LIGHT (a 2 2 | |ATD GR 9 INV 89.6+ | v © _ — ;
9” TRE
. INV 89.7 ATD
Ss WA R=957.15° aa INV 89.54 Il | GR 92.0+\c—5
——~1=40.007 _/ NI INV 89.8+
<x oO & oe L=$0.00" _ LOT 10 — —Ll—+—43..2_—_—________— | SN |
| Oe Vd Sw D a STOCCO FOOSE L an
6 5 : Ww BAY 4” SD 4” 1 oye a
= l aa . 16 MAAS S=2% = se 1 a
fe, : \ SBDCO % 2% Wo} oh BS é
oe (E) WM. DEFERRED//FIR (90-Rax _ RIM 90.0£ 0: 2°SfFI BYE I. STEPS a o} 2] ZA) i)
a SYSTEM DESIGN 4 @fi ste HAN S inv a8.0¢ 0.24 +]h a a ” | op
APPROVAL. SEE |FIRE;¢ — ny 6" O xe ° Ln ae
Ry, PROTECTION NO AREs0 rel Seen . Ax A 34”0A ff} BIRCH IE FENCE \
a—e iL Yor sos re INV. 90.08 . _—_
7 a ! INV 88.9% - : tr \ |
L \ eb | E > | ¥oT 16
UY > EP STONE Pa in 1D l (N) A OC} < yo
Ty IIE R 90.5+ STONE a ~
EXTEND (N) se, ANY I] =, |! \ ‘Ns, ip-riar 6]! 7 —
SERVICE LINE AS =~ ATD OPING = 91 = I
, SHOWN. g OLIN > GR 91.4£ Cc = 91.92 . ; RM 91.6% \C-5)4) Nap
> g Ts S — ==] 5 TUCK INV 88.24 SL DRAI T_DRAIN Z oR ¢ INV 89.04 | GR 92.9+
/ ; S/F - | oe eal IM_91.84 xe : INV 90.04
on & ~ * o\ typ | . | BO TER 2 + ; |
a > ~
3 13. \MRENCH DISSIPATER ~——_/ r2% = = 7
he ACHS/FO 91-0 TA 4° sD as a
& _ i 4° INV IN 86.5+ ) = 3 S=2% =< _
= = 4” INV OUT 87.1+ y AID = CONCRETE L A
24” INV 84.8+ ig» GR 91.24 <t y, LD=FLAT, ps
SEDIMENTATION BASI INV 87.4+£ / ~ STONE L RIM 91. V
RIM 92.14 7 \C-5 ATD "SIs, _ . - ejyINV 88. God L
4" INV IN 86.84 / GR 92,5+ ATD 3, eG = ( 7 ROCK ~ / ™~
/ 4” INV OUT 86.64 INV 90.5 GR 93.3+£ 87" ee — lS - —= fo ™ OU
~ / / INV 90.5 SN Je ie / ! ~~ Oo
~N . 24° 21°18 TS’ BAK
a ‘ 2 SBD TL wy 4 woop a / —s IN . , Ve wooo! \ ~~ LU wT
LOT\@-5/7RIM 93.64 = FENCE s r > @ RETANING \ >
INV 90.5+ ° = — = tet ; Ww > +
; ATD zt av
/ | Dos x f LOT 17 Z Zu
/ | f INV 90.02 g | ) fii ><
& <ae)
\ Ly RETAYNING ; Q
/ \ ho jos
7 / A Oui *O
/ ae (4 / a tw
Ne. g foe zk <
/ ‘ i fo. Fo<s
( en
Sey JP pe arus
/ Io io
/ +
<ron

/
/ e / / Date:
/ 01/19/2022
/ / / Scale:
/ T= 10
/

SEE SHEET C-O FOR ee
LEGEND AND SHEET ——o | C-3
C-1 FOR NOTES GRAPHIC SCALE

: PEC 21-125

C70
~

C7



--- page 56 ---
VERTICAL SPACING

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

/ \
/ \
\
~ \
\ / | RP=113.26
| C :
/ | 28 /
/ EP STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION/ 8
28 ENTRANCE stvco WALL, TYP —4)~. r foe a
. Ko ; /— ee me —_— FENCE —_— —
Ss iP Ri a ‘ \ L <a s
| 1 __ = EB ting |S _| Tew
/ } | S
Z ; GARAGE | PROPOSED reste
J ‘3 se H— COLUMN, TYP FF = 92.0 ~
/ A SSMH a | STONE , CRAWL SPACE = 89.00 fr
RIM=88.83 ITY 7 y) ¢
<= | “ wu = =I / LOT 10, .
‘ o i BA
i | - IVER ROCK 10,558 ae STEI
Jey srt 0.24 MA
& | TREN . CIT TTIITrrrtrrrtrt
. CAST IRON GRATE. SEE
2 EP STONE, A a | Seton PLANS FOR GRATE
_ i t ELEVATION.
_ i ” > —-(E) TREE TO BE
5 ~ > eee, Ibe —_ yes 0 | REMOVED INCLUDING CHRISTY V-9 DRAIN BOX
a) - —~ | ROOT MASS. TYP. WITH EXTENSION(S) OR
f ea. — a | EQUIVALENT.
/ ASHOUT PIT / 12 ™ CONCRETE hk
C—4 — \
/ R055 = e Roce ~~, : "
4 ; “er a 4" STORM DRAIN
/ conare Te RETAINNG = 2M 2/ASTTS*O ? Woo / )
Lo STRAW ROELS \ SS e = eihog, ™ ~
“ is / Lor 17 ? ~ —~ 1" TO 1-4" CRUSHED,
\ nfo i ~ WASHED DRAIN ROCK.
CHENGE ~
- S / a | —~
/ ; , ~
\ ~ “& Lop’
/
/ 0 20 40
/ es ———|
/
/ GRAPHIC SCALE SCALE : 1"=1'-0" BUBBLE BOX -012-*MSTR
/
INSTALL STRAW ROLLS INA A
TRENCH, 2" TO 4" DEEP, DUG FS +1.0' 410"

ON LEVEL CONTOURS

IF MORE THAN ONE STRAW
ROLL LENGTH IS NEEDED INA
ROW, THE ROLLS SHALL BE
OVERLAPPED, NOT ABUTTED

PER NOTE 2

SEDIMENT AND ORGANIC
yy MATTER ARE CAPTURED
° BEHIND THE ROLLS

USE #" BY #" WOOD STAKES
MINIMUM 24" LONG

8" DIAMETER MIN. (20"
DIAMETER MIN. SHALL BE
USED AT TOE OF SLOPES
GREATER THAN 5:1)

INSTALL SUCH THAT RUNOFF WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO RUN UNDER OR AROUND ROLL.
TURN ENDS UP SLOPE TO PREVENT RUNOFF FROM GOING AROUND ROLL.

SPACE STRAW ROLLS AS FOLLOWS:
e SLOPE OF 4:1 OR FLATTER = 20 FEET APART
e SLOPE BETWEEN 4:1 AND 2:1 = 15 FEET APART
e SLOPE OF 2:1 OR GREATER = 10 FEET APART

INSPECT AND REPAIR STRAW ROLLS AFTER EACH STORM EVENT AND REMOVE SEDIMENT
WHEN NECESSARY. REMOVED SEDIMENT SHALL BE DEPOSITED TO AN AREA THAT WILL NOT
CONTRIBUTE SEDIMENT OFF-SITE.

IN LIEU OF STRAW ROLL INSTALLATION AROUND PROJECT PERIMETER, CONTRACTOR HAS

OPTION TO PRESERVE A NATURAL VEGETATED BUFFER 3 FOOT MINIMUM IN WIDTH OR A 6
INCH HIGH BERM.

STRAW ROLL

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0"

STRAW ROLL -016-*MSTR

NOTES:

3" TO 6" ANGULAR ROCK

A
PLAN VIEW seneiper \ EXISTING ROAD

PLAN VIEW scaet=1

2 |
AROUND

ENTIRE 1
PERIMETER

WATERPROOF MEMBRANE,
MIRAFI, MCF1212, OR 95)-0"
APPROVED EQUIVALENT. MIN

3" TO 6" ANGULAR
ROCK

art sie
ame
“E =I

quali Ape fe eed

Tn
Tl

Ae ee eee Ape ed eee

TI 1 FI Ft |
SS Sil

1 ed eee Ape ee eee

EXISTING ROAD EXISTING GRADE FILTER FABRIC

LOCATE AWAY FROM STORM DRAIN INLETS, DRAINAGE FACILITIES, OR WATERCOURSES. DO SECTION A A SCALE:2"=1'
NOT DISCHARGE WASH WATER TO STORM DRAINS OR WATERCOURSES.
BERM UP EDGES AS SHOWN IN SECTION A-A TO CONTAIN WASH WATERS AND TO PREVENT

RUNON AND RUNOFF. NOTES:
IF WASH WATER REACHES WITHIN 3" OF THE TOP OF BERM, CONTRACTOR SHALL UTILIZE
SUMP PUMP AND DESILTING BASIN TO REMOVE SEDIMENT LADEN WASH WATER. 1. PROVIDE A FANNED STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE TO ACCOMMODATE THE

TURNING RADIUS OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT ON AND OFF THE PUBLIC STREET.

TEMPORARY WASHOUT PIT GRAVEL CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE

SCALE : AS SHOWN

WASHOUT PIT -024—*MSTR TEMP GRAV CONST ENT -060-*MSTR

SCALE : AS SHOWN

EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES:

1.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

ALL EROSION CONTROL MATERIALS, INCLUDING SILT FENCE(S), FIBER ROLL(S) AND STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION
ENTRY, SHALL BE FURNISHED AND INSTALLED BY CONTRACTOR BY SEPTEMBER 15TH AND SHALL REMAIN IN PLACE
UNTIL THE PERMANENT LANDSCAPING GROUND COVER AND FLATWORK IS INSTALLED. CONTRACTOR SHALL
CONTINUOUSLY MONITOR THESE MEASURES, FOLLOWING AND DURING ALL RAIN EVENTS, TO ENSURE THEIR
PROPER FUNCTION.

BMP'S AS OUTLINED IN THE CALIFORNIA STORMWATER QUALITY ASSOCIATION'S (CASQA) BMP HANDBOOK, JANUARY
2015, OR THE LATEST EDITION, SHALL APPLY DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT. ALL CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENTS SHALL ADHERE TO NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR SEDIMENTATION PREVENTION AND EROSION CONTROL TO PREVENT DELETERIOUS
MATERIALS OR POLLUTANTS FROM ENTERING THE TOWN/CITY STORM DRAIN SYSTEMS AND PUBLIC RIGHT OF
WAYS. ADDITIONAL MEASURES MAY BE REQUIRED IF DEEMED APPROPRIATE BY TOWN/CITY INSPECTORS.

SEDIMENTS AND OTHER MATERIALS MUST BE RETAINED ON SITE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSPORTED FROM THE SITE
VIA VEHICLE TRAFFIC, SHEET FLOW, SWALES, AREA DRAINS, NATURAL DRAINAGE COURSES, OR WIND. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL A STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE PRIOR TO THE INCEPTION OF ANY WORK
ONSITE AND MAINTAIN IT FOR THE DURATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION PROCESS SO AS TO INHIBIT SEDIMENTS FROM
BEING DEPOSITED INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. ACCIDENTAL DEPOSITIONS MUST BE SWEPT UP IMMEDIATELY
AND MAY NOT BE WASHED DOWN BY RAIN OR OTHER MEANS.

STOCKPILES OF EARTH AND OTHER CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIALS MUST BE PROTECTED FROM BEING
TRANSPORTED FROM THE SITE BY THE FORCES OF WIND OR WATER. COVER STOCKPILED MATERIAL WITH PLASTIC
UNTIL THE MATERIAL IS REMOVED FROM THE SITE.

CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ADJACENT STREETS IN A NEAT, CLEAN, DUST FREE AND SANITARY CONDITION AT
ALL TIMES AND TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE TOWN/CITY AND HOME OWNER. THE ADJACENT STREET SHALL BE
KEPT CLEAN OF DEBRIS, WITH DUST AND OTHER NUISANCE BEING CONTROLLED AT ALL TIMES. CONTRACTOR
SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY CLEAN UP ON ADJACENT STREETS AFFECTED BY THEIR CONSTRUCTION, METHOD
OF STREET CLEANING SHALL BE BY DRY SWEEPING.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT DOWN SLOPE DRAINAGE COURSES, STREAMS AND STORM DRAINS WITH ROCK
FILLED SAND BAGS, TEMPORARY SWALES, SILT FENCES, AND EARTH BERMS IN CONJUNCTION WITH PROPERLY
INSTALLED INLET FILTERS.

THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL DUST CONTROL MEASURES AND FOR OBTAINING ALL REQUIRED DUST
CONTROL PLANS, APPROVALS AND PERMITS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEMONSTRATE DUST SUPPRESSION
MEASURES, SUCH AS REGULAR WATERING, WHICH SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED TO REDUCE EMISSIONS DURING
CONSTRUCTION AND GRADING IN A MANNER MEETING THE APPROVAL OF THE TOWNICITY.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE SUFFICIENT DUST CONTROL FOR THE ENTIRE PROJECT SITE AT ALL TIMES AND
SHALL IMPLEMENT WATER TRUCKS AS NEEDED TO CONTROL DUST. ALL PORTIONS OF THE SITE SUBJECT TO
BLOWING DUST SHALL BE WATERED AS OFTEN AS DEEMED NECESSARY BY THE TOWN/CITY IN ORDER TO INSURE
PROPER CONTROL OF BLOWING DUST FOR THE DURATION OF THE PROJECT. IN THE EVENT THAT THE
CONTRACTOR NEGLECTS TO USE ADEQUATE MEASURES TO CONTROL DUST, THE HOME OWNER RESERVES THE
RIGHT TO TAKE WHATEVER MEASURES ARE NECESSARY TO CONTROL DUST AND CHARGE THE COST TO THE
CONTRACTOR.

ALL DEBRIS BINS SHALL BE COVERED AT THE END OF EACH WORKING DAY WITH WATERTIGHT COVER TO MITIGATE
BLOWING TRASH/DEBRIS AND LEACHING DUE TO RAINFALL.

CONTRACTOR SHALL ASSUME THE CONCEPTS ON THE EROSION CONTROL PLAN, WHICH ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE TIME OF
CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EXACT DESIGN AND EXTENT OF THE EROSION CONTROL
SYSTEM SO THAT IT WORKS WITH THE INTENDED USE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION SITE.

ALL EROSION CONTROL FACILITIES SHALL BE INSPECTED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE CONCLUSION OF EACH
WORKING DAY AND SHALL MAKE NECESSARY REPAIRS PRIOR TO ANTICIPATED STORMS AND AT REASONABLE
INTERVALS DURING STORMS OF EXTENDED DURATION. REPAIRS TO DAMAGED FACILITIES SHALL BE MADE
IMMEDIATELY UPON DISCOVERY.

FOLLOWING EACH STORM AND AS NEEDED, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE ANY ACCUMULATION OF SILT OR
DEBRIS IN THE STREET AND FROM THE EROSION CONTROL SEDIMENT BASINS AND SHALL CLEAR THE OUTLET PIPES
OF ANY BLOCKAGES.

NECESSARY EROSION CONTROL MATERIALS SHALL BE AVAILABLE ON SITE AND STOCKPILED AT CONVENIENT
LOCATIONS TO FACILITATE RAPID INSTALLATION AND REPLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY DEVICES WHEN RAIN IS
IMMINENT.

ANY SLOPES WITH DISTURBED SOILS OR DENUDED OF VEGETATION MUST BE STABILIZED SO AS TO INHIBIT
EROSION BY WIND AND WATER. PROTECT UNDISTURBED AREAS FROM CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS USING
VEGETATIVE BUFFER STRIPS, SEDIMENT BARRIERS OR FILTERS, DIKES, MULCHING OR OTHER MEASURES SEEN
APPROPRIATE.

ALL TRUCKS HAULING SOIL, SAND, AND OTHER LOOSE MATERIALS SHALL BE COVERED WITH TARPAULINS OR OTHER
EFFECTIVE COVERS.

WHEEL WASHERS SHALL BE USED AS NEEDED TO CLEAN ALL TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT LEAVING THE
CONSTRUCTION SITE. IF WHEEL WASHERS CANNOT BE INSTALLED, TIRES OR TRACKS OF ALL TRUCKS AND
EQUIPMENT SHALL BE WASHED OFF BEFORE LEAVING THE CONSTRUCTION SITE.

FUELS, OILS, SOLVENTS, AND OTHER TOXIC MATERIALS MUST BE STORED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR LISTING
AND ARE NOT TO CONTAMINATE THE SOIL AND SURFACE WATERS. ALL APPROVED STORAGE CONTAINERS ARE TO
BE PROTECTED FROM THE WEATHER. SPILLS MUST BE CLEANED UP IMMEDIATELY USING DRY METHODS AND
DISPOSED OF INA PROPER MANNER. SPILLS MAY NOT BE WASHED INTO THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM. CALL 911 IN CASE
OF A HAZARDOUS SPILL.

EXCESS OR WASTE CONCRETE MAY NOT BE WASHED INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR ANY OTHER DRAINAGE
SYSTEM. PROVISIONS SHALL BE MADE TO RETAIN CONCRETE WASTES ON SITE UNTIL THEY CAN BE DISPOSED OF
AS SOLID WASTE. NEVER CLEAN MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT OR TOOLS INTO A STREET, GUTTER OR STORM DRAIN.

TRASH AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED SOLID WASTES MUST BE DEPOSITED INTO A COVERED RECEPTACLE TO
PREVENT CONTAMINATION AND DISPERSAL BY WIND.

UPON SATISFACTORY COMPLETION OF THE WORK, THE ENTIRE WORK SITE SHALL BE CLEANED BY THE
CONTRACTOR AND LEFT WITH A SMOOTH AND NEATLY GRADED SURFACE FREE OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE,
RUBBISH, AND DEBRIS OF ANY NATURE.

SITE CONDITIONS AT TIME OF PLACEMENT OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES WILL VARY. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL
ADJUST EROSION CONTROL MEASURES AS THE SITE CONDITIONS CHANGE AND AS THE NEED OF CONSTRUCTION
SHIFT TO PREVENT EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION FROM LEAVING SITE

PLANS SHALL BE DESIGNED TO MEET THE C.3 REQUIREMENTS OF THE MUNICIPAL REGIONAL STORMWATER NPDES
PERMIT (“MRP”) CAS612008.

THE CONTRACTOR MUST INSTALL ALL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES PRIOR TO THE
INCEPTION OF ANY WORK ONSITE AND MAINTAIN THE MEASURES UNTIL THE COMPLETION OF ALL LANDSCAPING.

ALL EXPOSED SLOPES THAT ARE NOT VEGETATED SHALL BE HYDROSEEDED. IF HYDROSEEDING IS NOT USED OR IS
NOT EFFECTIVE BY OCTOBER 1, THEN OTHER IMMEDIATE METHODS SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED, SUCH AS EROSION
CONTROL BLANKET. HYDROSEEDING SHALL BE INACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISION OF SECTION 20 “EROSION
CONTROL AND HIGHWAY PLANTING” OF THE STANDARD SPECIFICATION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OF
TRANSPORTATION, AS LAST REVISED.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE SECONDARY CONTAINMENT FOR PORTABLE TOILETS.

SEE SHEET C-O FOR

LEGEND AND SHEET
C-1 FOR NOTES

AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

1331 Old County Road, Suite B
Belmont, CA 94002

DATE:

REVISIONS:

ROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN

LSTON RESIDENCE
15 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

<v

LL

Drawing Number:
Cc I

PEC 21-125



--- page 57 ---
AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

mm od

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

ves\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue

01-19-22

G:\Shared dri
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

ae”

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution
Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community.

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials

.! Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dirt or other construction material
with tarps when rain is forecast or if not actively being used within
14 days.

-] Use (but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust control.

Hazardous Materials

_] Label all hazardous materials and hazardous wastes (such as
pesticides, paints, thinners, solvents, fuel, oil, and antifreeze) in
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations.

! Store hazardous materials and wastes in water tight containers, store
in appropriate secondary containment, and coyer them at the end of
every work day or during wet weather or when rain is forecast.

— Follow manufacturer's application instructions for hazardous
materials and be careful not to use more than necessary. Do not
apply chemicals outdoors when rain is forecast within 24 hours.

—! Arrange for appropriate disposal of all hazardous wastes.

Waste Management

—) Cover waste disposal containers securely with tarps at the end of
every work day and during wet weather.

~! Check waste disposal containers frequently for leaks and to make
sure they are not overfilled. Never hose down a dumpster on the
construction site.

—! Clean or replace portable toilets, and inspect them frequently for
leaks and spills.

_! Dispose of all wastes and debris properly. Recycle materials and
wastes that can be recycled (such as asphalt, concrete, aggregate base
materials, wood, gyp board, pipe, etc.)

~! Dispose of liquid residues from paints, thinners, solvents, glues, and
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste.

Construction Entrances and Perimeter

| Establish and maintain effective perimeter controls and stabilize all
construction entrances and exits to sufficiently control erosion and
sediment discharges from site and tracking off site.

—! Sweep or vacuum any street tracking immediately and secure
sediment source to prevent further tracking. Never hose down streets
to clean up tracking.

they apply to your project, all year long.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

Maintenance and Parking

QO) Designate an area. fitted with appropriate BMPs, for
vehicle and equipment parking and storage.

LJ) Perform major maintenance, repair jobs, and vehicle
and equipment washing off site.

Q) If refueling or vehicle maintenance must be done
onsite, work in a bermed area away from storm drains
and over a drip pan or drop cloths big enough to collect
fluids. Recycle or dispose of fluids as hazardous waste.

UI If vehicle or equipment cleaning must be done onsite,
clean with water only in a bermed area that will not
allow rinse water to run into gutters, streets, storm
drains, or surface waters.

LI Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite using soaps,
solvents, degreasers, or steam cleaning equipment.

Spill Prevention and Control

LJ Keep spill cleanup materials (e.g., rags, absorbents and
cat litter) available at the construction site at all times.

LJ Inspect vehicles and equipment frequently for and
repair leaks promptly. Use drip pans to catch leaks
until repairs are made.

Q) Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of
cleanup materials properly.

LJ Do not hose down surfaces where fluids have spilled,
Use dry cleanup methods (absorbent materials, cat
litter, and/or rags).

L) Sweep up spilled dry materials immediately. Do not
try to wash them away with water, or bury them.

LJ Clean up spills on dirt areas by digging up and
properly disposing of contaminated soil.

QO) Report significant spills immediately. You are required
by law to report all significant releases of hazardous
materials, including oil. To report a spill: 1) Dial 911
or your local emergency response number, 2) Call the
Goyernor’s Office of Emergency Services Warning
Center, (800) 852-7550 (24 hours).

Earthmoving

LI Schedule grading and excavation work
during dry weather.

J Stabilize all denuded areas, install and
maintain temporary erosion controls (such
as erosion control fabric or bonded fiber
matrix) until vegetation is established.

LJ Remove existing vegetation only when
absolutely necessary, and seed or plant
vegetation for erosion control on slopes
or where construction is not immediately
planned.

LJ Prevent sediment from migrating offsite
and protect storm drain inlets, gutters,
ditches, and drainage courses by installing
and maintaining appropriate BMPs, such
as fiber rolls, silt fences, sediment basins,
oravel bags, berms, etc.

J Keep excavated soil on site and transfer it
to dump trucks on site, not in the streets.

Contaminated Soils

4) If any of the following conditions are
observed, test for contamination and
contact the Regional Water Quality
Control Board:

- Unusual soil conditions, discoloration,
or odor.

- Abandoned underground tanks,
- Abandoned wells
- Buried barrels, debris, or trash.

Paving/Asphalt Work

UL) Avoid paving and seal coating in wet
weather or when rain is forecast, to
prevent materials that have not cured
from contacting stormwater runoff.

LJ Cover storm drain inlets and manholes
when applying seal coat, tack coat, slurry
seal, fog seal, ete.

LJ Collect and recycle or appropriately
dispose of excess abrasive gravel or sand.
Do NOT sweep or wash it into gutters.

LJ Do not use water to wash down fresh
asphalt concrete pavement.

Sawcutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal

C) Protect nearby storm drain inlets when
saw cutting. Use filter fabric, catch basin
inlet filters. or gravel bags to keep slurry
out of the storm drain system.

Q) Shovel, abosorb, or vacuum saw-cut
slurry and dispose of all waste as soon
as you are finished in one location or at
the end of each work day (whichever 1s
sooner! ).

() If sawcut slurry enters a catch basin, clean
it up immediately,

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

LJ Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets under cover to protect them from
rain, runoff, and wind.

LJ Wash out concrete equipment/trucks
offsite or in a designated washout
area, where the water will flow into a
temporary waste pit, and in a manner
that will prevent leaching into the
underlying soil or onto surrounding areas.
Let concrete harden and dispose of as
garbage.

LJ When washing exposed aggregate,
prevent washwater from entering storm
drains. Block any inlets and vacuum
gutters, hose washwater onto dirt areas, or
drain onto a bermed surface to be pumped
and disposed of properly.

Landscaping

U) Protect stockpiled landscaping materials
from wind and rain by storing them under
tarps all year-round.

LJ Stack bagged material on pallets and
under cover,

LJ Discontinue application of any erodible
landscape material within 2 days before a
forecast rain event or during wet weather.

Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines of up to $10,000 per day!

Painting & Paint Removal

Painting Cleanup and Removal

() Never clean brushes or rinse paint
containers into a street, gutter, storm
drain, or stream.

L) For water-based paints, paint out brushes
to the extent possible, and rinse into a
drain that goes to the sanitary sewer.
Never pour paint down a storm drain.

L) For oil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible and clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container. Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents. Dispose of
excess liquids as hazardous waste.

L) Paint chips and dust from non-hazardous
dry stripping and sand blasting may be
swept up or collected in plastic drop
cloths and disposed of as trash.

(J Chemical paint stripping residue and chips
and dust from marine paints or paints
containing lead, mercury, or tributyltin
must be disposed of as hazardous waste.
Lead based paint removal requires a state-
certified contractor.

Dewatering

LJ Discharges of groundwater or captured
runoff from dewatering operations must
be properly managed and disposed. When
possible send dewatering discharge to
landscaped area or sanitary sewer, If
discharging to the sanitary sewer call your
local wastewater treatment plant.

LJ Divert run-on water from offsite away
from all disturbed areas.

LY When dewatering, notify and obtain
approval from the local municipality
before discharging water to a street gutter
or storm drain. Filtration or diversion
through a basin, tank, or sediment trap
may be required.

QJ In areas of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine whether the ground water must
be tested. Pumped groundwater may need
to be collected and hauled off-site for
treatment and proper disposal.

1331 Old County Road, Suite B
Belmont, CA 94002

DATE:

REVISIONS:

LSTON RESIDENCE
15 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES

PEC 21-125


--- page 58 ---
18" BOLTED DOWN ACCESS
RISER. DRAIN-RITE IN LINE 4" OVERFLOW PIPE.

FINISHED GRADE. SEE
PLANS FOR ELEVATION.

DRAIN. 4" QWIKSEAL FITTING.
41-6"
15' MIN
MIN tt
“SISA SSIS | SIAN INS DADA, | “LIISA Ss
RRR RRR RAR AAR to Z RK COMPACTED NATIVE RY a LLRRIRRIRRRE RRRRRRA XG
NNN 8 2 DOS YN, a overrLowpiPe. bk) SSS
SYNQYSO\ We DIN y VILGDL TT IY
4" INLET PIPE I K_{[KC{&«e{[{gYXKXKXKKKGIKKXXKX C4 2b
RSIEKK:ZK:IK®&SES.- _ SSSI ~S
RRRRRRRRR RRR, eg se
(MANUFACTURER WELDED’ ay LS
( INLET/ OUTLET PIPE Kg ES
mw Py Fw
CEK_K&KXKXKKKXQKQK-_[QCOXCGI-J<KXX K =
[ESSISWSNNSNSAW, HHH yw ES
RQREKKKKKKKKKKK, KKK KX uy OC
IIIS, PNRM Wy
RARRRRRREE KR KK Bg WO
—INIIIIIIIIN,..-: YI-—D” al
LK{KXK€&«xxQxXAK4IKKXKX Kx
—ITIINQOR, YOON? YY
RARRRRRREE KKK xX
SSOMYY”)”YONY _d MOHD Ss
KRRARAARAES KKK <
§ 1 & SSO”) YY YY” MPYY”” wy
RAKKKRKRKKKRKKAKKKRAXKKKKKRKRKRAKGAIAIRRIRERRAKKARRKRARRKARRKARQRAQRAKRKE_ KKKKKKKKKKKKRAKKKAKRRKARAKKKKKRK
SERRE IIE SASAAIKRKEKEIESIEASINRIENIEIAIENIOSIIOIRNIEENS,_ SEXKSSAKKSSERERAIRSRAKAIIIISIRIAS
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR RRR RRR RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR  RORRRRRRRRRRRR RRR

3/4" TO 1-1/2" CRUSHED WRAP DRAIN ROCK IN BELL AND SPIGOT FOR NOTES:
WASHED DRAIN ROCK FILTER FABRIC. OVERLAP PIPES OVER 20.0"

FABRIC 12" MIN. (TYP) 24" DIAMETER PERFORATED

PERFORATIONS (TYP)

1. PIPE SHALL BE DUAL WALLED HDPE AS SHOWN.

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

TRENCH DISSIP ATER DUAL WALLED HDPE. (0.D. 28")

SCALE : 3/8"=1'-0"

DETENTION TANK -S24—*MSTR

SEE STORM DRAIN NOTE #7. POOL COPING
ACO BRICKSLOT DRAIN OR
SQUARE OR CIRCULAR ROOF EQUAL
DOWN SPOUT PATIO
DOWNSPOUT FILTER BY K&M ;
SHEET METAL, AQUABARREL 3"

OR APPROVED EQUIVALENT.

2" OR 3" (DEPENDING ON DS
SIZE) DS TO 4" DIAMETER
REDUCER. WYE CONNECTION
CAN BE USED FOR CLEANOUT.

Zz FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
=
iy

PLANS)

MATERIAL AS SPECIFIED IN
NOTES.

4

‘” ( —*— CONNECT TO STORM DRAIN
OR CATCH BASIN. SEE UTILITY
PLAN FOR SIZE AND SLOPE.

LONG SWEEP ELBOW

DOWNSPOUT CONNECTION

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" DS CONNECT -016-*MSTR

PLAN
24" @ HDPE OR FIBERGLASS
COVER. SEE GRADING PLAN FOR
RIM ELEVATION.

24" HDPE STANDPIPE
2" SCH 40 FORCED MAIN

INSTALL ZOELLER TRI-CHECK
VALVE (BALL VALVE, CHECK
VALVE AND UNION)

4" INLETS FROM SUB-DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLAN FOR INVERT.

DYNAMIC HEAD OF 15FT.
(SUGGESTED PUMPS: (2) ZOELLER
MODEL #57's)

FIELD POURED CONCRETE BASE

NOTES:

=

INSTALL PUMP PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.

2. CONTRACTOR SHALL SUPPLY A COMPLETELY SELF-CONTAINED DUPLEX MOTOR CONTROL PANEL FOR THE
ALTERNATING LEED/LAG PUMP SYSTEM. THE CONTROL PANEL SHALL PROVIDE SHORT CIRCUIT AND
OVERLOAD PROTECTION FOR THE PUMPS.

3. PROVIDE FLOAT SENSORS AND HIGH-WATER ALARM PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.

4. CONNECT SUMP PUMPS TO BATTERY BACKUP / GENERATOR FOR A CONTINUOUS POWER SUPPLY TO ALL

PUMPS.

® DUAL SUMP PUMP

SCALE : 3/8"=1'-0”
DUAL SUMP PUMP -032—-*MSTR

PLAN
LENGTH AS SHOWN ON PLANS

“co

TO 27
11.69"
2.7" PLUS
CHANNEL DEPTH

SECTION A-A END VIEW
NOTE:
ACO BRICKSLOT 0.6% SLOPED CHANNELS IN METER LENGTHS AND 30 DEPTHS WHICH CONNECT TO
CREATE CONTINUOUSLY SLOPING RUN. HALF METER CHANNELS AND NEUTRAL SLOPING CHANNELS
ARE ALSO AVAILABLE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDATIONS.

ACO BRICKSLOT TRENCH DRAIN

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" BRICKSLOT TRENCH DRAIN—016-*MSTR

FINISHED FLOOR

FINISHED io S
GRADE

ll OVERLAP FILTER FABRIC 12"
= MIN

a PLACE 4" STORM DRAIN
i OUTSIDE OF FILTER FABRIC.
aoe
oe TC MIRAFI 140N FILTER FABRIC
Ue Z OR EQUIVALENT.
“Ng
| |

man . — —| IES | " wi"
SETS eT Tee = ROCK ee

=| I=I1
HVT a ROCK
{TT ETE Et Et EH ET ES] ESV EH]
4" PERFORATED PIPE WITH
OPENINGS PLACED DOWN
4" QWIKSEAL FITTING. TYP ALL UNDERLAIN BY 2" THICK
STORM DRAIN PIPES. LAYER OF CRUSHED DRAIN
SUBMERSIBLE NON-CLOG PUMPS, ¢—————- CRUSH ZONE ———— Gy, ROCK.
RATED MIN. 20 GPM WITH TOTAL (NO PIPES ALLOWED) S

NOTES:

1. PROVIDE A MINIMUM SLOPE OF 0.5% ON SUB-DRAIN TRENCH AND PIPE. SEE PLANS FOR
CLEANOUT LOCATIONS AND INVERT ELEVATIONS.

2. NEVERLOCATE ANY UTILITY TRENCH BELOW THE BEARING PLANE OF THE BUILDING
FOUNDATION. SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM MAY NEED TO BE MOVED AWAY FROM THE BUILDING FACE IN
ORDER TO MAINTAIN SLOPE WHILE ALSO AVOIDING THE FOUNDATION BEARING PLANE.

3. SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT FOR ALL COMPACTION RECOMMENDATIONS. GEOTECHNICAL
ENGINEER SHALL INSPECT AND APPROVE THE FINAL INSTALLATION OF THE SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM.

4. SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS FOR FOOTING AND FOUNDATION DESIGN.

SUB-DRAIN

SCALE : NO SCALE

4" NDS ROUND DRAIN. SEE
GRADING AND UTILITY
PLANS FOR GRATE
ELEVATION

FINISHED SURFACE.

SEE GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT

90° LONG SWEEP ELBOW

~~ SEE NOTES AND PLANS

END OF LINE FOR PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

4" NDS ROUND DRAIN. SEE
GRADING AND UTILITY
PLANS FOR GRATE
ELEVATION

FINISHED SURFACE.

SEE GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT

45° BEND
WYE CONNECTION

IN-LINE

SEE NOTES AND PLANS
FOR PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

LANDSCAPE DRAIN — FLAT

SCALE : 1"=1'-0" LAND DRAIN FLAT —012—*MSTR

PLAN 18" BOLT DOWN COVER (OR
CB GRATE). SEE GRADING
AND UTILITY PLAN FOR RIM
ELEVATION.

18" HDPE/FIBERGLASS
STANDPIPE (OR 24"x24" CATCH
BASIN).

4" PVC TEE FITTING.

4" QUICK SEAL FITTING. TYP
ALL STORM DRAIN PIPES.

90° ELBOW
4" NDS ATRIUM GRATE

1" TO 1-1/2" CRUSHED,
WASHED DRAIN ROCK.

SEDIMENT BASIN

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" SED BASIN-016-*MSTR

FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT)

F-8 CHRISTY BOX W/ LID
MARKED "SEWER" OR
"STORM" OR EQUIVALENT.
BOX NOT REQUIRED WHEN
LOCATED WITHIN LANDSCAPE
AREAS.

4" CLEANOUT WITH THREADED
CAP

WYK"

My,

SALLELLE: PEELLEEE UY

45° BEND

WYE CONNECTION

SEE NOTES AND PLANS FOR
PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

END OF LINE Pvc CAP

FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT)

F-8 CHRISTY BOX W/ LID
MARKED "SEWER" OR
"STORM" OR EQUIVALENT.
BOX NOT REQUIRED WHEN
LOCATED WITHIN LANDSCAPE
AREAS.

4" CLEANOUT WITH THREADED
CAP

WGK"

yyy,

AALELLEE: PELELESE UY

45° BEND

WYE CONNECTION

SEE NOTES AND PLANS FOR
IN LINE PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

CLEANOUT NON-TRAFFIC RATED

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" CLEANOUT RES -016-*MSTR

ATRIUM GRATE: 9" NDS #981
BLACK, BOLT DOWN TYPE.

DRAIN HOUSING: NDS #932

GLUE PIPE AND SET GRATE
TOP TO PROPOSED FINISHED
GRADE.

4" PIPE RISER

90° ELBOW

STORM DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLANS FOR SIZE
AND INVERT ELEVATION.

END OF LINE

ATRIUM GRATE: NDS #981
BLACK, BOLT DOWN TYPE.

DRAIN HOUSING: NDS #932

GLUE PIPE AND SET GRATE
TOP TO PROPOSED FINISHED
GRADE.

4" PIPE RISER

WYE FITTING

STORM DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLANS FOR SIZE
AND INVERT ELEVATION.

INLINE

SQUARE ATRIUM DRAIN

SCALE : 1"=1'-0" SQUARE ATRIUM DRAIN-012-*MSTR

AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

1331 Old County Road, Suite B
Belmont, CA 94002

DATE:

REVISIONS:

DETAIL SHEET
ALSTON RESIDENCE

415 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

Date:

01/19/2022

AS SHOWN

Drawing Number:

C-5

PEC 21-125



--- page 59 ---
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM 
NAME: PA-2021-066 415 Fairfax 
Ave, SUP + SFDDR 
PA: PA-2021-066 
ADDRESS: 415 Fairfax Ave 
LOT AREA: 10,558 
ZONING: R1-B 
APN: 034-033-100 
FLOOR AREA:  (existing house) 
 
House:  1st    =   1,525 sq. ft. 
                    2nd   =    795 sq. ft. 
 
Garage:        =    292 sq. ft 
       ADU:           =    0 sq. ft. 
 
TOTAL:      =    2,612 sq. ft.  
 
PROPOSED 
1,811 sq. ft. 
1,629 sq. ft. 
470 sq. ft. 
798 sq. ft.1 
3,910 sq. ft. 
 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3911.6 sq. ft. 
F.A.R.:                    0.25     
 
0.37 
0.37 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
Height to plate (24 ft. max): 
Height to peak (32 ft. max):  
Daylight Plane: 
 
21’-2 3/4” 
27’-10 1/2” 
12’ 
 
21’-2 3/4” 
27’-10 1/2” 
12’ 
STORIES: 2 
 
2 
N/A 
UNITS: 1 
 
1 + ADU 
1 + ADU + JADU 
SETBACKS: 
 
Front:  
Front (garage):  
Left Side:  
Right Side:  
Rear:  
ADU: 
 
PROPOSED 
 
21’-3 ¾” 
20’ 
5’ 
5’ 
40’-9 ½”  
12’-9 ¼”  
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
 
15’ 
20’ 
5’ 
5’ 
15’ 
4’ 
PARKING (outside of front & side 
setback): 
Garage (min. 10’x18’/car): 
Open Spaces:  
New Parking reqd: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
 
PROPOSED 
 
 
2 
1 
1 
3 
 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
 
2 
1 
1 
3 
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES 
W/IN REAR 1/3 OF PROPERTY: 
Coverage (50% max): 
Ht. (9’to plate; 16’to peak): 
Daylight Plane (9’&45°): 
 
PROPOSED 
 
 
N/A 
 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
 
 
N/A 
OTHER: 
 
 
LANDSCAPING: 
Heritage Trees removed: 
Other Major Lndscpg removed: 
 
1 2 
 
 
 
1. SMMC 27.19.050 allows an attached or detached ADU up to 800 sq. ft. to be exempt from floor area ratio 
limitations.  
2. The project proposes a removal of a protected tree (Coast Live Oak) and would require a Tree Removal Permit 
through the City’s Parks and Recreation Department.

--- page 60 ---
historical resource evaluation report 
415 fairfax avenue 
san mateo, ca 
 
completed for: 
the city of san mateo 
community development department 
 
June 14, 2021 
 
submitted by: 
 
architecture + history, llc 
san francisco, ca 
415 760 4318 
bridget@architecture-history.com 
www.architecture-history.com

--- page 61 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
 
 
www.architecture-history.com 
I.  
Introduction 
This historical resource evaluation was prepared by architecture + history, llc (a + h) at the 
request of the City of San Mateo Community Development Department, to determine 
whether the residence at 415 Fairfax Avenue in San Mateo (034-033-100) qualifies as an 
historical resource in accordance with Article 5, §15064.5 of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. 
  
Based on the findings in this report, the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue in the Baywood 
Subdivision of San Mateo does not meet the California Register of Historical Resources 
criteria. It is the professional opinion of architecture + history, llc (a + h) that the house is 
not an historical resource under CEQA. 
 
II.  
Methodology  
The methodological approach for this historical resource evaluation consisted of a site 
visit and research on the history of the property the neighborhood, and associated persons 
and events by consulting the collections of the San Mateo Public Library, the Redwood 
City Public Library, the San Francisco Public Library, the San Mateo County Historical 
Association research archives and with the City of San Mateo. Additional research was 
conducted online using Ancestry.com (Census Records) and the San Mateo County 
Genealogical Society databases. Further research was conducted using the in-house library 
of architecture + history, llc. Planning Staff at the San Mateo Community Development 
Department provided a + h with copies of building permit information for the property. 
 
The research conducted through the San Mateo Public Library included a review of San 
Mateo City Directories dating back to 1920, general histories of San Mateo, and the library 
catalogue for any additional reference resources related to the properties. Additionally, 
the Library’s California Collection was searched. This collection includes clipping files of 
topics from local newspapers from the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's. A small portion of this 
collection can be found within the Online Archive of California (OAC). The OAC was

--- page 62 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 2  
consulted regarding long-term occupants of the property and historic photographs of San 
Mateo. 
  
Historic Sanborn Fire Insurance Company Maps of San Mateo (1908, 1920, 1950, 1953, 1956 
and 1961) were viewed and printed through the San Francisco Public Library’s online 
catalogue and Fire Insurance Maps Online (FIMO) database. The 1908 and 1920 Sanborn 
Maps do not illustrate this area of San Mateo.1 The house at 415 Fairfax was built in 1933 
and is present on the 1950 Sanborn Map.  
 
The San Mateo County Historical Association archives was consulted for information 
regarding the owners and occupants of the home. The archives include a card index by 
subject and assorted clippings files, maps, photo albums and articles for information about 
the subject properties, associated persons, and general San Mateo history. Further, 
Newspapers.com has indexed the San Mateo Times, the San Francisco Chronicle and the 
San Francisco Examiner. This database can provide articles on owners, occupants, builders 
or designers of the house. 
 
Additionally, the 1989 City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey was consulted; however, 
this area of San Mateo was not surveyed for the 1989 effort, so this property was not 
included. 
 
In June 2021, a site visit was conducted to photograph the building and the surrounding 
setting and neighborhood. During the site visit, notes on the architectural features of the 
building and neighborhood were taken for later use to create site and building 
descriptions. Google Earth satellite images and maps were utilized for reference. As this 
residence and parcel are large and not fully visible from the public right of way, recent real 
estate listing photographs were utilized to further describe the house, especially the rear 
portions, out buildings and landscape features.

--- page 63 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 3  
III.  
Historical Overview of San Mateo 
The City of San Mateo was officially incorporated in 1894.2 In the late nineteenth and early 
twentieth centuries, the town of San Mateo was an outpost crossroads connecting the 
north-south rail lines with the east-west stagecoach route to the Pacific. San Mateo had its 
beginnings as a small village, with development typical of growth along the Peninsula 
below San Francisco. Train service to San Mateo commenced in October 1863. A wealthy 
San Franciscan and railroad director, Charles Polhemus, purchased a large swath of land 
near what became downtown San Mateo and laid out lots for sale in the late 1860s. As rail 
service expanded, San Mateo became a frequent stop for travelers. The town was ideally 
situated mid-point on the Peninsula, where roads and rail lines between San Francisco 
and San Jose connected. Initially a popular summer community, San Mateo soon became a 
commuter town, a suburb of San Francisco, with families establishing year round homes, 
and businessmen commuting to the city via train service.  
 
By the 1890s, the town had not extended much beyond Polhemus’ original lot 
demarcations. The 1891 Sanborn Maps shows that development was clustered around the 
Railroad Depot near 2nd Street and what became Railroad Avenue.3  Richard Jury 
established a weekly newspaper, the Leader, in 1889. An industrious Irish carpenter, 
Robert Wisnom, built upon his earlier established lumber business and became a town 
leader at the turn of the century. The first two decades of the next century brought 
dramatic change to San Mateo; salt-harvesting operations dominated the Baylands, 
nurseries cropped up on the hillsides, a country club was founded for affluent 
weekenders, early large estates were subdivided for suburban residential development and 
a commercial downtown began to take shape. A large-scale hotel, the Peninsula Hotel, 
was established in 1908 on the former estate of Alvinza Hayward. The hotel was 
moderately popular as a destination until it was destroyed by fire in 1920. During this 
period, residential areas of San Mateo expanded through development of fairly large 
subdivisions such as the Western Addition (1889), Bowie Subdivision (1897), San Mateo 
Heights (1904) and Hayward’s Addition (also 1904 - which included the former Peninsula

--- page 64 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 4  
Hotel site).4 San Mateo Park was laid out in three sections above El Camino Real between 
1902 and 1904.5 
 
By 1900, San Mateo had 1,832 residents. In 1903 the town was linked to San Francisco by 
an additional mode of transportation, trolleys, which coupled with refugees from the 
1906 earthquake, resulted in expanded residential construction in the first two decades 
of the twentieth century. From 1900 to 1910, the city’s population doubled to 4,384. 
Downtown was growing and City Directories from this period list several general stores, 
two pharmacies, two bakeries, a jeweler, two furniture stores, three barbershops, and 
about a dozen saloons.  
 
By 1920 there were almost 6,000 residents living in San Mateo. A second population 
boom occurred between 1920 and 1929, when San Mateo had 17,109 inhabitants. 
Building on its reputation as a summer destination for the elite, the town began to 
attract middle-class residents who desired the recreational opportunities and mild 
climate afforded along the Peninsula. Also in the 1920s, the extensive William Kohl 
estate, once part of Polhemus’ lands, was subdivided, and an approximately 16-acre 
portion was purchased by the city to become Central Park, the first municipal park in 
the county.  
 
During Prohibition, San Mateo and other parts of San Mateo County were known for their 
rum running, illegal saloons and speakeasies. The money made by transporting illegal 
liquor was staggering and gambling and prostitution accompanied the contraband. Bay 
Meadows race track, where the famous thoroughbred Seabiscuit won two races, was 
founded in 1934 and became one of the most successful west coast racing venues. 
 
The expansion of the San Francisco International Airport (located on mudflats adjacent to 
San Bruno and purchased by the City of San Francisco in 1926) brought jobs and increased 
economic expansion to San Mateo, even during the Depression. Major Works Progress

--- page 65 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 5  
Administration (WPA) airport projects during the 1930s provided work relief and much 
needed economic stimulus to both San Francisco and the Peninsula. 
 
World War II brought many service men and women to the Bay Area. Military 
installations and affiliated businesses further invigorated the post-Depression economy. 
San Mateo’s Bay Meadow Race track was a popular entertainment venue for soldiers and 
civilians alike, looking to forget wartime troubles. The track remained open primarily 
because portions proceeds of race gambling were donated to the War effort.  
 
More than 10,000 San Mateo county men entered World War II, with over 300 losing their 
lives during service. Upon return to California after the war, these former military 
personnel contributed to major postwar development and expansion that was 
unprecedented in San Mateo County history. The “build out” of San Mateo and other 
Peninsula towns was extensive during this period. By the 1960s, the Peninsula’s string of 
commuter towns contributed to the county’s population that swelled close to half a 
million people. El Camino Real, the old county road, became a major thoroughfare lined 
with early suburban sprawl.

--- page 66 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 6  
IV. 
Associated Historic Contexts 
 
Land Use and Residential Development – Baywood 
The house 415 Fairfax is in the Baywood Subdivision of San Mateo, named after the estate 
of John Parrott, first developed nearby in the late 1860s. John Parrott (1811-1884) was a 
Virginian who served as U.S. Consul in Mazatlán, Mexico from 1837 to 1850. He settled in 
San Francisco in 1850, making his fortune in banking and finance. Parrott was interested 
in horticulture and his San Mateo estate included many varieties of trees, flowers and 
other plantings. The Parrott estate was named after a large cluster of Bay trees that were 
located on the property. One of these trees remains at the intersection of Fifth and 
Dartmouth Avenues in a small city park, Bay Tree Park.6  
 
This area of San Mateo was subdivided and developed beginning in the mid-1920s. In 1927, 
D. A. Raybould brokered a complicated deal to purchase the old Parrott estate for 
residential redevelopment. The players in this land deal included A.P. Giannini, a San 
Mateo resident and founder of the Bank of Italy, later the Bank of America. The Dunn-
Williams Company eventually acquired with the property, which at the time, was San 
Mateo County’s largest real estate venture.7 After construction commenced and the 
neighborhood was just beginning to take shape, a fire on August 5, 1928 destroyed 
Baywood, the historic John Parrott Mansion. 
 
Unlike the neighborhoods east of El Camino Real which followed a fairly strict street grid, 
the streets in Baywood were laid out following the general topography, curving through 
the area. Overall, the Baywood lots were irregular in shape and size, often conforming to 
the land contours. Many of the pre-World War II Baywood houses reflect the popular 
Period Revival architectural styles of the time including Spanish, Mediterranean, 
Monterey, Colonial, Tudor, French, as well as the East Coast influenced “Cape Cod 
Cottage.” Post War houses are most often executed in the Ranch Style, including the Split 
Level type. Many of the streets in the Baywood neighborhood are named after Colleges 
and Universities, including Harvard, Georgetown, Fordham, Cornell, and Notre Dame.

--- page 67 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 7  
 
The Baywood Subdivision is bounded by Eaton Road and Edinburgh Street to the east, 
Notre Dame Avenue to the south, Alameda de las Pulgas (formerly Park Boulevard) at the 
west, and Crystal Springs Road on the north. The Baywood Knolls neighborhood is uphill 
and to the west of Baywood, while the Aragon neighborhood sits to the south.  
 
 
The 1927 Baywood Subdivision Map filed with the County of San Mateo.

--- page 68 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 8  
 
A 1929 Map from the Burlingame San Mateo City Directory. The upper red arrow points to the 
remaining lands of the Parrott estate and the middle arrow points to the streets laid out in the 
Baywood Subdivision, including Fairfax Avenue, and the lower arrow points to Park Boulevard, now 
called Alameda de las Pulgas.

--- page 69 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 9  
V. 
History of Subject Property 
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo 
Building Chronology 
The original building permit for this house is dated April 5, 1933. A summary of building 
permit history follows:  
Date 
Permit Number 
Names 
Description / Cost 
04/05/1933 
permit #3231 
J. M. Chalmers, 
owner; B. Norberg, 
builder 
42’x 60’ one-story, 
wood-frame 
dwelling, 
stucco/plaster 
finish, tile roof, 
brick chimneys; 
$7,500.00 
01/23/1957 
permit #31048 
J. M. Chalmers, 
owner; Terminix of 
Nor. Calif. Inc, 
contractor 
Repair termite & 
fungus damage in 
substructure; 
$400.00 
12/15/1958 
permit #34507 
J. M. Chalmers, 
owner; Izmirian Rfg 
& Sheet Metal, 
contractor 
Replace tile, asphalt 
+ granite; $200.00 
01/11/1960 
permit #36461 
J. M. Chalmers, 
owner; William 
Cooley, builder; A 
Elec. Co., contractor 
Kitchen remodel; 
$5,500.00 
01/11/1965 
plumbing, gas 
piping permit, rec 
no. 8277 
John Chalmers, 
owner; Izmirian, 
contractor 
Furnace work; $3.00 
04/29/1969 
permit #51089 
J. M. Chalmers, 
owner; Izmirian Rfg 
& Sheet Metal, 
contractor 
4-ply built tar & 
gravel roof deck; 
$138.00 
08/05/1987 
Mechanical permit 
#7955 M1 
Speigel, Larry, 
owner/builder 
New forced Air 
Furnace; cost n/a

--- page 70 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 10  
Date 
Permit Number 
Names 
Description / Cost 
07/28/1987 
permit #7955 
Spiegel, Larry, 
owner/contractor 
Interior Remodel; 
$5,000.00 
07/28/1987 
permit #7955 
Spiegel, Larry, 
owner/contractor 
Interior Remodel; 
$5,000.00 
05/21/1999 
permit #991689 
Favro Barrett J & J L 
Trs, 
owner/contractor 
Kitchen Remodel + 
sheetrock dining 
area; $21,000.00

--- page 71 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 11  
 
 
Above: A detail of the 1950 Sanborn Map, with red arrow 
pointing to 415 Fairfax Avenue. 
Below: The 1961 Sanborn Map, with red arrow pointing to 415 
Fairfax Avenue.

--- page 72 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 12  
Occupants and Owners 
City Directory listings, building permits and Federal Census records inform the 
chronology of owners and occupants of the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue. According to San 
Mateo City Directories John Morse Chalmers and Anna (Ann) Hann Chalmers resided at 
415 Fairfax Avenue in the Baywood neighborhood from 1933, the year of the subject 
property’s construction, until 1986. Prior to residing at 415 Fairfax Avenue, the 1930 
Federal census indicates that John Morse Chalmers lived at 1101 Palm Avenue, San Mateo 
with his widowed mother, and his wife.8 His daughter Helen Chalmers was born in 1930 
and his son John (Jack) Chalmers in 1933. Anna Chalmers was a Central Grammar School 
teacher at the time of their marriage in 1929 and John Morse Chalmers was a surveyor for 
the board fire underwriters.9 He later practiced as a fire insurance lawyer.10 He passed 
away in 1982 and his wife died several years later in 1987.11 That same year a permit for 415 
Fairfax Avenue cites Larry Spiegel as the owner. The next owner listed in 1999 permit 
records is J. Favro Barrett.12

--- page 73 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 13  
Occupant History Summary  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date / Source 
Name(s)  
1930 Census 
Chalmers, Morse living with wife at 
mother’s house 1101 Palm Avenue.  
1933 Permit #3231 
Chalmers, J. M.  
1936 City Street Directory 
Chalmers, J. M. 
1939 City Street Directory 
Chalmers, J. M. 
1940 Census 
Chalmers, John M. (head, 47yrs, Fire 
Insurance Lawyer), Anna H. (wife, 40yrs), 
Helen B. (daughter, 9yrs), John M. (son, 
6yrs) 
1941 City Street Directory 
Chalmers, J. M. 
1973 City Directory 
Chalmers, John M. 
1977 City Directory 
Chalmers, John M. 
1986 City Directory 
Chalmers, John Morse owner 
1987 Permit # 7955 
Larry Spiegel 
1990 City of San Mateo Library records 
Barry Farro 
1992 City of San Mateo Library records 
Barry and Jeanne Farro 
1999 Permit # 991689 
J. Favro Barrett

--- page 74 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 14  
VI.  
Architectural Analysis  
 
Site and Building Description 
The single-family residence at 415 Fairfax in the Baywood neighborhood was constructed 
in 1933. This 1933 Spanish Revival split-level residence in the Baywood neighborhood sits 
on a slight slope and is set back from Fairfax Avenue. A paved parking area and a front 
lawn face the street, and a stuccoed decorative wall with a tiled cap and metal gate 
separates the front lawn from a side patio. The L-shaped residence features a combined 
hipped and gable roof, clad with red clay tiles, and a minimal overhang. Two rustic brick 
chimney stacks punctuate the roof at the single-story front wing and at the two-story rear 
section. All exterior walls feature painted stucco. The rear section of the split-level Fairfax 
Avenue elevation features an incorporated garage with a decorative wood lintel. A 
balcony, located above the garage, features tapered wooden beams supports and carved 
wooden balusters. The tiled hipped roof eave extends over the balcony’s bracketed wood 
columns. The brick entry stairs ascend to the main entry located at the juncture of the L-
shaped plan. The tiled roof extends to cover this stair and is supported by bracketed wood 
columns. A single-story, gable-front wing extends towards the street at the lawn area and 
features a prominent fixed multi-pane picture window with a decorative wood lintel. The 
residence features a variety of multi-pane windows, some with decorative metal grilles or 
wooden shutters, and most feature concrete sills.

--- page 75 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 15  
 
Above: The front, north, façade of the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue. 
Below: A detail of the front and side yards at 415 Fairfax Avenue.

--- page 76 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 16  
Architectural Type and Style  
The building at at 415 Fairfax Avenue in San Mateo’s Baywood Subdivision is a wood-
frame, single-family residence in the Spanish Colonial Revival style. This particular 
revival style became hugely popular in California from the 1910s into the 1930s. In 
1915, the Panama Canal opened to shipping traffic. To celebrate, San Diego, the 
first United States port of call on the Pacific Coast, hosted a World's Fair or 
Exposition. The chief designer for the event was architect Bertram Grosvenor 
Goodhue, who had a fascination for Spanish or Mediterranean styles of 
architecture. Goodhue did not want to employ the cold, formal Renaissance and 
Neoclassical architecture that was normally used for exposition architecture. 
Instead, he envisioned a fairytale city with a festive, Mediterranean flavor. The 
style subsequently developed and became popular as a residential idiom, featuring 
low-pitched roofs with little or no overhang covered with red roofing tiles. Spanish 
Colonial Revival houses almost always are of wood frame construction with a 
stucco finish. The use of the arch was very common, especially above doors, porch 
entries and main windows.13 The stucco finish, red roofing tiles, large, multi-paned 
windows, and wood porch posts give the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue its Spanish 
Revival-style character.

--- page 77 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 17  
Architect, Engineer, Builder or Landscape Architect 
The original building permit indicates the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue was built by “B. 
Norberg.” Bror “Bert” Johann Norberg (1886-1961) and his wife Sigrid emigrated from 
Sweden to New York in 1906 and, after a stint in Seattle, Washington and Latouch, 
Alaska, the couple settled in the Burlingame area by the early 1920s. The 1922 San 
Mateo City Directory indicates they lived on El Camino Real and Norberg was listed as a 
builder. By the 1930 Federal census they owned a home at 832 Morrell Avenue in 
Burlingame and Bror J. Norberg was categorized as a self-employed building contractor. 
This was confirmed by the address Norberg listed on the building permit he obtained for 
415 Fairfax Avenue in 1933. Additionally, the 1933 San Mateo City Directory lists Bert 
J. Norberg, and his wife Sigrid, as residing at 832 Morrell Avenue, Burlingame and his 
profession was noted as a builder. This was further confirmed by 1934-1936 voting 
records which list Bert J. Noberg as residing at 832 Morrell Avenue and his profession 
was identified as carpenter.14  
 
Some of Bert J. Norberg’s projects appear in San Mateo Times articles, including the 
subject property at 415 Fairfax. A 1933 article announced the notice of completion for, 
“J. Morse Chalmers & wf. to Bert Norberg lot 10 block 15 Baywood 7/6/33.”15 
 
Norberg is also mentioned in a 1936 The San Mateo Times article for a house costing 
$5,000 on Bloomfield near Burlingame Avenue for John Carboio.16 By 1936, Norberg 
was successful enough to have an employee.17 Norberg and his wife Sigrid also 
purchased lot 17, block 6 in Burlingame Park in 1936.18 Additionally, Norberg and his 
wife purchased lot 12, Block 19, Subdivision 5 in the Aragon Tract from the Aragon 
Company in 1937 and he listed as one of many developers in this area of San Mateo.19    
 
Bert J. Norberg should not be confused with the well-known local architect E.L. Norberg 
who practiced on the San Francisco Peninsula around this same time period.

--- page 78 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 18  
VII.  
Application of California Register Criteria  
Under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) resources that meet the criteria 
of the California Register of Historical Resources are considered historical resources for 
the purposes of CEQA. Determinations of historical significance require that several 
factors are considered including: the property's history (both construction and use); the 
history and context of the surrounding community; an association with important persons 
or uses; the number of resources associated with the property; the potential for the 
resources to be the work of a master architect, builder, craftsman, landscape gardener, or 
artist; the historical, architectural or landscape influences that have shaped the property’s 
design and its pattern of use; and alterations that have taken place, and lastly how these 
changes may have affected the property’s historical integrity. 
 
These issues must be explored thoroughly before a final determination of significance can 
be established. To be eligible for the California Register historic resources must possess 
both historic significance and retain historic integrity. The following are the four 
significance criteria of the California Register. Upon review of the criteria, if historic 
significance is identified, then an integrity analysis is conducted. To be eligible for the 
California Register, an historical resource must be significant at the local, state, or 
national level under at least one of the following criteria:  
 
Criterion 1: Event or Patterns of Events  
It is associated with events or patterns of events that have made a significant contribution 
to the broad patterns of local or regional history, or the cultural heritage of California or the 
United States.  
 
Historical research indicates that the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue in San Mateo 
does not qualify individually under Register Criterion 1: Event/Patterns of Events. 
While the building possesses an association with the development of the Baywood 
Subdivision in San Mateo, this association does not rise to a level of significance to

--- page 79 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 19  
justify individual California Register eligibility. While the house is illustrative of 
the housing type and pattern of development within the Baywood subdivision, 
that association is evident in many of the houses in the subdivision and is not 
individually significant in this case. 
 
Criterion 2: Important Person(s)  
It is associated with the lives of persons important to local, California, or national history.  
 
Historical research has determined that the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue is not 
associated with any individuals who have had an important role in local, California 
or national history. While the Chalmers family lived in the house for a long period 
of time, none of the family members appear to have been significant within the 
context of the history of San Mateo. As a result, this residence does not qualify 
individually under California Register Criterion 2: Important Person(s).  
 
Criterion 3: Design/Construction  
It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of 
construction, or represents the work of a master, or possesses high artistic values.  
 
No significant architect or designer has been identified with the property. The 
builder, Bert Norberg does not appear to be a master builder. No historical 
information was found that illustrates any significant contribution to the housing 
stock in San Mateo on the part of Mr. Norberg. While the house embodies the 
distinctive characteristics of a Spanish Revival-style house, it is not an outstanding 
example within the context of the style as represented in San Mateo and thus is 
not individually eligible for the California Register.

--- page 80 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 20  
Criterion 4: Information Potential  
It has yielded, or has the potential to yield, information important to the prehistory or 
history of the local area, California or the nation.  
 
Evaluation of archeological resources was outside the scope of this report. There is 
the possibility that archaeological resources could be present on the site. This 
should be taken into consideration and standard monitoring practices should be 
employed if construction involves extensive excavation. 
 
Since the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue does not possess individual historical significance, 
an analysis of historic integrity or chronology of changes has not been undertaken.

--- page 81 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 21  
VIII.  Application of CEQA  
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Public Resources Code §21084.1 
provides that any project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of an historical resource is a project that may have a significant effect on the environment. 
Public Resources Code §5020.1(q) defines "substantial adverse change" as demolition, 
destruction, relocation, or alteration such that the significance of the historical resource 
would be impaired. According to Public Resources Code §5024.1, an historical resource is 
a resource that is listed in, or determined to be eligible for listing in the California 
Register of Historical Resources; included in a local register of historical resources; or is 
identified as significant in a historic resource survey if that survey meets specified criteria.  
 
According to CEQA Guidelines §15064.5(a)(3), a lead agency can find a resource has been 
determined to be significant in the architectural, engineering, scientific, economic, 
agricultural, educational, social, political, military, or cultural annals of California, 
provided that the determination is supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole 
record.  
 
The house at 415 Fairfax Avenue does not meet the California Register of Historical 
Resources criteria and is thus not an historical resource under CEQA.

--- page 82 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 22  
IX.  
Bibliography  
 
General Architectural History & Style Guides 
 
Blumenson, John. Identifying American Architecture: A Pictorial Guide to Styles and Terms: 
1600 to 1945. New York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1981.  
 
Carley, Rachel. The Visual Dictionary of American Domestic Architecture. New York: 
Henry Holt and Company, 1994.  
 
Cerny, Susan Dinkelspiel. An Architectural Guidebook to San Francisco and the Bay Area. 
Salt Lake City: Gibbs Smith, 2007. 
 
Ching, Francis D. K.  A Visual Directory of Architecture. New York: John Wiley & Sons Inc., 
1997.  
 
Gebhard, David. Architecture in San Francisco and Northern California. Salt Lake City: 
Peregrine Smith, 1985.  
 
Gelernter, Mark. A History of American Architecture: Buildings in the Cultural and 
Technological Context. Hanover: University Press of New England, 1999.  
 
Howe, Barbara J., et al. Houses and Homes: Exploring Their History.  Walnut Creek, CA:  
Alta Mira, 1997. 
 
Lowell, Waverly. Architectural Records in the San Francisco Bay Area: A Guide to Research. 
New York: Garland, 1988. 
 
Massey, James and Shirley Maxwell. House Styles in America. New York: Penguin Group, 
1996. 
 
McAlister, Virginia and Lee. A Field Guide to American Houses. New York: Knoff, 1992 (and 
updated 2018). 
 
Rifkind, Carol.  A Field Guide to American Architecture. New American Library, 1980. 
 
San Mateo History 
 
City of San Mateo. Community Development Department. Building Permit Records. 
 
City of San Mateo. General Plan and Environmental Impact Report. 2010.

--- page 83 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 23  
Cloud, Roy W. San Mateo County. Volumes I and II. S.J. Clarke Publishing Co., Chicago: 
1928. 
 
Garrison, Joanne. Peninsula Royalty: The Founding Families of Burlingame-Hillsborough. 
Burlingame Historical Society. http://burlingamefoundingfamilies.wordpress.com. 
 
Holmes, Marion C. Index to La Peninsula Journal. Volume 1 – 21. January 1941 – May 1984. 
San Mateo County Historical Association and Museum, 1986.  
 
Hynding, Alan. From Frontier to Suburb: The Story of the San Mateo Peninsula. Belmont 
Ca: Star Publishing, 1982. 
 
Moore & DePue. Illustrated History of San Mateo County, California, 1878. Reprinted by 
Gilbert Richards Publications, Woodside, Ca, 1974. 
 
Olmstead, Roger and T. H. Watkins.  Here Today:  San Francisco's Architectural Heritage.  
San Francisco:  Chronicle Books, 1969 (Fourth Printing). 
 
Peterson, Carol with Marion C Holmes. Index to La Peninsula Journal. Volume 22- 29. San 
Mateo County Historical Association and Museum, 1995.  
 
Polk Publishing Company. Polk’s City Directories for San Mateo, c.1920 through c.1980.  
 
Postel, Mitchell. Peninsula Portrait: An Illustrated History of San Mateo County. 
Northridge, California: Windsor Publications, 1988. 
 
Postel, Mitchell. San Mateo: A Centennial History. San Francisco, CA: Scottwall Associates, 
1994.  
 
Postel, Mitchell. San Mateo County:  A Sesquicentennial History. Belmont, CA: Star 
Publishing, 2007. 
 
Richards, Gilbert. Crossroads:  People and Events of the Redwoods of San Mateo, California. 
Woodside, Ca, G. Richards Publications, 1973. 
 
Ringler, Donald. San Mateo, USA, California: The Golden Years. San Mateo:  San Mateo 
Bicentennial Committee, 1975. 
 
Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps for San Mateo, 1908, 1920 and 1950.  
 
San Francisco:  The Bay and Its Cities.  Compiled by Workers of the Writers' Program of 
the Works Progress Administration in Northern California.   New York:  Hastings 
House, 1940.

--- page 84 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 24  
 
San Mateo Public Library. California Collection. Books, Manuscripts and Vertical 
Clippings File. (Second Floor and Online through AOC). 
 
San Mateo Times articles searched through Newspapers.com. 
 
Schade, Arthur.  “The Development of San Mateo through Subdivisions and the History of 
the City Limits of San Mateo.” Student Manuscript San Mateo Junior College, June 
1943. On file at the San Mateo County Historical Association archive. 
 
Stanger, Frank. History of San Mateo County. Arthur H. Clawston, 1938. 
 
Stanger, Frank.  South of San Francisco: The Life Story of San Mateo County. San Mateo 
Historical Society, Times Printing, San Mateo, 1963. 
 
Thompson & West. 1868 Historical Atlas of San Mateo County, California.  
 
United States Department of the Interior. National Park Service. National Register Bulletin 
15: How to Apply the National Register Criteria. Online Version Updated 2002. 
 
Wickert, Linda, and The San Mateo County Historical Association. City of San Mateo 
Historic Building Survey Final Report. San Mateo, CA: 1989.  
 
Zompolis, Gregory N. Images of America: San Mateo. San Francisco: Arcadia Publishing, 
2004. 
 
Baywood Neighborhood 
 
San Mateo County Assessor Maps of Baywood Subdivision May 11, 1927. 
 
 
Owners / Occupants 
 
San Mateo Times 
 
San Mateo City Directories. San Mateo Public Library and on Ancestry.com 
 
United States Census Records 1930 and 1940.

--- page 85 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                     
City of San Mateo                                                                                                       June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com                                                                                                                             Page 25  
X. 
Endnotes 
 
1 San Mateo Sanborn Maps, San Francisco Public Library Online. 
2 Research for the Historical Overview section of this report was generally taken from Alan 
Hynding. From Frontier to Suburb: the Story of the San Mateo Peninsula (1982); Mitchell Postel. 
San Mateo: A Centennial History (1994); and Frank Stanger. A History of San Mateo County 
(1938). 
3 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map Company, 1891 San Mateo Map, Sheet 1. 
4 Arthur Schade, “The Development of San Mateo Through Subdivision and the History of the City 
Limits of San Mateo,” Maps, 1 – 7, 9, and 12.  
5 Ibid, Maps 8, 10 and 13. 
6 Postel, San Mateo: A Centennial History, and Gregory Zompolis, Images of America: San Mateo. 
7 Postel, San Mateo: A Centennial History, 174.  
8 1930 Federal Census Record, available through Ancestry.com. 
9 “Local Teacher Becomes Bride of M. Chalmers” San Mateo Times, June 28, 1929.  
10 1940 Federal Census Record, available through Ancestry.com. 
11 California Death Records available through Ancestry.com. 
12 City of San Mateo Building Permit Records. 
13 Virginia McAlester, A Field Guide to American Houses; Carol Rifkind, A Field Guide to American 
Architecture; and James and Shirley Maxwell, House Styles in America were referenced for style 
information. 
14 San Mateo Voting records, 1934-1936. 
15 The San Mateo Times, July 11, 1933: 8. 
16 “Burl. Building Hits $55,000” The San Mateo Times, Oct. 13, 1936: 3. 
17 “Death claims John Wickland” The San Mateo Times, December 28, 1936: 3. 
18 The San Mateo Times, June 12, 1936: 32. 
19 The San Mateo Times, January 22, 1937, p.11.; San Mateo Times, February 13, 1937:  10.

--- page 86 ---
415 Fair Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                        
City of San Mateo                                                                                                   June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com 
 
 
 
APPENDIX ONE 
 
Sanborn Fire Insurance Company Maps – San Mateo 
 
 
1920 – Sheet 39 (portion of the Parrott Estate) 
 
1950 – Sheet 47 
 
1961 – Sheet 47

--- page 87 ---
1920 Sanborn Map

al

235
SL! |. a eS
Py

estare oF
JOWN PARROTT
mesegnevs,

CALE : 200 FT TO t

we

Scale 200 Ft. to One Inch.
oo ° mo
Conemgne ie ay the Senmern Map Ce

aly

~ rit a

rat tt

Rs J} ait
2 “AV

oF Distnch
HOMESTE

QUINCE
RHU
SYCAMORE

3



--- page 88 ---
1950 Sanborn Map



--- page 89 ---
1961 Sanborn Map

=
|
regs]
res
En
aa
rea

ili Mt << << - y ’ & +
Paoge chivas" a \

0]
LF

ey

i
|

ERSTE ERAS gira |
: os

(ee Soares
ae

Yo

Kew

i}
oa
r=)

|

& °

cs

z
=
6
=
&
°
w
© L&
C
=) |
sf E =
‘ 7
. WA) Ae!
ee = ee i
« i)
J es
iy
- 3
: A
‘
ot .
, a
’ ry
z
%
. >
x.)
.
VA

Se teil

es Q

eae seal
f > e | ae ;

os eit
ic

es
| Bs
72
fe |
SIREN 0 0 = gf ae,
oem ga
a

maine

-- =
3 INE,
SS ey a ee

ales 2-2

x ee oles fe

sar |
ae 9)

py 7h i vi] ey

ay ‘ y wif jth =)
be Wie? by Hi i
a acer mm

el sf

pra

os4/ ho. 2
tb
£
5 1
¥ Hal =
¢ . p -~
j 2 PP hy f)
E = ® I a) LU &
= ") e 7 bi
3) . x 3
! a,
i ER 7
find lid A Ao
a: . i



--- page 90 ---
415 Fair Avenue, San Mateo, California – Historical Evaluation                                                        
City of San Mateo                                                                                                   June 14, 2021 
 
 
 
 
architecture + history, llc 
www.architecture-history.com 
 
 
 
APPENDIX TWO 
 
 
Original Building Permit – April 5, 1933

--- page 91 ---
193
Referred to Building Inspector 
•
•
APR J -5-4333
No  3231
CITY OF SANLMATEO.
APPLICATION ,
OF
T. M. Chalmers
 
 Owner
FOR PERMIT TO ERECT j.d.
Residence 
r  
 
 building
Location  415 Fairfax Avenue 
APR --ti 1933 t
: 
Approved 
193
(fr,tditalBuilding Inspector.
e 
*
E-1
cn
4.1
•
iaauis
E-1
cn
,
11.
cn
Hr

--- page 92 ---
Subdivision
by 4
inches ye 9 
inches on centers.
Studs in bearing partitions
dea,4,1
by #  inches /4 
Chimneys of 
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
S 
193 .
APPLICATION FOR BUIL INTO1 1. PERMIT
Application is hereby made to the City of San. Mateo for Permission to build imoveaterrne-,x4lemeffnir)* a
 
On Lot ..N0 
  
, Block No 
Ar 
nsituated on
 
44
In accordance with th plans and specifications submitted herewith.
The building law shall be complied with in the erection of the building, whether otherwise specified or not.
Estimated cost of building, I/ Zingg Building to be occupied as „Zan! 
..4 
by. 
g;nn•
families.
Size of Lot 
  
feet from 
24 
t  feet rear 
/Jr  feet deep.
feet
I offer to set building back 
.A,5- 
feet from street line.
Size of proposed building 
445'd 
feet by 
ila 
feet.
Height from curb to top of roof beams in center of front 
-21 
feet.
Height in clear of basement or cellar 
47
d- feet. Height in clear of first story 
7
a 1---•feet.
l
Height in clear of second story 
r" 
feet. Height in clear of third story  n••nImple ......n
feet.
Foundation to be of 
 1elket4471.1: 
thickness, on top 
f  inches.
Width of footings 
Atr  inches. Greatest height of foundation walls 
02 
feet.
Size of studs in basement (underpinning) 
,„,.€ by 
4 
Size of studs in first story 
,.2,. by 
'riches
Size of studs in second story  — 
by 
inches 
Size of studs in third sitory 
by 
inches
  treet.
Inches 
/a 
inches on centers.
 
'riches on centers.
inches on centers.
inches on centers.
Materials of walls
Wall covering to be of
First -
 joists  
by
_ 
„
Second floor joists ie by
Third floor joists' 
by
Rafters 
Roof covered with 
 
inside.
Longest span between supports 
ft.
Inches on centers. Longest span between supports 
ft.
Inches on centers. Longest span between supports 
ft.
Longest span between supports 
ft.
 
inches /A
 
inches 
rart40 outside, and
At 
inches  /a 
inches on centers.
5-•
There shall be no encroachments upon the street or sidewalk 
I hereby agree to save, indemnify and keep harmless the City of San Mateo against all liabilities, judgments,
Costs and expenses which may in any wise accrue against said city in consequence of the granting of this permit,
or from the use or occupancy of any sidewalk, street or sub-sidewalk placed by virtue thereof, and will in all
things strictly comply with the conditions of this permit, and the Building Law.
Architect 
Owner
Bui/der. 
Pi: 
Address g3   
. ratAAf
eteen.4-. 
acce.inti
Address 90  
Address 
---7(NOTE—The ON-sinelja na 
rnitst. hi/ • Iiii -architnef or inthorized agent.)
•
'IF-Applicant must indicate in ink correctly and distinctly on the back of this ' sheet, a diagram of the lot virttli
street, alleys, location of mcisting_building _an the lot, if- any, and location and dimensions of proposed buildings.
plans and specifications must be fastened together.

--- page 93 ---
h,

' OFFICE OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION

STATE OF CALIFORNIA — THE RESOURCES AGENCY GEORGE DEUKMEJIAN, Governor

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

. POST OFFICE BOX 942896

, (9161 445-8006

SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA 94296-0001
ay) ppret segs

January 22, 1990 DeP mig CoidicTTY DEVELOP RarHr

He;

PLANNING
NAN 24 1999)

Honorable Thomas R. Mack, Mayor
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo CA 94403

Dear Mayor Mack:

As you probably know, the City of San Mateo has just completed a
survey of its historic resources. One element of the project was
a formal agreement between the City and our office designed to
insure that the work met State standards.

I am pleased to inform you that the survey has met those
standards. The project demonstrated a successful mix of
community involvement and professional expertise. The resulting
inventory compiles a great deal of information in an accessible
format. It should provide a firm basis for the City’s ongoing
preservation efforts, including the formulation of policies for
the current general plan update.

We have incorporated the results of the survey into the State
Historic Resources Inventory. Entry of selected survey
information into our computerized database will occur shortly.

San Mateo is fortunate to have such a large number and great
diversity of historic resources. Quite a few deserve national
recognition, and even more should be designated locally.

Let me call your attention especially to the historic commercial
district that was delineated downtown. This area appears
eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places.
Nomination to the register is a separate process, but it can move
ahead quickly if the City and property owners decide to proceed.
Our guess is that only 20 or 30 hours of staff time would be
needed to turn survey information into a register application.

Enclosed are two documents. One is a more detailed evaluation of
the survey and the other a list of changes we’ve made in
estimates of National Register eligibility. -Please let us know
if you have questions about either.


--- page 94 ---
Comprehensiveness: 1) While the intent of the project was
to survey the entire city, financial resources and time
tonstraints led to a reduction of the survey area. The
northeast part of the city received an intensive survey, the
other parts got a thorough drive-through and substantial
research. A few properties in the latter areas were
documented. In addition, OHP and survey staff identified at
least two huge (500+ resources) Register-eligible
residential districts in the areas. 2) All existant
property types were surveyed. Because of the undocumented
districts, certain types were underrepresented in the
inventory, viz., large houses ca. 1910-1930 and houses ca.
1930-1940. In addition, apartment buildings may need
further attention, even though several appear in th:
inventory.

Evaluations: The project emphasized thoughtful application
of the National Register criteria. In addition, survey and
OCOHP staff had discussed evaluation issues during the
project. As a result, few evaluations were changed upon GHP
review. In the case of several houses, the reason for a “4"
rating was unclear-—-with survey staff intending the rating
to mean that further research was necessary and GHP reviewer
concluding that the properties belonged in the "endangered
species” category.

Other: Documentation was thorough. Significance statements
established the importance of the properties without adding
irrelevant detail. Inventory forms, even those for
districts, were properly completed and easy to understand.
Documenting the downtown commercial district is one of the
project’s major successes, especially if the City goes on to
nominate the district to the National Register.

Issues: The project was the first completed under a memorandum
of agreement between the OHP and a lecal government. The
agreement envisioned a high degree of OHP involvement as a
substitute for grant funds. Compared with a grant project, the
survey needed only a little more attention, viz. two visits, one
of which focused on delineating historic districts, and a
Slightly larger number of phone cails. Its unclear whether this
Pattern will continue in different places with different local
staff and financial support. Judging from this instance,
however, the memorandum of agreement must be considered a
success. The project was also the first of a proposed series
under the auspices of the county historical society. Two more
are currently underway.

ee

th denne?


--- page 95 ---
If asked to do so under the agreement, we promised to hold a
workshop on the survey and its connection to other preservation
programs. These include registration, local certification, tax
incentives, and others. Although the project was completed
without the workshop, we would still be glad to hold one.

Let me congratulate the City and its planning staff, the San
Mateo County Historical Association and its staff, and the local
volunteers for a job well done.

Sincerely,

Original Sioned by

Kathryn Gualtieri

State Historic Preservation Officer

Enclosures

cc: Robert M. Brown
Kim Powleson
Mitch Postel
Linda Wickert


--- page 96 ---
the evaluation system (based on the state's rating system), a panel of
community members, selected for their expertise, met to review the
individual ratings. Their comments were incorporated into the final
ratings.

Geographical Focus of Survey. During the research and on-site

survey phase, it became clear that San Mateo was a mature community.
County Assessor's records listed 4,460 addresses of residential
properties built before 1940. Because of the large number of structures,
the survey focused primarily on the oldest neighborhoods, most of
which are located east of El] Camino Real. We had two reasons for
localizing our survey. One was to concentrate efforts in
neighborhoods where current zoning was not conducive to the
preservation of existing structures. Most of the zoning for older
neighborhoods surrounding the city's traditional central core has
allowed for higher densities in recent years. The result has been a
dramatic change as older, single-family dwellings are torn down and
replaced with larger, multi-unit structures.

Another reason to focus on the east side of El Camino was the
discovery that the older neighborhoods on the west side of town had a
large number of historically interesting structures. After consulting
with staff members of the Office of Historic Preservation, we
determined that the most sensible approach to documenting the
neighborhoods in planning areas "Baywood," "Baywood Knolls,"
“Aragon,” and “San Mateo Park" would be as potential historic
districts. Since these neighborhoods contain a large number of older
buildings that relate historically and have a high degree of architectural
consistency, the district approach makes more sense. This is a simpler
process than documenting individual properties, yet still requires
much work. We took our concerns to the City's Planning staff, who
agreed that future survey projects might address the issue of
documenting potential districts in the western neighborhoods of San
Mateo.

Project research and on-site surveying concentrated on the
traditional downtown of San Mateo, particularly along B Street and
Third Avenue, and the neighborhoods of Central, East San Mateo,
Hayward Park, San Mateo Heights, and North Central. Areas west of El
Camino and south through Twenty-fifth and the Hillsdale
neighborhoods were surveyed visually. In a few cases, specific
Structures in these areas west of El Camino Real stood out as unusual
properties and were included in the survey for further research.


--- page 97 ---
Laurie Hietter 
223 Irving Street San Mateo, CA 94402 
lauriehietter@gmail.com 
 
February 1, 2022 
 
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
City Council Member  
 
City of San Mateo  
30 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Council Member Rodriguez: 
San Mateo is known for its charming neighborhoods with classic‐architecture homes built in the 
1920s and 1930s. These neighborhoods attract residents and visitors alike, but are in danger due 
to the piecemeal demolition of these homes without adequate environmental review and public 
notice under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  
Baywood residents have recently mobilized to express their opposition to demolishing these 
historic homes and their desire for the City to preserve and protect the historic homes and 
protect the historic integrity of the neighborhood.  
Purpose of this Letter 
This letter outlines the need for the City of San Mateo to take further action under CEQA prior 
to authorizing Special Use Permits (SUPs) for home demolition in the Baywood neighborhood. 
My key points are: 
1. CEQA requires consideration of historic resources (including districts) whether or not 
they are formally designated. 
2. There is substantial evidence the Baywood, Aragon, and San Mateo Park neighborhoods 
qualify as historic districts. 
3. House demolition with construction in San Mateo is a discretionary project and subject 
to CEQA review. 
4. Categorical Exemptions (from further review under CEQA) may not be used for single‐
family homes when there is a potential for a significant cumulative effect or a significant 
adverse effect on a historic resource or district. 
5. The City should conduct more extensive CEQA and historic review to determine 
whether the demolition of a house represents a significant impact to a historic resource 
or district, or a significant cumulative effect on a district.  
6. San Mateo planning policies should recognize Baywood, Aragon, and San Mateo Park as 
historic districts because they meet the criteria for listing on the California Register of 
Historical Resources.

--- page 98 ---
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
February 1, 2022 
Page 2 
 
 
 
I have lived in San Mateo since 1980 (Baywood since 1994) and I am alarmed at the ongoing 
erosion of our historic neighborhoods through house demolitions, new houses, and renovations 
that are out of character with the neighborhoods.  
My entire career has been spent as an environmental consulting professional. I understand 
CEQA and historic preservation laws and I am concerned about San Mateo’s process that 
allows demolition of what appear to be important homes with limited public review and CEQA 
analysis. 
1. CEQA requires consideration of historic resources (including districts) whether 
or not they are formally designated. 
CEQA specifies that historic resources, including districts, can be identified whether formally 
designated or not: 
(4) The fact that a resource is not listed in, or determined to be eligible for listing in the 
California Register of Historical Resources, not included in a local register of historical resources 
(pursuant to section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code), or identified in an historical 
resources survey (meeting the criteria in section 5024.1(g) of the Public Resources Code) does 
not preclude a lead agency from determining that the resource may be an historical resource as 
defined in Public Resources Code sections 5020.1(j) or 5024.1. 
2. There is substantial evidence the Baywood, Aragon, and San Mateo Park 
neighborhoods qualify as historic districts. 
1. The 1989 Downtown Historic Building Survey Final Report1 identifies historic 
neighborhoods Baywood, Baywood Knolls, Aragon, and San Mateo Park as historic 
districts:   
“After consulting with staff members of the Office of Historic Preservation, we determined 
that the most sensible approach to documenting the neighborhoods in planning areas 
"Baywood," "Baywood Knolls," "Aragon," and "San Mateo Park" would be as potential 
historic districts. Since these neighborhoods contain a large number of older buildings that 
relate historically and have a high degree of architectural consistency, the district approach 
makes more sense. This is a simpler process than documenting individual properties, yet still 
requires much work. We took our concerns to the City's Planning staff, who agreed that 
future survey projects might address the issue of documenting potential districts in the 
western neighborhoods of San Mateo.” 
 
 
1 San Mateo Historical Association, 1989. City of San Mateo Historical Building Survey Final Report, Linda 
Wickert, survey coordinator, September 1989.

--- page 99 ---
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
February 1, 2022 
Page 3 
 
 
 
2. In 1990, the California State Office of Historic Preservation2 (OHP) characterized 
neighborhoods west of El Camino as:  
“two huge (500+ resources) Register‐eligible residential districts”. 
The 1990 letter is attached. 
3. Two architectural historians I have spoken with indicated verbally that Baywood 
would likely qualify as a historic district eligible for listing on the Historical Register.  
3. House demolition with construction in San Mateo is a discretionary project and 
subject to CEQA review.  
Single‐family house demolition and construction is normally considered a ministerial project 
and not subject to CEQA. The City has determined that demolition is a discretionary action and 
requires a Special Use Permit (SUP). 14 CCR § 15268 Ministerial Projects states: 
(d) Where a project involves an approval that contains elements of both a ministerial action and 
a discretionary action, the project will be deemed to be discretionary and will be subject to the 
requirements of CEQA.  
4. Categorical Exemptions (from further review under CEQA) may not be used 
for single-family homes when there is a potential for a significant cumulative 
effect or a significant adverse effect on a historic resource or district. 
Single‐family home demolition and construction are included in the list of types of projects that 
have been determined by the state not to have a significant effect on the environment and are 
therefore exempt from CEQA. Demolition and construction of single‐family homes are 
generally subject to Categorical Exemptions; however, exemptions cannot be used if there is 
significant cumulative impact or the project would have a significant adverse effect on a historic 
resource (14 CCR § 15300.2 § 15300.2. Exceptions): 
(b) Cumulative Impact. All exemptions for these classes are inapplicable when the cumulative 
impact of successive projects of the same type in the same place, over time is significant. 
(f) Historical Resources. A categorical exemption shall not be used for a project which may cause 
a substantial adverse change in the significance of a historical resource. 
 
 
2 Letter from Kathryn Gualtieri, State Historic Preservation Officer, to San Mateo Mayor Thomas Mack, 
January 22, 1990, p.4.

--- page 100 ---
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
February 1, 2022 
Page 4 
 
 
 
The City process has been to categorically exempt demolition projects proposed under SUPs in 
Baywood and elsewhere3. The City previously approved demolition of several houses in 
Baywood, and is currently considering applications for five additional house demolitions in 
Baywood: 
 
415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
564 Edinburgh Street 
 
539 Fairfax Avenue 
 
542 Fairfax Avenue 
 
445 Virginia Avenue 
The entire neighborhood is concerned about these projects, yet only people within 500 feet are 
notified. 
5. The City should conduct more extensive CEQA and historic review to 
determine whether the demolition represents a significant impact to a historic 
resource, district, or a significant cumulative effect on a district.  
There is substantial evidence that Baywood is a historic district (see 2. above). Two of the homes 
proposed to be demolished (415 Fairfax and 564 Edinburgh): 
 
Appear to be intact,  
 
Were built within the historic time frame (1920s and 1930s),  
 
Exemplify the Spanish revival architecture characteristic of the district,  
 
Appear to contribute to the integrity of the district, and  
 
Would likely be contributors to the historic district.  
The City’s historic consultant indicated in the historic report prepared for 415 Fairfax that the 
structure is not individually eligible as historic resource but did not determine whether 
demolition of the structure would have an adverse effect on the historic district or represent a 
cumulative impact4. The report references the 1989 Downtown Historic Building Survey Final 
Report but is silent on the issue of the district. 
Public Resources Code §21084.1 provides that any project that may cause a substantial adverse 
change in the significance of a historic resource is a project that may have a significant effect on 
the environment requiring preparation of an Environmental Impact Report. Public Resources 
Code §5020.1(q) establishes the threshold of “substantial adverse change” as demolition, 
 
 
3 January 6, 2022 meeting with San Mateo planning staff members Vinson Kwan, Rendell Busto, and 
Manira Sandhir.  
4 Architecture + History, LLC. 2021, Historical Resource Evaluation Report, 415 Fairfax Avenue San 
Mateo, CA, prepared for the City of San Mateo Community Development Department, June 14, 2021.

--- page 101 ---
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
February 1, 2022 
Page 5 
 
 
 
destruction, relocation, or alteration activities that would impair the significance of the historic 
resource. According to the CEQA and Historical Resources CEQA Technical Advice Series,  
“One example might be the removal of a historic structure from a historic district, 
thereby affecting the cohesiveness of the district. Remodeling a historic structure in such 
a way that its distinctive nature is altered would be another.” 
6. San Mateo planning policies should recognize Baywood, Aragon, and San 
Mateo Park as historic districts because they meet the criteria for listing on the 
California Register of Historical Resources. 
The Baywood Neighborhood Association has contracted with an architectural historian to 
determine whether Baywood qualifies as a historic district (as described in the Downtown 
Historic Building Survey Final Report and elsewhere). This study will provide further evidence to 
the City that the Baywood neighborhood qualifies as a historic district. 
The CEQA Guidelines (14 CCR § 15064.5. Determining the Significance of Impacts to 
Archaeological and Historical Resources) defines historically significant resources: 
Generally, a resource shall be considered by the lead agency to be “historically significant” if the 
resource meets the criteria for listing on the California Register of Historical Resources (Pub. 
Res. Code, § 5024.1, Title 14 CCR, Section 4852) including the following: 
(A) Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad 
patterns of California's history and cultural heritage; 
(B) Is associated with the lives of persons important in our past; 
(C) Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of 
construction, or represents the work of an important creative individual, or possesses 
high artistic values; or 
(D) Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. 
The houses are clearly very good, intact examples of period revival architecture common in the 
‘20s and ‘30s. The 1989 Downtown Historic Building Survey Final Report states the area west of El 
Camino “… exhibited a fine range of historically important architectural styles. San Mateo Park, 
Baywood Knolls, and parts of Aragon in particular have a rich assortment of architectural styles 
dating from 1900 to 1939.” 
Summary 
I urge the City to conduct the necessary historic survey, and designate Baywood, Aragon, and 
San Mateo Park historic districts to ensure adequate CEQA and historic reviews before allowing 
any further demolition of homes built in the historic period of consequence (at least 1920‐1940).

--- page 102 ---
Mr. Eric Rodriguez 
February 1, 2022 
Page 6 
 
 
 
I look forward to your response and learning how the City will change the review process to 
ensure adequate public notice, analysis, and protection of the abundant historic resources in the 
City. Please contact me at (650) 269‐6927 or lauriehietter@gmail.com. Thank you for your 
attention to this important topic.  
Sincerely,  
 
Laurie Hietter 
cc: 
Prasanna Rasiah  
Attachment: Letter from Kathryn Gualtieri, State Office of Historic Preservation

--- page 103 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200 
RE: 
February 1, 2022, letter regarding historic districts and demolition projects 
Dear Ms. Hietter: 
The Community Development Department (“Department”) has reviewed your letter to Councilmember 
Rodriguez that expresses concern and opposition to the demolition of homes built in the 1920s and 1930s 
in the Baywood neighborhood of the City of San Mateo (“City”).  Below we respond to the points in your 
letter focused on historic district designation of certain neighborhoods within the City, and the City’s 
environmental review of demolition projects under the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”).  
It should be noted that preservation of the City’s potentially historic neighborhoods and establishing 
districts is a broader topic that will be addressed in the Urban Design Element as part of the City’s General 
Plan Update, which is currently underway. Based on the current timeline, the Updated General Plan is 
anticipated to be ready for adoption by the City Council end of 2023. For more information on the General 
Plan Update process, please visit www.StriveSanMateo.org.  
The six key comments from your letter are restated in italics below, and the City’s response follows each 
point in bold.  
1. Comment:  CEQA requires consideration of historic resources (including districts) whether or not they are
formally designated.
City Response: The City requires a Special Use Permit for the demolition of homes, which is a discretionary 
approval. Therefore, demolitions are considered a “Project” under CEQA and reviewed for compliance with 
CEQA.  
A CEQA impact to a historic resource is considered significant when it “causes a substantial adverse change 
in the significance of a historic resource”. A “historic resource” is defined as a resource listed on or eligible 
for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources (Public Resources Code [PRC] Section 21084.1). 
“Substantial adverse change” includes demolition, destruction, relocation, or alteration such that the 
significance of an historical resource would be impaired (PRC Section 5020.1(q)). 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
March 10, 2022 
Laurie Hietter 
223 Irving Street 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
Sent via Email: lauriehietter@gmail.com 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000

--- page 104 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
PRC Section 21084.1 does not preclude the City from determining a building may be an historical resource, 
notwithstanding whether the building is listed in, or eligible for listing in, the California Register or other 
specified sources. However, it does not require consideration of impacts on undesignated resources, 
including areas not designated as historic districts. Therefore, CEQA simply requires the evaluation of 
impacts to historic resources that are “listed” or “eligible” for listing.  
 
2.  Comment: There is substantial evidence the Baywood, Aragon, and San Mateo Park neighborhoods 
qualify as historic districts. 
 
City Response: While there was initial survey work completed that identified these three referenced 
neighborhoods as being potentially historic, the necessary evaluations, surveys, and analysis from a 
qualified architectural historian to evaluate the eligibility for listing on the California Register as a historic 
district have not yet been completed.  Individual neighborhoods that seek such historic district designation 
have the option to independently apply to register directly with the State.  
 
3. Comment:  House demolition with construction in San Mateo is a discretionary project and subject to 
CEQA review. 
 
City Response: Correct. See response above to Comment No. 1.  
 
4. Comment:  Categorical Exemptions (from further review under CEQA) may not be used for single-family 
homes when there is a potential for a significant cumulative effect or a significant adverse effect on a 
historic resource or district. 
 
City Response:  The letter expands upon this statement to correctly state that a Categorical Exemption 
cannot be used when there may be a cumulative impact of successive projects of the same type in the same 
place, which over time can be significant; or for a substantial adverse change in the significance of a 
historical resource.  
 
With regard to “cumulative impacts,” speculation that theoretical future projects may cause cumulative 
adverse impacts is not sufficient to disallow the use of a categorical exemption. 
 
With regard to “historical resources,” the Planning Division, when reviewing Special Use Permits for 
demolition projects, requires a historic resource evaluation prepared by a licensed historic professional for 
any structure that has the potential to be a historic resource. The five demolition projects listed in the letter 
(415, 539 and 542 Fairfax, 564 Edinburgh Street, and 445 Virginia Avenue) are subject to this process and 
require appropriate CEQA review to determine if the demolition would result in a substantial adverse 
change in the significance of a historical resource.  
 
Given the absence of a designated or eligible district where the referenced demolition projects are 
proposed, the focus of the City’s CEQA analysis would be on whether the structures proposed to be 
demolished individually qualify as historic resources.  
 
5. Comment:  The City should conduct more extensive CEQA and historic review to determine whether the 
demolition of a house represents a significant impact to a historic resource or district, or a significant 
cumulative effect on a district. 
 
City Response: The detailed comment in the letter focuses on two homes (415 Fairfax and 564 Edinburgh) 
within the Baywood neighborhood. Specifically, for 415 Fairfax, the letter correctly states that the historic 
analysis concluded that the house proposed to be demolished is not individually eligible as a historic

--- page 105 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
resource. The concern expressed in the letter is related to whether the demolition of the structure would 
represent a “cumulative impact” or would have an “adverse effect on the historic district.” 
 
Since there is no historic district designation or evaluation for this neighborhood, there would be no 
“cumulative impact” or any “adverse effect on a historic resource” by the demolition of these structures.   
 
The February 1st letter identifies the CEQA threshold for impact, which includes an example wherein 
“….removal of a historic structure from a historic district……” could impair the significance of a historic 
resource. This example supports the City’s approach to the CEQA evaluation for demolition projects as the 
City carefully reviews individual eligibility prior to granting a Special Use Permit for demolition (See 
Response to Comment No. 4 above).  
 
6. Comment:  San Mateo planning policies should recognize Baywood, Aragon, and San Mateo Park as 
historic districts because they meet the criteria for listing on the California Register of Historical Resources. 
 
City Response: See response above under Comment No. 2. The City’s General Plan Update is also 
anticipated to include a policy framework and actions to support historic preservation.  
 
The City appreciates your interest and comments on this topic. Please communicate with the assigned 
project planners for additional information on any of the demolition projects under review by the City. 
Note that all legal noticing procedures will be followed for these projects and appropriate courtesy notices 
will also be provided to the interested parties lists maintained by staff. Any staff-level decision by the City 
can be further appealed to the Planning Commission and the City Council.  
 
Please be aware that multiple scoping comments for the General Plan Update Environmental Impact Report 
(EIR) associated with historic resources were received by staff and will be collectively responded to as part 
of the General Plan Update process. 
 
If you should have any other questions, I can be reached at (650) 522-7203 or MSandhir@cityofsanmateo.org.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Manira Sandhir, AICP 
Planning Manager 
 
 
Cc:  
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
 
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney 
 
Christina Horrisberger, CDD Director 
 
Zachary Dahl, CDD Deputy Director (General Plan Update Staff Lead)  
 
415 Fairfax – Project File (PA2021-066)

--- page 106 ---
Page 1 of 4 
April 18, 2022 Letter to Community Development Department 
Law Office of Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
Rhowlettlaw@gmail.com 
707-291-6585 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Rendell Busto, Senior Planner and Zoning Administrator, rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner, vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
Zachary Dahl, CDD Deputy Director, zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
Christina Horrisberger, CDD Director, chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
Community Development Department, communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
April 18, 2022 
 
 
Re: Historic Significance of Baywood Neighborhood and 415 Fairfax Ave. 
 
Dear Planners Busto and Kwan, Deputy Director Dahl, and Director Horrisberger:  
 
 
On behalf of the Baywood Neighborhood Association, formerly, Baywood Owners 
Improvement Association, I submit the attached report prepared by historic architecture 
expert Richard Brandi
1,  Historic Preservation Consulting, which evaluates the eligibility of the 
Baywood Neighborhood under the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district, 
and his follow-up letter, which analyzes the property at 415 Fairfax Ave. as an individual 
contributor to the district.  
Mr. Brandi’s report and letter fill in the analytic gaps in the historic report prepared by 
“architecture + history, llc” in 2021 for the City of San Mateo’s Community Development 
Department and buttresses the information provided by the California State Office of Historic 
Preservation in their 1990 letter that characterized neighborhoods west of El Camino as 
containing “… at least two huge (five hundred + resources) Register-eligible residential 
districts.” (Attached, 1990 letter to City of San Mateo from Kathryn Gualtieri, SHPO.)  
Mr. Brandi’s determination also conforms with the City’s March 10, 2022 response letter 
to Laurie Hietter from Manira Sandhir, AICP Planning Manager for City of San Mateo, 
concerning the City’s requirement for a historic resource evaluation to be prepared by a 
licensed historic professional for any structure that has the potential to be a historic resource.  
 
                                               
1 Mr. Brandi is a qualified architectural historian who meets the qualifications Secretary of the 
Interior’s Professional Qualifications for Architectural Historian and Historian. He is a 
qualified Historic Resources Consultant, San Francisco Planning Department; Adjunct 
Professor in Historic Preservation, University of San Francisco; and a former Advisor to the 
City of San Jose Planning Department.

--- page 107 ---
Page 2 of 4 
April 18, 2022 Letter to Community Development Department 
With regard to “historical resources,” the Planning Division, when reviewing Special 
Use Permits for demolition projects, requires a historic resource evaluation prepared by 
a licensed historic professional for any structure that has the potential to be a historic 
resource. The five demolition projects listed in the letter (415, 539 and 542 Fairfax, 564 
Edinburgh Street, and 445 Virginia Avenue) are subject to this process and require 
appropriate CEQA review to determine if the demolition would result in a substantial 
adverse change in the significance of a historical resource. Given the absence of a 
designated or eligible district where the referenced demolition projects are proposed, 
the focus of the City’s CEQA analysis would be on whether the structures proposed to 
be demolished individually qualify as historic resources. 
 
The Baywood Neighborhood Association has now provided the City with the expert 
evaluation to enable these qualifying resources to be treated as historic for purposes of CEQA. 
 
Expert Brandi concluded: 
 
The purpose of this report was to assess whether the Baywood study area 
bounded by Crystal Springs, Eaton, Virginia, Edinburgh, Notre Dame, and the 
Alameda de las Pulgas appears to be eligible under the National Register as a 
historic district. Based on this research, the Baywood study area does meet the 
requirements of a historic distinct under the criteria A and C of the National 
Register of Historic Places criteria and does appear to be eligible for listing. Other 
authorities also concluded that Baywood should or could be considered historic. 
 
Expert Brandi further stated: 
  
Houses in the Baywood study area show a high level of historic integrity. 
Location, setting, feeling, and association appear unchanged. There are few if 
any visible alterations that degrade design, materials, or workmanship. 
Additional research and analysis of the houses is necessary to confirm the degree 
of historic integrity for individual homes, but it appears that many, if not nearly 
all, have retained their historic integrity. 
 
In his follow up letter, expert Brandi summarized his findings regarding the eligibility of the 
Baywood Neighborhood as a historic district. 
 
Baywood meets criterion A for its development as a commuter suburb of San 
Francisco, as a historic streetcar suburb, and as a historic automobile suburb. 
Baywood meets the National Register test for historic districts for having a 
significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or 
objects united historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development. 
Baywood also meets criterion C because it represents a significant and 
distinguishable entity, the components of which may lack individual distinction. 
The houses in Baywood reflect the popular revival styles of the 1920s and 1930s,

--- page 108 ---
Page 3 of 4 
April 18, 2022 Letter to Community Development Department 
including Mission/Spanish Colonial Revival, Mediterranean Revival, Tudor 
Revival, Classical Revival, and Italian Renaissance; and embody the distinctive 
characteristics of the revival types and method of construction. 
 
Mr. Brandi further determined, in a separate letter of April 4, 2022 (attached), that the 
house at 415 Fairfax Avenue qualifies as a contributor to the historic district. 
 
Based on the HRE which states 415 Fairfax Avenue “embodies the distinctive 
characteristics of a Spanish Revival-style,” in my opinion 415 Fairfax Avenue is a 
contributor to the eligible Baywood Historic District which includes the Spanish 
Colonial Revival style. It is located within the boundaries of historic district used 
in my report. The house was built in 1933, placing it within the period of 
significance (1927-1950). The historic building permits listed in the architecture + 
history, llc report do not reveal that any exterior alterations were made. The 
historic photo confirms that the house has not been altered on its primary façade 
and thus it retains its historic integrity. Therefore, in my opinion, 415 Fairfax 
Avenue is a contributor to the Baywood Historic District.  
 
 
Under CEQA, a project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance 
of an historical resource may have a significant effect on the environment. (Pub. Res. Code 
§21084.1; CEQA Guidelines, §15064.5.) Based on expert Brandi’s new information, the 
Baywood Neighborhood and the house at 415 Fairfax Ave. now qualify as cultural resources 
under CEQA and environmental review must be initiated prior to any consideration of 
demolition; categorical exemptions may not be used for projects that may cause a substantial 
adverse change in the significance of an historic resource. (Pub. Res. Code §21084(c); CEQA 
Guidelines, §15300.2(f).)  
Since its passage in 1970, CEQA has included historic properties in its range of 
protected environmental resources. In 1992, CEQA was amended to clarify protections to 
historic resources, including a Public Resources Code definition of “historical resources” that 
provides that a project “that may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an 
historical resource is a project that may have a significant effect on the environment.” (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21084.1.) The Guidelines were amended in 1998 to include new sections 15064.5 
and 15126.4 addressing historic and archaeological resources. An historic resource cannot be 
approved for a discretionary demolition without preparation of an EIR. (Pub. Res. Code 
§21084.1; League for Protection v. City of Oakland (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 896.) League for Protection 
held that treatment of a resource as historic does not require prerequisite listing in an official 
inventory of historic resources or in the California Register of Historic Resources; otherwise,

--- page 109 ---
Page 4 of 4 
April 18, 2022 Letter to Community Development Department 
government inaction or owner resistance could preclude protection of important resources. 
Guideline section 15064.5(a) defines criteria for qualifying historic resources, provides 
standards for assessing adverse effects on such resources, and confirms that a substantial 
alteration of an historic resource that materially impairs historic integrity causes a significant 
environmental impact.  
For the foregoing reasons, the Baywood neighborhood and the home at 415 Fairfax Ave. 
must now be treated as historic resources subject to CEQA; the application of a categorical 
exemption is no longer supportable due to the historic resources at stake; and environmental 
review is required to be conducted that considers alternatives to demolition and adaptive 
reuse strategies that avoid significant impacts and retain historic resources. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
Attorney for Baywood Neighborhood Association 
 
 
 
cc: 
City of San Mateo  
Planning Commission 
City Council

--- page 110 ---
Michael Nash 
President Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Baywood Neighborhood Historic Asset Analysis 
San Mateo, California 
 
Prepared by: 
Richard Brandi 
Historic Preservation Consultant 
125 Dorchester Way 
San Francisco, CA 94127  
March 25, 2022 
www.brandipreservation.com

--- page 111 ---
This page intentionally left blank.

--- page 112 ---
Table of Contents 
Contents 
Purpose and Scope of Study ......................................................................................................................................... 1 
Findings ........................................................................................................................................................................ 1 
Study Area .................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Definition ................................................................................................................................................................. 1 
Description ............................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Historic Context ........................................................................................................................................................... 4 
San Mateo ................................................................................................................................................................. 4 
Baywood ................................................................................................................................................................... 5 
Development of Baywood ........................................................................................................................................ 6 
Baywood as a Historic Residential Suburb............................................................................................................. 10 
Baywood Architectural Styles .................................................................................................................................... 12 
Builders and Architects of Baywood .......................................................................................................................... 13 
Architects Working in Baywood ............................................................................................................................ 16 
Architects and Builders from Permits ................................................................................................................. 22 
Baywood ..................................................................................................................................................................... 27 
Significance Under the National Register of Historic Places ..................................................................................... 27 
Historic Districts ..................................................................................................................................................... 27 
Period of Significance 1927–1950 ......................................................................................................................... 28 
Historic Integrity .................................................................................................................................................... 28 
Integrity of the Baywood Study Area ..................................................................................................................... 30 
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................................. 31 
Future Research .......................................................................................................................................................... 31 
Consultant Qualifications ........................................................................................................................................... 32 
 
 
List of Tables 
Table 1: Contractors in Baywood in 1929 .................................................................................................................. 14 
Table 2: Architects working in Baywood ................................................................................................................... 16

--- page 113 ---
List of Figures 
Figure 1: Baywood Owners Improvement Association Area ....................................................................................... 2 
Figure 2: Baywood Study Area .................................................................................................................................... 3 
Figure 3: Baywood in 1940 at Third Avenue (foreground) and Eaton ........................................................................ 4 
Figure 4: Third Avenue foreground and Eaton Road ................................................................................................... 4 
Figure 5: Baywood before development, undated. View looking west/southwest toward Alameda de las Pulgas ..... 6 
Figure 6: Baywood subdivision maps, filed May 16, 1927   ........................................................................................ 8 
Figure 7: Advertisements boasted curving streets, underground utilities, and a 35-minute commute to San 
Francisco. ..................................................................................................................................................................... 9 
Figure 8: Streets cut through the tract, looking west. ................................................................................................. 10 
Figure 9: 326 Parrott Drive ........................................................................................................................................ 13 
Figure 10: George Brothers/Grimes and Scott homes on Cornell Ave. ..................................................................... 15 
Figure 11: 365 Virginia Avenue ................................................................................................................................. 16 
Figure 12: 321 Georgetown Ave. ............................................................................................................................... 17 
Figure 13: 639 Fordham Road .................................................................................................................................... 18 
Figure 14: First Baywood House at 419 Jackson ....................................................................................................... 19 
Figure 15: William Toepke designed Baywood School. ............................................................................................ 20 
Figure 16: 375 Virginia Ave. ..................................................................................................................................... 21 
Figure 17: 362 Georgetown ........................................................................................................................................ 22 
Figure 18: 335 Virginia, first house in Baywood ....................................................................................................... 22 
Figure 19: 323 Virginia .............................................................................................................................................. 23 
Figure 20: 244 Virginia .............................................................................................................................................. 23 
Figure 21: 502 Cornell ............................................................................................................................................... 24 
Figure 22: 311 Parrott ................................................................................................................................................. 24 
Figure 23: 251 Parrott ................................................................................................................................................. 25 
Figure 24: 460 Cornell ............................................................................................................................................... 25 
Figure 25: 510 Cornell ............................................................................................................................................... 26

--- page 114 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
1 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Purpose and Scope of Study 
The purpose of this report is to assess whether the Baywood Neighborhood appears to be eligible 
under the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district. 
The scope of work consisted of research to produce a historic context of the Baywood study area, 
a visual inspection of the neighborhood, and a sample of historic building permits. Under the 
consultant’s direction, community volunteers conducted historical newspaper research, online 
searches, and archival research at San Mateo County Historical Society and San Mateo Library. 
In the interests of cost and time, a survey of the Baywood study area was not conducted. A 
survey would identify and list the specific houses that are part of the historic district 
(contributors) and those that are not (noncontributors). A full survey requires each house to be 
researched, photographed, and described in writing, with a list of exterior changes, the house’s 
date of construction, and designer (if known), as well as whether it fits within the period of 
significance and retains its historic integrity. It is assumed that this additional work, following 
appropriate protocols, would be conducted at a later date. 
Findings 
Based on the findings in this report, the Baywood study area meets the requirements of a historic 
district under the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places. It is the professional opinion 
of this historic consultant that the Baywood study area qualifies as a historic district and 
historical resource under the California Public Resources Code section 5024.1, which defines 
eligibility for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources and the National Register 
of Historic Places. 
Study Area 
Definition 
The initial study area included the Baywood Owners Improvement Association (OIA) 
neighborhood (Figure 1), as identified by the City of San Mateo. Baywood was initially 
developed in the late 1920s as a residential subdivision, It was later expanded to the west to 
include Baywood Knolls, and to the east to include multi-family buildings.  
After the initial review of the Baywood Knolls area west of Alameda de las Pulgas and the multi-
family building area, the investigation focused on the area of the original Baywood subdivision 
map filed in 1927 (Figure 2) because of consistency of the revival architecture and the 
predominant development era of the 1920s and 1930s. The Baywood Study area is bounded by 
Crystal Springs Road, Eaton Road, Virginia Avenue, Edinburgh Street, Notre Dame Avenue, and

--- page 115 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
2 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
the Alameda de las Pulgas. A visual review of the neighborhood made  it clear that this area is 
cohesive in the styles of architecture and the period of development. 
Later extensions of the Baywood area from the initial development followed to the east with 
multi-family apartment buildings (Phase 2) and west of Alameda de las Pulgas as Baywood 
Knolls (Phase 3). These three areas make up the Baywood Owners Improvement  Association 
(OIA) neighborhood (Figure 1). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Baywood Owners Improvement Association Area

--- page 116 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
3 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
Figure 2: Baywood Study Area 
Baywood subdivision map, filed May 16, 1927. Source: San Mateo County Assessor’s Office. 
 
Description 
The Baywood study area is a residential neighborhood located on gently undulating ground west 
of El Camino Real between Hillsborough and the Aragon neighborhood of San Mateo. The tract 
is made up of single family, detached houses, usually two stories with front and side setbacks and 
extensive landscaping. There are no commercial uses or multi-unit buildings within the Baywood 
study area, although are several of historic merit in Phase 2 of the development. The entrance  
from Third Avenue becomes Parrott Drive. There is no ceremonial statuary to mark the tract. 
Figures 3 and 4 show the entrance to Baywood at Eaton Road and Third Avenue in 1940 and 
2022.

--- page 117 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
4 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Baywood in 1940 at Third Avenue (foreground) and Eaton  
Source: San Mateo Public Library.  
 
Figure 4: Third Avenue foreground and Eaton Road 
 Source: Google Earth 2022.  
Historic Context 
San Mateo 
During the 19th and early 20th century San Mateo, like many of the towns south of San Francisco,

--- page 118 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
5 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
were dominated by large estates of wealthy San Franciscans. The city incorporated in 1894, and 
during the three decades that followed, patterns for the community’s development took shape as 
large estates were sold and subdivided. This pattern accelerated after the catastrophic San 
Francisco earthquake and fire in 1906. The population of San Mateo doubled to more than 4,000 
by 1910. 
By 1920 the city had become a middle-class suburban community of about 6,000. During the 
1920s a number of developers opened residential tracts often on land of the former estates, 
including the Parrott estate west of El Camino Real. Between 1920 and 1923 the town’s 
population increased to 8,500, then to 10,000 by 1925 and another 30% to 13,000 by 1930. 
Eighty-five percent of the residents had a family member who commuted to San Francisco for 
employment. To meet the demand, the Southern Pacific Railroad increased its commuter service 
by 50 percent, from 40 to 60 trains a day. Streetcar service also expanded on the #40 car line, 
connecting San Francisco and San Mateo, beginning in 1903.2 El Camino Real a two-lane, 
unpaved country road, served as the transportation link between San Francisco and San Jose. In 
1912, it was paved, and in 1925, it became the first Highway 101.3 
Baywood 
A study of the early history of the Baywood study area has found that: 
Originally a section of the Rancho de Las Pulgas, the area of land that currently comprises the 
Baywood Subdivision was purchased in 1860 from the Arguello family by native Virginian and 
San Francisco resident John Parrott. Parrott, a trader turned banker who lived with his family on 
Folsom Street in San Francisco. Parrott and his wife, Abby Eastman Maher, desired a country 
residence within driving distance of the city, and the couple purchased 455 acres near San Mateo, 
christening the estate “Baywood” after the numerous bay trees on the property. Upon completion 
of the main residence (the present-day location of 120 W. Third Avenue), John Parrott ordered 
dozens of redwood, eucalyptus, acacia, magnolia, sycamore, chestnut, palm, spruce, and pine 
trees to be planted throughout the estate. Many of these trees remain in the vicinity of the current 
Baywood subdivision. 
John Parrott died in 1885, and the estate was left to his heirs. By the 1920s, the western 
expansion of San Mateo’s city limits had been halted by the Parrott estate. Parrott’s heirs offered 
the property for a one-time cash payment of $850,000, a deal that was non-negotiable. San Mateo 
residents began to collect cash subscriptions to raise the necessary capital to purchase the 
 
2 Mitchell P. Postel, San Mateo: A Centennial History (San Francisco: Scottwall Associates, 1994), 125, 137, 155, 175. 
3 www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/cruising-the-history-of-the-el-camino-real/article_e7728d54-5f7b-51fa- b8df-
54a772272918.html

--- page 119 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
6 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
property. After collecting approximately $200,000 in cash subscriptions, the residents approached 
Bank of Italy and Bank of America founder A.P. Giannini regarding a loan for the remaining 
$650,000. Giannini, a San Mateo resident, recognized the importance of acquiring the property to 
accommodate the expansion of San Mateo and agreed to finance the loan. By 1927, the Dunn 
Williams Company secured an $850,000 loan from the San Mateo citizens group and purchased 
the property outright from Parrott’s heirs. The purchase was the largest real-estate transaction in 
San Mateo up to that time. 
In that same year, the Baywood Park Company of San Francisco and San Mateo subdivided the 
Parrott estate. The new Baywood tract’s “Rolling hills, pleasantly wooded knolls, and sheltered 
vales give the place the charm of endless variety. Three spacious driveways planned to the 
contours of the estate already give access to a large portion of the property…The main approach 
is a new thoroughfare, a continuation of Third Avenue, San Mateo west from Camino Real into 
the heart of Baywood.” The subdivision was planned in several phases. The first phase 
developed west of Eaton Road and Virginia Avenues and comprised 114 acres and 445 single- 
family lots. The second phase, located between the eastern border of the first phase and El 
Camino Real, consisted of 27 acres allocated for the construction of multiple-family apartment 
buildings. Homes in the subdivision were marketed largely to affluent professionals, many of 
whom worked in San Francisco.4   Figure 5 shows the Baywood area prior to development. 
 
Figure 5: Baywood before development, undated. View looking west/southwest toward Alameda de las Pulgas  
Source: Raybould Scrapbook. 
Development of Baywood 
The development of Baywood is associated with efforts of D. A. “Doc” Raybould, a legendary 
figure in San Mateo’s real estate history. Raybould entered the real estate business in 1919 when  
 
4 Historic Evaluation of 236 Third Avenue, Architectural Resources Group Architects, Planners & Conservators, San 
Francisco, California, May 2012.

--- page 120 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
7 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
he joined M. J. Conway to form Conway & Raybould. The firm engaged in sales, loans, 
insurance, appraising, property management, and investments. Over the years, the firm and its 
successors were involved in the development of major projects and subdivisions in San Mateo, 
including Third Avenue, tracts along the Bayshore Highway (Bayshore Highway Tract, 
Peninsular Manor, Howard Tract, Shore View Tract), and many others.5  
Raybould claimed credit, along with Clarence Coleman of Caldwell Banker and Co. of San 
Francisco, for negotiating the purchase of the Baywood property for the Dunn-Williams 
Company of San Francisco.6 The Dunn-Williams company reportedly paid $1 million for the land 
and marketed the tract through its Baywood Park Company.7  
The Baywood site was described as a beauty spot.8 In March 1927, the noted California 
landscape designer Mark Daniels was asked by Dunn-Williams to inspect the trees on the former 
Parrott estate. Daniels had gained fame for designing premiere residential tracts, including Bel 
Air and Beverly Park in Los Angeles, Forest Hill in San Francisco, and Thousand Oaks in 
Berkeley.10 He found in Baywood “the variety is truly amazing, and the arrangement could not 
be  improved.”11 He recommended caution in removing any of the old trees. It appears his 
involvement did not extend beyond a general recommendation. 
A map for the Baywood subdivision was filed on May 16, 1927 (Figure 6), on behalf of 
Baywood Park  Company. The land was surveyed and subdivided into 445 lots by George A. 
Knesse, a Civil Engineer in Redwood City. He was also the San Mateo County Surveyor.12  
Knesse avoided a conventional street grid and laid out the streets in broad, gentle curves. Figures 
7 and 8 shows the initial grading of the main streets in Baywood. The widest street, Parrott 
Drive, continues Third Avenue, at the time extending to Alameda de las Pulgas (then called Park 
Boulevard) as it bisects the tract. As the principal street, Parrott Drive  (originally called 
Baywood Drive13) was made 80 feet wide, while other streets are 50–60 feet wide.14 This kind of 
hierarchical and curvilinear street pattern was popular at the time in residential subdivisions.15  
 
5 The San Mateo County Historical Society has a folio of material about Raybould, herein called the Raybould scrapbook. 
6 Raybould had invested $5,000 as part of the community investment. Raybould Scrapbook. 
7 San Francisco Chronicle, February 15, 1927, and April 30, 1927. 
8 San Francisco Chronicle, April 30, 1927. 
10 Richard Brandi, Garden Neighborhoods of San Francisco: The Development of Residence Parks 1905–1924, (NC: 
Jefferson, McFarland Publishing, 2021), 180. 
11 San Francisco Chronicle, March 12, 1927. 
12 Raybould Scrapbook. 
13 San Francisco Chronicle, March 26, 1927. 
14 San Mateo County Times, May 28, 1927. 
15 Richard Brandi, Garden Neighborhoods of San Francisco, The Development of Residence Parks 1905–1924, (NC: Jefferson, 
McFarland Publishing), 2021, 3.

--- page 121 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
8 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Baywood subdivision maps, filed May 16, 1927 
Source: San Mateo County Assessor’s Office.

--- page 122 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
9 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
Figure 7: Advertisements boasted curving streets, underground utilities, and a 35-minute commute to San 
Francisco. 
Source: San Mateo Times and Daily News, May 7, 1927

--- page 123 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
10 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
Figure 8: Streets cut through the tract, looking west. 
Source: San Mateo Times 
 
The Baywood Park Company was based in San Francisco, and perhaps for this reason the 
company was able to convince the San Francisco Mayor, James Rolph, to attend the kickoff 
ceremony for a model home, along with civic leaders of San Mateo and Burlingame.16 Homes in 
Baywood were marketed to affluent professionals, many of who worked in San Francisco, and 
were expected to make up 85 percent of the buyers.17 The tract was within a 35-minute commute 
to San Francisco, with proximity to the state highway (El Camino Real), Southern Pacific line 
(Caltrain), and electric streetcar line (40 Line, abandoned in 1949). The average cost of houses 
was $15,000, which places it in the realm of upper-income professions.18  
Baywood as a Historic Residential Suburb 
It appears the initial pace of building in Baywood was brisk, based on newspaper 
announcements. By the end of 1928, 75 houses were completed, and a further 160 homesites 
were being planned, according to the company.19 That amounts to 52 percent of the 445 lots. The 
1935 Sanborn map shows houses on 261 lots or 59 percent.21 By 1950, only 53 vacant lots are 
 
16 San Francisco Chronicle, September 23, 1927. 
17 San Francisco Chronicle, April 30, 1927. 
18 San Francisco Chronicle, January 5, 1929. 
19 San Mateo County Times, January 5, 1929. 
21 Hard copy from the San Mateo Library, Laurie Hietter.

--- page 124 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
11 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
shown on the Sanborn map, a completion rate of 88 percent. 
The timing and type of development makes Baywood a textbook example of the historic 
residential suburb. According to the Historic Residential Suburbs Guidelines for Evaluation and 
Documentation for the National Register of Historic Places:22  
Each successive generation of suburb has been named for the predominant mode of 
transportation that spawned it—“railroad suburb,” “streetcar suburb,” “automobile suburb,” and 
“freeway suburb.” 
The evolution of American suburbs from 1830 to 1960 can be divided into four stages, each 
corresponding to a particular chronological period and named for the mode of transportation 
which predominated at the time and fostered the outward growth of the city and the development 
of residential neighborhoods: 
1.  Railroad and Horsecar Suburbs, 1830 to 1890 
2. Streetcar Suburbs, 1888 to 1928; 
3.  Early Automobile Suburbs, 1908 to 1945; 
4.  Post-World War II and Early Freeway Suburbs, 1945 to 1960. 
 
The chronological periods listed above should be viewed as a general organizing  framework, 
rather than a fixed set of dates, thereby allowing for overlapping trends, regional influences, and 
variations in local economic or social conditions. 
Baywood has elements of a streetcar suburb and the automobile suburb: 
“Streetcar Suburbs, 1888 to 1928. By 1890, streetcar lines began to foster a tremendous 
expansion of suburban growth in cities of all sizes. In older cities, electric streetcars quickly 
replaced horse-drawn cars, making it possible to extend transportation lines outward and greatly 
expanding the availability of land for residential development. Growth occurred first in outlying 
rural villages that were now interconnected by streetcar lines and, second, along the new 
residential corridors created along the streetcar routes … By the 1940s, streetcar ridership had 
dropped precipitously. The vast increase in automobile ownership and decentralization of 
industry to locations outside the central city after World War II brought an end to the role of the 
streetcar as a determinant of American urban form.”23 
 
22 https://shpo.nv.gov/uploads/documents/NR_Bulletin_Suburbs-compressed.pdf 
23 Ibid

--- page 125 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
12 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Streetcar service to San Mateo began in 1903 and ended in 1949. Baywood befitted proximity to 
the Number 40 streetcar line that ran to San Francisco and operated during Baywood’s launch 
and development. 
“Early Automobile Suburbs, 1908 to 1945. During the “golden age of highway building” from 
1921 to 1936, more than 420,000 miles of roads were built in the United States. The increase in 
intercity highways and roads connecting farms with markets made new land available for 
suburbanization.”24 
Baywood was founded and developed during the golden age of highway building. In addition to 
El Camino Real highway, commuters could take advantage of the new Bayshore Highway that 
ran from 10th and Market Street in San Francisco to Redwood City by 1931.25  
Baywood Architectural Styles 
The architecture of Baywood is a mix of revival styles popular between WWI and 1940. Builders 
did not impose a particular style. They were inspired by architects using the vocabulary of 
various period revival styles to meet customer's tastes and budgets. Designers often fused and 
blended elements associated with several styles. As a result, few pure examples of any style exist 
in Baywood. Revival styles found in Baywood include: 
 Neoclassical
 Colonial Revival
 Tudor
 French Revival
 Beaux-Arts
 French Provincial
 Italian Renaissance
 Mission/Spanish Colonial Revival
 Monterey Colonial
 
Although examples of many revival styles can be found in Baywood, two styles predominate—
Spanish Colonial Revival and Tudor Revival. 
The Spanish Colonial Revival style was popularized by the Panama-California Exposition held 
in San Diego in 1915. Drawing inspiration from the Spanish Colonial architecture of Latin 
America and the Mediterranean, architects developed an eclectic mix of Spanish, Spanish 
 
24 Ibid 
25 San Mateo Daily Journal: www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/history-traces-the-bayshore-from-highway-to-
freeway/article_019163ed-1238-5afb-b415-a6c1386b51ef.html

--- page 126 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
13 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Colonial, Northern Italian, and North African Islamic elements. By the 1920s, the Spanish 
Colonial Revival style was the style in coastal California, linking California’s Spanish past and 
its Mediterranean climate and landscape. Hollywood stars built Spanish Colonial mansions and 
the style appeared in movie sets. The Spanish Colonial Revival style was particularly popular in 
San Mateo during its boom years of the twenties and thirties.26  
Another very popular style was the Tudor Revival, influenced by English architecture from the 
time of Shakespeare and French architecture from Normandy and Brittany. The Tudor style was 
used primarily for homes in the suburbs. And because the Tudor Revival style was based on rural 
architecture, it helped to enhance the image of the suburban home as a country retreat. The Tudor 
Revival style was especially popular in San Mateo during the twenties and thirties.27  
Builders and Architects of Baywood 
Generally, the Baywood Park Company sold improved lots, not houses.28 Lots were sold to 
builders who would construct speculative houses or build to suit. Also, lots were sold to 
individuals who could hire their own architects and construct houses.29  
However, to promote the tract, the Baywood Park Company built the first 14 houses on 
speculation. One of the houses was 326 Parrott Drive (Figure 9).30    
 
Figure 9: 326 Parrott Drive 
Source: San Francisco Chronicle, November 26, 1927 and Google Earth 2022 
 
26 City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report, September, 1989. 
27 Ibid 
28 San Francisco Chronicle, January 5, 1929. 
29 San Francisco Chronicle, May 28, 1927. 
30 San Francisco Chronicle, November 26, 1927.

--- page 127 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
14 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
Apparently, there was no official tract builder or tract architect, and many builders were active in 
Baywood. In 1929, 30 contractors were listed in the following order as having worked in 
Baywood (Table 1).31 Additional builders included George Brothers (Figure 10) and J. C. Wells 
(Figure 11). 
 
Lengfeld & Olund  
E. S. Shaver  
R. W. Thompson  
Robert H. Smith 
Ida F. McCain  
Albert M. Schulte 
A. S. Bramlett 
Fred O. McCay 
Berquist & Ryan 
C. W. Levisee 
Buschke & Johnson 
Hardin & Peterson 
A. W. Kock 
George Brothers  
Grimes & Brugger 
Thomas A. Cavanaugh 
Frank J. Ferrea 
J. C. Wells  
J. B. Oswald 
Leadley & Wiseman  
Louis Johnson 
J. W. Donnelly 
Oscar L. Cavanaugh 
Charles Hammer 
Charles L. Dell 
Frank Cavanaugh  
W. W. Casey 
S. A. Wisnom 
Neil Donovan 
C. H. Besset 
 
Table 1: Contractors in Baywood in 1929 
 
One of the Baywood contractors, Ida McCain, was an architect in San Francisco. McCain 
designed many residences in Lincoln Manor and Westwood Park in San Francisco during the 
teens and early twenties. She moved to San Mateo in the early 1920s and is known to have 
designed buildings in San Mateo.32  
Buschke & Johnson were credited with building 17 houses on Georgetown Avenue, each selling 
for $10,000 to $12,000.  
 
 
 
 
31 San Francisco Chronicle, January 12, 1929. 
32 Inge Horton, Early Women Architects of the San Francisco Bay Area (Jefferson, NC: McFarland, 2010).

--- page 128 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
15 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
Figure 10: George Brothers/Grimes and Scott homes on Cornell Ave. 
The George Brothers were active in the Baywood study area. These houses are on the 400 block of Cornell. The 
name of the architect is not mentioned in this newspaper article, but the houses were designed by Grimes & 
Scott, circa 1928 Trees obscure the street view today. Source: San Francisco Chronicle, January 5, 1929. 
 
 
Although there were many builders, the Baywood study area is remarkably consistent with 
houses and landscaping, weaving together different styles into a cohesive look and feel. The 
widespread use of architects and custom houses is a notable feature of Baywood. A drive through 
the development shows that there were few, if any, repeated designs.

--- page 129 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
16 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 Figure 11: 365 Virginia Avenue 
Architect: none listed on permit Builder: J. C. Wells Date: 1931 Photo L. Hietter, 2022. 
 
Architects Working in Baywood 
The architects working in Baywood represent a who’s who of very active and prolific regional 
residential designers of the time, responsible for hundreds of homes in San Francisco, Marin and 
San Mateo counties. The architects listed in Table 2 were mentioned in newspaper articles or 
building permits as working in Baywood. There were probably more. 
 
Samuel Heiman 
E. H. Denke 
E. L. Norberg 
Ida F. McCain 
George E. Ralph 
Angus McSweeney 
Peter D. Canali 
Charles Frederick Strothoff 
E. E. Cavasso 
C. O. Clausen 
Grimes & Scott 
Harris Allen 
William H. Toepke 
Grimes & Schoening 
Harold G. Stoner 
 
Table 2: Architects working in Baywood 
(Note: E. L. Norberg designed Casa Baywood, an apartment building on El Camino,  
in Phase 2 of the Baywood Development). 
 
Newspaper articles promoting Baywood feature a number of houses designed by notable Bay 
Area architects, including Grimes & Scott, Charles Frederick Strothoff, and Ida McCain. 
Ida F. McCain, who lived in San Mateo Park, was a prolific designer of many homes and small 
apartments in San Francisco and San Mateo, often working for tract developers. Ida McCain was 
featured and lauded by Baldwin & Howell for her elegant designs in Westwood Park. At one 
point she was identified as the head of the architectural department."33 The home(s) she designed 
in Baywood are yet to be identified. 
Strothoff designed a house in Baywood  at 321 Georgetown (Figure 12) for builder Buschke  & 
Johnson, also of San Francisco.34 Strothoff was one of the most prolific designers of homes in 
San Francisco’s Westwood Park neighborhood, credited with designing most of the homes there. 
 
33 San Mateo Country Times, January 21, 1928; San Francisco Chronicle, January 22, 1928. 
34 The San Mateo Times and Daily News Leader July 14, 1928.

--- page 130 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
17 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
Figure 12: 321 Georgetown Ave. 
 
San Mateo Times, July 14, 1928 
 
Grimes & Scott designed several of the early Baywood homes built on Cornell Avenue. The firm  
subsequently became Grimes & Schoening. Working out of their San Mateo office, they 
designed a group of six Spanish style bungalows on Georgetown Avenue. Built by Buschke & 
Johnson, “they form one of the most striking home groups in Baywood,” according to the San 
Francisco Chronicle.35 Grimes & Schoening designed 25 “beautiful” Baywood homes, including 
the Californian demonstration home (Figure 13). 
The Chronicle write up boasted, “Fine as artistic planning, excellent craftsmanship and the best 
of materials can make it, the Californian reproduces authentically the architecture of Spain as 
adapted to this soil by the early Californians. That love of the great out-of-doors which found 
expression in graceful balconies and flowered patios is as much a part of Baywood’s dwelling as 
it was of the Spanish hacienda.” 
According to J. A. Williams, then vice president of the Baywood Park Company, the Californian 
“has been the most successful demonstration home in the history of the bay region,” bringing 
almost 50,000 people to Baywood.36  
 
35 San Francisco Chronicle, October 19, 1929. 
36 San Francisco Chronicle, May 31, 1930

--- page 131 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
18 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13: 639 Fordham Road 
Built as a demonstration home at 639 Fordham dubbed the “Californian,” this house was 
featured in the April 19, 1930 edition of the San Francisco Chronicle. 
 
A San Francisco Chronicle model home was commissioned by the Baywood Park Company. The  
builder was T. A. Cavanagh of San Mateo, and it was designed by architect Samuel Heiman of 
San Francisco (Figure 14).37 In 1922, The Architect and Engineer reported that Heiman was one 
of the busiest architects in San Francisco. During his career, Samuel Heiman designed 
commercial, industrial and apartment buildings in Marin and San Francisco and houses in many 
of the neighborhoods. His most well-known structure is probably the San Francisco Public 
Health Department at 101 Grove Street designed in 1931.38 Heiman designed in many revival 
styles, but he chose Tudor Revival for the model home at 419 Jackson in San Mateo. 
 
37 San Mateo Country Times, January 21, 1928; San Francisco Chronicle, January 22, 1928. 
38 San Anselmo Historical Museum, Samuel Herman - A Busy San Anselmo Architect, undated.

--- page 132 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
19 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14: 419 Jackson 
Above: this house at 419 Jackson, designed by architect Samuel Heiman as the Baywood Master House, was 
featured in Architect and Engineer magazine in the November 1927 issue. Right: 419 Jackson today.  
Source: Google Earth 2022. 
   
William H. Toepke, who lived in San Mateo, was a well-known local architect who designed 
many institutional, commercial, and residential buildings. The September, 1933 issue of Architect

--- page 133 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
20 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
and Engineer credits Toepke with designing a six room, two bath Spanish style residence with 
oak floors, tile roof and garage in Baywood (location presently undetermined). Other buildings in 
San Mateo designed by William Toepke include the 1940 Spanish Colonial style Civic Center 
complex in downtown. Most of the complex was demolished, but the original fire station remains 
as a contributor to the Downtown Historic District39. Toepke’s other contributions to San 
Mateo’s growth include the old City Hall, San Mateo High School and gymnasium (demolished 
2002), Baywood School (shown below), the Loewe and Zwierlein building, office buildings at 
Third and B St., and many other public and private buildings too numerous to mention.40 Toepke 
also is known to have remodeled 15 N. Ellsworth, a Tudor Revival style commercial building 
eligible for the California Register41, Chope Hospital, and the Flatiron Building in San Francisco. 
 
Figure 15: William Toepke designed Baywood School.  
Source: San Mateo Times Picture of Progress. 
 
 
 
39 City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey Final Report, 1989. 
40 San Mateo Times, Picture of Progress, a recording of 10 years of progress 1930-1940, August 16, 1940 
41 Architectural Resources Group, Standards Compliance Review, 303 Baldwin Avenue, April 6, 2018

--- page 134 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
21 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
The Spanish Colonial Revival Home at 375 Virginia Avenue (Figure 16) was designed by Harold 
G. Stoner. John King, architecture critic for the San Francisco Chronicle has called Harold 
Stoner “one of the most prolific and influential architects working in the San Francisco 
neighborhoods west of Twin Peaks…who could leap from storybook cottages to Spanish castles 
and give each a romantic air.” Stoner’s architectural artistry endures in the hundreds of homes he 
designed in San Francisco’s Balboa Terrace, Forest Hill, Monterey Heights, Sea Cliff, St. Francis 
Wood, West Portal, Ingleside Terraces, and Lakeside neighborhoods, along with more in 
Hillsborough,  San Mateo, Ross, San Anselmo, San Rafael, Oakland, Berkeley, and beyond to 
Angels Camp, Lake Tahoe, and Los Angeles.42  
 
Figure 16: 375 Virginia Ave. 
Architect: Harold G. Stoner Builder: E. S. Shaver Owner: Arthur Scott  
Date: October 5, 1933 Source: Google Earth 2022.Source: Google Earth 2022. 
 
Peter D. Canali of San Francisco, designed the house at 362 Georgetown in 1928 (Figure 17). 
Canali was known for a number of significant homes he designed in the Marina District of San 
Francisco. From 1929 to 1941 Canali lived in San Mateo with his family. He designed several 
houses in San Mateo and a parking garage on San Mateo Drive.44  
 
 
 
 
 
42 Procter, Jacquie, Bay Area Beauty: The Artistry of Harold G. Stoner, Architect. 2011. 
44 David Parry, Architect - Schnaittacher, 2016

--- page 135 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
22 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
Figure 17: 362 Georgetown 
362 Georgetown. Architect Peter D. Canali Date: 1928. 
Source: Realtor.com. 
 
Architects and Builders from Permits 
Historic building permits were requested from the City of San Mateo to identify example of 
houses  with varied architectural styles. Figure 18 shows the brick colonial purported to be the 
first house in Baywood.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 18: 335 Virginia, first house in Baywood 
Architect/Builder/Owner: Thomas Cavanaugh  
Date: July 26, 1927 Photo R. Brandi, 2022.

--- page 136 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
23 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
Figures 19-21 show representative  Spanish revival style homes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 19: 323 Virginia 
Architect: E.E. Cavasso   Date: March 31, 1930  Photo R. Brandi, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20: 244 Virginia 
244 Virginia Architect: E. H. Denke Date: June 3, 1935 
Photo: Google 2022.

--- page 137 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
24 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 21: 502 Cornell 
Architect: Grimes & Scott Builder: George Brothers Date: February 14, 1928  
Photo R. Brandi, 2022. 
 
Figures 22-25 Show representative Tudor revival style homes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 22: 311 Parrott 
Architect: C.O. Clausen Date: October 4, 1932 Photo R. Brandi, 2022.

--- page 138 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
25 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 23: 251 Parrott 
Architect: George E. Ralph, San Francisco Date: March 6, 1929  
Photo: R. Brandi, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 24: 460 Cornell 
Architects: Grimes & Scott Builder: George Brothers Date: May 3, 1928 
Photo: R. Brandi, 2022.

--- page 139 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
26 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 25: 510 Cornell 
Architect: Grimes & Scott Builder: George Brothers Date: March 12, 1928  
Photo: R. Brandi, 2022.

--- page 140 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
27 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Baywood Significance Under the National Register of Historic Places 
The criteria to assess historic significance under the National Register of Historic are properties: 
A. That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad 
patterns of our history; or 
B. That are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or 
C. That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or 
that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a 
significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or 
That have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. 
In addition, resources must generally be at least 50 years old.45  
Historic Districts 
According to the National Park Service, districts that are significant will usually meet the last 
portion of Criterion C plus Criterion A, Criterion B, other portions of Criterion C, or Criterion D. 
Criterion A 
The Baywood study area meets criterion A for its development as a commuter suburb of San 
Francisco as a historic streetcar and a historic automobile suburb. These are events that are 
“associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our 
history” 
Baywood meets the National Register test for districts for having “a significant concentration, 
linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united historically or aesthetically 
by plan or physical development. …. A district derives its importance from being a unified entity, 
even though it is often composed of a wide variety of resources. The identity of a district results 
from the interrelationship of its resources, which can convey a visual sense of the overall historic 
environment …” 
Baywood streets were laid out by an engineer working for a developer, the Baywood Company. A 
number of builders either by formal or informal agreement constructed houses targeted to similar 
buyers with period revival designs and similar site and building characteristics. Even though 
there are different architectural styles, the overall neighborhood has a visual cohesiveness. This 
was accomplished in a relatively short time: 1927 to 1950. 
 
45 Properties that have achieved significance within the past 50 years shall not be considered eligible for the National Register. 
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/nationalregister/upload/NRB-15_web508.pdf

--- page 141 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
28 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Criterion C 
The Baywood study area meets criterion C: “It represents a significant and distinguishable entity 
whose components may lack individual distinction.” The houses in the Baywood study area 
reflect the popular revival styles of the 1920s and 1930s, including Mission/Spanish Colonial 
Revival, Mediterranean Revival, Tudor Revival, Classical Revival, and Italian Renaissance; and 
they were often architect designed. Secondly, the revival style homes in Baywood “embody the 
distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction.” This is consistent with 
the Historic Residential Suburbs Guidelines for Evaluation and Documentation for the National 
Register of Historic Places:46  
Following World War I, great interest in America's rich and diverse cultural heritage resulted in 
the popularity of revival house styles and types, typically drawn from English, Dutch, Spanish, 
and other Colonial traditions and associated with a particular geographical region. 
Period of Significance 1927–1950 
According to the National Register: 
Period of significance is the length of time when a property was associated with important 
events, activities, or persons, or attained the characteristics which qualify it for National Register 
listing. For properties associated with historic trends, such as commercial development, the 
period of significance is the span of time when the property actively contributed to the trend. 
As stated earlier, Baywood was substantially built out by 1950 when 88 percent of the lots had a 
house. Provisionally, the period of significance is 1927 to 1950. This period is well over the 50- 
year minimum for listing on the National Register. Further research may refine the time period of 
the period of significance. 
Historic Integrity 
To be listed in the National Register of Historic Places, a property must not only be shown to be 
significant under the National Register criteria, but also have integrity.47  
There are seven aspects of integrity: 
1. Location 
2. Design 
3. Setting 
4. Materials 
5. Workmanship 
 
46 https://shpo.nv.gov/uploads/documents/NR_Bulletin_Suburbs-compressed.pdf 
47 How to Apply the National Register Criteria for Evaluation website: www.nps.gov/nr/publications/bulletins/ 
nrb15/nrb15_8.htm

--- page 142 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
29 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
6. Feeling 
7. Association 
 
According to the National Register of Historic Places: 
Location is the place where the historic property was constructed or the place where 
the historic event occurred. The relationship between the property and its  location is 
often important to understanding why the property was created or why something 
happened. The actual location of a historic property, complemented by its setting, is 
particularly important in recapturing the sense of historic events and persons. Except in 
rare cases, the relationship between a property and its historic associations is destroyed 
if the property is moved. 
 
Design is the combination of elements that create the form, plan, space, structure, and style 
of a property. It results from conscious decisions made during the original conception and 
planning of a property (or its significant alteration) and applies to activities as diverse as 
community planning, engineering, architecture, and landscape architecture. Design includes such 
elements as organization of space, proportion, scale, technology, ornamentation, and materials. A 
property’s design reflects historic functions and technologies as well as aesthetics. It includes 
such considerations as the structural system; massing; arrangement of spaces; pattern of 
fenestration; textures and colors of surface materials; type, amount, and style of ornamental 
detailing; and arrangement and type of plantings in a designed landscape. 
Materials are the physical elements that were combined or deposited during a particular period of 
time and in a particular pattern or configuration to form a historic property. The choice and 
combination of materials reveal the preferences of those who created the property and indicate 
the availability of particular types of materials and technologies. Indigenous materials are often 
the focus of regional building traditions and thereby help define an area’s sense of time and 
place. A property must retain the key exterior materials dating from the period of its historic 
significance. If the property has been rehabilitated, the historic materials and significant features 
must have been preserved. The property must also be an actual historic resource, not a recreation; 
a recent structure fabricated to look historic is not eligible. Likewise, a property whose historic 
features and materials have been lost and then reconstructed is usually not eligible. 
Workmanship is the physical evidence of the crafts of a particular culture or people during any 
given period in history or prehistory. It is the evidence of artisans’ labor and skill in constructing 
or altering a building, structure, object, or site. Workmanship can apply to the property as a whole 
or to its individual components. It can be expressed in vernacular methods of construction and 
plain  finishes or in highly sophisticated configurations and ornamental detailing. It can  be based 
on common traditions or innovative period techniques. Workmanship is important because it can

--- page 143 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
30 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
furnish evidence of the technology of a craft, illustrate the aesthetic principles of a historic or 
prehistoric period, and reveal individual, local, regional, or national applications of both 
technological practices and aesthetic principles. Examples of workmanship in historic buildings 
include tooling, carving, painting, graining, turning, and joinery. 
Setting is the physical environment of a historic property. Whereas location refers to the 
specific place where a property was built or an event occurred, setting refers to the character of 
the place in which the property played its historical role. It involves how, not just where, the 
property is situated and its relationship to surrounding features and open space. Setting often 
reflects the basic physical conditions under which a property was built and the functions it was 
intended to serve. In addition, the way in which a property is positioned in its environment can 
reflect the designer’s concept of nature and aesthetic preferences. The physical features that 
constitute the setting of a historic property  can be either natural or manmade, including such 
elements as the topographic features (a gorge or the crest of a hill); vegetation; simple manmade 
features (paths or fences); and relationships between buildings and other features or open space. 
These features and their relationships should be examined not only within the exact boundaries 
of the property, but also between the property and its surroundings. This is particularly important 
for districts. 
Feeling is a property’s expression of the aesthetic or historic sense of a particular period of 
time. It results from the presence of physical features that, taken together, convey the property’s 
historic character. For example, a rural historic district retaining original design, materials, 
workmanship, and setting will  relate the feeling of agricultural life in the 19th century. A 
grouping of prehistoric  petroglyphs, unmarred by graffiti and intrusions and located on its 
original isolated bluff, can evoke a sense of tribal spiritual life. 
Association is the direct link between an important historic event or person and a historic 
property. A property retains association if it is the place where the  event or activity occurred and 
is sufficiently intact to convey that relationship to an observer. Like feeling, association requires 
the presence of physical features that convey a property’s historic character. For example, a 
Revolutionary War battlefield whose natural and manmade elements have remained intact since 
the 18th century will retain its quality of association with the battle. Because feeling and 
association depend on individual perceptions, their retention alone is never sufficient to support 
eligibility of a property for the National Register. 
Integrity of the Baywood Study Area 
Houses in the Baywood study area show a high level of historic integrity. Location, setting, 
feeling, and association appear unchanged. There are few if any visible alterations that degrade 
design, materials, or workmanship. Additional research and analysis of the houses is necessary to 
confirm the degree of historic integrity for individual homes, but it appears that many, if not 
nearly all, have retained their historic integrity.

--- page 144 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
31 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Conclusion 
The purpose of this report was to assess whether the Baywood study area bounded by Crystal 
Springs, Eaton, Virginia, Edinburgh, Notre Dame, and the Alameda de las Pulgas appears to be 
eligible under the National Register as a historic district. Based on this research, the Baywood 
study area does meet the requirements of a historic distinct under the criteria A and C of the 
National Register of Historic Places criteria and does appear to be eligible for listing. Other 
authorities also concluded that Baywood should or could be considered historic. 49 
Future Research 
There are a number of possible next steps: 
1. Conduct an architectural/historic resource survey of the Baywood study area or the entire 
Baywood OIA. This survey is a physical canvassing wherein each house is photographed, a 
description  is written, and its history researched to ascertain its date of construction, 
designer, and owners. A  determination is made whether each house retains its historic 
integrity and, finally, a determination whether each house in the survey area is a contributor 
or noncontributor to the historic district. 
2. Pursue the nomination of the Baywood study area or the entire Baywood OIA neighborhood 
to the National Register of Historic Places. 
3. Discuss zoning changes, such as a historic preservation overlay zone (HPOZ), with the City 
of  San Mateo that recognize the historic nature of the Baywood neighborhood. 
 
 
 
49 The City of San Mateo Historical Building Survey Final Report concluded that the “Baywood,” “Baywood Knolls,” 
“Aragon,” and “San Mateo Park” neighborhoods should be documented as potential historic districts (San Mateo Historical 
Association, 1989); City of San Mateo Historical Building Survey Final Report, Linda Wickert, survey coordinator, September 
1989). In 1990, the State Historic Preservation Officer wrote there “were two huge (500+ resources) Register-eligible 
residential districts” west of El Camino. Letter from Kathryn Gualtieri, State Historic Preservation Officer, to San Mateo 
Mayor Thomas Mack, January 22, 1990.

--- page 145 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
Historic Asset Analysis 
 
RICHARD BRANDI 
32 
Historic Preservation Consulting 
Consultant Qualifications 
Richard Brandi is a senior level consultant with 16 years of experience. He has produced 
hundreds of historic resource evaluations, context statements, surveys, mitigations, Section 106 
reviews, Historic American Building Survey/Historic American Engineering Record (HABS/ 
HAER) documentation, and National Register of Historic Places nominations. He meets the 
Secretary of the Interior’s Professional Qualifications for Architectural Historian and Historian. 
He is a qualified Historic Resources Consultant, San Francisco Planning Department; Adjunct 
Professor in Historic Preservation, University of San Francisco; and a former Advisor to the City 
of San Jose Planning Department. 
Richard has conducted design reviews using the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the 
Treatment of Historic Properties in San Francisco, Redwood City, Belmont, South San 
Francisco, Chico, Pacific Grove, Pebble Beach, and Riverside. Richard specializes in the 
entitlement process under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); applying the 
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties; determining 
whether a project poses an “adverse impact”; and assessing whether a building retains sufficient 
integrity to be considered a historic resource under CEQA. 
Before forming his practice in 2010, Richard worked at historic architecture firms Carey & Co. 
and Page & Turnbull Architecture. He also worked as a Senior Architectural Historian at the 
environmental planning firm, Pacific Municipal Consultants and Atkins, a $2 billion, UK-based 
design and engineering consultancy. He performed Section 106 reviews in Mississippi for URS 
after Hurricane Katrina. Richard holds an M.A. in Historic Preservation from Goucher College, 
Maryland, and a B.A. from U.C. Berkeley. 
Richard is the author of three books, several journal articles, and conference papers about 
historic preservation, architecture, urban history, and city planning. His most recent book, 
Garden Neighborhoods of San Francisco: The Development of Residence Parks 1905–1924 by 
McFarland Publishing, 2021, traces the history of 20th century residence parks, which are similar 
to the Baywood study area. 
He is a board member, of the Alumni of the Victorian Society in America, President of the 
Northern California Chapter of Society of Architectural Historians, and a former member of the 
board of directors of Western Neighborhoods Project (20 years on board), an authoritative source 
of historical information about western San Francisco and recipient of the State of California 
Governor’s Award for Historic Preservation.

--- page 146 ---
1 
 
Richard Brandi 
Historic Preservation Consultant 
 
April 4, 2022 
 
Mr. Michael Nash, President 
Baywood Neighborhood Association 
P.O. Box 349 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
Dear Mr. Nash: 
 
You asked whether in my opinion the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue could qualify as a contributor 
to the Baywood Historic District. I my opinion, 415 Fairfax Avenue does qualify as a contributor 
to the Baywood Historic District.  
I concluded in a report dated March 25, 2022 that the Baywood Neighborhood as defined in the 
report is eligible for listing as a historic district on the National Register of Historic Places 
(NRHP) under criteria A and C. Baywood meets criterion A for its development as a commuter 
suburb of San Francisco, as a historic streetcar suburb, and as a historic automobile suburb. 
Baywood meets the National Register test for historic districts for having a significant 
concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united historically 
or aesthetically by plan or physical development. Baywood also meets criterion C because it 
represents a significant and distinguishable entity, the components of which may lack individual 
distinction. The houses in Baywood reflect the popular revival styles of the 1920s and 1930s, 
including Mission/Spanish Colonial Revival, Mediterranean Revival, Tudor Revival, Classical 
Revival, and Italian Renaissance; and embody the distinctive characteristics of the revival types 
and method of construction.   
 
I reviewed the HRE on 415 Fairfax Avenue completed for the City of San Mateo by architecture 
+ history, llc.1  That report concluded that the building is not eligible for listing on the California 
Register of Historical Resources as an individual contributor but it did not address whether it 
could be a contributor to a historic district.  However, the report did find that:  
 
The building at 415 Fairfax Avenue in San Mateo’s Baywood Subdivision is a wood 
frame, single-family residence in the Spanish Colonial Revival style. This particular 
revival style became hugely popular in California from the 1910s into …Spanish 
Colonial Revival houses almost always are of wood frame construction with a 
stucco finish. The use of the arch was very common, especially above doors, porch 
entries and main windows. The stucco finish, red roofing tiles, large, multi-paned 
windows, and wood porch posts give the house at 415 Fairfax Avenue its Spanish 
                                               
1 historical resource evaluation report, 415 fairfax avenue, san mateo, ca, architecture + history, 
llc, san francisco, ca, June 14, 2021

--- page 147 ---
2 
 
Revival-style character.2  
While the house is illustrative of the housing type and pattern of development within the 
Baywood subdivision, that association is evident in many of the houses in the subdivision 
and is not individually significant in this case. 
 
While the house embodies the distinctive characteristics of a Spanish Revival-style 
house, it is not an outstanding example within the context of the style as represented in 
San Mateo and thus is not individually eligible for the California Register. 3   
 
Based on the HRE which states 415 Fairfax Avenue “embodies the distinctive characteristics of a 
Spanish Revival-style,” in my opinion 415 Fairfax Avenue is a contributor to the eligible 
Baywood Historic District which includes the Spanish Colonial Revival style. It is located within 
the boundaries of historic district used my report. The house was built in 1933, placing within the 
period of significance (1927-1950). The historic building permits listed in the architecture + 
history, llc report do not reveal that any exterior alterations were made. A historic photo shows 
the house newly completed:   
 
Source: Gregory N. Zompolis, Images of America, San Mateo, Arcadia Publishing, 2004, page 
96. Photo undated but circa 1930s given state of the landscaping.  
 
                                               
2 Page 16 of HRE.  
3 Page 19 of HRE.

--- page 148 ---
3 
 
 
Photo by R. Brandi 2022. 
The historic photo confirms that the house has not been altered on its primary façade and thus it 
retains its historic integrity. Therefore, in my opinion, 415 Fairfax Avenue is a contributor to the 
Baywood Historic District.  
Please contact me if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Richard Brandi 
 
Richard Brandi 
Historic Preservation Consultant 
125 Dorchester Way 
San Francisco, CA 94127 
Brandiperservation.com

--- page 149 ---
1555 Bayshore Hwy, Suite 120, Burlingame, CA  94010    650-242-1553    www.nyhusdesign.com 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Planning Division 
 
 
RE:   
 
 
 
Neighborhood Meeting Notes 
CSG #                                                       
PLAN CHECK NUMBER:    
 
APN NUMBER:  
 
034-033-100 
PROJECT ADDRESS: 
 
415 Fairfax Ave 
 
APPLICANT NAME: 
 
Nyhus Design Group 
APPLICANT ADDRESS: 
 
1555 Bayshore Hwy, Suite 120 
Burlingame, CA 94010 
APPLICANT PHONE NUMBER: 
650-242-1553 
E-MAIL ADDRESS: 
 
eric@nyhusdesign.com 
Date:                                                       08/26/21 
 
 
 
Neighborhood Virtual Meeting – 08/04/21 (6 :00-7 :30PM) 
 
Jeff and Karen Kotowitz (411 Fairfax Ave) 
 
 
 
Asked about the top plate and ridge right of the ADU. Noted that shared fence is 
about 12 feet tall. 
 
Stated design was an eye sore and to reconsider design. 
 
To consider open/green space between neighbors. 
 
Mrs Whiteside (250 Harvard Rd) 
 
 
 
Saw this house as a Mega Mansion. 
 
Style of designed house is not suitable for neighborhood. 
 
Could the owners think about modernizing and remodeling the existing house. 
 
Glen Voyles (421 Fairfax Ave) 
 
 
 
Asked how close the first-floor study was to the side property line. 
 
Asked if they could be sent the neighbor ridge height comparison diagram. 
 
Randy and Laurie Hietter (223 Irving St) 
 
 
 
Asked clients the reason they chose to move into the neighborhood and why the 
existing house wasn’t sufficient for living. 
 
Design would make this one of the largest homes in the neighborhood. 
 
Asked if it was possible to build another ADU on the property. 
 
Garage is a prominent feature of the design. 
 
Asked if design considered the design guidelines. 
 
Read a real estate flyer describing the neighborhood.

--- page 150 ---
1555 Bayshore Hwy, Suite 120, Burlingame, CA  94010    650-242-1553    www.nyhusdesign.com 
Neal Tandowsky (253 Harvard Rd) 
 
 
 
Asked why the design was contemporary and not suitable to the neighborhood. 
 
Offered the clients to tour his property to view their remodel of existing house. 
 
Steve Mckay (422 Parrot Dr) 
 
 
 
Design and ADU negatively impacts them and their rear yard. 
 
Privacy to their back yard is removed. 
 
Opposes removal of oak tree as it provides shade to their property. 
 
 
Peter Mandle (478 Fairfax Ave) 
 
 
 
Asked if this design submittal would require any variances. 
 
Asked where the entrance to the ADU was located. 
 
Mary Chigos (412 Parrot Dr) 
 
 
 
Was disappointed in the size of the house. 
 
Against tree removal as oak tree provides shade to her property.

--- page 151 ---
Vinson Kwan

From: Rita Armstrong

Sent: Friday, February 25, 2022 5:36 PM

To: Keith Weber

Ce Eric Nyhus; Ron Whiteside; Laurie Hietter; Michael Nash; Lisa Nash; Teresa Rose; Maxine Terner;

Connie Weiss; Doug Goldberg; McKay Steve; rhietter; Ellen Mallory; Keren Kotowitz; Jeff Kotowitz;
Neal Tandowsky; Ilana Tandowsky; Jennifer Rycenga; jeanne bosschart;
Ken Constantino; May Lin Cooperstein; Peter Cooperstein;

; Jean Garcia; John Hietter; Pam Casey; Jill
Valladares; Peter Stone; Christiane and Douglas Morais; Ron and Cheryl Whiteside; Martha Moore;
Vinson Kwan; Roberto Martinez; Gene Alston; Nicole Alston

Subject: Re: Comments on 415 Fairfax

Mr. Nyhus,

I must also disagree with your characterization of historic districts. My husband and

I chose to live in Baywood almost 25 years ago because of the architectural unity of the
neighborhood, among other elements. This appreciation rubbed off on our daughter and son-in-
law, who bought a house in the Historic Irvington District of Portland. The neighborhood is a
source of pride to the entire city of Portland. It’s gracious, has the same type of community
spirit as Baywood, and has changed gracefully with the times. We just visited and were amazed
at the amount of remodeling and construction taking place in the neighborhood. It’s happening
in a controlled and considerate manner that seems to be serving everyone’s needs. It’s also
interesting that these vintage homes created a niche of architects and contractors who specialize
in historic home construction. Change is inevitable, but Irvington shows that it can happen
beautifully, without conflict. (Property values in Irvington also increase at a faster rate than in
the rest of Portland.)

Let's work off of facts and not suppositions.

Rita Armstrong


--- page 152 ---
From: Eric Nyhus
To: Ron Whiteside; Laurie Hietter; Michael Nash; Lisa Nash; Teresa Rose; Maxine Terner; Keith Weber; Connie Weiss;
Doug Goldberg; McKay Steve; rhietter; ; Keren Kotowitz; Jeff Kotowitz; Neal

Cc: Roberto Martinez; Gene A
Subject: RE: Comments on 415 Fairfax
Date: Wednesday, February 23, 2022 11:39:08 AM
Attachments: image001.jpg

image003.jpa

image004.jpq

Good morning Ron,

Thank you for the message below. On behalf of Gene and Nicole, we are pleased to have the chance
to respond to your and other neighbors’ comments and concerns and will do so in a similar bullet
point format to ensure we address each comment and others. We would also like to reiterate that
they remain excited about living in this community, love the setting of varied architecture and
greenery, and have met some very nice, supportive people in the neighborhood despite some
negative and insufficiently informed comments from some in this group. To hopefully clarify some of
the false information that is being circulated, we provide the feedback below:

e “Historic home”: As requested by the City of San Mateo, 415 Fairfax has not only been
reviewed professionally by an historic consultant and officially deemed not historic, it has also
been added to and modified over the years at the rear, sides, and interior with very little care
and with inappropriate and cheaper materials (see below). Though the front Living Room
retained some wonderful heavy timbered ceilings, the rest of the house has very little
architectural integrity. The interiors has had makeshift changes made over the years to where
roof leaking is occurring in some areas, and flow and spaces have been enormously
compromised. Gene and Nicole lived in the house for a while and had to make several
substantial repairs to correct gas leaks, an inoperable water heater, and a fire hazard within the
furnace just to be able to live there safely.


--- page 153 ---
A picture containing building, outdoor, sky, housefl Bl Description automatically generated

This image shows an incongruous addition with thin and poorly applied stonework. Multiple
patterns of hardscape including exposed aggregate, varied cut stone, and brick combined with
the stone on the addition, have no correlation to one another and reveal the inappropriate
add-ons over the years.

A picture containing outdoor, tree, grass, house & Description automatically generated

This image at the rear reveals more incongruity in the windows and doors. There are both
double-hung windows and casement windows. At the newer addition, there are clear glass
French doors, and the older, lower level shows a divided glass door. In addition, the entire

rear and side facades have little architectural appeal, particularly with this random assortment
of window sizes and types.

e Massing: We have conducted a comparison of the homeowners who have expressed concern
with this project and discovered that without the ADU, this project falls in the lower 1/3 in size
with respect to FAR calculations. That is the Floor Area Ratio prescribed by the City and
afforded all home owners in San Mateo. We are proposing to be at 32.58% (3,440 sf home on
a 10,558 sf lot), where the 17 other homes on the list range from 27.57% (Joe Musich who has
a 3,860 sf home on the largest lot at 14,000sf) to 47.31% (Laurie and Randy Hietter who have a


--- page 154 ---
3,520 sf home on a 7,440 sf lot).  These numbers do not include garages and are generated
from multiple real estate websites and County information.  ADUs are not included because
any of these residents, or any in San Mateo, have the right to build one per State of California
mandate.  On top of this, the Kotowitzes at 411 Fairfax immediately adjacent to 415 have a
4,020 sf home on a 9,539 sf lot.  There are many other examples of homes in the immediate
area with Floor Area Ratios that are larger than what we are proposing.  We therefore
respectfully disagree with the assertion that this project is ‘much larger than other homes in
our immediate area.’
Additionally, to the point of Massing:  The highest point of the roof of our proposed home is
the same height as the Kotowitz’s next door and 3 feet lower than the Armstrong’s home at
300 Harvard (two doors down at the corner).
As for the ADU, it is in fact intended to be housing for Gene or Nicole’s parents.  Nicole’s
mother lives with them now and they are looking forward to being able to provide her with her
own independent living situation.  If this were not provided, they would need to find other
accommodations in the area and therefore take another dwelling off the market.  This is
exactly the purpose of the new ADU laws implemented by the State.  Whether it is family or a
renter, it accounts for additional housing, and that helps with the housing shortfall in California.
Style and exterior materials similar to what we are proposing can also be found in the
immediate area.  Almost identical to what we are proposing is 301 Jackson St at the corner on
the same block.
As for an attempt to establish Baywood as an ‘historic district’ and all the development
limitations that come along with such an official designation, we understand that Gene and
Nicole were approached by other neighbors who expressed a concern over that possibility. 
These neighbors are concerned about the potential negative impact on their property values
and new restrictions on improvements and modifications that would likely apply to their homes
following such a designation. 
Gene and Nicole have met privately with City Council Member Eric Rodriquez, Mike and Lisa Nash and
supportive neighbors in the neighborhood in a genuine attempt to convey their appreciation for this
community and neighborhood, and their desire to create a wonderful addition to the area.  After
showing them the drawings and renderings, both expressed a greater understanding of the design
and appreciation for Gene and Nicole’s vision for how their family home will fit into the
neighborhood.  Mr. Nash went so far as to compare it to a home a few doors away which actually won
a design award.  This certainly comforted them and helped reassure them that they were on the right
path to building a great home.  To see that Mr. Nash is now leading the effort to stop this project is
both confusing and concerning after his initial positive response to Gene and Nicole. Particularly since
his home at the rear is 3 stories high (+/- 32’ where what we are proposing is 27’) and a few years ago,
moved his garage from the rear basement of his property to the front with a double wide door, and
added a second curb cut at the street.  These changes could be seen by some as contrary to the intent
of the City’s Design Guidelines and yet the project was approved and completed.
 
They have also hired Mike Callan, a well-respected landscape architect who lives in San Mateo, for
both his design aesthetic and his experience providing appropriate and intelligent privacy screening,
while creating as much green space as possible.
 
Respectfully, the reason the rules and guidelines are in place is to set expectations for new buyers
around improvements they can make to a property before even purchasing it.  They also provide for

--- page 155 ---
new residents to have the same rights as anyone else in San Mateo to build within a prescribed
envelope and set of rules. We are well within those rights and parameters and are simply asking for
the same opportunity.

Many thanks,

Eric G. Nyhus LEED AP
CEO/Principal
NDG Logo7

[?]

Nyhus Design Group
1555 Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
agp al CA 94010

www.nyhusdesign.com
NDG on Houzz!


--- page 156 ---
Vinson Kwan

From: Keith Weber
Sent: Friday, February 25, 2022 4:17 PM
To: Eric Nyhus

Ce: Ron Whiteside; Laurie Hietter; Michael Nash; Lisa Nash; Teresa Rose; Maxine Terner; Connie Weiss;

Doug Goldberg; McKay Steve; rhietter; > Keren Kotowitz: Jeff Kotowitz;

Neal Tandowsky; Ilana Tandowsky; Jennifer Rycenga; jeanne bosschart; ;
- Ken Constantino; :

; Jean Garcia; John Hietter;

; Vinson Kwan; Roberto Martinez; Gene Alston;

Nicole Alston
Subject: Re: Comments on 415 Fairfax

Good day Mr. Nyhus,
| have read your response to the public comments on 415 Fairfax and noted more than a few inaccuracies and
misleading statements. To clarify the record and for the benefit of the interested parties, | offer a few corrections.

Your statement that 415 Fairfax has been "officially deemed not historic" is only partially true and therefore inherently
misleading. While it may be correct that the home is not "individually" historic, it does appear to retain the objective
characteristics and integrity that would qualify it as a contributing building to a Baywood historic district, thereby
conferring historic status on the home itself. Individual significance is not what is important in this instance, it is the
harmony of the whole which establishes historic significance.

According to the California Register of Historical Resources, "a district derives its importance from being a unified entity.
The identity of a district results from the interrelationship of its resources, which can convey a visual sense of the overall
historic environment." It is this relationship of style, massing, age, workmanship, location and integrity that exists
between 415 Fairfax and the neighboring homes and streetscape that establishes the historic environment, and in which
every home with similar characteristics participates.

Your remarks regarding "all the development limitations" that would be imposed and "new restrictions on
improvements and modifications" are also inaccurate mischaracterizations. Historic district designation is no more
burdensome to a property owner than current objective zoning standards, subdivision standards, and design review
standards that we accept as beneficial protections that ensure our quality of life. According to the National Register of
Historic Places, "listing on the National Register does not restrict your right to modify your home." You may still
remodel, upgrade, and make improvements to your historic home. You can even add "incongruous additions" in the
back, if you choose.

Design standards for historic homes provide guidance and assistance on maintaining the character of the home -
generally appreciated by the homeowner, and certainly by the neighbors - because historic designation gives them the
assurance that the qualities that initially attracted them to the neighborhood will endure over time. Clearly, decades of
improvements and upgrades to Baywood homes have been made by responsible and considerate owners who
maintained the historic neighborhood character and recognized the value of their unique homes.

Likewise, your remark about "potential negative impact on property values" is inaccurate. In his 2021 book, Preserving
Los Angeles: How Historic Places Can Transform America's Cities, Ken Bernstein writes that "evidence from Los Angeles

1


--- page 157 ---
2
and around the nation indicates that historic districts have a modest positive impact on property values compared with 
similar neighborhoods not designated as historic."  He adds, "experience has demonstrated that many homebuyers 
actually seek out historic districts."  This certainly is the case in Baywood, based on the many comments from the 415 
Fairfax neighbors. 
   
In addition there are property tax benefits for historic homes. In many California cities, including San Mateo, owners of 
historic homes can participate in the Mills Act Property Tax Abatement Program. This program allows qualifying owners 
to receive a potential property tax reduction and use the savings to help rehabilitate, restore, and maintain their homes. 
 
Your parting remarks about rules and guidelines being in place to serve new buyers' expectations are only a small part of 
the picture.  Consideration must also be given to the many existing residents who have invested in their homes and their 
neighborhood with the expectation that its historic character would be maintained, cared for and cherished by new 
neighbors.  Most residents who have moved into Baywood understand what a special neighborhood it is and have done 
their part as respectful stewards to maintain the historic integrity of their homes and neighborhood.  That new buyers 
would abide by this traditional understanding, the unwritten rule that generally "goes without saying," has been the 
expectation of generations of Baywood residents.  Until now, there has never been a need to create a new rule and put 
in writing what most everyone understands and mutually respects. Whether or not you realize it, Mr. Nyhus, you have 
helped make the case for a Baywood historic district designation. 
 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo

--- page 158 ---
From:
Andres Solis Molina
To:
Vinson Kwan
Subject:
Fw: 415 Fairfax oaks
Date:
Monday, November 22, 2021 4:01:29 PM
-----Original Message-----
From: Laurie Hietter <
> 
Sent: Thursday, August 26, 2021 8:00 AM
To: Trees Mailbox <TreesMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>;
Subject: 415 Fairfax oaks
Hi,
I live at 
 within 500 ft. of 415 Fairfax. I am strongly opposed to removal of the large
heritage oaks on the 415 Fairfax property. The oaks greatly enhance the aesthetics of the area and
provide important wildlife habitat. 
The lot is large and provides ample space for a large home without removing these important oak
trees. 
Thank you,
Laurie

--- page 159 ---
From:
Vinson Kwan
To:
Vinson Kwan
Subject:
RE: RE 415 Fairfax and Historic areas/buildings
Date:
Friday, June 24, 2022 10:29:52 AM
 
 
From: Laurie Hietter 
>
Date: Tuesday, August 3, 2021 at 10:42 AM
To: Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Proposed demolition of Baywood Home
Dear Mr. Mayor:
 
As a concerned Baywood homeowner, I am writing to let you know the City received an application for demoli ion of a 1933 home at 415
Fairfax Avenue (photo of existing home included). The proposal includes construction of a 3,910 square foot contemporary-style home with a
1 bedroom, 2 bathroom ADU. See the attached notice for additional details and plans. Baywood is a unique collection of hand-built homes
with classic architecture. It should be protected from construction of large homes out of character for the neighborhood.
The applicant's architect will hold a virtual meeting to hear comments on the proposal on Wednesday, August 4th at 6 pm. We hope you can
participate if you have comments. The link to the Zoom mee ing is below:
 
Join Zoom Meeting
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89857645499?pwd=UFdxQTdqeGFleFVnWUphNHU1LzEvdz09
Mee ing ID: 898 5764 5499
Passcode: 298832
One tap mobile
+16699006833,,89857645499#,,,,*298832# US (San Jose)
 
The attached notice also provides the opportunity to submit written comments.
 
Please forward his email to any neighbors you think might be interested.
Thank you,
Laurie Hietter

--- page 160 ---
From:
Julia Klein
To:
"Steve McKay"
Cc:
Linda Ly
Subject:
RE: Please help put an end to the 415 Fairfax tear down and death of a majestic oak tree
Date:
Tuesday, September 21, 2021 4:30:22 PM
From: Steve McKay 
 
Sent: Tuesday, September 21, 2021 4:11 PM
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Please help put an end to the 415 Fairfax tear down and death of a majestic oak tree
 
Hi Julia,
 
Following up on my previous email ...
 
Also related to the property of 442 Parrott is the removal of the two redwood trees that were in
their backyard. While we understand that the trees were dying or dead and therefore needed to be
removed, the result is a near complete loss of shade and privacy that we previously enjoyed. Our
final source of shade and privacy is the wonderful and perfectly healthy oak tree in the yard of 415
Fairfax where a gigantic structure is being proposed on a small lot. While their architect made it very,
very clear that they are operating inside the boundaries of the law, the construction of that structure
will upset neighbors, reduce property values, and reduce the quality of life for others. Is this really
what we are aiming to achieve with our building codes targeted at more affordable housing? While
the removal of the majestic oak tree will improve the view of their new pool from their 2 bathroom
ADU, it will have a profoundly negative effect on our family and many others in the neighborhood
who rely on that tree for shade, privacy, and beautification of the neighborhood. We hope you will
help put an end to that project.
 
Thank you for your consideration and please let me know if you have any questions.
 
Sincerely,
Steve McKay

--- page 161 ---
1
Vinson Kwan
From:
Andres Solis Molina
Sent:
Monday, November 22, 2021 3:37 PM
To:
Vinson Kwan
Subject:
Fw: Majestic and Healthy Oak Tree at 415 Fairfax
  
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Thursday, August 26, 2021 8:55 AM 
To: Trees Mailbox <TreesMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com> 
Subject: Majestic and Healthy Oak Tree at 415 Fairfax 
  
Hello, I'm copying here an email sent to Matthew Fried as I wasn't sure on how to best communicate this to the planning 
department. Thank you, 
  
Steve McKay 
  
======================================= 
  
I hope this email finds you well. 
  
I'm writing to you about the fantastic and healthy oak tree that resides at 415 Fairfax. 
  
As you may know, the new owners of that property have devised a construction and landscaping concept that eliminates 
that tree to make room for a gigantic (nearly 5,000 sq. foot), modern, newly‐constructed home on a small lot. The tree 
does not appear to interfere with the massive new home they are building. However, it may impede the view of their 
swimming pool. 
  
We live directly behind the property and previously enjoyed wonderful shade and privacy due to the two redwood trees 
of our neighbors at 
. Unfortunately, those trees were removed because they were sick, resulting in a 
tremendous loss of shade and beauty for many of us living on Parrott and Fairfax. The majestic oak tree at 415 Fairfax 
does not appear to have any such issues. It is beautiful; healthy; protected; and nowhere near power lines. 
  
When we raised our concerns about removing that tree to the architect for 415 Fairfax, his response was that the 
owners have the legal right to do what they determine as the "best use" for them. He went on to say, "we like trees," 
but that they can also be a nuisance when they get mature and that this tree doesn't serve a purpose for the new 
owners. It is therefore within their legal rights to remove it for whatever reason they select as its "best use." 
  
I have no doubt that the city approves the removal of countless heritage trees and every permit comes with a good 
reason why the owners want them gone. But I also believe that the city arborist has great respect for the incredible 
majesty of mature trees and the tragedy caused when they are destroyed, especially when the loss of a perfectly safe 
and healthy tree negatively affects so many people in the community.The wonderful oak tree at 415 Fairfax provides 
shade, beauty, and privacy for dozens of people. It is also the product of many decades of growth that cannot be 
replicated in our lifetimes. We love that tree; we depend on it; and we cannot understand any rationale to kill it. Please 
help us save it. 
  
Thank you for your time and consideration. You are doing very important work and we are grateful for your service to 
the community. I would be more than happy to respond with answers to any questions you may have, or details about 
our family's concerns.

--- page 162 ---
2
  
Best regards, 
Steve and Elaine McKay

--- page 163 ---
From:
Andres Solis Molina
To:
Vinson Kwan
Subject:
Fw: Heritage Tree at 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo
Date:
Monday, November 22, 2021 3:56:31 PM
From: Connie Weiss 
 
Sent: Wednesday, August 25, 2021 5:12 PM
To: Matthew Fried <mfried@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Heritage Tree at 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo
 
Hello Mathew,
 
Michael Nash gave me your email so I could let you know that we are fully supportive of your
decision to decline the permit to remove the heritage tree at 415 Fairfax. Many of us are very
concerned with the new owner’s plan for this property, it goes against what many of us have done
over the years to preserve and protect this beautiful historic neighborhood with its lovely trees.
 
Thank you for agreeing with us!
Connie Weiss and Dave Cohen
Caregivers to 2 Heritage Sycamores and 1 Heritage Fig

--- page 164 ---
From: Rita Armstrong 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 9:42 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Bruce Armstrong 
; Neal Tandowsky 
; Ilana 
Tandowski 
; Keren Kotowitz 
; 
; Christiane and Douglas Morais 
; Ron and Cheryl 
Whiteside 
; Jill Valladares 
 
Subject: Project at 415 Fairfax 
 
Dear Vinson, 
 
We're Rita and Bruce Armstrong and live at 
, 
 
from the proposed project. We have lived here since 1997.  We moved to 
Baywood because of its simple old-world elegance, harmony, and top-notch 
construction.  The proposed project erodes this vibe in a neighborhood that 
is one of the jewels of San Mateo.  This fact merits consideration in the 
permitting process. The 415 Fairfax project requires further public and city 
review before proceeding further.  
 
We are actually surprised that the project has progressed this far, despite 
the extent of neighborhood dissatisfaction that has been registered.  This 
erodes trust in the ability of San Mateo's administrative bodies to handle the 
city's future infrastructure and growth.  This past spring we suffered through 
the horribly-managed repaving of Fairfax Ave.  The City did not actively 
monitor or control the project until the neighborhood roared its discontent. 
415 Fairfax is beginning to sound similar.  
 
As far as the demolition of 415 Fairfax, the owners are literally trying to fit a 
square peg in a round hole.  Specifically: 
• 
The proposed structure is oversized for the narrow lot and would 
destroy light and sight lines. Sometimes we just have to accept that 
small lots are not meant for big houses. 
• 
The design clashes with its surroundings. 
• 
The extent of construction would again tear up Fairfax Ave., which has 
just been repaired after years of delay. 
• 
The enlarged residence and ADU would house multiple adults, putting 
more pressure on street parking.   
• 
This summer I talked to 415 Fairfax's owner when the property was 
first purchased.  She said they wanted to expand the house to 
accommodate their teenage children, who attend local higher 
education.  She said nothing about housing elderly parents.  Did 
this argument just crop up as justification to build an 800-sq-ft ADU?

--- page 165 ---
The neighborhood wants to be fair in its consideration of this project; 
however, this cannot be achieved without further review and input, as well 
as consideration of the elements that make Baywood a terrific and sought-
after neighborhood.  This disturbing lack of transparency gets our 
relationship with our future neighbors off on the wrong foot.  
 
Please let me know if you have further questions.  Thanks for your 
consideration.  
 
  
 
Rita Armstrong 
 (mobile)

--- page 166 ---
From: Peggy Berlese 
  
Sent: Thursday, December 16, 2021 9:13 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re: 415 Fairfax, San Mateo 
 
Good morning Mr. Kwan and Council members, 
 
Since I sent you the below email I have discovered that a couple of my statements are not correct. I 
apologize for it and wish to correct my email. 
 
First, I have found that in fact the project has not yet been approved and permits haven’t been issued. 
This is a relief to all people in the neighborhood. I reviewed the plans and there just doesn’t seem to be 
a question that the house is out of place design-wise in the neighborhood, and it is way too big for the 
size of the lot and in comparison to other houses on the street. I am not sure what your criteria is for 
permitting plans but I hope you have some reasonable basis to look at these factors in deciding whether 
or not to approve plans, and not just whether the plans meet the strict letter of the Planning and other 
codes. Aesthetics is an important consideration.  
 
Second, it appears the arborist has not approved the removal of the heritage oak tree. This really is good 
news. The tree is healthy and beautiful, provides much needed shade, and of course gives us 
environmental benefits. Years ago, we got permission to remove a heritage Sycamore from our yard. It 
was a tough decision to remove the tree; but it had been inappropriately pruned for years and it was 
sickly. Those are perhaps good reasons why a tree can be removed. But those factors just don’t apply in 
the case of the oak at this project.  
 
Third, and this is an additional consideration that I didn’t bring up before. I think it would be appropriate 
for you to speak to the architect and owners about the viewpoints of the neighbors. This is a close knit 
community; it’s a true neighborhood. Of course we all want to welcome a new homeowner and we 
don’t want there to be any hard feelings against a new owner before he or she even moves in. Perhaps 
making peace with the neighborhood is another thing the owner should consider in designing the 
project.   
 
Thank you and again please excuse my incorrect statements in the previous email.  
 
Peggy Berlese 
 
 
 
 
On Tue, Dec 14, 2021 at 2:33 PM Peggy Berlese 
 wrote: 
Good afternoon Council members, 
  
My husband and I have lived at 
 in Baywood since 1985. Before that, we lived in the Aragon 
beginning 1978. You can see we are committed to the neighborhood and the City of San Mateo.

--- page 167 ---
It is the proposal for the demolition of the lovely old home at 415 Fairfax that has most people in the 
neighborhood contacting you. I too think it is a shame that this home has been permitted to be 
demolished and replaced by a home that is too large for the lot and the neighborhood and has been 
designed such that the architecture just doesn’t fit well. I also can’t understand how permission was 
obtained to remove a heritage oak tree. But, what is past is past and my understanding is that you have 
already approved the demolition of the older home, the removal of the tree and the construction of a 
huge home and ADU on the lot.  
  
Looking forward, I join the neighbors in asking you please to complete the City’s Historic Resources 
Inventory at this time. It is my understanding that this project was started years ago and hasn’t been 
finished. I understand you are busy but protecting the historic character of Baywood should be a priority 
for the City Council. The City benefits in many ways by this lovely neighborhood and the desire of many 
people, including young families, to live here. It would be such a tragedy to permit the older homes to 
be demolished and newer and larger homes to be built instead.  
  
Thank you, 
  
Peggy Berlese

--- page 168 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: jeanne bosschart 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 2:39 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Vinson Kwan: 
As a long time resident of Fairfax Avenue, I have enjoyed the architectural heritage of our neighborhood 
and respectfully request that you deny the demolition of the above.   The new owners are seeking 
permission to build a house totally out of character with our neighborhood and it is also out of scale 
with the surrounding homes. 
Also, the removal of the large oak tree would be a loss to our area. 
Thank you. 
Jeanne Bosschart 
 
 
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 169 ---
From: Mary Chigos 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 1:37 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Cc: 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax 
 
Regarding the proposed demolition of 415 Fairfax:  
. I was completely shocked when I first received notice and 
then walked around the block to look at the site. The 
proposed house is too large for the lot!  
 
. the house as it exists fits into the neighborhood, it is in 
character of the neighborhood.  A walking tour will 
confirm this statement.  
 
.removal of the heritage oak tree (which should be 
protected) and the design to have the house so close to the 
property line is intrusive. Take a look at other houses in 
the area, backyards are large enough to enjoy and have 
some privacy. This would provide zero privacy to the 
adjacent homes - all three.  
 
. At the last zoom the owners made the comment "we don't 
want to live where we are not wanted." I have not had the 
opportunity to meet the owners and only saw them on the 
zoom for the first time that evening. I welcome them to the 
neighborhood. The issue is the demolition of an 
existing home that fits the neighborhood and building a 
huge replacement house that does not. 
Mary Chigos

--- page 170 ---
From: Rebecca Coker 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 1, 2021 2:15 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Ave 
 
Hello Vinson, 
 
I would like to add my voice in opposition to the proposed demolition of this historic 
home on Fairfax.   Allow them to remodel, but please do not let them destroy this 
beautiful Spanish Colonial home whose style is  what we love about our 
neighborhood. 
 
Sincerely, 
Rebecca Coker 
 
 
 
Rebecca Coker  
 
cell:

--- page 171 ---
From: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Sunday, February 6, 2022 7:43 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir 
<msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: FW: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
FYI. Comment letter related to 415 Fairfax. 
 
From: Chris Cooper 
  
Sent: Sunday, February 6, 2022 5:41 PM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Laurie Hietter 
; Stephanie Liberty Zheng 
 
Subject: Fwd: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Dear Mr. Dahl,  
 
Please conduct the historic survey of San Mateo and develop policies to protect our historic 
neighborhoods.  
 
Below is a message that I sent to members of our city council in December and I did not 
receive a single reply or acknowledgement. I've lived and paid taxes in San Mateo for more 
than 20 years and I'm both concerned and frustrated by the state of affairs regarding 
housing and development within our neighborhoods and our city.  
 
Our historic neighborhoods deserve more and better attention. 
 
I look forward to hearing from you. 
 
Thanks, 
Chris Cooper 
 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Chris Cooper 
 
Date: Sun, Dec 12, 2021 at 11:15 PM 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>, <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>, <rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Connie Weiss
, Stephanie Liberty Zheng 
, 
Jeffrey Kotowitz (US - ADVS) 
, Karen Vitale 
, 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
, Rocky Francis 
, Michelle Mickey 
, Lisa Nash

--- page 172 ---
Dear Council Members, 
 
We live at 
, just a few houses away from 415 Fairfax. We have owned and cherished our 
home for almost 21 years. We have been careful stewards of our home and property and we are proud 
to be contributing to the preservation of our important historic Baywood community. 
 
I continue to be simply stunned regarding the situation at 415 Fairfax and the plans to demolish that 
property.  Never could I have imagined that our city would allow one of the historic Baywood homes to 
be simply torn down when the structure is solid and well maintained. This home is most certainly 
historic and in a historic area for California and the Bay Area. In fact, this very home has been featured 
in at least one historical study regarding the formation of Baywood. I attach that page below. 
 
In 21 years, I have never asked anything of my city. We have tried to give back by helping to maintain 
common park areas and other community outreach. I am now asking that you pause and consider the 
need to preserve this property.  My wife, Stephanie, and I support: 
• 
the protection of historic homes and neighborhoods in San Mateo. 
• 
updating/completing the City’s Historic Resources Inventory now. 
Thank you for all your hard work to keep our city a desirable community. 
 
With respect, Chris Cooper

--- page 173 ---
--  
Chris Cooper古博 
Mobile: 
 
 
 
 
--  
Chris Cooper古博 
Mobile:

--- page 174 ---
From: Chris Cooper 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 5:50 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Rocky Francis 
; Michelle Mickey 
 
Stephanie Liberty Zheng 
; dc 
; Maryanne 
Mandle 
; Connie Weiss 
; Robert Gonzalez 
; Kotowitz Jeff 
; De Winter Liz 
; Karen Vitale 
 
Subject: Re: Call for Action: Notice of DEMOLITION of 415 Fairfax Ave. 
 
Vinson, I am very much against this plan and the demolition of a treasured vintage Baywood home. I am 
shocked that our city would even consider such a plan.  
 
We have lived in our vintage Baywood home for more than 20 years. A huge value for our neighborhood 
is that we all focus on being good stewards of our historical homes.  
 
Please preserve our history and our amazing vintage neighborhood. Let me know I'll w how to help to 
stop this action.  
 
 
Cooper family  
Chris Cooper 古博 
Mobile: 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
 
On Sunday, November 21, 2021, 1:55 PM, Laurie Hietter 
 wrote: 
URGENT ALERT! Notice from Your Neighbors 
PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE

--- page 175 ---
A formal Planning Application has been submitted to demolish this neighborhood home at 415 Fairfax 
Avenue and replace it with a significantly larger contemporary house. The existing home, a unique 
example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style built in 1933, is an integral part of the neighborhood 
streetscape that makes Baywood the very special and desirable neighborhood it is. The hand-hewn 
beams, ironwork, and other hand-crafted artisan details, along with its contributory presence to the 
neighborhood fabric will be lost if this application is approved. 
A Neighborhood Meeting was held on August 4, 2021 and over 20 neighbors expressed opposition to 
the demolition of the historic home and to the size, style, and materials of the proposed new house. 
If you agree that this irreplaceable home should not be demolished, PLEASE 
EMAIL CITY PLANNER, Vinson Kwan NOW and let him know that you are joining 
with the neighborhood and opposing demolition of this home! YOU MUST ACT NOW -  
COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY this Wednesday, NOV. 24TH 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner 
(650) 522-7206 
VKwan@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
What your neighbors said at the neighborhood meeting: 
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished 
2. The large heritage coast live oak tree on the property should not be removed 
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if the new project approved 
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory Zompolis, 2004 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character with the homes in the neighborhood 
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood 
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the neighborhood 
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines

--- page 176 ---
If you are not interested in this topic, just reply no thanks and I will take you off the list. 
 
Thank you for your support of our amazing neighborhood.

--- page 177 ---


--- page 178 ---
Chris Cooper tf

Mobile:


--- page 179 ---
From: Larry Garnick 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 8:51 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: I’m Opposed to 415 Fairfax 
 
Hi Vinson. I am a homeowner at 
 in San Mateo since 1992 and I have rust recently 
become aware of the application to tear down the house and trees at 415 Fairfax and replace them with 
a larger contemporary home. 
 
While this property is not adjacent to mine, it is a stone’s throw away and I am disturbed by this 
application which would destroy a lovely historical home in the Baywood community and replace it with 
a house which is out of character for this neighborhood. 
 
By approving this application, the city would permanently damage the beauty and character of the 
neighborhood and set precedence for future erosion of this great place to live in San Mateo. 
 
I urge the city to deny the application and help preserve the existing classic and fitting house. 
 
I’m happy to comment or discuss if that would be helpful to the city. 
 
Regards, 
 
Larry Garnick

--- page 180 ---
From: Brian Haverty 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 6:20 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: No Vote: For Even Considering the Demolition of 415 Fairfax 
 
Vinson and Eric, 
 
 
 
We are opposed to your plan to tear-down the existing home at 415 Fairfax Avenue. 
 
 
I have learned never to trust a politician. Unfortunately, our legislators made the SB9 decision for us. 
The citizens of California should have had the opportunity to vote on this matter. Instead, SB9 is 
designed to erode and destroy the traditional single family suburb. One of my very best friends and 
neighbors lives 
 to this beautiful house located at 415 Fairfax and he is very upset about the 
future plans for this property.  
 
 
How would you like to be living in a single family community and all of a sudden your neighbor decided 
that he/she is going to disrupt your traditional neighborhood by building a condo? A rational person 
would be very concerned. This is his/her investment in the future and possibly where they decided to 
spend the rest of their lives. I would be worried too. How is this going to impact my home value? Who 
are my neighbors? What about parking? No-worries; street parking for all.  
 
 
Parable: I was walking on the Coastal trail in Half Moon Bay last week and could not help but notice that 
there was a sign located about every 100 yards that cautions those using the trail to “Stay on the trail 
- Protected Wildlife Habitat” I seriously thought of taking one of these signs and placing it on my front 
lawn. The State of California, the County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo place more emphasis 
on grasslands (the wildlife habitat” over the habitat of their citizens and that just is not cutting it for me.  
 
 
This is a STRONG No Vote: For Even Considering the Demolition of 415 Fairfax.  
 
 
 
Kind Regards, 
 
 
Brian Haverty 
  
M:

--- page 181 ---
From: linda herz 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 1:15 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax 
 
We just learned of the proposal to tear down this 
existing home and replace it with a large modern 
structure.  We bought our home in the 
Baywood/Aragon neighborhood over 30 years ago, and 
specifically chose this area because of the schools and 
the charm of the beautiful old homes. The house on 
Fairfax is a prime example of a typical beautiful 
Baywood home which makes up the fabric of this 
neighborhood.  Please reconsider not allowing a home of 
this nature to be torn down and replaced with 
something that is too big and too modern.   
Thank you, 
Ken and Linda Herz

--- page 182 ---
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
 
November 24, 2021 
 
Mr. Vinson Kwan 
VIA EMAIL 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave.  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Mr. Eric Nyhus 
Nyhus Design Group 
SUBJECT:  Opposition to Application to Demolish 415 Fairfax Avenue, Remove a Heritage 
Oak, and Build a New Contemporary Home 
Dear Mr. Kwan and Mr. Nyhus: 
Please consider these comments regarding the proposed demolition of a classic 1933 Baywood 
Spanish Revival-style home, removal of a heritage Coastal Live Oak, and construction of a new 
contemporary-style home at 415 Fairfax Avenue. My comments are: 
1. The historic home should not be demolished because it is well preserved and an 
excellent example of the split-level Spanish Revival architecture in Baywood and would 
be a contributor to a likely-eligible Baywood Historic District. 
2. The proposed home is out of character and too large for the neighborhood and is not 
consistent with the City’s Design Guidelines. 
3. The removal of the heritage oak would violate the Protected Tree Ordinance. 
4. The architect’s meeting notes do not reflect the extent and scope of the neighbor concern. 
The area of concerned neighbors extends throughout Baywood and the 500-foot notice 
area should be expanded. 
I have lived in San Mateo for over 40 years, with the last 27 years in Baywood. My husband and 
I, growing up, both drove through Baywood with our families to admire the architecture and 
manicured gardens. Sadly, we have seen house after house in San Mateo remodeled with 
inappropriate materials, contemporary styles, and inconsistent with the surrounding homes. 
Baywood has remained largely intact, with owners usually carefully remodeling to maintain the 
quality and character of the homes including sourcing original period materials and hardware . 
1. Historic Home Should Not be Demolished 
The Baywood Neighborhood has long been recognized as one of the most desirable 
neighborhoods in San Mateo. The area was developed starting in 1927 and the homes are 
architectural jewels, as described in a real estate sales brochure for a Baywood home:

--- page 183 ---
Mr. Vinson Kwan 
November 24, 2021 
Page 2 
 
“It is the quality of the homes, the exquisite architectural detailing, the manicured lawns and 
gardens along with Baywood’s strategic location and excellent schools that make Baywood so 
special The streetscape of Baywood is nothing short of spectacular with virtually every home a 
home of great architectural distinction. To drive or walk along the streets of Baywood is to be 
awed by the authenticity of the architecture, a virtual treasure trove of European storybook 
homes in garden settings of lush flowers and trees.” 
The home at 415 Fairfax is one of the architectural jewels in the neighborhood that has been 
carefully maintained over the years to preserve the architectural integrity, as have most of the 
homes in the neighborhood. The split-level Spanish Revival style home is an excellent example 
of the quality and style of homes in the Baywood neighborhood and should not be demolished. 
The home was determined not individually significant or historic, but would certainly be a 
contributor to the Baywood Historic District because of the architectural integrity.  
The 1989 Historic Survey acknowledges that Baywood is a potential historic district: 
“…the older neighborhoods on the west side of town had a large number of historically 
interesting structures. After consulting with staff members of the Office of Historic Preservation, 
we determined that the most sensible approach to documenting the neighborhoods in planning 
areas "Baywood," "Baywood Knolls," "Aragon," and "San Mateo Park" would be as potential 
historic districts. Since these neighborhoods contain a large number of older buildings that 
relate historically and have a high degree of architectural consistency, the district approach 
makes more sense.” 
The house is prominently featured on pages 96 and 97 of the paperback book San Mateo (Images 
of America) by Gregory Zompolis, 2004. How sad it would be to go looking for the house shown 
in the book and find a contemporary McMansion that does not respect the character of the 
neighborhood. 
San Mateo evaluated the downtown historic buildings in 1989. It is well past time to evaluate 
the neighborhoods as historic districts.  
2. Proposed Design Inconsistent with Neighborhood Homes and  
City Design Guidelines 
We, and many neighbors, oppose the demolition of the house. The proposed new house design 
would be inconsistent with the City’s design guidelines and the character of the neighborhood. 
Here are some of the design elements that violate the City Design Guidelines: 
Immediate and Neighborhood Context—The proposed replacement house is about 75 
percent larger than the homes that recently sold in the neighborhood, and would tower 
over the neighboring houses.  
Does Not Relate to Adjacent Houses—The contemporary style does not relate to the 
adjacent Spanish Revival and Tudor homes and uses materials not typical of Baywood’s 
historic homes.

--- page 184 ---
Mr. Vinson Kwan 
November 24, 2021 
Page 3 
 
Does Not Respect Established Building Footprint Pattern of the Neighborhood—The 
proposed replacement house would be much larger and closer to the street than other 
neighborhood homes. 
Garage and Driveways—The garage and driveways would be both large and 
prominent. 
Does Not Respect Adjacent Neighbor Privacy—The northeast side of the proposed 
replacement presents a massive wall, towering over the neighbor’s home. 
3. Application Violates the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance 
The proposed project would remove a heritage Coastal Live Oak tree that should be retained 
under criteria in the San Mateo Protected Tree Ordinance. We oppose the issuance of the tree 
removal permit. 
4. Neighborhood Meeting 
The 500-foot radius map included in the project plans grossly underestimates the number of 
neighbors who have grave concerns about the demolition of this historic home and the 
inappropriate replacement proposed by the applicant. There were over 20 people on the 
Neighborhood Meeting Zoom call for the project. The people who spoke were welcoming to the 
new neighbors but expressed very frank and direct opposition to the demolition of the existing 
historic house and the style and enormous scale of the proposed dwellings. The comments were 
very direct and unvarnished – this level of neighbor opposition was not represented in the 
applicant’s notes of the meeting – this was clearly disingenuous and misleading. The map 
showed 7 concerned neighbors when at least 12 voice opposition to the demolition and style of 
the proposed new dwelling. Not everyone on the call spoke their opposition as many other 
speakers had already voiced their concerns. The architect’s meeting notes do not reflect the 
extent and scope of the neighborhood concern which extends throughout Baywood. There are 
over 50 neighbors who are now aware of the project, and most are opposed. The 500-foot notice 
area should be expanded to include all of the Baywood neighborhood. 
Summary 
We are strongly opposed to the demolition of the house, removal of the heritage oak, and the 
construction of the large, contemporary replacement. It is baffling to us that someone would 
buy a landmark historic home, only to tear it down. We ask you to please deny this application. 
Sincerely,  
 
Laurie and Randy Hietter

--- page 185 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Thursday, May 5, 2022 12:54 PM 
To: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Vinson Kwan 
<vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Demolition Permit Review 
 
Dear Ms. Horrisberger and Mr. Kwan, 
On April 18, 2022, attorney Rachel Mansfield-Howlett submitted a letter to you with 
documentation that the Baywood neighborhood qualifies as a historic district eligible for listing 
on the National Register of Historic Places and that 415 Fairfax is a contributor to the district. 
The documentation included a report by Richard Brandi, architectural historian, on the eligibility 
of the Baywood neighborhood as a historic district and a letter from Mr. Brandi that states that 
415 Fairfax is a contributor to the Baywood Historic District.  
To my knowledge, you have not responded to the letter from Ms. Mansfield-Howlett. Vinson told 
me today the letter is still under review. I am therefore making this written request to please 
provide an update on the status of the 415 Fairfax application and a detailed description of how 
the City will process the application in light of the new information provided by Ms. Mansfield-
Howlett. 
Thank you,  
 
Laurie Hietter

--- page 186 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Wednesday, May 25, 2022 5:01 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl 
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rendell Bustos 
<rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Demolition Permit Review 
 
Hi Vinson, 
 
Thank you for reaching out to the owners at 415 Fairfax. The neighbors will appreciate remediating the 
eyesore.  
 
I am surprised and disappointed the city is choosing to disregard the legal requirements of CEQA. CEQA 
is very clear on the points Ms. Mansfield-Howlett made in her letter (Ms. Mansfield-Howlet is a noted 
expert in CEQA and treatment of historic resources). 
 
1.  Historic districts to not need to be formally designated or listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places. A noted architectural historian has determined the Baywood Historic District meets several 
criteria for listing on the National Register.  
 
As Ms. Mansfield-Hollett noted, the case League for Protection v. City of Oakland (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 
896 held that treatment of a resource as historic does not require prerequisite listing in an official 
inventory of historic resources or in the California Register of Historic Resources. 
 
2.  A structure that is a contributor to an eligible historic district is a historic resource, and must be 
treated as such under CEQA.  
 
3.  Under CEQA, a project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the significance of an historical 
resource may have a significant effect on the environment (Pub. Res. Code §21084.1; CEQA Guidelines, 
§15064.5.).  Guideline section 15064.5(a) defines criteria for qualifying historic resources, provides 
standards for assessing adverse effects on such resources, and confirms that a substantial alteration of 
an historic resource that materially impairs historic integrity causes a significant environmental impact.  
 
An historic resource cannot be approved for a discretionary demolition without preparation of an EIR. 
(Pub. Res. Code §21084.1; League for Protection v. City of Oakland (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 896.).  A 
Categorical Exclusion, therefore cannot be used to approve demolition of an historic resource.  
 
Please provide additional rationale for your decision and keep me informed as to the schedule for 415 
Fairfax. 
 
Thank you, 
Laurie 
 
 
On May 25, 2022, at 2:11 PM, Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

--- page 187 ---
Hi Laurie,  
  
I’ve let the applicant know about the overgrown front lawn and they will remediate the issue. I’ve also 
copied the City’s Code Enforcement Manager, Christine Civiletti, in my email to the applicant who is 
aware of this issue.  
  
The City has noted and included Ms. Mansfield-Howlett’s letter and Mr. Brandi’s report as part of the 
administrative record. As mentioned previously, the focus of the City’s CEQA analysis is based on 
whether the structure proposed to be demolished qualifies individually as a historic resource given that 
Baywood, is not currently a historic district. The City has reviewed Ms. Mansfield-Howlett’s letter and 
Mr. Brandi’s report but given that Baywood is not currently a district, and the house is not an individual 
resource, we expect to move forward with the CEQA exemption. The project has been deemed 
complete and we are checking to see if a Planning Commission hearing is appropriate for this project. 
Appropriate notices will go out as soon as the path forward is confirmed.  
  
Best, 
  
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Tuesday, May 24, 2022 9:55 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl 
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rendell Bustos 
<rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Demolition Permit Review 
  
Hi Vinson, 
  
The front lawn at 415 Fairfax has now reached chest-high in weeds and grasses. It looks like it could be a 
fire hazard. I know at least one neighbor complained to Code Enforcement. Is it possible for you to ask 
the Alstons to mow/weed whack the front lawn?  
  
Also, do you have an update on when the City will respond to Rachel Mansfield-Howlett's letter? 
  
Thank you, 
  
On Fri, May 6, 2022 at 4:35 PM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie,

--- page 188 ---
The City is still reviewing the application for 415 Fairfax Ave and will provide an update to the status for 
the application no later than 5/20.  
  
As mentioned before in the letter sent by the Planning Manager, Manira Sandhir, while 415 Fairfax Ave. 
may potentially be a contributor to the potentially historic Baywood district, the focus of the City’s CEQA 
analysis would be on whether the structure proposed to be demolished individually qualify as historic 
resources. As previously documented through the historic resource evaluation provided by the City’s 
historic consultant, 415 Fairfax does not qualify as an individually eligible historic resource and 
speculation of future projects may cause cumulative adverse impacts to a potentially historic district is 
not sufficient to disallow nor preclude the use of a categorical exemption. The City’s historic consultant 
is currently reviewing the documents provided by Ms. Mansfield-Howlett and will be meeting with the 
consultant to better understand the implications of the information. We appreciate your concern and 
patience throughout this process and project.  
  
Best,  
  
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Thursday, May 5, 2022 12:54 PM 
To: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Vinson Kwan 
<vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Demolition Permit Review 
  
Dear Ms. Horrisberger and Mr. Kwan,

--- page 189 ---
On April 18, 2022, attorney Rachel Mansfield-Howlett submitted a letter to you with 
documentation that the Baywood neighborhood qualifies as a historic district eligible for listing 
on the National Register of Historic Places and that 415 Fairfax is a contributor to the district. 
The documentation included a report by Richard Brandi, architectural historian, on the eligibility 
of the Baywood neighborhood as a historic district and a letter from Mr. Brandi that states that 
415 Fairfax is a contributor to the Baywood Historic District.  
To my knowledge, you have not responded to the letter from Ms. Mansfield-Howlett. Vinson told 
me today the letter is still under review. I am therefore making this written request to please 
provide an update on the status of the 415 Fairfax application and a detailed description of how 
the City will process the application in light of the new information provided by Ms. Mansfield-
Howlett. 
Thank you,  
  
Laurie Hietter 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 190 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Thursday, December 9, 2021 9:23 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax demolition 
 
Hi Vivian.....I heard about the demolition and rebuild at 415 Fairfax in San 
Mateo and just wanted to voice my opposition to the size and out of character 
house that is being proposed.  I live in the area which is an area built up in the 
1920's -1940's.    Even though it's not legally historic, the look, feel, and 
character of this area will be ruined if more developments like this go up, 
especially with ADU's which could be put in front of the main house or behind 
it with no addtional on-site parking required.   SB 9 and 10 will even make it 
worse.   
 
The city needs to take a real hard look at what's starting to happen to the city 
and I hope in 10 years we do not have a real urban mess that resembles 
many parts of San Francisco. The city needs to start putting in their own 
restrictions as to what can be done with community input from the people who 
actually live in these areas and who purchased their home for what they 
thought would be a  certain type of neighborhood.  
 
Thank you for taking the time to listen. 
 
Gary Isoardi

--- page 191 ---
From: Ilana Tandowsky 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 8:41 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Neal Tandowsky 
; Jeff Kotowitz 
; Keren 
Kotowitz 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Hello Vinson, 
 
My name is Ilana Tandowsky and my husband Neal and I live at 
, a couple homes away 
from 415 Fairfax Avenue.  We were involved with the meeting on August 4th and continue to want to 
remain involved in whatever way we can.   
 
We have lived in the neighborhood for 18 years and have loved the character and the historic value of 
the properties around us.  Many of us have  remodeled our homes but have taken great care to preserve 
what is special and unique about our homes in this community.  We are new to being this involved in 
the process, but certainly are eager to be involved.  Please consider another hearing so you can hear 
the varying perspectives and concerns.   
 
Thank you for your time and for considering our request. 
 
Ilana Tandowsky

--- page 192 ---
From: Keren Kotowitz 
  
Sent: Tuesday, February 1, 2022 12:20 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Photos 
 
Hi Vinson, 
 
Thanks again for taking the time to meet with me yesterday. Based on our coversation, I’m attaching 
photos from several vantage points between my home and 415 Fairfax. Feel free to share with the 
Alston’s and their architect. If there is anything else I can help with, please let me know. 
 
Thanks for your time! 
 
Best, 
Keren Kotowitz

--- page 193 ---


--- page 194 ---


--- page 195 ---


--- page 196 ---


--- page 197 ---


--- page 198 ---


--- page 199 ---


--- page 200 ---
Sent from my iPhone


--- page 201 ---
From: Keren Kotowitz 
  
Sent: Monday, February 7, 2022 11:41 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Cc: Laurie Hietter 
; Michael Nash 
; Jeff Kotowitz 
 
Subject: Re: Comments on 415 Fairfax 
 
Hi Vinson & Eric, 
 
As neighbors who live adjacent to 415 Fairfax, we concur with Ron & Cheryl Whiteside’s comments 
below. We would like to further emphasize our concerns around the mass and bulk of the proposed 
home. While the setbacks might be to code, we would like to reiterate that no homes on the street are 
so close to the sidewalks, making the house stand out like an eyesore. Additionally, the home is being 
built very close to neighboring homes which is totally out of character for the neighborhood limiting the 
beautiful green space we all embrace and enjoy. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Keren and Jeff Kotowitz 
 
On Feb 8, 2022, at 6:13 AM, Ron Whiteside 
 wrote: 
  
• 
 
 
From: Ron Whiteside 
 
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 12:14 AM 
  
Eric and Vison, 
  
We are opposed to your plan to tear-down the existing home at 415 Fairfax Avenue.  
  
My wife Cheryl and I, Ron Whiteside, have resided at 
 in San Mateo 
since 1981. We live on the corner of Harvard and Fairfax, a few doors down and across 
the street from 415 Fairfax. We obviously love the Baywood area – since we have 
chosen to live here for so long.  
  
We were participants in the Augusts 4th meeting about plans for 415 Fairfax and stated 
our concerns – that: 
• 
The proposed demolition will destroy a historic home that has been carefully 
maintained and fits well into the neighborhood  
• 
The proposed replacement home is very large and bulky for the lot size. Without 
the area referred to as an ADU, it is still much larger than other homes in our 
immediate area

--- page 202 ---
• 
The proposed ADU will not add housing, which is what the law intended. It is 
attached to the main house and can easily be converted to a simple addition by 
adding a door. The new owners stated that it would be used as guest quarters for 
visiting family. How does this qualify as an ADU? 
  
Numerous neighbors have sent emails to you eloquently expressing their concerns 
about this proposed project (see: Tandowsky, Armstrong, etc). We agree with all of the 
concerns in their emails, so I won’t repeat them, but we definitely concur.   
  
Houses in Baywood don’t turn over very often, as long-time owners want their treasured 
homes to go to family or others who will cherish and respect the old-world charm of the 
house and Baywood neighborhood. New owners often renovate their homes and may 
make additions – always with respect for their heritage home. It makes me wonder why 
a new home owner would say how much they just love Baywood; yet want to destroy a 
heritage fabric in our community that makes Baywood what it is; the neighborhood they 
just love.  
  
Vison et al, we urge you to deny the planning request for 415 Fairfax Avenue and 
encourage the new owners to come up with a plan that respects the home and our 
Baywood neighborhood.  
  
Regards 
  
  
Sent from Mail for Windows 
  
Hi, 
Thank you to all of you who have submitted comments already. Here is a 
reminder for everyone else to send comments regarding the proposed 
demolition and construction of a  3,910 square-foot house and 798 sq. ft. 
attached ADU. Comments and numbers count! Even a simple email saying I 
am opposed counts. 
• 
  
Please send comments to the City planner AND the applicant's architect (and 
copy me): 
vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
  
 
 
You might want to request another meeting so you can voice your comments. Please see the original 
information below.  
  
Thank you! We are making a difference!

--- page 203 ---
--  
Laurie  
URGENT ALERT! Notice from Your Neighbors 
PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE 
 
 
A formal Planning Application has been submitted to demolish this neighborhood home 
at 415 Fairfax 
Avenue and replace it with a significantly larger contemporary house. The existing 
home, a unique 
example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style built in 1933, is an integral part of the 
neighborhood 
streetscape that makes Baywood the very special and desirable neighborhood it is. The 
hand-hewn 
beams, ironwork, and other hand-crafted artisan details, along with its contributory 
presence to the 
neighborhood fabric will be lost if this application is approved. 
A Neighborhood Meeting was held on August 4, 2021 and over 20 neighbors expressed 
opposition to 
the demolition of the historic home and to the size, style, and materials of the proposed 
new house. 
If you agree that this irreplaceable home should not be demolished, PLEASE 
EMAIL CITY PLANNER, Vinson Kwan NOW and let him know that you are joining 
with the neighborhood and opposing demolition of this home! YOU MUST ACT NOW -  
COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY this Wednesday, NOV. 24TH 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner 
(650) 522-7206 
VKwan@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 204 ---
What your neighbors said at the neighborhood meeting: 
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished 
2. The large heritage coast live oak tree on the property should not be removed 
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if the new project approved 
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory 
Zompolis, 2004 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character with the homes in the 
neighborhood 
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood 
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the 
neighborhood 
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines 
 
 
If you are not interested in this topic, just reply no thanks and I will take you off the list. 
  
Thank you for your support of our amazing neighborhood. 
Attachments area

--- page 205 ---
From: Jeff Kotowitz as
Sent: Friday, November 19, 2021 1:32 PM

To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Keren Kotowitz [is

Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue

Hello Vinson

Keren and | live 1 ii 415 Fairfax which is going to be torn down and
replaced with a new home. We attended the first hearing which was attended by over 20 neighbors who
had many concerns like us. | have reviewed the plans but | think it is important that residents and their
architect host another hearing for the neighbors. As a Zoning and architect novice, it is difficult to review
the plans without any context or the ability to raise questions. In fact, we learned a lot about the proposed
home from our questions at the hearing.

| ask you please host another hearing for the neighborhood. We, as well as all the immediate neighbors,
are very concerned about this project and the graphic in the plan that identifies concerned neighbors in
red is vastly understated.

Thank you

Jeff

Links in the message (1)

415 Fairfax Avenue | San
Mateo, CA - Of...


--- page 206 ---
From: Shana Larson 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 7, 2021 12:33 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax 
 
Hi Vinson, 
 
As a new homeowner in Baywood, I've been following the 415 Fairfax project. Having grown up in 
Burlingame, my husband and I specifically sought out a family home in Baywood since we love the 
charm, character and walkability that Baywood offers. We paid a premium to live here and do not want 
to see huge, modern homes being built in this historic neighborhood. Learning of the proposed plan to 
demolish 415 Fairfax and oak tree is really devastating. I stand with my neighbors on the below points. 
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished  
2. The large heritage coast live oak on the property should not be removed  
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if new project approved  
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory Zompolis, 2004 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character of the homes in the neighborhood  
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood  
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the neighborhood  
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines 
Thank you for your time, 
Shana Larson

--- page 207 ---
From: Bmah 
  
Sent: Monday, November 29, 2021 12:05 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
; 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax - Demolition and New Home 
 
Hi Vinson 
We are writing to you as a concerned Baywood neighbor. 
We learned of the proposed project on 415 Fairfax and we have seen the plans for the new home.  
As we not opposed to homeowners remodeling, we believe a complete home tear down with the 
current home design does not relate to the neighboring aesthetic, materials, context, and history.  The 
value of our neighborhoods depend on jurisdictional guidance and boundaries.  
We appreciate your time.   
 
Brian and Lisa Mah

--- page 208 ---
From: Michael Nash 
  
Sent: Monday, December 13, 2021 8:35 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: Fwd: Opposition to demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Vinson, 
Here is another email about 415 Fairfax. 
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Peter Mandle 
 
Date: Fri, Dec 10, 2021 at 9:40 PM 
Subject: Opposition to demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue 
To: Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>, Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>, <rbonila@cityofsanmateo.org>, <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
 
 
 
Dear Mr. Kwan 
 
This is to express our opposition to the demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue.   
 
We attended the neighborhood meeting in August and continue to share the concerns that were 
expressed by our neighbors during that meeting: the planned house is out of character with the 
neighborhood due to its size (which is significantly larger than any other nearby home),  and in very 
close proximity to the adjacent properties.  We also understand that no variances are needed to obtain 
a building permit, demolish the exiting 90-year old home, and construct the planned large 
structure.  Just because it is allowed does not make it right.   
 
Having lived in Baywood for over 30 years, we have seen many homes constructed, but unlike the 415 
Fairfax project, they were nearly always remodels retaining one or more walls of the existing structure 
and reflecting the character of the neighborhood.  The planned demolition and replacement fail to 
preserve the unique character of this home and the adjacent historic neighborhood.  
 
We also question, due to the location of its entrance, whether the proposed ADU will ever function as 
an independent dwelling.  Who would wish to live in an ADU that requires them to walk past the 
owner's living room window and swimming pool?  Our concern is that the wall separating the ADU and 
primary dwelling will be modified to allow for a future passageway and expansion of  the home without 
the owners needing to obtain a permit. 
 
We hope City Council and staff will consider our concerns and require the owners to submit a revised 
design. Thank you for considering our note. 
 
Regards, 
Marianne and Peter Mandle

--- page 209 ---
From: Peter Mandle 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 4:15 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Opposition to demoltion of 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Dear Mr. Kwan 
 
This is to express our opposition to the demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue.   
 
We attended the neighborhood meeting in August and continue to share the concerns that were 
expressed then: the planned house is out of character with the neighborhood due to its size (which is 
significantly larger than any other nearby home) and in very close proximity to the adjacent properties. 
We  also understand that no variances are needed to obtain a building permit and construct the 
planned house.  Just because it is allowed does not make it right.   
 
Having lived in Baywood for over 30 years, we have seen many homes constructed, but unlike the 415 
Fairfax project, they were nearly always remodels retaining one or more walls of the existing structure 
and reflecting the character of the neighborhood.   
 
We also question, due to the location of its entrance, whether the proposed ADU will ever function as 
an independent dwelling.  Who would wish to  live in an ADU that requires them to walk past the 
owner's living room window and swimming pool?  Our concern is that the wall separating the ADU and 
primary dwelling will be modified to allow for a future passageway and expanding the home without the 
owners needing to obtain a permit. 
 
We hope the Planning staff will consider our concerns and require the owners to submit a revised 
design. Thank you for considering our note. 
 
Regards, 
Marianne and Peter Mandle

--- page 210 ---
From: Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
  
Sent: Monday, April 18, 2022 11:21 AM 
To: Community Development Distribution <communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary 
Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rendell 
Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>; Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Submission re Baywood neighborhood and 415 Fairfax Ave. 
 
On behalf of the Baywood Neighborhood Association, I submit the following documents:  
(1) Letter from Rachel Mansfield-Howlett  
(2) Report prepared by historic architecture expert Richard Brandi, Historic Preservation 
Consulting, which evaluates the eligibility of the Baywood Neighborhood under the National 
Register of Historic Places as a historic district 
(3) Letter from Richard Brandi, which analyzes the property at 415 Fairfax Ave. as an individual 
contributor to the district 
(4) Letter from the State Office of Historic Preservation. 
Please confirm receipt. 
 
Thank you, 
Rachel 
 
 
Law Office of Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
Phone:

--- page 211 ---
From: Pamela McCarthy-Hudson 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 4:37 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re the proposed project  
 
Dear Vinson -  
 
I am concerned about the proposed 5K square foot house project for the lot of 415 Fairfax Avenue.  I 
believe the project needs to be studied more closely by the city planning commission due to the size of 
the house on the lot and the proposed style.  My husband and I personally just went thru the review and 
approval process on our remodel (not rebuild!) one year ago and the comments were very thorough and 
feedback was extremely detailed.  It is hard for me to imagine the city not approaching this project 
similarly; the fact that it was ok’d by the city certainly surprises me.  
 
Please do let me know if you have any questions for me. 
 
Regards 
Pam  
 
Pam McCarthy-Hudson 
Samaritan House Volunteer & Board Member

--- page 212 ---
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 7:39 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Steve McKay 
 
Subject: Strongly opposed to 415 Fairfax demolition 
 
Dear Vinson, 
 
I understand you are supervising the city of San Mateo's assessment of a major construction project at 
415 Fairfax Drive. 
 
It appears the project is being fast tracked with no plans for neighborhood meetings or involvement of 
the San Mateo Planning Commission. My family got to know the project "up close and personal" last 
week when PG&E invaded our backyard and uprooted two trees so that they could turn off the gas 
service to 415 Fairfax. As you might imagine, we felt violated (just imagine how our dead lemon tree 
felt). 
 
We live directly behind 415 Fairfax. Our home is 
 and we will be extremely, 
negatively impacted by this ill-conceived project. 
 
I've had an initial glance at the plan published on your website. It is egregiously misleading. For example, 
are you aware that there were dozens of attendees at the preliminary neighborhood meeting and that 
every person that spoke was opposed to the project? Does that typically happen at your meetings, or 
might this have raised some red flags as to the enormous controversy surrounding this project? Perhaps 
the strong wave of vocal opposition by concerned neighbors would suggest that this project needs 
careful vetting and supervision by the Planning Commission rather than a perfunctory fasttrack process 
that seems to be underway over the holidays in hopes that nobody is looking? 
 
There is a diagram in the plan that shows only a few red dots, each representing concerned neighbors. 
There are many other neighbors who are not only concerned, but who actually spoke up at the meeting 
and yet they have a green dot on their home. At best, this misrepresents the magnitude of opposition of 
this project and was prepared in a way to intentionally mislead the reviewers of the plans. As a matter 
of due process, I urge you to reach out to everyone on the diagram and ask them their views. My guess 
is that you fill find your diagram littered with red dots. In any case, it is dangerously misleading to 
include the diagram as it currently exists in the plan because it is not only untruthful, but it harms those 
who are being misrepresented. 
 
We are also very concerned with the way things have been communicated. At the end of the preliminary 
meeting hosted by the project architect, he and the homeowners promised to reach out to the 
neighbors and engage them in the process. Instead, this project is being snuck through the back door 
over the holidays when nobody's looking. Seriously, you posted these revised plans on your website 
with zero communication to the dozens of people who voiced concern at the preliminary meeting? I've 
seen that type of thing happen on The Wire and Boardwalk Empire, but right here in San Mateo? The 
whole thing has a certain smell to it and the process is obviously tipped against the residents of 
Baywood. 
 
There is a long litany of issues with this project but I will be judicious by just listing a few questions and 
concerns.

--- page 213 ---
Is this design appropriate for the neighborhood?   Have you looked at the facade of the house in the 
context of the rest of the neighborhood? It would be like dropping a spaceship in the middle of a Tuscan 
village. It's just bizarrely out of place. Having spent many months trying to get our own plans approved 
by the city many years ago, we are well aware how much the Planning Commission cares about 
preserving the character of our neighborhoods. I consider that to be their calling as protectors of the 
city's architecture, cultural heritage and history. I think it's fair to say that many of us would like to 
understand why this project is being treated differently. Given its opposition and controversy, might we 
want to bring it to the Planning Commission's attention for closer scrutiny? 
 
Are the proportions appropriate for such a small lot?   We are blessed to have one of the larger lots in 
the neighborhood and, yet, we have not been able to build out further. We tried to add an inlaw 
bedroom (just a bedroom!) and that was not allowed because of the city's protection of the appropriate 
house / lot square footage ratio.  The house being contemplated at 415 Fairfax is obnoxious in its 
proportions.  This will now be one of the largest houses in Baywood constructed on a quaint little lot. 
When coupled with the bizarrely out-of-place design, you can start to understand why so many dozens 
of people showed up and spoke out in opposition. Most importantly, it is an absolute violation of our 
privacy. We currently enjoy about a 70 foot space between the back of our house and the current house 
on 415 Fairfax. The current house has a lovely design in keeping with other homes in the neighborhood 
and there is a nice buffer of privacy between us. If the proposed plans for 415 Fairfax are approved, we 
will instead be standing face-to-face with an ADU eyesore peering directly over our fence. This will 
violate our privacy, destroy value in our home, and dramatically decrease the quality of our living space. 
 
Why murder the oak tree? The homeowners of 415 Fairfax paid an arborist to give a favorable view on 
their plans to kill their oak tree. Even then, the best he could do was to say it is in "Fair" condition and 
may need to be removed to make room for their ADU. We had an arborist visually assess the tree and 
their words were: "perfectly healthy", "excellent condition", "needs to be saved." I would like to hire 
another arborist and get a 2nd opinion about whether that tree should be murdered. Please note that, 
despite the enormous footprint of the proposed 2BR ADU, the oak tree is still several feet away. While I 
understand that "old trees can be a nuisance" (in the words of project's architect) and it may obstruct 
the view between the ADU and the swimming pool, there is no rationale to remove that tree. It is 
historic. It is majestic. It is perfectly healthy. It is in excellent condition.  More importantly, many homes 
in the neighborhood rely on that tree for privacy, shade and beauty. Removing that tree is murder and it 
is completely unnecessary. 
 
In glancing at the plan on your website, it depicts walls of privacy trees that don't currently exist. Many 
of us would like to know exactly what trees are being planned and what their height will be on Day 1 
(not after years of growth). 
 
We are very impressed with the architect on this project. He is extremely smart, eloquent, and 
extraordinarily self-assured. He is no-doubt an expert in pushing these projects through the system and 
getting things done for his clients. When Eric did spend a few minutes with us, he repeatedly noted that 
this project is "legal." He frequently quipped:  "change is hard." Maybe it's true that we can't quite 
process that times have changed and we are too ossified in our curmudgeonly ways of thinking. Having 
said that, please appreciate that many of us have invested decades of our lives and our life's savings in 
our homes. We have also worked very hard to preserve the things we love about this 
neighborhood:  sense of community, privacy between homes, proportion and space, caretaking of 
natural beauty, and respect for our neighbors. There is nothing in the 415 Fairfax project that aligns with

--- page 214 ---
these values and THAT is why this change is too hard to accept and THAT is why it is bringing so much 
sadness and stress to our otherwise tranquil neighborhood. 
 
Sincerely, 
Stephen McKay

--- page 215 ---
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Monday, November 29, 2021 2:49 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Strongly opposed to 415 Fairfax demolition 
 
Hi Vinson, I hope you were able to enjoy your Thanksgiving though I'm sure this project at 415 Fairfax is 
stressful for you, just as it is for everyone in the neighborhood. It's extremely controversial and has 
people very upset. 
 
I re-read my initial note to you and made some edits. I'd like to rescind my previous note and have it 
replaced with this edited version please. It us updated to fix some typos and clarify a couple of the 
points. 
 
Thank you, 
Steve 
 
=================== 
Dear Vinson, 
 
I understand you are supervising the city of San Mateo's assessment of a major 
construction project at 415 Fairfax Drive. 
 
It appears the project is being fast tracked with no plans for neighborhood meetings or 
involvement of the San Mateo Planning Commission. My family got to know the project 
"up close and personal" last week when PG&E invaded our backyard and uprooted two 
trees so that they could turn off the gas service to 415 Fairfax. As you might imagine, 
we felt violated (just imagine how our dead lemon tree felt). 
 
We live directly behind 415 Fairfax. Our home is at 
 and we will be 
extremely, negatively impacted by this ill-conceived project. 
 
I've had an initial glance at the plan published on your website. It is egregiously 
misleading. For example, are you aware that there were dozens of attendees at the 
preliminary neighborhood meeting and that every person that spoke was opposed to the 
project? Does that typically happen at your meetings, or might this have raised some 
red flags as to the enormous controversy surrounding this project? Perhaps the strong 
wave of vocal opposition by concerned neighbors would suggest that this project needs 
careful vetting and supervision by the Planning Commission rather than a perfunctory 
fast track process that seems to be underway over the holidays in hopes that nobody is 
looking? 
 
There is a diagram in the plan that shows only a few red dots, each representing 
concerned neighbors. There are many other neighbors who are not only concerned, but 
who actually spoke up at the meeting and yet they have a green dot on their home. At 
best, this misrepresents the magnitude of opposition to this project and was prepared in 
a way to intentionally mislead the reviewers of the plans. As a matter of due process, I

--- page 216 ---
urge you to reach out to everyone on the diagram and ask them their views. My guess 
is that you will find your diagram littered with red dots. 
 
We are also very concerned with the way things have been communicated. At the end 
of the preliminary meeting hosted by the project architect, my understanding was that 
we would hear back from the architect and owners and there would be some effort to 
address the concerns raised at the preliminary meeting. We understood this was just 
the beginning of the process. Instead, this project feels like it is being snuck through the 
back door over the holidays when nobody's looking. The whole thing has a certain smell 
to it and the process is obviously tipped against the residents of Baywood. 
 
There is a long litany of issues with this project but I will be judicious by just listing a few 
questions and concerns. 
 
Is this design appropriate for the neighborhood?   Have you looked at the facade of 
the house in the context of the rest of the neighborhood? It would be like dropping a 
spaceship in the middle of a Tuscan village. It's just bizarrely out of place. Having spent 
many months trying to get our own plans approved by the city many years ago, we are 
well aware of how much the city planners care about preserving the character of our 
neighborhoods. They are the protectors of the city's architecture, cultural heritage and 
history. I think it's fair to say that many of us would like to understand why this project is 
being treated differently. Given its opposition and controversy, it seems that it deserves 
closer scrutiny. For example, I urge you to gather the input of all neighbors and ensure 
that their voices are being heard and earnestly considered by everyone--the Alstons, 
their architect, the San Mateo city planners, and other impacted neighbors. 
 
Are the proportions appropriate for such a small lot?   We are blessed to have one 
of the larger lots in the neighborhood and, yet, we have not been able to build out 
further. We tried to add an inlaw bedroom (just a bedroom!) and that was not allowed 
because of the city's protection of the appropriate house / lot square footage ratio.  The 
house being contemplated at 415 Fairfax is obnoxious in its proportions.  This will now 
be one of the largest houses in Baywood but on a lot that cannot aesthetically support 
its size. When coupled with the bizarrely out-of-place design, you can start to 
understand why so many dozens of people showed up and spoke out in opposition. 
Most importantly, it is an absolute violation of our privacy. We currently enjoy about a 70 
foot space between the back of our house and the current house on 415 Fairfax. The 
current house has a lovely design in keeping with other homes in the neighborhood and 
there is a nice buffer of privacy between us. If the proposed plans for 415 Fairfax are 
approved, we will instead be standing face-to-face with an ADU eyesore peering directly 
over our fence. This will violate our privacy, destroy value in our home, and dramatically 
decrease the quality of our living space. 
 
Why murder the oak tree? The homeowners of 415 Fairfax paid an arborist to give a 
favorable view on their plans to kill their oak tree. Even then, the best the hired arborist 
could do was to say it is in "Fair" condition and may need to be removed to make room 
for their ADU. We had an arborist visually assess the same tree and their words were:

--- page 217 ---
"perfectly healthy", "excellent condition", "needs to be saved." I would like to hire 
another arborist and get a 2nd opinion about whether that tree should be destroyed. 
Please note that, despite the enormous footprint of the proposed 2BR ADU, the oak tree 
is still several feet away from the structure. While I understand that "old trees can be a 
nuisance" (paraphrasing the project's architect) and it may obstruct the view from the 
ADU to the swimming pool, there is no rationale to remove that tree. It is historic. It is 
majestic. It is perfectly healthy. It is in excellent condition.  More importantly, many 
homes in the neighborhood rely on that tree for privacy, shade and beauty. I trust that 
the Alstons would decide against removing it if they understood the harm they are doing 
to others in the process. 
 
In glancing at the plan on your website, it depicts walls of privacy trees that don't 
currently exist. We would like to know exactly what trees are being planned and what 
their height will be on Day 1 (not after years of growth). 
 
We are very impressed with the architect on this project. He is extremely smart, 
eloquent, and extraordinarily self-assured about his plans for this project. He is no-doubt 
an expert in pushing these projects through the system and getting things done for his 
clients. He is working on their behalf and we don't begrudge him for trying to optimize 
their outcome within the boundaries of the law. Where we take issue is that this project 
is doing so much harm to others in the process. It's a zero-sum situation where they 
gain and the rest of us lose. 
 
When we all met together at the preliminary meeting, we were continuously reminded 
that this project is "legal" and "compliant." Our concerns were repeatedly met with a 
quip:  "change is hard." Maybe it's true that we can't quite process that times have 
changed and we are too ossified in our curmudgeonly ways of thinking. Having said 
that, please appreciate that many of us have invested decades of our lives and our life's 
savings in our homes. We have also worked very hard to preserve the things we love 
about Baywood:  sense of community, privacy between homes, proportion and space, 
caretaking of natural beauty, and respect for our neighbors. There is nothing in the 
proposed 415 Fairfax project that aligns with these values and THAT is why this change 
is too hard to accept and THAT is why it is bringing so much sadness and stress to our 
otherwise tranquil neighborhood. I do not believe for a moment that this is the intention 
of the Alstons and I therefore plead with them tol reconsider the entire project, including 
the destruction of the existing home, the construction of a gigantic ADU, and the 
destruction of a majestic oak tree that brings so much beauty, shade and privacy to the 
neighbors. 
 
Sincerely, 
Stephen McKay 
 
 
 
On Wed, Nov 24, 2021 at 3:08 PM Steve McKay 
 wrote: 
Hi Vinson, thanks for your note. You have been put in a very uncomfortable position. This may be one of 
the most controversial residential projects that San Mateo has ever seen and yet you have a very skilled

--- page 218 ---
architect who is trying to stream roll you in the process. I think that makes your job very challenging. 
Please just remember that nobody (nobody!) has spoken up in support of this project and it is doing 
enormous harm to many people. Please do the right thing by escalating this project to the top and make 
sure that it gets the scrutiny it deserves. I urge you to survey the neighborhood so that you can get a 
better sense of the massive opposition to this very dangerous project. 
 
Have a nice Thanksgiving weekend. I will not take your time away from that with a phone call. Thank 
you, 
Steve 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On Wed, Nov 24, 2021 at 2:58 PM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hello Stephen, 
  
Thank you for reaching out and expressing your concerns regarding this project; your comments are 
appreciated and taken into consideration during the review process. The City understands there are 
multiple concerns raised by neighbors regarding this project. If you are available today, I would be happy 
to schedule a quick phone call and hopefully help address some of the items of concern you raised in 
your email. Please let me know of your availability for today and next week.  
  
Best, 
  
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 219 ---
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 7:39 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Steve McKay 
 
Subject: Strongly opposed to 415 Fairfax demolition 
  
Dear Vinson, 
  
I understand you are supervising the city of San Mateo's assessment of a major construction project at 
415 Fairfax Drive. 
  
It appears the project is being fast tracked with no plans for neighborhood meetings or involvement of 
the San Mateo Planning Commission. My family got to know the project "up close and personal" last 
week when PG&E invaded our backyard and uprooted two trees so that they could turn off the gas 
service to 415 Fairfax. As you might imagine, we felt violated (just imagine how our dead lemon tree 
felt). 
  
We live 
 415 Fairfax. Our home is at 
 and we will be extremely, 
negatively impacted by this ill-conceived project. 
  
I've had an initial glance at the plan published on your website. It is egregiously misleading. For example, 
are you aware that there were dozens of attendees at the preliminary neighborhood meeting and that 
every person that spoke was opposed to the project? Does that typically happen at your meetings, or 
might this have raised some red flags as to the enormous controversy surrounding this project? Perhaps 
the strong wave of vocal opposition by concerned neighbors would suggest that this project needs 
careful vetting and supervision by the Planning Commission rather than a perfunctory fasttrack process 
that seems to be underway over the holidays in hopes that nobody is looking? 
  
There is a diagram in the plan that shows only a few red dots, each representing concerned neighbors. 
There are many other neighbors who are not only concerned, but who actually spoke up at the meeting 
and yet they have a green dot on their home. At best, this misrepresents the magnitude of opposition of 
this project and was prepared in a way to intentionally mislead the reviewers of the plans. As a matter 
of due process, I urge you to reach out to everyone on the diagram and ask them their views. My guess 
is that you fill find your diagram littered with red dots. In any case, it is dangerously misleading to

--- page 220 ---
include the diagram as it currently exists in the plan because it is not only untruthful, but it harms those 
who are being misrepresented. 
  
We are also very concerned with the way things have been communicated. At the end of the preliminary 
meeting hosted by the project architect, he and the homeowners promised to reach out to the 
neighbors and engage them in the process. Instead, this project is being snuck through the back door 
over the holidays when nobody's looking. Seriously, you posted these revised plans on your website 
with zero communication to the dozens of people who voiced concern at the preliminary meeting? I've 
seen that type of thing happen on The Wire and Boardwalk Empire, but right here in San Mateo? The 
whole thing has a certain smell to it and the process is obviously tipped against the residents of 
Baywood. 
  
There is a long litany of issues with this project but I will be judicious by just listing a few questions and 
concerns. 
  
Is this design appropriate for the neighborhood?   Have you looked at the facade of the house in the 
context of the rest of the neighborhood? It would be like dropping a spaceship in the middle of a Tuscan 
village. It's just bizarrely out of place. Having spent many months trying to get our own plans approved 
by the city many years ago, we are well aware how much the Planning Commission cares about 
preserving the character of our neighborhoods. I consider that to be their calling as protectors of the 
city's architecture, cultural heritage and history. I think it's fair to say that many of us would like to 
understand why this project is being treated differently. Given its opposition and controversy, might we 
want to bring it to the Planning Commission's attention for closer scrutiny? 
  
Are the proportions appropriate for such a small lot?   We are blessed to have one of the larger lots in 
the neighborhood and, yet, we have not been able to build out further. We tried to add an inlaw 
bedroom (just a bedroom!) and that was not allowed because of the city's protection of the appropriate 
house / lot square footage ratio.  The house being contemplated at 415 Fairfax is obnoxious in its 
proportions.  This will now be one of the largest houses in Baywood constructed on a quaint little lot. 
When coupled with the bizarrely out-of-place design, you can start to understand why so many dozens 
of people showed up and spoke out in opposition. Most importantly, it is an absolute violation of our 
privacy. We currently enjoy about a 70 foot space between the back of our house and the current house 
on 415 Fairfax. The current house has a lovely design in keeping with other homes in the neighborhood 
and there is a nice buffer of privacy between us. If the proposed plans for 415 Fairfax are approved, we 
will instead be standing face-to-face with an ADU eyesore peering directly over our fence. This will 
violate our privacy, destroy value in our home, and dramatically decrease the quality of our living space.

--- page 221 ---
Why murder the oak tree? The homeowners of 415 Fairfax paid an arborist to give a favorable view on 
their plans to kill their oak tree. Even then, the best he could do was to say it is in "Fair" condition and 
may need to be removed to make room for their ADU. We had an arborist visually assess the tree and 
their words were: "perfectly healthy", "excellent condition", "needs to be saved." I would like to hire 
another arborist and get a 2nd opinion about whether that tree should be murdered. Please note that, 
despite the enormous footprint of the proposed 2BR ADU, the oak tree is still several feet away. While I 
understand that "old trees can be a nuisance" (in the words of project's architect) and it may obstruct 
the view between the ADU and the swimming pool, there is no rationale to remove that tree. It is 
historic. It is majestic. It is perfectly healthy. It is in excellent condition.  More importantly, many homes 
in the neighborhood rely on that tree for privacy, shade and beauty. Removing that tree is murder and it 
is completely unnecessary. 
  
In glancing at the plan on your website, it depicts walls of privacy trees that don't currently exist. Many 
of us would like to know exactly what trees are being planned and what their height will be on Day 1 
(not after years of growth). 
  
We are very impressed with the architect on this project. He is extremely smart, eloquent, and 
extraordinarily self-assured. He is no-doubt an expert in pushing these projects through the system and 
getting things done for his clients. When Eric did spend a few minutes with us, he repeatedly noted that 
this project is "legal." He frequently quipped:  "change is hard." Maybe it's true that we can't quite 
process that times have changed and we are too ossified in our curmudgeonly ways of thinking. Having 
said that, please appreciate that many of us have invested decades of our lives and our life's savings in 
our homes. We have also worked very hard to preserve the things we love about this 
neighborhood:  sense of community, privacy between homes, proportion and space, caretaking of 
natural beauty, and respect for our neighbors. There is nothing in the 415 Fairfax project that aligns with 
these values and THAT is why this change is too hard to accept and THAT is why it is bringing so much 
sadness and stress to our otherwise tranquil neighborhood. 
  
Sincerely, 
Stephen McKay 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 222 ---
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Friday, March 18, 2022 5:03 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>; Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: PA-2021-066 415 Fairfax Ave., SUP+SFDDR Project Update 
 
Vinson, thank you for your email and update on the plans at 415 Fairfax. In 20 years of living next to that 
house, I've never raised a single concern about any project in our wonderful neighborhood. In general, I 
feel people investing in their homes are also investing in the neighborhood. I'm grateful to others who 
invest in the neighborhood, especially those who choose to live in the homes they buy here. However, 
this project at 415 Fairfax has created enormous stress in our neighborhood because of its destructive 
nature that exploits loopholes and does active harm to other citizens of San Mateo. It's a zero sum 
project -- the gain for the owners of 415 Fairfax comes from the loss of others in the neighborhood. 
 
One item in particular that I was surprised to still see in the plans is the wonderful, perfectly-healthy oak 
tree in the backyard of the property. The architect and owners could very easily build around the 
wonderful tree. Actually, it doesn't even sit on the footprint of the newly designed property or its 
gigantic "ADU". It is a protected heritage tree that many neighbors depend on for privacy, shade and 
beautification.  The only reason the architect wants to remove it appears to be to improve the view from 
the 2 bedroom / 2 bathroom ADU and the swimming pool. I urge you to please reject the idea of killing a 
protected heritage tree that brings important value to every home in its proximity. 
 
Thank you for your consideration and all that you do in support of our city and its residents. 
 
Steve McKay 
 
 
p.s., note that there has already been significant damage to our property as a result of this project 
because PG&E came into our yard and dug a deep hole under two of our trees in order to shut off the 
gas to 415 Fairfax. They killed our lemon tree in the process. 
 
p.p.s, because the owners have chosen to live in on of their other home (in Burlingame I believe), they 
are not maintaining the property. We'd ask that they at least mow the lawn and try to keep the 
appearance of the property up to a minimum level of maintenance. 
 
 
On Mon, Mar 14, 2022 at 3:39 PM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi all, 
  
Hope this email finds you well. Please be aware, a resubmittal for PA-2021-066 415 Fairfax Ave., 
SUP+SFDDR has been submitted on March 5th and is currently under review by the City’s Development 
Review Board. The project What’s Happening in Development page has been updated with the most 
recent plan set. Please note, those who are on the attached list are included in the BCC line of this email.

--- page 223 ---
Best,  
  
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 224 ---
From: martha moore 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 5:07 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re demolition and proposed new build at 415 Fairfax Ave 
 
Hello, 
I have just heard today about this proposed demolition and rebuild in our 
neighborhood.  Because our home is 4 blocks away we were not notified of the 
proposal to replace the existing spanish style home from the 1930's with an 
inappropriate modern style home which will not 
 fit into the area in size or style. 
 
I have walked through areas of Burlingame and Hillsborough where this sort of 
overbuilding and inadequate concern for existing structures has occurred.  This has a 
detrimental impact on the 'feel' and tone of the streets and neighborhoods.  
 
The thought that a heritage oak tree might be removed to make room for a monster 
home is abhorrent.  Given the importance of heritage trees, and the importance of trees 
in general , in our environment. 
 
If someone wants to build a home that encroaches on the surrounding homes it is up to 
the city planning department to deny and redirect the project. 
 
If the owners would like to add square footage it should be done carefully and with 
respect to the neighbors.  If the city is to allow rebuilding it is up to the city planning 
department to reign in designs that do not meld with the structures surrounding. 
 
I will look forward to your response. 
Martha Moore

--- page 225 ---
From: Joseph Musich DC 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 2:26 PM 
To: Laurie Hietter 
; Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: 
 
 
We are one of the homes that would be behind this project.  We have a garage that is 
essentially a converted carport that is falling down.  We have been working with the 
McKay's and the Nash's to find a way to rebuild it to a standard home matching garage 
and we are being denied, and being held to the existing floor space, not a San Mateo 
current minimum 2 car garage.  How is this house can be torn down and then be built 
beyond what is allowed if the email information is correct.  We are not a new 
neighborhood.  Our values are derived from the historic homes and 
architecture.  Bluntly, don't buy a historic spanish style home to tear it down, but a 
generic California style home. 
Joe Musich 
 
On Tuesday, November 23, 2021, 09:19:20 PM PST, Laurie Hietter
 wrote:  
 
 
Thanks, Steve.  Will do.  
Laurie 
 
 
On Nov 23, 2021, at 8:36 PM, Steve McKay 
 wrote: 
 
Hi Lauri and Teresa, I know you have tried to build a consolidated list. Just adding a few others who 
should be on your lists going forward please. I know that the Voyles, Garnicks and Mary Chigos have all 
reached out to Vinson. The Musichs will be very heavily impacted so will have a deep interest in the 
outcome.. Thank you for all the efforts. 
 
Steve 
 
 
 
On Tue, Nov 23, 2021 at 8:12 PM Laurie Hietter 
 wrote: 
Hi, 
Thank you to all of you who have submitted comments already. Here is a reminder for everyone else to 
send comments regarding the proposed demolition and construction of a  3,910 square-foot 
house and 798 sq. ft. attached ADU. Comments and numbers count! Even a 
simple email saying I am opposed counts. 
 
Please send comments to the City planner AND the applicant's architect (and 
copy me): 
vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 226 ---
You might want to request another meeting so you can voice your comments. Please see the original 
information below.  
 
Thank you! We are making a difference! 
--  
Laurie  
URGENT ALERT! Notice from Your Neighbors 
PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE 
 
 
A formal Planning Application has been submitted to demolish this neighborhood home 
at 415 Fairfax 
Avenue and replace it with a significantly larger contemporary house. The existing 
home, a unique 
example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style built in 1933, is an integral part of the 
neighborhood 
streetscape that makes Baywood the very special and desirable neighborhood it is. The 
hand-hewn 
beams, ironwork, and other hand-crafted artisan details, along with its contributory 
presence to the 
neighborhood fabric will be lost if this application is approved. 
A Neighborhood Meeting was held on August 4, 2021 and over 20 neighbors expressed 
opposition to 
the demolition of the historic home and to the size, style, and materials of the proposed 
new house. 
If you agree that this irreplaceable home should not be demolished, PLEASE 
EMAIL CITY PLANNER, Vinson Kwan NOW and let him know that you are joining 
with the neighborhood and opposing demolition of this home! YOU MUST ACT NOW -  
COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY this Wednesday, NOV. 24TH 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner 
(650) 522-7206 
VKwan@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
  
 
What your neighbors said at the neighborhood meeting:

--- page 227 ---
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished 
2. The large heritage coast live oak tree on the property should not be removed 
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if the new project approved 
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory 
Zompolis, 2004 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character with the homes in the 
neighborhood 
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood 
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the 
neighborhood 
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines 
 
 
If you are not interested in this topic, just reply no thanks and I will take you off the list. 
 
Thank you for your support of our amazing neighborhood. 
Attachments area

--- page 228 ---
From: Michael Nash 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 4:06 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Roger Dewes 
; Doug Goldberg 
; Mark Grieco 
; Scott Long 
; Lisa Diaz Nash 
; Michael C. Nash 
; Margaret Nieman 
; Roger Oser
; Teresa Rose 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Project 
 
Vincent: 
 
The Board of the Baywood Owners Improvement Association (BOIA) has voted to request a second 
public review of the  415 Fairfax project which call for the demolition of a home that contributes to the 
historic area of Baywood (even though it may not qualify as historic itself).  It will be replaced by a much 
larger home and ADU both of a modern design. 
 
This second meeting is necessary for the following reasons: 
 
1. The information in the submittal is not accurate as to the neighborhood's acceptance of the 
project.  We have been copied on a number of emails, many of which were sent to you, that point out 
objections from neighbors that are not mentioned in the plans. The “red-green” diagram misses “red" 
residents who did express concerns.  
 
2. There is significant concern about the removal of an oak tree which qualifies as a heritage tree. I 
understand its removal was not approved by the City Arborist earlier.  The reasoning for continuing 
to show this as needing removal is unclear.  This is also the most consistent view expressed by all those 
who commented that this tree should be protected.  There is no explanation as to why this 
neighborhood opinion was not considered in the plans.  A tree that the City Arborist and all the 
neighbors who commented agree should not be removed still shows its removal.  Reason dictates that 
an explanation be provided to the neighborhood. The Alstons were made aware of this concern but the 
plans reflect no change in the tree removal plan. A reason sufficient to explain why a heritage tree 
should be removed is expected in any case. 
 
3. The first meeting had over 20 people in attendance who were strongly opposed to the project. The 
tone, I understand, was not congenial.  A second meeting to allow further discussion toward an 
understanding among the parties is reasonable. Further, the Alstons advised us that they have 3D 
renderings that provide better views of the proposed house.  It would be useful to share these.   
 
4. Most of the people in Baywood who did renovations were required to have two meetings.  Why is this 
case different? 
 
We do hope you can offer the people in Baywood an opportunity to review the Alston’s current plans 
with highlights showing what, if anything, was done to address the concerns expressed in the first 
meeting. 
 
Michael Nash

--- page 229 ---
President
Baywood Owners Improvement Association



--- page 230 ---
From: Vinson Kwan  
Sent: Tuesday, November 16, 2021 3:10 PM 
To: Michael Nash 
 
Subject: RE: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
 
Hi Michael,  
 
Apologies for the delayed response. The project is currently under review by the City’s Development 
Review Board and permits will not be issued until the application is approved. You can follow along with 
the progress on the City’s What’s Happening in Development page.  
 
Best,  
 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Michael Nash 
  
Sent: Thursday, November 11, 2021 10:48 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
 
Vincent: 
I am a neighbor of those involved in this project.  I am also President of the Baywood Owners 
Improvement Association. Please advise the status of any demolition permit for 415 Fairfax.  Is there any 
reason it would not be approved? 
 
 
Regards 
 
 
Michael Nash 
 
 
 
 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
 
From: Steve McKay 
 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application

--- page 231 ---
Date: November 11, 2021 at 10:30:30 AM PST 
To: Laurie Hietter 
 
Cc: Teresa Rose 
 Lisa Nash 
, Michael 
Nash 
, Mark Grieco 
, Connie Weiss 
 Doug Goldberg 
, Randy Hietter 
 
 
FYI, PG&E was in our back yard for about 5 hours on Tuesday to shut off the 415 Fairfax gas service. It 
was their 5th trip to our house about that project, each time telling us that it is because the 415 Fairfax 
house is being razed. They removed two small (brand new) trees in our yard in the process. (I should 
note that the PG&E crew were extremely careful and courteous). It sure feels "full speed ahead", though 
I understand nothing has been formally approved just yet. 
 
Steve 
 
On Wed, Nov 10, 2021 at 8:30 PM Laurie Hietter 
 wrote: 
Hi, 
FYI. Vinson Kwan has been assigned to the 415 Fairfax project.  
Laurie 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Date: November 10, 2021 at 4:49:20 PM PST 
To: Laurie Hietter 
 
Subject: RE: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Laurie, 
  
Thanks for reaching out. The applicant for 415 Fairfax Ave has recently submitted plans and is currently 
under review by the City’s Development Review Board. Currently, no permit for demolition nor noticing 
will be issued until the Planning Application has been approved and finalized. I am the assigned Staff 
Planner and will be the point of contact for this project. A webpage for the project will be created on the 
City’s What’s Happening in Development page where you can find the status and plans for the project. 
Please allow some time for the page to created since this is a new project.  
  
Best, 
  
<image003.png>

--- page 232 ---
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image005.png> 
<image007.png> 
  
<image009.png> 
  
<image011.png> 
  
<image030.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 9, 2021 4:17 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Vinson, 
I see from the online portal that 415 Fairfax has submitted Plan Number: PA-2021-066 for 
demolition and construction. We have not received a notice showing the 
proposal (we are within 500 ft.). Can you send me the plans? Has a planner 
been assigned? 
Thank you, 
Laurie 
  
On Tue, Oct 26, 2021 at 8:51 AM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie,

--- page 233 ---
No demolition permit has been issued and I have not heard any new information regarding this project.  
  
Best, 
  
<image031.png> 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image015.png> 
  
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image018.png> 
  
<image019.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Monday, October 25, 2021 2:45 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi again, 
  
It looked like PG&E cut off service to 415 Fairfax, as per the permit. I was asked to check in and make 
sure they can't start demolition on the house. 
Have there been any discussions about the project?

--- page 234 ---
Thanks, 
Laurie 
  
On Thu, Oct 7, 2021 at 9:59 AM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Laurie, 
  
No application has been submitted since our last correspondence.  
  
Best, 
  
<image032.png> 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image022.png> 
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image023.png> 
  
<image024.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Wednesday, October 6, 2021 6:11 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application

--- page 235 ---
Hi Vincent, 
  
Hope you are doing well. I haven’t seen PG&E was issued a permit to turn off the gas at 415 Fairfax. It 
says PG&E is the applicant. That makes me think the owners requested PG&E disconnect the gas 
because the house is going to be razed.  
  
The public meeting was held August 4.  I have not seen a new application. Have you? 
  
Thanks, 
  
Laurie 
  
On Sep 27, 2021, at 9:24 AM, Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
  
Hi Laura, 
  
There has been no new action taken since the meeting. The applicant would need to submit plans within 
60 days of the Neighborhood Informational meeting, so they still have a bit of time to submit plans.  
  
Best, 
  
<image031.png> 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

--- page 236 ---
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image022.png> 
  
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image023.png> 
  
<image025.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Monday, September 20, 2021 9:14 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Vinson, 
Hope you had a great weekend. I'm checking in to see if there is a new application for 415 Fairfax. I 
checked the online portal and didn't see anything new. It has been over 45 days since they held the 
public meeting (where there was overwhelming opposition to the size and style of the house and loss of 
the heritage oaks). 
  
Anything new to report? 
  
Thanks, 
  
Laurie 
  
On Fri, Aug 13, 2021 at 8:10 AM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie,

--- page 237 ---
To answer your questions:  
1. No, none of the items you listed will trigger Planning Commission review. On rare occasions, 
single family Planning Applications can be elevated to the Planning Commission.  
2. Since the site is relatively flat and the removal of a heritage tree would also require intensifying 
of use, this project would likely not trigger a Site Development Planning Application. Please 
note, this could change upon review of the application if the applicant/owner decides to 
proceed.  
3. No, there does not appear to be any previous remodeling proposed for the location.  
  
Best, 
<image033.png> 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image028.png> 
<image016.png> 
<image017.png> 
<image023.png> 
<image029.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Wednesday, August 11, 2021 11:01 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Vinson, 
I really appreciate your responses to my questions and your messages. I have a few more questions for 
you.  
1. Is there anything about demolition, heritage tree removal, and building a new house that 
triggers a Planning Commission review?

--- page 238 ---
2. Do the demolition and site grading trigger a Site Development Planning Application or is that 
likely due to the heritage tree removal? 
3. Was there a previous application for 415 Fairfax for remodeling that was rejected? 
Thank you! 
Laurie 
  
On Tue, Aug 10, 2021 at 8:57 AM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie, 
  
As of right now, no formal application has been applied. As mentioned before, only a historic evaluation 
and neighborhood informational meeting has been conducted. It is up to the applicant/owner to decide 
whether or not they would like to proceed with the process of a Planning Application.  
  
Thanks, 
  
<image031.png> 
Vinson Kwan 關梓樂 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image022.png> 
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image023.png> 
  
<image025.png>

--- page 239 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Monday, August 9, 2021 3:10 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Vinson, 
  
Thanks again for the historic report. Is there any change in the application? There were about 20 
participants in the architect's neighborhood meeting. Pretty much everyone is very opposed to both 
demolition and style of the new construction. Massive (almost 5,000 sq ft) and not at all in keeping 
with the neighborhood. 
  
Thanks, 
Laurie 
  
On Mon, Aug 2, 2021 at 8:32 AM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie, 
  
Here is a copy of the Historic Evaluation for 415 Fairfax Ave. 
  
Best, 
  
<image032.png> 
Vinson Kwan 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 240 ---
<image015.png> 
  
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image018.png> 
  
<image024.png> 
 
 
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Saturday, July 31, 2021 5:36 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi Vinson, 
  
Would it be possible for you to send me a copy of the historic report for 415 Fairfax? 
  
Thank you, 
  
On Fri, Jul 30, 2021 at 3:58 PM Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Hi Laurie, 
  
Thank you for reaching out. At this time, only a historic evaluation has been completed for 415 Fairfax 
Ave, which finds that the existing structures do not qualify as a historic resource under CEQA. The 
applicant/owner has not filed a formal Planning Application, so there is no assigned staff planner at this 
time. For now, I would recommend writing a comment letter with your position on the project so that I 
can forward that to the staff planner once the application is submitted, and/or attend the scheduled 
community meeting. At the community meeting, it is your opportunity to provide comments on the 
project to the applicant/owner. Let me know if you have any questions.

--- page 241 ---
Best, 
  
<image033.png> 
Vinson Kwan 
 
Assistant Planner | Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403  
650-522-7206 | vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
<image015.png> 
<image016.png> 
  
<image017.png> 
  
<image018.png> 
  
<image019.png> 
 
 
  
  
From: Laurie Hietter 
  
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2021 10:35 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Ave. Application 
  
Hi, 
Can you please provide me with the email address of the planner for 415 Fairfax application? The house 
is proposed for demolition and I am vehemently opposed. The house is literally in the San Mateo book. 
  
After what was built on 3rd Avenue after tearing down the historic art deco era home, I need to speak 
up to save our historic architecture. 
  
Thank you,

--- page 242 ---
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--

--- page 243 ---
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.  
 
 
  
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 244 ---
--  
Laurie  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended 
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is 
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby 
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by 
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 245 ---
From: Neal Tandowsky 
  
Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2021 9:49 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Keren Kotowitz 
; Jeff Kotowitz 
; Ilana Tandowsky 
; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger 
<chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Ron Whiteside 
; Cheryl Whiteside 
; Rita Armstrong 
; Bruce Armstrong 
; Douglas Morais 
; Josh Smith 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue Demolition & New Home 
 
Dear Vinson, 
 
My wife, Ilana and I have lived in our Baywood Community for over 19 years and we 
raised our 3 now-grown children here. We love the beauty of the area, we value the 
excellent local school system and we enjoy our many neighbors. I believe 
homeowners should have the right to improve their properties as they wish; 
however, with the caveat that the home should fit into our community and adhere 
to minimum standards. With this lens in mind, I continue to be surprised and 
disappointed by the proposed plans for 415 Fairfax.  
 
I am less concerned about a full demolition of the property than I am about the plans 
to build a very large and bulky home on the property. Though I recognize the need 
for additional housing units in California and our local community,  I do not see how 
creating an 798-square foot attached ADU at 415 Fairfax Avenue creates additional 
housing for our community. To me,  plans for the ADU appear to be a  way for the 
homeowners  to get as large of a home as possible when they are restricted by lot 
coverage maximums. My bigger concern is that based on the plans that were shown 
and discussed at the August 4th meeting, the new home appears massive and bulky 
for the lot, takes the property all the way back to the lot line and removes green 
space that remains critical to our Baywood environment and community.  
 
The fact that so many neighbors attended the August 4th meeting should be a 
natural concern. My sincere hope is that another meeting will be set up for the 
owners and/or architect to show what modifications have been submitted since the 
last meeting so the neighbors could be brought up to date. In the end, the decision 
to demolish and rebuild a home on the lot will go through the city planning process. I 
suspect that as long as the plans meet the legal requirements of the city, the plans 
will be approved. At the same time, I believe consideration should be given to the 
spirit of our overall neighborhood and that merely passing this project without

--- page 246 ---
further discussion and review would be a detriment to our 90-year old 
neighborhood. 
 
Thanks for your consideration here.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Neal Tandowsky

--- page 247 ---
From: Susan Oser 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 10:13 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: URGENT: 415 Fairfax construction 
 
Dear Mr. Kwan, 
 
We are writing to you not only as concerned neighbors but more importantly as 2nd generation natives 
of San Mateo.  
 
While we support growth, improvement and upgrading of the homes in our community we strongly 
believe that such activity must preserve the historical nature of our neighborhood as well as the privacy 
and security that we all cherish. Both are reasons we live here and believe most of our neighbors have 
chosen to purchase and live here. 
 
As you know, the area was developed to a large extent in the late 1920’s, particularly the Baywood area 
where we live and where the 415 Fairfax project is being contemplated. These historic homes were 
carefully designed to represent elegant architectural features seen in Mediterranean, Colonial, French 
and other sought after designs. 415 Fairfax clearly is one of the Mediterranean styles so desired then, 
and now. 
 
Allowing an owner, while likely adhering to codes and ordinances, to demolish this historical style and 
construct something astray from this may be “acceptable” to the City, however clearly it moves towards 
a very bad precedent of allowing residents to destroy what we all have moved here to enjoy—glorious 
historical preservation.  
 
If this project proceeds as planned it not only destroys a beautiful historical home, it also will set the 
stage for others to do the same such that the wonderful exhibits of these sought after designs will 
disappear very quickly leaving us all a great void, and thereafter likely rapidly decreasing neighborhood 
desire and property values.  
 
Additionally, our understanding is the owners are removing a heritage tree in the rear, encroaching on 
the downhill neighbor’s property line which will intrude on their privacy, and building an ADU that in 
reality is simply a way to increase the square footage beyond normal code requirements for their own 
use, further encroaching on the downhill neighbor’s privacy. 
 
Again, though likely to code and ordinances, we ask you and the City to seriously consider what this 
proposed project is doing to the neighbors, the neighborhood today, and the terrible precedent it sets 
which will likely destroy what we all live here to enjoy. 
 
Happy Holidays. 
 
Roger and Susan Oser

--- page 248 ---
From: 
 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 23, 2021 3:18 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Ave 
 
Hello,  
I am a Baywood homeowner. 
Recently heard of the plans for one of the charming Spanish Style homes on Fairfax and I have concerns. 
Please let me know if there will be a meeting where we can voice our concerns regarding the character 
of  
our neighborhood. 
Thank you. 
Kim Randick

--- page 249 ---
From: Michael Nash 
  
Sent: Monday, December 13, 2021 1:23 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: 415 Fairfax - historic home and heritage oak tree 
 
Hi Vinson, 
Here is another comment letter for 415 Fairfax.  
---------- Forwarded message --------- 
From: Amit Fernandes 
 
Date: Sun, Dec 5, 2021 at 5:48 PM 
Subject: 415 Fairfax - historic home and heritage oak tree 
To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>, <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>, <rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>, <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
, melanie rodrigues 
 
 
Hi San Mateo City Council, 
 
My wife Melanie and I reside at 
. We were recently informed that 
the historic home and heritage oak tree at 415 Fairfax Ave, San Mateo CA 94402 may be demolished 
with no public hearing. 
 
We are writing to you to express: 
• 
Our support for the protection of historic homes and neighborhoods in San Mateo. 
• 
Our support to update and/or complete San Mateo City's historic resources inventory now. 
Thank you. 
 
 
Regards, 
Melanie Rodrigues & Amit Fernandes

--- page 250 ---
From: Anne Sortwell 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 4:53 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: 416 Fairfax 
 
Dear Eric & Vison, 
 
We are writing to tell you that we OPPOSE the demolition of 415 Fairfax. We have lived in Baywood for 
29 years and bought into this neighborhood for its distinct charm and architectural integrity. We feel 
strongly that the proposed new structure would be out of scale and not in keeping with the character of 
the Baywood community. When we remodeled our home, we were mandated to keep the size of our 
house to scale with others on our street. 
 
We urge you to reconsider allowing this heritage home (as well as the heritage trees) to be destroyed. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Anne & Peter Sortwell

--- page 251 ---
1
Vinson Kwan
From:
Zachary Dahl
Sent:
Sunday, February 6, 2022 12:54 PM
To:
Vinson Kwan
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Manira Sandhir
Subject:
FW: Historic review of Baywood neighborhood
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Original message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ 
From: jennifer tietz
  
Date: 2/6/22 12:36 PM (GMT‐08:00)  
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Subject: Historic review of Baywood neighborhood  
 
Dear Mr. Dahl,  
 
As a long time San Mateo resident, I would like to see the Baywood Neighborhood designated as a historic district 
in order to preserve the integrity of the architecture that is so rich in that neighborhood. 
 
Although we have lived in Baywood Knolls for over 35 years, Baywood proper is the neighborhood we cherish the 
most as we take our daily walks and drives down the hill.  The authentic nature and history the houses represent is 
the best of the 1920s and 1930s architecture. Seeing these houses on a daily basis is what thrills us the most about 
living in San Mateo.  We marvel at the talent and immense planning each and every one of these houses took to 
design and build during the WWI era.  These houses should be revered and celebrated for the period in time they 
represent  They are truly the beginning of the historical formation of San Mateo as a city.  They need to be 
protected from aggressive developers, especially with SB 9 and 10 being signed into law. 
 
We are dismayed at even the thought of demolishing one of these Baywood historical gems, most specially the 
house at 415 Fairfax.  We sat in on the Zoom meeting with the architect and current owners only to learn about 
their plans to mow down the entire structure for a house design that does not belong in the Baywood 
neighborhood.  We were appalled by their lack of willingness to keep the outside integrity of the house in their 
remodeling plans.  
 
Please support and pursue the Baywood neighborhood as historical to preserve and protect the stunning San 
Mateo architecture it represents. 
 
Most sincerely, 
 
Jennifer and Dennis Tietz

--- page 252 ---
From: jennifer tietz 
  
Sent: Tuesday, December 14, 2021 5:20 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Baywood historical designation 
 
Dear City Council Members, 
 
As a long time San Mateo resident, I would like to see the Baywood Neighborhood designated as a 
historic district in order to preserve the integrity of the architecture that is so rich in that 
neighborhood. 
 
Although we have lived in Baywood Knolls for over 35 years, Baywood proper is the neighborhood 
we cherish the most as we take our daily walks and drives down the hill.  The authentic nature and 
history the houses represent is the best of the 1920s and 1930s architecture. Seeing these houses 
on a daily basis is what thrills us the most about living in San Mateo.  We marvel at the talent and 
immense planning each and every one of these houses took to design and build during the WWI 
era.  These houses should be revered and celebrated for the period in time they represent  They are 
truly the beginning of the historical formation of San Mateo as a city.  They need to be protected 
from aggressive developers, especially with SB 9 and 10 being signed into law. 
 
We are dismayed at even the thought of demolishing one of these Baywood historical gems, most 
specially the house at 415 Fairfax.  We sat in on the Zoom meeting with the architect and current 
owners only to learn about their plans to mow down the entire structure for a house design that 
does not belong in the Baywood neighborhood.  We were appalled by their lack of willingness to 
keep the outside integrity of the house in their remodeling plans. 
 
Please support and pursue the Baywood neighborhood as historical to preserve and protect the 
stunning San Mateo architecture it represents. 
 
Most sincerely, 
 
Jennifer and Dennis Tietz

--- page 253 ---
From: John Van Kirk 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 4:21 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc
 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax remodel 
 
Dear City of San Mateo, 
 
We have also lived in the Baywood community for 35 years, and are very much apposed to 
changing the architectural design of the property, adding an additional building to the property, 
and not obeying the size requirements or the easement restrictions that are a part of every 
other baywood homeowner’s property. 
 
The new owners do have choices that don’t negatively affect other owners in the area. If they 
want a new, large house, with outbuildings that don’t fit the size and easement requirements of 
the established neighborhood, an alternatively option would be to purchase land or a home 
with larger acreage that is not in such a mature close knit neighborhood. The neighbors in this 
community love their homes and hate to see the design degraded by inappropriate building 
that is not in keeping with established homes. 
 
John & Jennifer Van Kirk

--- page 254 ---
From: karenvitale@comcast.net 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 9:54 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Opposing Demolition of 415 Fairfax Ave. 
 
Vinson, 
I am a Baywood resident joining with my neighbors to express strong opposition to the proposed 
demolition and new-build project at 415 Fairfax Ave.  The existing home is a historical home (Spanish 
Colonial Revival built in 1933) full of beautiful and skillfully crafted artisan details.  It is irreplaceable.  It 
should be respectfully preserved, not demolished to build yet another cookie cutter “Modern 
Farmhouse” of a size far exceeding what is existing in the neighborhood.  This historic home as part of 
the original Parrott estate subdivision and until now it has been lovingly cared for.  It also has a garden 
with trees contributing to the unique beauty of the neighborhood and its identity as a gem of the 
Peninsula.  We are horrified that this demolition is even being proposed. 
 
As 19-year residents of Baywood, we have observed again and again fellow homeowners being 
respectful stewards of these historical, character homes.  We have seen faithful maintenance and care 
of homes and gardens.  We have seen that remodeling is nearly always conducted with an eye to 
preserving the facades and unique character of each home.  All of this stewardship contributes to the 
beauty and character of the neighborhood and of the City of San Mateo as a whole.  Any project on this 
property should fit within the overarching framework of stewardship that all of us have tacitly agreed to 
in exchange for the privilege of living in this neighborhood. 
 
Please do not allow this project to move forward! 
 
Vitale Family

--- page 255 ---
From: Voyles, Glenn 
  
Sent: Friday, November 19, 2021 3:51 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax remodel 
 
Hi Vincent – I was forwarded your contact info along with the latest on the 415 remodel by a 
neighbor.  I’m quite concerned about the lack of communication from the architect and the city, and the 
implied consent from me and other neighbors that I see on the city website.  First of all, I had no idea 
the onus was on me to go to the website to get updates.  This should have been made clear in the 
neighborhood meeting last spring.  For a controversial project such as this, I had assumed there would 
be additional meetings that I would be notified about.  
  
And I don’t understand why my house and several others that I know have serious reservations about 
the project show up as green dots on the map on the website – where was our opportunity to object?  If 
you just red-dotted the houses of those who spoke up on the call last spring and left everyone else 
green dot,  you should know that that is not a very thorough understanding of local opinion.  I and 
others didn’t speak up in that meeting because 20 other people had voiced our same concerns and after 
a two hour meeting it didn’t seem necessary to repeat them yet again.  So if the city is using that as the 
basis of tacit approval, you are sorely misunderstanding the neighborhood sentiment.   
  
From a practical perspective none of us are architects nor have trained eyes to readily evaluate the 
changes – at the very least you or the architect should provide an overlay of the existing footprint, the 
initial proposal, and the revised proposal so we can more easily evaluate exactly what type of 
monstrosity we are looking at.  
  
Given the serious impact of the teardown of a beautiful house and the building of a McMansion in its 
place, I think a complete and thorough understanding of the facts are in order.  Based on my 
conversations with neighbors, no one is aware that the project is moving forward – my recollection is 
that the public meeting ended with the Alstons saying they would reconsider and get back to us.  No one 
has heard a peep from them or the city, so everyone is under the impression that the project is still in 
limbo.  Given the major alteration of the neighborhood aesthetic that this proposed project represents, 
and the dangerous precedent it could set, I strongly encourage you to stick to your rules/precedent and 
have another public meeting so that everyone’s voice can be heard. 
  
  
sincerely,  
Glenn Voyles  
 
This message may contain information that is legally privileged or confidential. If you received this transmission in 
error, please notify the sender by reply email, and delete the message and any attachments. This transmission is 
believed to be defect free; however, no responsibility is accepted by the sender for damage arising from its receipt. 
 
All email and instant messages (including attachments) sent to or from Franklin Templeton Investments (FTI) 
personnel may be retained, monitored and/or reviewed by FTI and its agents, or other authorized parties as 
disclosed in Franklin Templeton’s Privacy Notice, without further notice or consent. Refer to our country/region 
specific Privacy & Cookies Notice, which you can read here http://www.franklintempletonglobal.com/privacy to 
learn more. Depending on your location, other privacy laws and regulations may also apply to you.

--- page 256 ---
From: Carmela Wagner 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 1, 2021 9:21 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Chameleon Like
 
Subject: OPPOSITION: Demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue in San Mateo 
Importance: High 
 
Good Morning Vinson, 
I’m sure it’s a busy season for our city planners – thank you for all you do to continue the beauty and 
enrichment of a city we call home. 
 
Vinson, it came to our attention just today that the gem on 415 Fairfax would be demolished and 
updated to a modern expanse. 
 
One of the things that has made Baywood such a rich community is the aesthetic consistency and nod to 
it’s roots as a community steeped in architectural heritage.  Add to that, the glory of our heritage trees 
continue to make this a coveted community to live in. 
 
Having understood the plans around this home, we are highly concerned as we feel the city may be 
allowing over development as well as modernization that is not in keeping with our community.  Add to 
that, the loss of green space and tress have our community alarmed. 
 
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished 
2. The large heritage coast live oak tree on the property should not be removed 
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if the new project approved 
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory Zompolis, 2004 – it’s a 
local gem! 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character with the homes in the neighborhood 
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood 
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the neighborhood 
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines 
 
We respectfully look forward to your thoughts on this matter. 
C 
CARMELA WAGNER 
VP | GLOBAL BRAND MANAGER  
   
 
 
  
 
Note: My working hours may not be the same as yours - please feel free to respond within your normal working hours

--- page 257 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Robin Wall 
  
Sent: Wednesday, December 1, 2021 9:47 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax SannMateo, 
 
Dear Mr Kwan, 
 
As a neighbor of 415 Fairfax Avenue, I have strong concerns about the proposed plan for this home.  
This neighborhood has a distinct character which is unique and highly valued by the people who live 
here.  The proposed home is out of character, very large ( home would be built over nearly the entire lot 
size), and would require removing heritage trees.  There are plenty of places where this new, large, 
contemporary style of housing would be appropriate.  
 
 Baywood is a neighborhood with classic architecture, character and timeless American distinction.  I am 
very aware that there are people who want to demolish this way of life and living.  Tear down a 
beautiful home to build a modern 4 plex.  Please no.  We love this neighborhood, and we enjoy the 
beauty and benefits of living in this special and historic place. 
 
I urge you to reject this house plan which would forever change our neighborhood into another 
inconsistent, non distinct, place.  I would appreciate updates on this project. 
Many thanks, 
 
Robin Wall 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone  
Please excuse any type-os

--- page 258 ---
From: Keith Weber 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 2:17 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Ave. (PA-2021-066-415) 
 
Vinson, 
I am writing to express my opposition to the proposed demolition of 415 Fairfax Avenue in Baywood 
(PA-2021-066-415).   
 
As you may be aware, Baywood is a well established neighborhood of a large number of older homes 
that relate historically and have a high degree of architectural consistency, mostly in the Spanish 
Colonial Revival and Tudor Revival styles.  The City of San Mateo Historic Resource Survey found the 
Baywood neighborhood to be worthy of study as a potentially eligible National or California Register 
historic district.  Baywood homes that still retain their integrity would be considered contributors to the 
district.  415 Fairfax is a fine example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style, typical of the period, and has 
retained its integrity.  Both its style and integrity would seem to qualify the home as a contributor to an 
eligible historic district. 
 
The beautiful historic architecture, elegant detailing, old-world craftsmanship, and the sense of place 
these homes create, is what makes Baywood one of San Mateo's most beloved and desirable 
neighborhoods.  Most homeowners in Baywood understand this fact, and desire to be responsible 
stewards of their homes and their neighborhood.  Many homeowners have restored, sensitively 
remodeled, up-dated and enlarged their homes in ways that respect both the home itself and the 
greater neighborhood. 
 
This notion of neighborhood respect is reflected in broad terms by the City of San Mateo which desires 
to be a "healthy community that respects the quality of its neighborhoods," as declared in the 2040 
General Plan vision statement.  If the demolition of 415 Fairfax is allowed to proceed, other demolition 
proposals will surely follow, and one-by-one the neighborhood's historic homes will be lost forever and 
San Mateo will be the poorer for it. 
 
I respectfully request that the demolition and replacement proposal PA-2021-066-415 be denied. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo

--- page 259 ---
December 16, 2021 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Via email: vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue /the Baywood neighborhood/ CEQA 
Dear Mr. Kwan, 
It has been known to the City of San Mateo since 1990 that the State Oﬃce of Historic Preservation (OHP) had 
identiﬁed “at least two huge Register-eligible residential districts” west of El Camino Real encompassing more 
than 500 individual resources circa 1910-1940 .  
1
The 1989 Historic Building Report recognized these neighborhoods and their signiﬁcance.  OHP agreed, calling 
them “undocumented districts.”  And the San Mateo General Plan concurred, including policies to maintain and 
update the city-wide historic resources survey, and to protect “concentrations of buildings which convey the 
ﬂavor of local historical periods, or provide an atmosphere of exceptional architectural interest or integrity.” 
The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) considers historic resources to be part of the environment.  
Resources determined to be eligible for listing in the California Register are resources that must be given 
consideration in the CEQA process.  A resource does not need to have been identiﬁed previously, either through 
listing or survey to be considered signiﬁcant under CEQA. 
There is currently suﬃcient documentation in the City of San Mateo record to reasonably conclude that the 
Baywood neighborhood would qualify as a California Register historic district.  Also, and notwithstanding that 
415 Fairfax Avenue may not be an individually eligible resource, it would be reasonable to conclude - based on 
the integrity of its location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, and feeling - that it would qualify as a 
contributor to the Baywood district.  This leads to the inescapable conclusion that the proposed demolition of 
415 Fairfax (and other like properties) is a “project” that may have a signiﬁcant adverse eﬀect on the integrity of a 
Register-eligible historic district, making it subject to CEQA and requiring an environmental impact report (EIR). 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo 
Cc: 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director 
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney 
Friends of the Neighborhood
 Letter and attachment from Kathryn Gualtieri, State Historic Preservation Oﬃcer, to Thomas Mack, Mayor of San Mateo, January 22, 1990. 
1

--- page 260 ---
From: Connie Weiss 
  
Sent: Monday, November 22, 2021 10:50 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: dc 
 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Comments - Please Read! 
 
Hello Vinson, 
 
We (my husband Dave, copied here, and I) were not able to attend the neighborhood meeting in August 
for the 415 Fairfax plans, but were encouraged when we heard it was very well attended with important 
concerns, similar to ours, shared at the meeting. With the changes in the plan, we were going to be fully 
ready for the next neighborhood meeting and were completely surprised when we heard another one is 
not planned as we had a VERY different experience with Planning when we did our remodel 4 years ago. 
 
We live at 
, just up the street. We did an extensive remodel in 2017-18, but if you look at the 
front of our home, you really wouldn’t know - we honored the architecture of the original 1936 
home and respected the overall look for the neighborhood. When we decided to add an additional five 
feet on a planned outside balcony, which doesn’t even show from the street, we were required to have 
another neighborhood meeting to get buy-in from neighbors on the plan. 
 
The planned remodel at 415 Fairfax destroys an historic home with finishes that cannot be duplicated 
today without enormous cost.  
I’ve heard the new plan isn’t that much different, a non-descript home that doesn’t fit the style or size of 
Baywood homes. In our remodel, we had to have our architects measure the footprints of all the houses 
surrounding ours to ensure our plans wouldn’t dwarf them. As it stands, without another neighborhood 
meeting, this new plan for 415 Fairfax still is monstrously large for the the lot.  
 
While Dave and I didn’t understand all the requirements we had to address in our own remodel, we 
appreciated the care and detail of the Planning office to ensure we weren’t doing anything to harm the 
neighborhood. What has happened in the last four years for the 415 Fairfax plan to just be fast-tracked 
through? It is a tragedy for San Mateo and this beautiful neighborhood. 
 
Please return to the due diligence your office used to have to keep the integrity of Baywood intact. 
Please schedule a neighborhood meeting before any work commences. 
 
Thank you,  
 
Connie Weiss and Dave Cohen 
 
San Mateo 
Connie: 
 
Dave:

--- page 261 ---
From: Ron Whiteside 
  
Sent: Wednesday, November 24, 2021 12:15 AM 
To: Laurie Hietter 
; Michael Nash 
; Lisa Nash 
; Teresa Rose 
; Maxine Terner 
; Keith Weber 
; Connie Weiss 
; Doug Goldberg 
; McKay Steve 
; rhietter 
; 
; Keren 
Kotowitz 
; Jeff Kotowitz 
; Neal Tandowsky 
; Ilana Tandowsky 
; Jennifer Rycenga 
; jeanne bosschart 
; 
; 
; Ken Constantino 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; 
; Miriam Majofis 
; anne Sortwell 
; 
; 
; 
; 
;
; Jean Garcia 
; 
John Hietter 
; 
; 
; Peter Stone 
; 
; 
; 
; Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: RE: Reminder--Comments on 415 Fairfax 
 
Eric and Vison, 
 
We are opposed to your plan to tear-down the existing home at 415 Fairfax Avenue.  
 
My wife Cheryl and I, Ron Whiteside, have resided at 
 
since 1981. We live on the 
 
 from 415 Fairfax. We obviously love the Baywood area – since we have 
chosen to live here for so long.  
 
We were participants in the Augusts 4th meeting about plans for 415 Fairfax and stated 
our concerns – that: 
- 
The proposed demolition will destroy a historic home that has been carefully 
maintained and fits well into the neighborhood  
- 
The proposed replacement home is very large and bulky for the lot size. Without 
the area referred to as an ADU, it is still much larger than other homes in our 
immediate area 
- 
The proposed ADU will not add housing, which is what the law intended. It is 
attached to the main house and can easily be converted to a simple addition by 
adding a door. The new owners stated that it would be used as guest quarters for 
visiting family. How does this qualify as an ADU? 
 
Numerous neighbors have sent emails to you eloquently expressing their concerns 
about this proposed project (see: Tandowsky, Armstrong, etc). We agree with all of the 
concerns in their emails, so I won’t repeat them, but we definitely concur.

--- page 262 ---
Houses in Baywood don’t turn over very often, as long-time owners want their treasured 
homes to go to family or others who will cherish and respect the old-world charm of the 
house and Baywood neighborhood. New owners often renovate their homes and may 
make additions – always with respect for their heritage home. It makes me wonder why 
a new home owner would say how much they just love Baywood; yet want to destroy a 
heritage fabric in our community that makes Baywood what it is; the neighborhood they 
just love.  
 
Vison et al, we urge you to deny the planning request for 415 Fairfax Avenue and 
encourage the new owners to come up with a plan that respects the home and our 
Baywood neighborhood.  
 
Regards 
 
 
Sent from Mail for Windows 
 
Hi, 
Thank you to all of you who have submitted comments already. Here is a 
reminder for everyone else to send comments regarding the proposed 
demolition and construction of a  3,910 square-foot house and 798 sq. ft. 
attached ADU. Comments and numbers count! Even a simple email saying I 
am opposed counts. 
 
Please send comments to the City planner AND the applicant's architect (and 
copy me): 
vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
 
 
You might want to request another meeting so you can voice your comments. Please see the original 
information below.  
 
Thank you! We are making a difference! 
--  
Laurie  
URGENT ALERT! Notice from Your Neighbors 
PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF 415 FAIRFAX AVENUE

--- page 263 ---
A formal Planning Application has been submitted to demolish this neighborhood home 
at 415 Fairfax 
Avenue and replace it with a significantly larger contemporary house. The existing 
home, a unique 
example of the Spanish Colonial Revival style built in 1933, is an integral part of the 
neighborhood 
streetscape that makes Baywood the very special and desirable neighborhood it is. The 
hand-hewn 
beams, ironwork, and other hand-crafted artisan details, along with its contributory 
presence to the 
neighborhood fabric will be lost if this application is approved. 
A Neighborhood Meeting was held on August 4, 2021 and over 20 neighbors expressed 
opposition to 
the demolition of the historic home and to the size, style, and materials of the proposed 
new house. 
If you agree that this irreplaceable home should not be demolished, PLEASE 
EMAIL CITY PLANNER, Vinson Kwan NOW and let him know that you are joining 
with the neighborhood and opposing demolition of this home! YOU MUST ACT NOW -  
COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY this Wednesday, NOV. 24TH 
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner 
(650) 522-7206 
VKwan@cityofsanmateo.org  
  
  
 
What your neighbors said at the neighborhood meeting: 
1. The existing home should be retained and respectfully remodeled, not demolished

--- page 264 ---
2. The large heritage coast live oak tree on the property should not be removed 
3. Irreplaceable hand-crafted details will be lost if the new project approved 
4. The house is featured in the book San Mateo (Images of America) by Gregory 
Zompolis, 2004 
5. The proposed replacement house is out of character with the homes in the 
neighborhood 
6. The proposed materials would not fit with the neighborhood 
7. The new house would be massive—about 70% bigger than homes in the 
neighborhood 
8. House would be too close to side and back property lines 
 
 
If you are not interested in this topic, just reply no thanks and I will take you off the list. 
 
Thank you for your support of our amazing neighborhood. 
Attachments area

--- page 265 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 6, 2022 
Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
SUBJECT: 415 Fairfax, PA21-066 
Members of the Planning Commission: 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance respectfully requests that the Planning Commission deny the application to 
demolish and replace 415 Fairfax Avenue in the Baywood neighborhood of San Mateo. 
It has been firmly established that the 1933 Spanish Colonial Revival home at 415 Fairfax Avenue is a 
historic resource and contributor to the National Register eligible Baywood Historic District. 
The City-adopted 1989 Historic Building survey determined that Baywood, along with other “well 
established” neighborhoods west of El Camino were deserving of “future study…as either local or 
National Register Historic Districts.”   
The current 2030 General Plan Policy C/OS 8.2: Historic Districts, directs the City to “consider the 
protection of concentrations of buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an 
atmosphere of exceptional architectural interest or integrity.” 
Eligibility for listing was corroborated by the State Office of Historic Preservation in a January 22, 1990 
letter to the City that characterized neighborhoods west of El Camino Real, including Baywood, as 
containing “…at least two huge (five hundred + resources) Register-eligible residential districts.” 
That Baywood qualifies as a National Register historic district and that 415 Fairfax is a contributor to that 
district was confirmed in March, 2022 by Richard Brandi, a qualified professional architectural historian.  
In a report to the Baywood Neighborhood Association, Mr. Brandi concluded that “the Baywood study 
area does meet the requirements of a historic district under the criteria A and C of the National Register 
of Historic Places criteria and does appear to be eligible for listing.” 
In a separate letter dated April 4, 2022, Mr. Brandi confirmed that “415 Fairfax Avenue is a contributor to 
the Baywood Historic District.” 
The fact that the original Baywood subdivision is a qualifying historic district and 415 Fairfax is a 
contributor to that district is no longer in dispute.  
Page  of 
1
2

--- page 266 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
There are tools available in the City of San Mateo that would enable the applicant to remodel and 
upgrade the home while retaining its architectural integrity and respecting its character defining features.  
These tools include the State Historic Building Code, The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for 
Rehabilitation, Residential Design Guidelines, and tax relief opportunities through the Mills Act.  
While there are many compelling reasons to deny this application for demolition and replacement, there 
appear to be none that can justify approval. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance strongly urges the Planning Commission to deny PA21-066 application for 
demolition and replacement of 415 Fairfax Avenue. 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber for 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
Cc: 
Visnson Kwan, Project Planner 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director 
Page  of 
2
2

--- page 267 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: 
  
Sent: Saturday, July 9, 2022 10:05 AM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue 
 
Vinson, 
I am writing again to urge the Planning Commission to deny a permit for demolition of the above.  Our 
neighbors want to preserve the style of architecture which is the charm of Baywood and replacing this 
historic home with a more contemporary structure will be a step towards destroying our beloved area.  
As a resident of Fairfax Avenue for 50 years, I have seen that it is possible to make changes but still 
maintain the character  of the area.  Unfortunately, the proposed project will have the opposite effect. 
Thank you. 
Jeanne Bosschart 
 
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 268 ---
From: Jerry Davis 
  
Sent: Saturday, July 09, 2022 3:10 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Don’t demolish our historic neighborhood in favor glass boxes with no personality. These 
are my thoughts and requests regarding destruction and OVERDEVELOPMENT. 
 
 
1. Follow CEQA regarding historic resources--The City is required to follow proper CEQA 
procedures and prepare an Environmental Impact Report before making a decision 
2. Save the two Heritage Oak trees--Don't allow removal of one Heritage coastal live oak tree and 
damage to a second Heritage coastal live oak trees on the property. The plans as proposed will 
result in the loss of both trees. Retaining walls, large plantings, irrigation, and a large part of the 
pool would be located in the Heritage oak tree protection zone and result in a significant loss of 
tree roots. 
3. We are asking the City to recognize and value our historic buildings. 
 
I urge you not to destroy everything I moved here for.   
 
Respectfully  
Jerry Davis 
 
 
  
 
Be wise in word and in deed

--- page 269 ---
From: Mike Etheridge 
  
Sent: Sunday, July 10, 2022 8:50 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger 
<chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: PA-2021-066 415 Fairfax Ave 
 
Chair Williams and Commissioners - 
 
I have been following the controversy with respect to 415 Fairfax Ave and the aggressive coordinated 
efforts to delay and block this home construction project the Alstons have been working on. 
 
I have known Gene and Nicole for over 20 years now and consider them good friends, they have raised a 
beautiful family and have contributed so much to the San Mateo community in the years they have lived 
here and in Burlingame. I am surprised and disappointed to see such a lack of neighborly welcome and 
fellowship towards them - the City of San Mateo and the Baywood neighborhood are lucky to have 
them. 
 
Looking at their current design I believe it is a beautiful project that fits in well with the neighborhood; 
noting it is a change from the current layout, which causes consternation for some, but a change that 
reflects intentional effort to address feedback and comments over the last few years and fit into the 
greater neighborhood. 
 
I encourage and hope the Commission sees fit to adopt the resolution as drafted by the Community 
Development Department. This project is in compliance with all applicable Zoning Code standards, and I 
specifically note the F.A.R. is within maximum allowed and also considerably lower than several other 
existing residences on Parrott, Fairfax, and other Baywood streets. I would like to mention that I 
appreciate and agree with the condition of allowing for the backyard Live Oak tree removal only if the 
ADU will cause adverse effects. 
 
Thank you for your service to the City and kindest regards / Mike Etheridge 
 
 
--  
--------------- 
Mike Etheridge 
 
home
 
cell/text:

--- page 270 ---
From: crystal hayling 
  
Sent: Monday, July 11, 2022 5:43 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support for 415 Fairfax project 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
We are writing to express our strong support for the Alston family's proposed home at 415 
Fairfax Ave., in San Mateo. 
 
The plans clearly follow guidelines and rules for construction. The style is similar to many 
homes in the neighborhood. 
 
We have known Gene and Nicole and their 2 lovely children for many years and know they will 
be wonderful neighbors and assets to the community. 
 
Warmest regards, 
 
Chris Misner and Crystal hayling 
, San Mateo, CA

--- page 271 ---
From: James Isaacs 
  
Sent: Sunday, July 10, 2022 10:08 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 415 Fairfax 
 
Dear Patricia: 
 
I hope you are well.   
 
I wanted to write in support of the proposed remodel at 415 Fairfax, San Mateo put forward by Gene 
and Nicole Alston.   The plans are within scope of code restrictions and meet overall size requirements, 
ratio of house size to lot and will be an aesthetic improvement fitting the wonderful style of the 
neighborhood.  I hope Gene and Nicole Alston can gain approval and build their dream house.  They are 
a lovely family and will be wonderful in the community.   
 
My wife and I have lived in San Mateo since 1989, raising our family here.  We have owned three 
houses, including one in Baywood for eight years.  We have enjoyed seeing the town grow and 
prosper.   A key part of that has been the steady, incremental improvement in each and every property 
as homeowners exercise their rights and deploy their own resources to improve them.   
 
Wishing you the best in all of your endeavors. 
 
Best, 
 
James Isaacs 
 
San Mateo, CA 94402

--- page 272 ---
From: Steve McKay 
  
Sent: Friday, July 8, 2022 12:08 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning Commission Mtg - July 12 - Item 2: 415 Fairfax Ave. 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
 
Firstly, thank you for the long hours and hard work you provide for the welfare of our great community. 
You are very generous in your service and we are lucky to have you. 
 
My family lives at 
, directly 
 the property at 415 Fairfax that is being considered 
for demolition. I urge you to reject the Resolution for the Special Use Permit (SUP) that would destroy 
this wonderful historic home, directly harm many neighbors in the community, and result in the 
senseless loss of life. 
 
In 20 years of living in our home, we have seen many dozens of renovation projects by our neighbors. 
We've supported all of them. In general, when someone invests in their home, they are helping the 
entire community--all boats rise. 
 
The proposed project at 415 Fairfax is the exact opposite. This is a zero-sum proposal in which the gain 
of the owners of 415 Fairfax will come from the loss and harm of their neighbors. That harm will come in 
many forms, including: 
 
- Destruction of a historic home that is integral to the neighborhood architecture 
- Destruction of value in neighbors' homes (our homes will all be worth less) 
- Invasion of privacy (a massive ADU will now peer over our fence) 
- Destruction of shade and air quality for surrounding homes  
 
For these reasons, this project is opposed by every single contiguous neighbor of 415 Fairfax. 
 
My family got our first, small dose of harm from this project recently when PG&E showed up and dug up 
our backyard, killing trees in the process. When I asked PG&E who ordered this, they simply told me that 
the house across the fence was being demolished and PG&E was instructed to terminate the gas service 
(which unfortunately runs through our backyard). We felt violated. Imagine how our dead lemon tree 
felt. 
 
This brings me to the topic of the wonderful oak trees on 415 Fairfax. It has taken many decades for 
them to reach their current state--majestic, beautiful, functional, and perfectly healthy. They are 
comfortably far from the footprint of the home and fit in perfectly with the neighborhood. It is my 
understanding that these are protected heritage trees and the city's arborist is responsible for 
preserving this category of tree in our community. 
 
The plans for 415 Fairfax include the removal of at least one oak tree. These trees need to be protected 
because they: 
• 
Are protected by law

--- page 273 ---
• 
Provide important functions for the neighborhood:  shade, privacy, beautification, air quality, 
etc. 
• 
Are perfectly healthy 
• 
Can be preserved without requiring significant changes to the proposed plans 
• 
Are living and breathing members of our community 
When we raised the issue of the trees with the architect, he used carefully scripted language but 
effectively told us that the homeowners can do whatever they want. It is my understanding that a 
permit for the tree removal was denied and, even then, the applicants continue to insist on it. It's one 
thing to ignore the neighbors' input; quite another to ignore applicable laws and ordinances. 
 
Finally, the current plans for the home reflect walls of privacy trees that don't currently exist. We would 
like to know exactly what trees are being planned and what their height would be on Day 1. We also ask 
that the Planning Commission instruct the architect and homeowners to work in collaboration with their 
neighbors, not in combat with them, and to consider our input into the project as it relates to protecting 
the architectural integrity of the neighborhood, preserving protected trees that perform an important 
role for all of us, and ensuring the privacy of our homes. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. Thank you for your service. 
 
Sincerely, 
Steve McKay

--- page 274 ---
From: Jon New 
  
Sent: Sunday, July 10, 2022 8:40 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comment on 415-Fairfax-Avenue 
 
Hi, I'd like to submit the following for public comment for the Planning Commission Public Hearing 
regarding 415-Fairfax Avenue. 
 
======= 
 
I just wanted to compliment the applicant on their plans for their beautiful new home and welcome 
them to the neighborhood.  
 
It's unfortunate that many of the applicant's neighbors do not share these sentiments. In fact, it reflects 
poorly on them that they have spent so much energy to needlessly antagonize the applicant about their 
perfectly legitimate and reasonable construction plans. I hope in the future they can spend their energy 
welcoming new neighbors and fostering community.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Jonathan New 
San Mateo

--- page 275 ---
To: City of San Mateo 
From: Peter Sortwell Certified Arborist WC #361 
RE: 415 Fairfax, San Mateo 
 
This letter serves as a rebuttal to the removal of Oak Tree # 1 and preservation 
plans for Oak Tree #4. 
In respect to the well written arborist report by Kielty Arborist Services there are 
other considerations in regards to their recommendations. 
 
Tree # 1 is properly defined as a “Heritage Tree”. The purpose of designating trees 
as Heritage is primarily to help preserve our tree canopy. The tree is not “poorly 
located” and is in better than “fair condition”.  
Three surrounding neighbors have voiced concerns about the trees removal and 
the impact it would have on their privacy. 
Therefore, preserving this “Heritage Tree” for the good of the neighborhood and 
Baywood’s tree canopy environment should be a strong consideration. 
 
Tree #4 is in an area that will undergo significant environment changes. Excessive 
root removal, irrigation changes, retaining wall construction and grade changes 
that will ultimately cause severe stress to this tree over the long term. The ending 
result would necessitate removal. This would add to the property exposure and 
lack of privacy for the surrounding neighbors. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of this proposed construction project. 
 
 Peter Sortwell 
 Certified Arborist WE-361 
 Founder, Arborwell Professional Tree Service 
 Past Board & Chairman, Tree Care Industry Association 
 
, San Mateo CA, 94402

--- page 276 ---
SAN MATEO  
HERITAGE ALLIANCE 
 
 
 
 
July 11, 2022 
VIA EMAIL 
 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
SUBJECT: 415 Fairfax Avenue PA2021-066 
Dear Commissioners: 
Please accept this letter that presents the concerns of the San Mateo Heritage Alliance regarding 
the subject project and the staff report posted on July10, 2022. Our key comments, that will be 
discussed below include: 
1) We are against the proposed demolition and construction project and ask the Planning 
Commission to deny the applications. 
2) The house is a historic resource, based on substantial evidence and a fair argument.  
3) The City is required to follow proper California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
procedures and prepare an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) before making a decision on 
whether to approve the demolition permit because the house qualifies as a historic resource. 
4) The project cannot be exempt from CEQA review because it will adversely affect a historic 
resource through demolition. 
5) Please deny the application and do not allow removal and damage to the two protected 
heritage coastal live oak trees on the property.  
COMMENTS ON THE PROPOSED PROJECT 
Do not allow demolition of 415 Fairfax 
This project has united the neighborhood and neighbors from other neighborhoods. The 
community has united against the demolition of an architectural jewel. We ask the City to 
follow City policies and CEQA and protect our historic resources. 
Baywood is a Historic District Eligible for the National Register of Historic Places  
1. Richard Brandi, a noted architectural historian, identified Baywood as a historic district 
eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places is his 2022 historic 
resources report: Historic Asset Analysis prepared for the Baywood Neighborhood 
Association (Brandi 2022).

--- page 277 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 2 
 
 
2. The 1989 Downtown Historic Building Survey identified the Baywood neighborhood as 
a historic district 
3. The 1990 letter from the State Historic Preservation Officer identified Baywood as a 
National Register of Historic Places-eligible historic district. 
415 Fairfax is a contributor to the Baywood Historic District and is therefore a 
Historic Resource 
1. Richard Brandi found the house at 415 Fairfax is intact and maintains its integrity with 
1933 Spanish Revival architecture, and therefore is contributor to the Baywood Historic 
District.  
2. A contributor to a historic district is considered an historical resource under the 
California Environmental Quality Act. 
3. As stated in San Mateo General Plan policy C/OS 8.1, bullet 4:  
a. Historic building shall mean buildings which are on or individually eligible for 
the National Register or Downtown Historic District contributor buildings as 
designated in the 1989 Historic Building Survey Report, or as determined to be 
eligible through documentation contained in a historic resources report. The City 
Council by resolution may add or delete any building which it finds does, or 
does not, meet the criteria for the National Register or other criteria. 
The city is not recognizing the historic resource identified by a qualified historian 
1. In response to Laurie Hietter’s letter requesting the City consider the effects of 
demolition in a CEQA document the city said,  
a. “While there was initial survey work completed that identified these three 
referenced neighborhoods as being potentially historic, the necessary 
evaluations, surveys, and analysis from a qualified architectural historian to 
evaluate the eligibility for listing on the California Register as a historic district 
have not yet been completed. 
2. Attorney Rachel Mansfield-Howlett submitted to the City the necessary report from 
Richard Brandi, a noted architectural historian. Mr. Brandi identified Baywood as a 
historic district eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places is his 2022 
historic resources report: Historic Asset Evaluation of the Baywood Neighborhood.   
The City is not following CEQA 
1. The house at 415 Fairfax was determined to be a contributor to the Baywood Historic 
District, which is eligible for the National and California Register of Historic Places, and 
is therefore a historic resource 
2. There is substantial evidence the house is a historic resource 
3. The City cannot issue a categorical exemption for demolition of a historic resource

--- page 278 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 3 
 
 
4. An EIR must be prepared to consider alternatives to demolition and define mitigation 
for loss of a historic resource before the City can make a decision on the application for 
demolition 
5. The City is evaluating a discretionary project (demolition) and a ministerial project 
Single Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR)  under a Categorical Exemption. 
because the demolition is discretionary. The court says: 
a. The statutory distinction between discretionary and purely ministerial projects 
implicitly recognizes that unless a public agency [is authorized to] shape the 
project in a way that would respond to concerns raised in an EIR, or its 
functional equivalent, environmental review would be a meaningless exercise." 
b. CEQA-triggering discretion is being exercised by the agency  
We request the City consider: 
“The foremost principle under CEQA is that the Legislature intended the act ‘to be 
interpreted in such a manner as to afford the fullest possible protection to the 
environment within the reasonable scope of the statutory language.’ ” (Laurel Heights 
Improvement Assn. v. Regents of University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 390, 
citing Friends of Mammoth v. Board of Supervisors (1975) 8 Cal.3d 247, 259.) 
The Applicant is not following the City’s Guidelines  
The Single-Family Design Guidelines (“Design Guidelines” or “Guidelines”) address the 
construction of new single-family dwellings and second story additions to single-family 
dwellings, and how the building’s size, architectural character, and relationship to the street 
and nearby houses contribute to successful neighborhoods. The intent of these Guidelines is to 
have new single-family dwellings and second-story additions enhance the livability of San 
Mateo neighborhoods.  
The proposed project does not meet the City’s Design Guidelines.  
1. “When changing the front of a house, avoid making the garage the dominant feature as seen from 
the street.” (pg. 12) 
a. The garage is the main feature in the front of the house 
2. Immediate context – how does the house relate to adjacent houses?  
a. The 1940s style does not relate to the adjacent houses, which are Mediterranean, 
Tudor 
3. Neighborhood context – how does house relate to visual character and scale of other houses in 
general vicinity?  
a. The house is massive and does not respect established building footprint pattern 
of the neighborhood  
b. The house copies a 1940s house instead of homes from the 1920s, which are 
characteristic of the neighborhood.

--- page 279 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 4 
 
 
4. “Observe the scale of houses in the neighborhood to determine if there is a common size or shape 
to houses in the neighborhood. If a common size or shape exists, respect the scale of the 
neighborhood through building sizes and shapes compatible with the houses in the 
neighborhood.” 
a. The house is bigger than 73% of homes sold in 2020-2021 
5. “Where feasible, place the primary volume of a second-story addition over the house instead of 
only over the garage.” 
a. The volume of the house is over the garage 
6. “Design house additions to respect adjacent neighbor privacy through careful placement of 
second-story massing and other architectural solutions.” 
a. Design has full second story, one wall (NE) with windows only 10’ from 
property line and first floor bay window right at the 5’ setback from property 
line. 
7. “Use exterior materials that are common to the neighborhood and compatible with the 
architecture of the house.” (pg. 28) “Use exterior materials that are of a similar or better quality 
of those used in the neighborhood…” 
a. Windows do not reflect the neighborhood 
b. The house includes stick-on stone, asphalt shingles, etc.  
DO NOT ALLOW REMOVAL OR DAMAGE TO TWO HERITAGE OAK TREES 
The Kielty Arborist Services LLC, letter to Michael Callan dated March 2, 2022, revised April 
18th, 2022, is considered the arborist report. The arborist report and the proposed plans show 
the project will remove one heritage coastal live oak and the roots of the second heritage coastal 
live oak will be irreparably damaged by planting trees, irrigation, and constructing a retaining 
wall, and a pool in the tree protection zone. The arborist report describes: 
▪ 
Coast live oak tree #1 to be removed: 33.1 diameter at breast height, 60 ft. tall 
▪ 
Coast live oak tree #4 to remain: 47.1 dbh, 45 ft. tall 
▪ 
Applicant will construct the following in the oak tree protection zone: 
▪ 
About 10 ft of pool 
▪ 
3 ft high retaining wall that requires 2-3 ft of excavation over about 50 feet 
▪ 
36-in box trees, requiring at least 3-4 ft of excavation 
▪ 
Extensive irrigation 
The coast live oak tree #1 to be removed and tree #4 are heritage trees because they are oaks and 
have a diameter of 10 inches or more (dbh of 33.1 inches and 47.1 inches, respectively). 
Application for the Heritage Tree Removal was Denied by City Arborist 
▪ 
The applicant submitted an application to remove the protected coast live oak tree #1 to 
allow for an 800 sq ft ADU.  
▪ 
That application was rejected by the Parks & Recreation Department; therefore, tree 
protection measures will be required for both trees.

--- page 280 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 5 
 
 
▪ 
The applicant was directed (in the City comment on the application) to change the 
arborist report and the project plans accordingly. Project plans were not changed to 
relocate the ADU or pool. 
The proposed plans are not consistent with the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance, 
which represents a significant impact under CEQA 
The project does not meet any of the City criteria for allowing removal of the heritage trees: 
1. The trees are in good condition 
2. The trees are not a danger to the people or property 
3. The trees do not interfere with existing structures or utility services 
4. It is not necessary to remove the trees to allow reasonable economic enjoyment of the 
property  
5. The effect of tree removal on erosion and soil retention has not been addressed 
The arborist’s review of alternate ADU locations is inadequate 
The arborist’s report contains a review of different ADU locations on the lot. The alternatives 
analysis should be conducted by the architect and extend beyond relocating the 800 square foot 
area on the lot. The house plans should be revised to incorporate an ADU within the footprint 
of the house without causing damage to the heritage trees on site.  
Inadequate impact analysis in the arborist’s report 
The arborist report states the Coast Live Oak tree #4 is located 28 foot 3 inches from the 
proposed pool. The pool extends over 11 feet into the 39.2-foot tree protection zone. The impact 
analysis states 15% of the roots would be removed.  
The impact analysis in the arborist report does not address the impacts from the trenching 
required for installation of the 36-inch boxed trees and the retaining wall in the tree protection 
zone.  
The City Arborist should conduct an independent review of the arborist report because this 
second version of the report does not address the issues presented by the City in their 
comments and is not consistent with the Protected Tree Ordinance. 
Inadequate tree protection plan for protected heritage coast live oak tree #4 
Coast Live Oak tree #4 is located 28 feet 3 inches from the proposed pool, well within the 39.2-
foot tree protection zone.  
The arborist’s report states: 
“The location of the tree protection fencing is required to be placed at the 10x the diameter of the 
trees where possible. Where not possible due to approved work, the tree protection should be 
placed at the edge of the approved work with enough space given for the work to safely take 
place.”

--- page 281 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 6 
 
 
 
This statement “where possible” essentially negates the required tree protection zone. The 
project plans give the contractor discretion on when to respect the tree protection zone. The 
recommended tree protection zones shown in the arborists report do not reflect the required 
39.2-foot zone and show a large cut-out for the pool. The tree protection zone should be 
installed for the full 10x diameter of the trees. The pool and other features should not be 
excluded from the tree protection zone.  
We request another arborist review the plans,  a complete impact assessment for the trees, and 
provide a revised tree protection plan. 
The root cutting and irrigation will likely kill the protected heritage oak tree #4.  
The current plans show the coastal live oak tree #4 will be subject to major pruning/root cutting 
for the proposed: 
▪ 
Pool will encroach over 10 feet into the tree protection zone 
▪ 
Excavation for almost 50 feet of retaining walls  
▪ 
Planting twelve 36-inch box trees 
▪ 
Extensive irrigation 
No work should be approved within the tree protection zone. 
The City Protected Tree Ordinance Administrative Guidelines state: 
Major Pruning  
Major Pruning means any pruning of a Street Tree or removal of more than 25% of the crown or 
existing foliage of the Heritage Tree, or any root cutting within a radius of six times the trunk 
diameter, topping, or any other pruning that has the potential to negatively affect the condition of a 
tree as determined by the Managing Arborist in accordance with the current editions of the 
American National Standards Institute A-300 Best Management Practices. 
The root cutting required for the installation of the 36-inch box trees, and rock wall will likely 
result in substantial cutting of the tree roots, which will have a negative effect on the tree.  
COMMENTS ON STAFF REPORT 
The staff report for the 415 Fairfax project presents a partial analysis of the proposed project. 
The draft approval combines the Special Use Permit, a discretionary action, with the Single 
Family Dwelling Design Review.  
Special Use Permit for Substantial Removal of an Existing Residence (PDF p. 3) 
“Municipal Code Section 27.18.035. The Municipal Code also requires that the application for a new 
residence be submitted concurrently with the SUP application, which the applicant complies with. In 
addition, the City must find that the granting of the SUP will not adversely affect the general health and

--- page 282 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 7 
 
 
safety of the community and that the SUP will not cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property 
through impacts such as traffic, noise, or dust. 
As a condition of approval, the applicant is also required to obtain a demolition permit from the Building 
Division and comply with noise, dust control, and material hauling measures during the project’s 
construction period. The City also engaged its historic preservation consultant, Bridget Maley of 
architecture + history, to prepare a historic resources evaluation (Attachment 5), which concludes that 
the existing residence does not qualify as a historic resource. As such, staff’s evaluation of the proposed 
demolition of the existing residence is that findings to approve the SUP can be made, which are 
discussed in greater detail within Attachment 1.” 
 
• 
The SUP is a discretionary action. The City has not conducted the analysis of 
traffic, noise and dust, which represents a deferred analysis 
• 
The scope of work for the historic consultant was limited in that it did not 
address the historic district at all.  
Single Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) (p. 3 and 4) 
“…a new residence that employs similar building materials and colors and proposes an architectural 
style utilizing traditional architectural features such as decorative corbels, oriel bay windows, and 
decorative columns which are compatible with residences found in the neighborhood.” 
Traditional elements tacked on to a building don’t make the building traditional or consistent 
with the neighborhood. Thin stick-on stone (which the architect criticized in the description of 
modifications made to the back of the original house) is not a traditional or quality material 
used in the 1920s and 1930s homes. 
Neighborhood Concerns (p. 4 of PDF) 
“Since application submittal, staff has received several public comment letters in opposition of the 
project…” 
Several: Over 60 letters were received from the community (p. 6 of PDF). 
Historic Analysis (p. 4) 
“The report prepared by Richard Brandi, however, does not appear to be a complete analysis of the 
Baywood neighborhood in that it does not indicate a district boundary and does not identify or rank 
contributors to the district.” 
The neighborhood and district is defined on page 1 and Figure 2 of the Brandi report. The 
report identifies several representative homes that are potential contributors and a separate 
report identifies 415 as a contributor to the district. 
“The focus of the City’s CEQA analysis is based on whether the structure proposed to be demolished 
qualifies individually as a historic resource, which it does not, as determined by the project’s historic 
resources evaluation.”

--- page 283 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 8 
 
 
The City and its historian are inappropriately limiting the scope of historic analysis. The Brandi 
historic report and letter regarding 415 Fairfax are substantial evidence the house is a historic 
resource. See the excerpt from the CEQA Guidelines below. 
Historical Resources (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (a))  
“(a) For purposes of this section, the term “historical resources” shall include the 
following:  
(1) A resource listed in, or determined to be eligible by the State Historical Resources 
Commission, for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources (Pub. Res. 
Code SS5024.1, Title 14 CCR. Section 4850 et seq.).  
(2) A resource included in a local register of historical resources, as defined in Section 
5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code or identified as significant in an historical 
resource survey meeting the requirements of Section 5024.1(g) of the Public Resources 
Code, shall be presumed to be historically or culturally significant. Public agencies must 
treat any such resource as significant unless the preponderance of evidence 
demonstrates that it is not historically or culturally significant.  
(3) Any object, building, structure, site, area, place, record, or manuscript which a lead 
agency determines to be historically significant or significant in the architectural, 
engineering, scientific, economic, agricultural, educational, social, political, military, or 
cultural annals of California may be considered to be an historical resource, provided 
the lead agency’s determination is supported by substantial evidence in light of the 
whole record. Generally, a resource shall be considered by the lead agency to be 
“historically significant” if the resource meets the criteria for listing on the California 
Register of Historical Resources (Pub. Res. Code SS5024.1, Title 14, Section 4852) 
including the following:  
(A) Is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the 
broad patterns of California’s history and cultural heritage;  
(B) Is associated with the lives of persons important in our past;  
(C) Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method 
of construction, or represents the work Guidelines for Determining Significance 6 
Cultural Resources: Archaeological, Historic, and Tribal Cultural Resources of an 
important creative individual, or possesses high artistic values; or  
(D) Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or 
history.  
(4) The fact that a resource is not listed in, or determined eligible for listing in the 
California Register of Historical Resources, not included in a local register of historical

--- page 284 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 9 
 
 
resources (pursuant to Section 5020.1(k) of the Public Resources Code), or identified in 
an historical resources survey (meeting the criteria in Section 5024.1(g) of the Public 
Resource Code) does not preclude a lead agency from determining that the resource 
may be an historical resource as defined in Public Resources Code Section 5020.1(j) or 
5024.1. 1.2 National Register of Historic Places Criteria.” 
The City should recognize the Brandi reports, and the State Historic Preservation Officer’s 
assertion that Baywood is a historic district eligible for listing on the National Register of 
Historic Places. 
The Impact Analysis in the Historic Report does not reflect the CEQA Guidelines direction: 
Phase 2 Impact Analysis 
“Note that if a project will affect a significant historical (e.g., one that is eligible for 
inclusion on a federal, state or local list or register), then the project is not exempt from 
CEQA (CEQA Guidelines Section 15300.2(f); the “exception to the exemption”). This is 
the case even if the project only requires a simple or ministerial permit (e.g., a Land Use 
Permit or Coastal Development Permit for demolition of a structure).In such instances, 
an Initial Study should be prepared.” 
Protected Tree Removal (p.6) 
The design review reflects the effects on one tree. In fact, the plans will kill the second protected 
oak tree by installing the pool, 12 36-inch box trees, retaining wall, and irrigation in the tree 
protection zone, affecting a substantial amount of the root zone. 
The condition of approval indicated the City should have conducted environmental review. 
Public Comments (p. 6) 
“…informational meeting on August 4, 2021 and received comments from eight members of the public.” 
There were nine commenters, and many comment letters were sent to the architect and planner. 
Many comments stated the house should not be demolished, and addressed the size and mass 
of the proposed house. The architect understated comments and misrepresented community 
comments, in both of his attempts to summarize public comments. 
“On January 6, 2022, City Staff met with three representatives of the interested parties to discuss the 
project application status, City process in reviewing Planning Applications, Design Guidelines, State-wide 
accessory dwelling unit guidelines, historic preservation ordinance, and to field any additional 
questions.” 
The City asked us to limit the number of participants in the meeting and to designate key 
representatives. Many residents requested a second public meeting; the request was denied. 
“Public comments on the project generally pertained to:

--- page 285 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 10 
 
 
• 
Historic resource impacts 
• 
Design review 
• 
Heritage tree removal 
• 
Accessory dwelling unit size” 
 
Opposition to the demolition, requests for additional meetings, and the size and mass of the 
project were also key comments. 
Community Meeting 
The architect misrepresented the results of the public meeting and Mr. Kwan directed him to 
revise the notes. The revised notes in Attachment 11 (p. 141 of PDF file) are inaccurate.  
There were 22 people on the call. Nine people spoke, most indicating the house should not be 
demolished. The others shared the concerns but did speak because they did not want to be 
repetitive. The meeting lasted 1.5 hours. See also the comments from Glenn Voyles (p. 247 of 
PDF). The architect misrepresented the public concern in his map and notes. He does not show 
residents beyond the 500-foot notification area, when in fact there were concerned residents 
from Aragon and Baywood Knolls, as well as many beyond the notification area. 
Multiple requests for additional public meetings were not granted by City staff. Community 
members also requested story poles, which were not provided. 
Environmental Determination (p.7) 
“The existing residence was constructed in 1933 and was not included in the City’s Historic Building 
Survey conducted in 1989. Since the structure is greater than 45 years old, the City conducted a Historic 
Resource Evaluation which determined the existing residence at 415 Fairfax Avenue is not a historic 
resource under CEQA.” 
 
The historic analysis was incomplete because it did not consider the potentially National 
Register-eligible Baywood Historic District identified in 1989 and confirmed by the State 
Historic Preservation Officer in 1990. The report should have been revised after Ms. Rachel 
Mansfield-Howlett submitted the Brandi reports to the City.  
 
CEQA states: 
“Whether formally listed in the National Register of Historic Places or not, places and 
areas that may qualify as historical resources need to be evaluated and considered in the 
CEQA process.” 
 
From the Richard Brandi Historic Asset Analysis: 
“The City of San Mateo Historical Building Survey Final Report concluded that the “Baywood,” 
“Baywood Knolls,” “Aragon,” and “San Mateo Park” neighborhoods should be documented as 
potential historic districts (San Mateo Historical Association, 1989); City of San Mateo Historical 
Building Survey Final Report, Linda Wickert, survey coordinator, September 1989). In 1990, the 
State Historic Preservation Officer wrote there “were two huge (500+ resources) Register-eligible

--- page 286 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 11 
 
 
residential districts” west of El Camino. Letter from Kathryn Gualtieri, State Historic 
Preservation Officer, to San Mateo Mayor Thomas Mack, January 22, 1990.” 
 
The 1989 survey was limited to downtown but the report acknowledges the existence of many 
large, eligible districts west of El Camino. The project historic report acknowledged the 1989 
survey but ignores the potential districts. 
 
In Georgetown Preservation Society v. County of El Dorado (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 358, the Third 
District Court of Appeal held that the lay opinions of local community members created a fair 
argument of potentially significant aesthetic impacts of a proposed retail store. In this case, we 
have lay arguments and expert arguments by Richard Brandi and the State Historic 
Preservation Officer. 
EXHIBIT A CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL , PA-2021-066, 415 FAIRFAX AVE., SUP + SFDDR (p. 12) 
The City is applying 40 conditions to this project. The City is claiming the project is 
Categorically Exempt from CEQA yet is including 40 conditions, including many  related to 
environmental issues, most notably protection of heritage oak trees, in violation of CEQA. 
SUMMARY 
6) We are against the proposed project and ask the Planning Commission to deny the 
applications. 
a) Don't demolish the house. 
b) Consider an alternative design that will preserve the historic nature of the neighborhood 
and preserve the protect heritage trees. 
7) The house is a historic resource.  
a) Richard Brandi, an architectural historian, determined the Baywood neighborhood 
qualifies as an historic district eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic 
Places. 
b) Richard Brandi determined 415 Fairfax is a contributor to the Baywood Historic District 
c) The contributor is considered a historic resource. 
d) The historic report did not address the historic district identified by the State Historic 
Preservation Officer (1990) and Richard Brandi. 
8) The City is required to follow proper California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
procedures and prepare an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) before making a decision on 
whether to approve the demolition permit because the house qualifies as a historic resource.

--- page 287 ---
July 11, 2022 
 
Page 12 
 
 
9) The project cannot be exempt from CEQA review because it will adversely affect a historic 
resource through demolition. 
10) Please deny the application and do not allow removal and damage to the two protected 
heritage coastal live oak trees on the property.  
a) The plans as proposed will result in the loss of both trees, due to the extensive 
construction and root removal that will be necessary for the proposed pool, 12 trees, 
retaining wall, and irrigation that will be located in the tree protection zone. 
b) The project does not meet any of the San Mateo Protected Trees Ordinance criteria for 
removing trees; the layout of the house could be configured to include an ADU. 
c) The trees are in good health. 
We ask the City to follow the intent of CEQA: 
“The foremost principle under CEQA is that the Legislature intended the act ‘to be interpreted in 
such a manner as to afford the fullest possible protection to the environment within the reasonable 
scope of the statutory language.’ ” (Laurel Heights Improvement Assn. v. Regents of University 
of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 390, citing Friends of Mammoth v. Board of Supervisors 
(1975) 8 Cal.3d 247, 259.)    
Please conduct the appropriate CEQA analysis for this project, an Environmental Impact 
Report.  
Sincerely, 
Laurie Hietter 
Laurie Hietter  
for the San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
cc:  
Vinson Kwan, Project Planner  
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner  
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager  
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director  
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director

--- page 288 ---
Page 1 of 2 
July 11, 2022 Letter to Planning Commission 
Law Office of Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Planning Commission 
PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
July 11, 2022 
Via email 
 
 
Re: 415 Fairfax Avenue PA2021-066 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners:  
 
 
On behalf of San Mateo Heritage Alliance, I submit this follow up letter to my April 
18, 2022 letter regarding the historic home proposed for demolition at 415 Fairfax Ave.  
As an initial point, I concur with the objections and legal points made by Laurie 
Hietter of the San Mateo Heritage Alliance in her letter submitted to the Planning 
Commission for the July 12 hearing and would like to add the following information 
regarding the City’s proposal to consider the removal of a heritage oak tree post project 
approval and the CEQA implications of that decision. 
 
A project that entails a mixed ministerial/ discretionary project of any kind is 
treated as discretionary under CEQA. (Orinda Association v. Board of Supervisors (1986) 182 
Cal.App.3d 1145, CEQA Guidelines, §15268(d).) All phases of a project must be considered 
as the “whole of the action,” so that “environmental considerations do not become 
submerged by chopping a large project into many little ones, each with a potential impact 
on the environment, which cumulatively may have disastrous consequences.” (Bozung v. 
Local Agency Formation Commission of Ventura County (1975) 13 Cal.3d 263, 283–284; Burbank-
Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority v. Hensler (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 577; Citizens Association 
for Sensible Development of Bishop Area v. County of Inyo (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 151, 167.) 
CEQA Guidelines section 15126 also provides that “[a]ll phases of a project must be 
considered when evaluating its impact on the environment ...” In this instance, any 
heritage tree removal or injury to the remaining heritage trees on the property are the 
direct result of the demolition of the residence and thus the removal/harm is intertwined 
with the proposed demolition and should be fully considered prior to project approval as a 
foreseeable consequence of the project.

--- page 289 ---
Page 2 of 2 
July 11, 2022 Letter to Planning Commission 
In this instance, the applicant submitted an application to remove the protected 
coast live oak tree #1 to allow for an 800 sq. ft. ADU. That application was rejected by the 
Parks & Recreation Department. Although the application was denied, the City is allowing 
the applicant to come back, post project approval, to bring forward new evidence, outside 
of a pubic forum, that may result in the eventual removal of the heritage tree. In that event, 
residents would not be afforded any opportunity to rebut the evidence or object to the 
removal. The Alliance therefore requests that this analysis be conducted prior to project 
approval as part of the reasonable review of the “whole of the action”, taking into 
consideration all foreseeable actions that could result in environmental harm.  
As explained in Laurie Hietter’s letter, the City’s treatment of the heritage trees is 
inconsistent with the City’s Protected Tree Ordinance. Evidence of a project’s arguable lack 
of consistency with a plan adopted for environmental protection can trigger preparation of 
an EIR. (The Pocket Protectors, 24 Cal.App.4th 903, at 934; Georgetown Preservation Society v. 
County of El Dorado (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 358; Protect Niles v. City of Fremont (2018) 25 
Cal.App.5th 1129.) John R. Lawson Rock & Oil v. State Air Resources Board (2018) 20 
Cal.App.5th 77 found that evidence of “inconsistencies between the proposed project and 
applicable general plans, specific plans and regional plans” created a fair argument 
mandating EIR review. Friends of Riverside’s Hills v. City of Riverside (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 
1137 agreed that a violation of city zoning (the Residential Conservation Zone) adopted for 
environmental protection could have a significant impact and thus trigger an EIR. Here, the 
City’s tree protection ordinance was adopted for the purpose of environmental protection 
and inconsistencies with its provisions can trigger preparation of an EIR. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Rachel Mansfield-Howlett 
 
cc:  
Vinson Kwan, Project Planner  
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner  
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager  
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director  
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director

--- page 290 ---
July 11, 2022 
Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Via email 
SUBJECT: 415 Fairfax, PA21-066 
Members of the Planning Commission: 
I am writing to respectfully challenge - as inaccurate and unsupportable - the Resolution with Findings 
and Conditions of Approval (Att. 1) for the application to demolish and replace 415 Fairfax Avenue in the 
Baywood neighborhood of San Mateo (PA21-066). 
FINDING 
“WHEREAS, a historical resources evaluation was completed on June 14, 2021 by the City’s Historic 
Preservation consultant, which finds that the existing residence does not qualify as an historical 
resource.” 
CHALLENGE 
The City’s Historic Preservation consultant did not evaluate the existing residence in the context of its 
contribution to a potentially eligible National or California Register historic district.  This omission 
unnecessarily circumscribed the California Register criteria for significance, limiting the study of 
significance to individual significance only. 
Subsequent studies by the Baywood Neighborhood Association’s Historic Preservation consultant 
assessed the significance of the Baywood subject area against all four National and California Register 
criteria and evaluated the subject property in its locational context within the study area. The original 
Baywood Subdivision was found to be an eligible historic district because it met two of the criteria: A) 
Associated with events that made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history, and; C) 
Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or that represent a 
significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction.  The subject 
property, because of its date of construction, locational and architectural integrity, was determined to be 
significant as a contributor to the eligible district. 
Substantial evidence has been provided to the City documenting the significance of Baywood as a 
historic district and 415 Fairfax as a contributor to that district - evidence that must be taken into 
consideration in evaluating the Project.  The City’s Historic Preservation consultant’s June 14, 2021 
report can only be considered complete if it is revised to include the additional information unknown to 
the consultant at the time of the original report.   
Page  of 
1
2

--- page 291 ---
FINDINGS 
“WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and 
other applicable policies.” 
“WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15301(I)(1) 
and 15303(a).” 
CHALLENGE 
The Project is inconsistent with the applicable policies of the Conservation and Open Space element of 
the General Plan. 
The Project is inconsistent with General Plan “Policy C/OS 8.1: Preserve, where feasible historic 
buildings…determined to be eligible through documentation contained in a historic resources report.”  
The City has been provided substantial evidence in a historic resources report from Historic Preservation 
consultant Richard Brandi that documents Baywood as eligible for listing on the California Register as a 
historic district, and significance of the subject property as a contributor to that district, an historic 
resource as defined by CEQA.   
Further, C/OS 8.1 states, “Any resource that is eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical 
Resources is considered significant for the purposes of CEQA.”  As described above, substantial 
evidence has been provided to the City documenting the subject property as a significant historic 
resource subject to CEQA.  
The Project is inconsistent with General Plan “Policy C/OS 8.2: Consider the protection of 
concentrations of buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere 
of exceptional architectural interest or integrity, after additional study…In consideration of future historic 
districts, specific regulations to maintain historic character shall be developed.”  
In summary, the three underpinning Findings for Project approval - that the subject property does not 
qualify as a historical resource, that the Project is consistent with the General Plan, and that the Project 
is exempt from CEQA - are incorrect and unsupportable.  Moreover, there is substantial evidence on 
record that documents the Project is a historical resource subject to CEQA and that demonstrates that 
the Project is not consistent with applicable General Plan policies or CEQA requirements. 
Sincerely, 
Keith Weber 
San Mateo 
Cc: 
Vinson Kwan, Project Planner 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director
Page  of 
2
2

--- page 292 ---
From: Michael Nash 
  
Sent: Monday, July 11, 2022 6:41 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 425 Fairfax PA2021-066 
 
July 11, 2022 
  
 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
  
SUBJECT: 415 Fairfax Avenue PA2021-066 
  
Dear Planning Commission: 
  
I am writing as I cannot attend the session on July 12.    
There is considerable concern about the 415 Fairfax project being expressed by nearly 100 residents in 
the Baywood area. The advance materials sent for the Planning Commission meeting, like the original 
documents submitted with the original project plans, significantly understate the concern. The materials 
show only a fraction of the people who oppose this project. The concern about removing heritage trees 
is included in virtually every comment/letter.    
That Baywood is a historic district, as was recently determined by Richard Brandi's Historic Asset 
Analysis, and that the house at 415 Fairfax is a contributor to that zone is definitive. The staff report 
states that additional study is needed to support that view. The historical survey the planning 
department says is required to confirm Baywood’s status will take time and money. However, other 
than adding detail, it will provide no further justification for the area's historic status as that has already 
been established. Further, the City has the authority (CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5 (a)) to recognize 
the Baywood area as historical, but the Planning Department failed to point out this possibility to the 
Commission or even mention it in their report. If a permit is issued, it will destroy a building that 
contributes to the City's history without complying with the analysis that CEQA requires in such cases.

--- page 293 ---
The Alstons have rights that the neighborhood supports, but their revised plans do not respond to 
neighbors' concerns. Rather than attempting to make design changes that accommodate the concerns, 
the process has been to trivialize the comments and defend the design as the only one possible. There 
have been minor changes, but overriding concerns were not addressed - especially by the continued 
request to remove the heritage trees. 
Curiously, despite the denial of a tree removal permit by the City’s Master Arborist, The proposer’s 
arborist states that the tree needs removal to construct the ADU. It claims there is no other solution, 
which is unreasonable as the home and ADU design could be modified.  
San Mateo takes its heritage tree protection ordinances seriously. The people of Baywood support 
heritage tree protection.   We should not approve removal based on the inadequate information 
provided in the advance material and not accept what I am told is an ineffective tree protection plan. 
The project’s arborist's report says building the ADU will kill the tree, so the only solution is to 
remove the it. Adjusting the design is casually dropped as an option. This is not protection.  
We do not have an effective tree protection ordinance if we allow the removal of healthy heritage trees 
only to support a particular design. 
I strongly urge the Planning Commission to reject the current plan for 415 Fairfax Ave. and require 
changes to the design that protect the heritage trees, address neighborhood concerns and reflect the 
house's historic nature. 
  
Regards, 
Michael C Nash 
Resident San Mateo 
 
 
 
Michael Nash

--- page 294 ---
From: Jon New 
  
Sent: Monday, July 11, 2022 7:29 PM 
To: Vinson Kwan <vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Public comment on 415-Fairfax-Avenue 
 
Hi, I wasn't sure where best to send this, but I'd like to submit the following for public comment for the 
Planning Commission Public Hearing regarding 415-Fairfax Avenue. 
 
======= 
 
I just wanted to compliment the applicant on their plans for their beautiful new home and welcome 
them to the neighborhood.  
 
It's unfortunate that many of the applicant's neighbors do not share these sentiments. In fact, it reflects 
poorly on them that they have spent so much energy to needlessly antagonize the applicant about their 
perfectly legitimate and reasonable construction plans. I hope in the future they can spend their energy 
welcoming new neighbors and fostering community.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Jonathan New 
San Mateo

--- page 295 ---
From: Lisa Nash

Sent: Tuesday, July 12, 2022 12:29 PM

To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: 415 Fairfax Avenue — New Single-Family Residence (PA-2021-066)

Dear Planning Commission:

| am a member of the San Mateo Library Board and Measure S Oversight Committee but am acting in my
private capacity.

| urge you to return this application and require that the applicant submit a new design that will protect
the heritage trees on the property. These trees provide shade to several homes, reducing energy
consumption and protecting the natural environment. These trees are almost 100 years old. They are
rare assets in San Mateo and are protected by San Mateo city ordinances.

San Mateo's arborist's opinion also is that this project does not sufficiently protect these trees. His
opinion should guide the Commission's actions. This project should be required to demonstrate in detail
how these trees will be protected rather than approve the project now and let the architect and builder
figure out how to deal with the trees later. If the latter path is chosen, these trees will die from harm
during construction and San Mateo will have chosen not to protect its heritage trees or follow its own
ordinances.

Thank you for your consideration,
Lisa Diaz Nash

Lisa Diaz Nash

Candidate, San Mateo City Council

Trustee, San Mateo Library Board

Member, San Mateo Measure S Oversight Committee

Vice President, Baywood Neighborhood Association (BNA)

Board Chair, Atma Connect

Board Director, HIP Housing, San Mateo Neighborhood Watch | Rotary Haciendas, LLC
Co-Captain, Sister District Project CA Peninsula


--- page 296 ---
YIMBY Law A

YIMBY LAW

7/12/2022

San Mateo Planning Commission
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403

planning @cityofsanmateo.org
Via Email

Re: 415 Fairfax Avenue
PA-2021-066

Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,

YIMBY Law is a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation, whose mission is to increase the accessibility
and affordability of housing in California. YIMBY Law sues municipalities when they fail to
comply with state housing laws, including the Housing Accountability Act (HAA). As you know,
the Planning Commission has an obligation to abide by all relevant state housing laws when
evaluating the above captioned proposal, including the HAA. Should the City fail to follow the
law, YIMBY Law will not hesitate to file suit to ensure that the law is enforced.

The project at 415 Fairfax will see the replacement of the existing structure with a four
bedroom single family home, along with an attached ADU.

California Government Code § 65589.5, the Housing Accountability Act, prohibits localities
from denying housing development projects that are compliant with the locality’s zoning
ordinance or general plan at the time the application was deemed complete, unless the locality
can make findings that the proposed housing development would be a threat to public health
and safety.

The above captioned proposal is zoning compliant and general plan compliant, therefore, your
local agency must approve the application, or else make findings to the effect that the
proposed project would have an adverse impact on public health and safety, as described
above. Should the City fail to comply with the law, YIMBY Law will not hesitate to take legal
action to ensure that the law is enforced.

I am signing this letter both in my capacity as the Executive Director of YIMBY Law, and as a
resident of California who is affected by the shortage of housing in our state.

Sincerely,


--- page 297 ---
Sonja Trauss
Executive Director
YIMBY Law
YIMBY Law, 
2

--- page 298 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue
New Single-Family Residence
(PA-2021-066)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
July 12, 2022
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 299 ---
415 Fairfax Avenue
New Single-Family Residence
(PA-2021-066)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
July 12, 2022
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 300 ---
Project Site
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (10,558 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
2,612 sq. ft. 
•
Two-stories
•
Spanish Colonial 
Revival
•
General Plan Land Use –
Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-B
3

--- page 301 ---
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (10,558 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
2,612 sq. ft. 
•
Two-stories
•
Spanish Colonial 
Revival
•
General Plan Land Use –
Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-B
4

--- page 302 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Existing Proposed

ITY OF SAN MATEO 5


--- page 303 ---
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION
•
Demolition of existing 
residence
•
Proposed removal of one 
protected tree
•
Proposed residence:
•
3,910 sq. ft. 
•
Two stories
•
798 sq. ft. ADU
6

--- page 304 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Entitlements
Design Review
State Law
7

--- page 305 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Entitlements
Design Review
State Law
•
General Plan Land Use – Single Family
•
R1-B (One Family Dwellings)
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
0.37*
0.37
Square Footage
3,910 sq. ft.*
3,911 sq. ft.
Building Height
27’-10 ½” 
32’
Units
1 + ADU
1 + ADU + JADU
Setbacks
Proposed
Minimum
Front
21’-3 ¾”
15’
Front (Garage)
20’
20’
Left Side
5’
5’
Right Side
5’
5’
Rear
40’-9 ¼” 
15’
*Floor Area Ratio and Square Footage exclude ADU sq. ft. per Zoning Code
8

--- page 306 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Entitlements
Design Review
State Law
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• Substantial removal of existing 
residence
• Demolition of 50% or more of 
exterior walls and/or roof
• Single Family Dwelling Design Review 
(SFDDR)
• For a proposed new single-family 
residence
9

--- page 307 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Entitlements
Design Review
State Law
10
Asphalt shingle 
roof
Beigewood Shiplap 
Siding
Epic Vue 
Windows
Ledgestone
Garage and trim 
Oxford White

--- page 308 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Entitlements
Design Review
State Law
•
Senate Bill 330 (SB330) Preliminary Application
•
No more than five (5) public hearings
•
City cannot impose new ordinances, policies, 
and standards after the preliminary application 
is submitted
•
Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
•
City cannot deny, reduce density of, or render 
housing development projects infeasible if 
objective standards are met
11

--- page 309 ---
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
12

--- page 310 ---
Historic Analysis
•
Historic Resource Evaluation – June 14, 2021
•
1933 Spanish Revival 
•
Not individually eligible
•
Baywood is not a fully documented historic 
district
•
Residence could be a potential contributor to a 
potential district
•
1989 Historic Building Survey and Office of Historic 
Preservation Letter (1990)
•
Identifies neighborhoods, including Baywood, 
may be register eligible
•
April 18, 2022 – Neighborhood Historic Assessment
•
Incomplete survey
•
Does not identify boundary or contributors
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
13

--- page 311 ---
Design Review
•
Second-story placement
•
Massing
•
Building height
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
14
439 Fairfax Ave
300 Harvard Rd
415 Fairfax
411 Fairfax
421 Fairfax

--- page 312 ---
Design Review
•
Transitional Architecture
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
15

--- page 313 ---
Design Review
•
Accessory Dwelling Unit
•
Attached
•
798 sq. ft. 
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
16

--- page 314 ---
Protected Tree Removal
•
33-inch Coast Live Oak tree
•
Condition of Approval #9 for tree removal 
KEY ISSUES
Historic Analysis
Design Review
Protected Tree Removal
17

--- page 315 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS
• Public Noticing
• Addresses within 500 ft. radius and 
interested parties list
• Placard
• Newsletter
• Public Comments
• Support comments
• Meets code
• Fits neighborhood
• Opposing comments
• Historic resource impacts
• Design review
• Protected tree removal
• ADU size
18

--- page 316 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
• California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Categorically exempt 
• Class 1 Section 15301(l)(1)
• Demolition and removal of one single-family residence
• Class 3 Section 15303(a)
• New construction of one single-family residence
19

--- page 317 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit and Single-
Family Dwelling Design Review for construction of a single-family 
residence, with an attached ADU at 415 Fairfax Avenue; and accept the 
Categorical Exemption from environmental review based on the 
Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval. 
20

--- page 318 ---
Thank You
Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department
vkwan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206
21

--- page 319 ---
ND

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

415 FAIRFAX AVE., SAN MATEO, CA 94402

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21

/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

aN Response to Comments 4/18/22

The
Alston

Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title

Cover

Sheet

Scale

NA

Date 10/13/2021

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

AOOI!


--- page 320 ---
EW 3,910 SF HOUSE ON THIS LOT. IT WILL INCLUDE A PARTIAL SECOND FLOOR AREA, NEW POOL, AND N 1)
TACHED ADU. THE STYLE OF THE HOME IS TO BE A TRANSITIONAL HOME WITH WOOD SIDING, ASPHALT
SHINGLE ROOFING AND A STONE BASE. IT WILL INCLUDE 4 BEDROOMS AND 5.5 BATHS IN THE MAIN HOUSE

, A FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM SHALL BE INSTALLED THROUGHOUT THE DWELLING IN ACCORDANCE WITH NDPA 13D. { Architecture Planning
> FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS SHALL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL. THE FIRE SPRINKLER PLANS ARE SUBJECT TO REVIEW  <

A A A A V f \ f \ A A A > AND APPROVAL BY THE FIRE MARSHAL PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A FIRE SPRINKLER PERMIT. ) 1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
| 5 F IRE XxX E °9 S N M TEO 9 C 9 Q? ( ) Burlingame, California 94010

> PV SOLAR SYSTEM IS REQUIRED AND WILL BE A DEFERRED SUBMITTAL BY OTHERS. 5

| / Tel: 650.242.1553

\
NNN NN eee eee eee mee OSE OOOO aera eee

SITE REFERENCE PHOTOS PROJECT STATISTICS

APPLICANT/ PROPERTY OWNER:

GENE AND NICOLE ALSTON

PROJECT ADDRESS: A.P.N.:
A415 FAIRFAX AVE 034-033-100
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

ZONING: LOT AREA:
RIB [0,556 SF.

OCCUPANCY: CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
R3/U TYPE VB

NUMBER OF STORIES: AUTO. SPRINKLER:
2 + GARAGE YES

F.A.R. CALCULATION (5Q.FT.) EXISTING PROPOSED

MAIN HOUSE

GROUND FLOOR:

SECOND FLOOR:
ATTACHED GARAGE:
FRONT PORCH:

FRONT PORCH EXEMPTION:

l 300 HARVARD RD 411 FAIRFAX AVE 415 FAIRFAX (SUBJECT PROPERTY) 421 FAIRFAX AVE 425 FAIRFAX AVE

ATTACHED ADU (NOT COUNTED TOWARDS FAR)

TOTAL FLOOR AREA: . .
© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022
PERCENT OF LOT AREA: Revisions Date
MAX FAR (50% X GOOO) + (20% X 4558)
= 3,911 SF ; .
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21
TOTAL GARAGE PARKING STALLS (MIN. 1O0'X 18°):
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS (TANDEM NOT PERMITTED /J\ Response to Comments 3/3/22
LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES INCLUDING SPECIES € SIZE: 33 IN COAST LIVE OAK
15 IN BIRCH
16 IN BIRCH
47 IN COAST LIVE OAK
16 IN LONDON PLANE
16 IN LONDON PLANE
9) — — CUBIC YARDS OF SOIL DISTURBANCE: O C.F.
PARKING CALCULATION (SQ.FT.) EXISTING PROPOSED
TOTAL FLOOR AREA 2,612 3,910
DEDUCT COVERED PARKING (292) (470)
LOCATION MAP — we
3,000 SQ.FT. - 3,749 5Q. FT. = 2 COVERED; | UNCOVERED PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
NOTE: PARKING SPACES NOT ALLOWED IN FRONT OR SIDE YARD SETBACKS
APPLICABLE CODES
All work performed by the Contractor shall conform to the following codes:
The
9 California Residential Code
2 California Plumbing Code Alston
2 California Green Building Code .
2 California Energy Code Residence
9 California Fire Code
ornia State Titles 19 and 24 415 Fairfax Ave.
2 California Building Code San M CA
2 California Existing Building Code an Mateo,
29 Mechanical Code.
9 Electrical Code.

The latest edition of the Uniform Housing Code.

Also, any additional City of San Mateo Municipal Code requirements.

Drawing Title
Project Data
& Reference Photos
co Scale NA
a
fF] pale 10/13/2021
Mat Drawn By
Job Number 20-128
Drawing Number
io . i Fre
Oe Wiles This map is a user generated static output from an Internet mapping site and is for A ¢ Q 2

rr reference only. Data layers that appear on this map may or may no: be accurate.

WGS_1984_Web_Mercator_Auxiliary_Sphere current, or othenwise reliable.
@ Latitude Geographics Group Ltd. THIS MAP IS MOTTO BE USED FOR NAVIGATION



--- page 321 ---
NU

‘7200

| |

eh ha ,

*

oa ;
ae
Pn

415 FAIRFAX AVE RENDERS

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 322 ---


--- page 323 ---


--- page 324 ---


--- page 325 ---
a

= a ee a,

ia

|

A

}

i

INSPIRATIONAL IMAGES

GROUP

NYHUS | DESIGN


--- page 326 ---
ie.
ms ye ae ew)
om ee

301 JACKSON ST

NDG

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 327 ---
= | =
— ae ae =
a a 2

a
=e

301 JACKSON ST (FAIRFAX SIDE)

ND

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP


--- page 328 ---


--- page 329 ---
439 FAIRFAX AVE

NDG

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 330 ---
NU

‘7200

| |

eh ha ,

*

oa ;
ae
Pn

415 FAIRFAX AVE RENDERS

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 331 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD INPUT DATA REVIEW GRAPHIC

JEANNE

QO BRUCE & RITA
RONG

he & KEREN
WITZ

GLE
ei
MIKE
NASH
e

-NEIGHBOR COMMENTS
RECIEVED BY APPLICANT

-NEIGHBORS WITH NO
COMMENTS OR INPUT

-RESIDENT COMMENTS
RECIEVED BY APPLICANT
OUTSIDE 500 FT RADIUS

-KEITH WEBER

-PAMELA MCCARTHY HUDSON

-KIM RANDICK (462 NEVADA)

-MARTHA MOORE

-RODGER & SUSAN OSER (533 EDINBURGH)
-PETER & ANNE SORTWELL

-BRIAN HAVERTY (646 ALHAMBRA)

-KEN & LINDA HERZ (210 CASTILLION)

-BRIAN & LISA MAH (316 FRANKLIN)

NDG

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21

/\ Response to Comments 3/3/22

The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title
Neighbor Graphic
Scale NA
pas 8/11/21
Drawn By
Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

A004


--- page 332 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD SIZE ANALYSIS
#
RESIDENTS
ADDRESS
HOUSEFLOORAREA(SF)
LOTSIZE(SF)
FLOORAREA/LOTSIZE%
1
JOEMUSICH
442PARROTTDR
3,860
14,000
27.57
2
NEAL&ILANATANDOWSKY
253HARVARDRD
2,827
9,720
29.08
3
GLENNVOYLES
421FAIRFAXAVE
3,040
10,410
29.2
4
CHRISCOOPER
457FAIRFAXAVE
2,320
7,797
29.76
5
CONNIEWEISS&DAVECOHEN
460FAIRFAXAVE
2,254
7,280
30.96
6
JEANNEBOSSCHART
350FAIRFAXAVE
2,840
8,973
31.65
7
STEVEMCKAY
422PARROTTDR
4,127
13,000
31.75
8
LARRYGARNICK
421PARROTTDR
2,930
9,104
32.18
9
PETER&MARIANNEMANDLE
478FAIRFAXAVE
2,210
6,795
32.52
10
GENE&NICOLEALSTON
415FAIRFAXAVE
3,440
10,558
32.58
11
RON&CHERYLWHITESIDE
250HARVARDRD
2,640
8,102
32.58
12
MIKENASH
450PARROTDR
3,180
9,600
33.13
13
JOHN&JENNIFERVANKIRK
235AMHERSTAVE
2,310
6,960
33.19
14
KARENVITALE
478PARROTTDR
3,730
10,800
34.54
15
MARYCHIGOS
412PARROTTDRIVE
3,430
8,624
39.77
16
JEFF&KERENKOTOWITZ
411FAIRFAXAVE
4,020
9,539
42.14
17
RITA&BRUCEARMSTRONG
300HARVARDRD
3,600
8,364
43.04
18
LAURIE&RANDYHIETTER
223IRVINGST
3,520
7,440
47.31

--- page 333 ---
33"OAK
16"BIRCH
16"BIRCH
17"TREE
18"TREE
13"YUCCA
6"TREE
9"TREE
4
3
2
5
6
1
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
1
V
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
B
C
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
A
A
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
G1
1
V
G1
G1
1
V
1
V
1
V
E
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
14
14
14
8
8
8
8
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
11
11
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
11
11
6
6
6
13
13
13
5
5
5
5
5
5
2
2
2
2
2
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
2
2
2
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
16
16
16
16
16
16
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
13
13
13
13
13
13
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
12
15
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
5
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
1
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
5
5
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
15
15
14
14
14
14
14
14
1
1
1
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
17
47" OAK TREE
7
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
F A I R F A X      A V E N U E
50' R.O.W.
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N) AUTOMATIC
POOL COVER
(N) COPING STONE
(N)
SPA
(N) SWIM OUT 
(N) LOUNGE 
CHAIRS
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N) STONE FIREPIT
*NATURAL GAS
(N) GRAVEL
PATH
30"
(N)
LAWN
(N)
LAWN
(N)
TOLERANT
GROUNDCOVER
DROUGHT
(N) 3' TALL BBQ /
COUNTERTOP W/
STORAGE BELOW
(N) STONE
PATH
(N) STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
15'-0" SETBACK
(E) WATER
METER
(E) LODON
PLANE TREES
TO REMAIN
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES
(N) STORAGE 
AREA
(N) STONE
STEPS
(N) STONE
PATH
(N) EVERGREEN 
VINES
(E) FENCING 
TO REMAIN
(N) EVERGREEN 
PRIVACY TREES
(E) BIRCH TREE
TO REMAIN
(N) 6'-0" SOLID WOOD
FENCING PLUS 12" LATTICE
*7'-0" TALL TOTAL
(E) BIRCH TREE
TO REMAIN
(E) OAK TREE
TO BE REMOVED
(N) 6'-0" SOLID WOOD
FENCING PLUS 12" LATTICE
*7'-0" TALL TOTAL
(E) OAK TREE
TO REMAIN
(N) STONE
PORCH
(N) STONE RETAINING
(N) STONE
LANDING / STEPS
(N)  STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N) WOOD ARBOR
*SEE ARCH DWGS
6' SOLID
3' SOLID
(N)
(N)
WOOD
WOOD
(N) SPECIMEN 
TREE 36' BOX SIZE
6' SOLID
6' SOLID
(N)
(E)
WOOD
WOOD
FENCING FENCING
FENCING FENCING
FENCING
WOOD
(E)
(N)
FENCING
3' SOLID
(N) STONE
RETAINING WALL
WOOD GATE
(N) 3' SOLID 
(E) LODON
PLANE TREES
TO REMAIN
(N) STONE
LANDING / STEPS
CL
CL
(N) CONCRETE 
DRIVEWAY APRON
*PER TOWN STDS
(E) 2' CONC 
CURB
(N) STONE PATIO
(N) GROUNDCOVER
(N) DRYSTACK STONE
RETAINING WALL
(N) GROUNDCOVER
(N) EVERGREEN 
PRIVACY TREES
WALL *3'-0" TALL
(N) EVERGREEN
PRIVACY TREES
(N) LOUNGE 
CHAIRS
*3'-0" TALL
*3'-0" TALL
(E) WALL TO
REMAIN
*18" TALL
*3'-0" TALL
(N) ADU WOOD
*SEE ARCH DWGS
 ARBOR POSTS (2)
(N) BBQ / BUFFET
COUNTER
*3'-0" TALL
(N) SPECIMEN TREE
(N) GRANITE FINES
PARKING AREA
9'-0"
18'-9"
GUEST PARKING
(E) YUCCA TREE
TO BE REMOVED
1
01/24/2022
M.C.
L1.0
DATE:
MARCH 2, 2022
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
LANDSCAPE PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
LANDSCAPE
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
GENERAL NOTES
1.
CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN ALL PERMITS NECESSARY TO COMPLETE PROPOSED WORK PER CITY REQUIREMENTS.
2. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ON SITE ALL GRADES, PROPERTY LINES, EASEMENTS, SETBACKS, UTILITIES, SITE IMPROVEMENTS, WATERPROOFING
AND UNDERGROUND PIPING BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS.   THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT ASSUMES NO LIABILITY FOR DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN
THE PLANS AND ACTUAL FIELD CONDITIONS.  ALL DISCREPANCIES OR PROBLEMATIC SITE CONDITIONS SHALL BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF
THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
3. WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT OF WAY IS SUBJECT TO INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY THE CITY.  CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN AN ENCROACHMENT
PERMIT FROM PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT OF WAY.  THIS WORK MAY INCLUDE LANDSCAPING IN THE RIGHT OF
WAY, NEW CURB DRAINS, AND PARKING STRIP.
4. FINISHED GRADES SHALL PROVIDE POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM STRUCTURES AND SHALL BE PROPERLY INSTALLED TO PREVENT ANY STANDING
WATER.  ALL HARDSCAPE SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM GRADE OF 2% UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.  JUTE MESH EROSION CONTROL NETTING SHALL BE
USED ON ALL 3:1 OR GREATER SLOPES & STAKED APPROPRIATELY.
5. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE PROTECTION FOR EXISTING TREES BY INSTALLING TEMPORARY FENCING AROUND THE TREES AS CLOSE AS
POSSIBLE TO THE DRIPLINE.  IN THE EVENT THAT TREE ROOTS OVER 6" ARE DISCOVERED, THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT SHOULD BE CONTACTED.
6. CONTRACTOR SHALL REFER TO ARCHITECTURAL, CIVIL, & OTHER ENGINEERING DRAWINGS / DOCUMENTS FOR WORK IN RELEVANT AREAS.
7. THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT MAY MAKE SITE OBSERVATIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION BUT SHALL NOT BE UTILIZED TO SUPERVISE CONSTRUCTION
ONSITE.
8. THIS PLAN IS NOT A SURVEY OR CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENT.  IT IS CONCEPTUAL IN NATURE AND SHOULD BE USED FOR PLANNING PURPOSES.
PLANTING NOTES
1. LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY PLANT AND SOD QUANTITIES PRIOR TO SUBMITTING BID FOR WORK.
2. ALL PLANT MATERIAL SHALL COMPLY WITH THE LATEST STANDARDS OF NURSERY STOCK, PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN NURSERY & LANDSCAPE
ASSOCIATION.
3. PLANT MATERIAL CANNOT BE GUARANTEED AS DEER RESISTANT DUE TO CHANGING HABITS OF DEER.
4. ALL PLANTING AREAS SHALL BE COVERED WITH A LAYER OF BARK MULCH TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 2 INCHES, WITH A CHIP SIZE OF NO LESS THAN
ONE INCH.  A 2 INCH LAYER OF GREENWASTE MULCH UNDER THE BARK MULCH IS RECOMMENDED.
5. SOIL AMENDMENTS SHALL BE USED AS NECESSARY.  SOIL AMENDMENT SHALL BE FREE OF DEBRIS.  ROCKS LARGER THAN ONE INCH DIAMETER
WILL NOT BE PERMITTED.  SOIL AMENDMENTS ARE NOT PERMITTED IN TYPICAL NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREAS.
6. PLANTING HOLES SHALL GENERALLY BE 2x - 3x THE SIZE OF THE ROOT BALL.  THE WALLS AND BASES OF PLANT HOLES SHALL BE SCARIFIED.
HOLES SHALL BE BACKFILLED WITH 5% ORGANIC COMPOST & 95% EXISTING SOIL.  PLANTING HOLES OF NATIVE PLANT MATERIAL SHOULD BE
INOCULATED WITH MYCORRHIZAL FUNGI, PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECS.
7. TREES SHALL BE STAKED WITH TWO PRESSURE TREATED 2" DIA. POLES.  TREE TRUNK SHALL BE SECURED WITH TWO RUBBER TIES OR STRAPS
FORMING A FIGURE-EIGHT BETWEEN TRUNK AND STAKE.
8. RESIDUAL WEED PRE-EMERGENT SHALL BE APPLIED BY THE CONTRACTOR AS NECESSARY.  APPLICATION SHALL BE ACCORDING TO
MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS.
9. LAWN SHALL NOT BE INSTALLED ON SLOPES GREATER THAN 25%.  ALL TURF AREAS SHALL BE FERTILIZED AT TIME OF INSTALLATION.
1
1
1
7/31/2022
2
02/15/2022
M.C.
2
2

--- page 334 ---
NDG

NYHUS DESIGN GROUP

OTHER POSSIBLE LOCATION ee | |
_- _~e Architecture: Plannin g
7 ~ 1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120
Burlingame, California 94010

OF DETACHED ADU L
7 - >»
y N Tel: 650.242.1553

ON OO OO
SE | Ge A ASI 5 |

ne 1

“
7 Sweebosensd eeu eo) |

JOSS

\\T

WO! CWOVUUNET Cs,

Date

\
Nt

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

|
|
|
|
W = ee |
C) W | \ = \ Revisions
Cl) 5M | W i w~Cn 4 X
2 a Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
(o ar |
Planning Review 10/26/21
/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22
aN Response to Comments 4/18/22

rn in a a a
[ Ope oe

I

_—__ 4
Sususw

=
ir

The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

SAS

Drawing Title

Tree Protection

Zone Diagram

mee 3/16" = 1'-0"

Date

Drawn By

Job Number 20-128

OTHER POSSIBLE LOCATION

Drawing Number

A102

OF DETACHED ADU

Tree Protection Zone Diagram
( 3/16" = 1'-0"


--- page 335 ---
NU

‘7200

| |

eh ha ,

*

oa ;
ae
Pn

415 FAIRFAX AVE RENDERS

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 336 ---
“ALL WORK WITHIN 13 FT FROM
“THE TREE |S REQUIRED TO BE
SUPERVISED UNDER THE PROJECT
-ARBORIST.

>» ALL WORK WITHIN 13 FT FROM

© THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER) |S

» REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED BY
© HAND WHILE UNDER THE PROJEGT
- ARBORIST SUPERVISION.

NN

. FENCE PER TREE
> PROTECTION IN

~ ARBORIST REPORT |

» 6! CHAIN LINK

ALALAAL_S/

\

~ 6! CHAIN LINK
. FENCE PER TREE
“PROTECTION IN
> ARBORIST REPORT -

AA_A_A

ND

NYHUS DESIGN

GROUP

| HEDGE ¢ LANDSCAPE |
| FT HIGH OR MAINTAIN wow tg CHAIN LINK
| GROWTH OF A MATURE - FENCE PER TREE
TREE LOWER THAN 7 FT IN ~ PROTECTION IN \
|O'-0' | 6-0! _ (2. LY
JITPPE \ [ ° Oo x ° 5 ° ° ° ° ° )
©, ~ NO \ Ne ve AY Ds ZA S J 3 zm <x oO L6 . 5 ;
6 4 YOON) UNCOVERE a — ye
| |i CR TA PARKING a a ———— \\2
— A-10 3/4) J | SPOT TOTAly "
() yee —a ~ FOUNDATION WHEN WITHIN | 2 FT
| SETBA 4 & am ~ FROM THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER)
“K | \ , ~ {S REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED
[| . La ayy | \ BY HAND WHILE UNDER THE
boa 2/'.3 3/: (
_ _ { ° PROJECT ARBORIST
on w | ra — —_ » SUPERVISION.
= = 20:0 | | | | ||
o> GARAGE! | i— ee |
SETBACK [REE °
\ wl
|
W v | 4 ° - TRELLIS POST HOLES AND STONE |
y J sMor Zn Sin Bein || | ~ PATIO WHEN WITHIN 13.2 FT )
EEE | ty » FROM THE TREE (1 OX DIAMETER)
l \ | , ~ [5 REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED
WO OYA = | " | > BY HAND WHILE UNDER THE
| IN —_ | PROJECT ARBORIST
Ff 6b ~ SUPERVISION.
|
L 1 | 6! CHAIN LINK FENCE PER
Ny 7 NZ | TREE PROTECTION IN
7 10%s TSR) e sos Si ~—! 7 > ARBORIST REPORT ;
" ~ E EXISTING HOUSE | NODC e UCC eTe aN
Z he SHOWN DASHED ° fe
a
/ _|
HEDGE ¢ LANDSCAPE 1. .
SHALL BE LESS THAN 3 °
FT HIGH OR MAINTAIN : —
GROWTH OF A MATURE x =
TREE LOWER THAN 7 FT IN ° = Qo
THE 10! SIGHT TRIANGLE = w .
() ~~ 3 Wy, MU Zs Wy, _
° ae Liw"e S °
POOL WITHIN 39.2 FT FROM THE 4 (0
TREE (1 OX DIAMETER) IS ~
REQUIRED TO BE EXCAVATED BY ©
HAND WHILE UNDER THE PROJECT ©
ARBORIST SUPERVISION.

GENERAL NOTES:
|. Refer to Sheet L6.O for Tree Protection Measures

Site Plan
CE reso aeerereerrererrrrrerrererrnnrererrnerrneneeenreennnnenenennennenennnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnEnEEEEEEEEEEEEEIEEIEEREREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE

© Nyhus Design Group Architects, 2022

Architecture: Planning

1555 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 120

Burlingame, California 94010
Tel: 650.242.1553

Revisions Date
Neighborhood Meeting 8/4/21
Planning Review 10/26/21
/A\ Response to Comments 3/3/22
aN Response to Comments 4/18/22
The
Alston
Residence

415 Fairfax Ave.
San Mateo, CA

Drawing Title

Proposed Site

Plan
Scale 1/8" = 1'-0"
pare 10/13/21
Drawn By
Job Number 20-128

Drawing Number

A100


--- page 337 ---
NU

‘7200

| |

eh ha ,

*

oa ;
ae
Pn

415 FAIRFAX AVE RENDERS

NYHUS | DESIGN | GROUP



--- page 338 ---


--- page 339 ---


--- page 340 ---


--- page 341 ---


--- page 342 ---


--- page 343 ---


--- page 344 ---


--- page 345 ---
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES 
(N) STONE PATIO
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
H
2
MX
3
MX
4
MX
5
MX
11
MX
12
MX
8
MX
7
MX
6
H
10
MX
9
MX
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
1" PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
(N) BACKFLOW
PREVENTION
DEVICE
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
(N) HOSE BIB
1" MAINLINE
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) DRIP
IRRIGATION
TUBING
(N) SPRAY
IRRIGATION
F A I R F A X      A V E N U E
50' R.O.W.
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
L2.0
DATE:
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
IRRIGATION PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
IRRIGATION
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
RAINBIRD XERI-POP W/ MPR NOZZLE
HUNTER MPR40 BODY W/ MP ROTATOR SERIES
30-55
(C)-CORNER, (1)-1000 etc.
(5)-5 SERIES, (8)-8 SERIES
C
L
(L)-LEFT, (S)-SIDE, (R)-RIGHT
RAINBIRD XERI-POP W/ SQ NOZZLE
(Q)-QUARTER, (H)-HALF, (F)-FULL
5
FILTER / PRESSURE REGULATOR
FEBCO 825Y REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
PVC SCH 40 SLEEVING
IRRIGATION LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
PVC SCH 40 LATERAL PIPING
PVC SCH 40 MAINLINE
IRRITROL 100 SERIES CONTROL VALVE
SHUT-OFF VALVE
SYM
UNDER ALL PAVING / WALLS 
AS NEEDED PER MFR'S SPECS
SIZING TBD BY CONTRACTOR
W/ GLOBE VALVE
W/ SHUT-OFF VALVES
BRASS BALL VALVE
REMARKS
SEE PLAN FOR SIZING
W/ WEATHER STATION
WEATHERMATIC SMARTLINE SERIES CONTROLLER
HOSEBIB
30" TALL BRASS LINE & FIXTURE
60-100
30-55
-
-
60-100
60-100
-
175 max.
PSI
30-55
10-30
60-100
20-50
20-50
RAINBIRD XERI-BUBBLER SPIKE *NOT SHOWN
AS NEEDED, SEE DETAIL
15-30
-
INSTALL PER MFR'S SPECS
HUNTER MPR40 BODY W/ MP STRIP SERIES
GPM
.07-2.63
.14-.55
-
-
-
-
-
.02-.41
.13-.52
.02-.22
-
-
-
-
-
-
Q
SIZING TBD BY CONTRACTOR
IRRIGATION METHOD
WATER USE
(SPY: SPRAY  DRP: DRIP  BUB: BUBBLER  SUB: SUB-SURFACE)
(VL: VERY LOW  L: LOW  M: MEDIUM  H: HIGH  MX: MIXED)
MX
DRP
NETAFIM TECHLINE CV DRIPLINE
NETAFIM TECHLINE CV (SUBSURFACE)
FEBRUARY 14, 2022

--- page 346 ---
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
L2.5
DATE:
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
DETAILS
NOTES /
REVISIONS
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE
THESE PLANS COMPLY WITH THE CRITERIA OF THE WATER CONSERVATION
IN LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM FOR THE EFFICIENT USE
OF WATER IN THE LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN.
WEATHERMATIC
SMART CONTROLLER
SCALE:  NTS
B
SMARTLINE SL4800
CONDUIT 24v AC
CONTROLLER
POWER SUPPLY
WIRES
GROUND WIRE
SLW10
WEATHER
STATION
CONDUIT 115v AC
*WALL-MOUNT
RAIN STAT WIRES
*OPTIONAL
MASTER VALVE WIRE
*OPTIONAL
COMMON NEUTRAL WIRE
PUMP CIRCUIT WIRES
*OPTIONAL
VALVE CONTROL WIRES
*ONE PER VALVE
EXPANSION COILS
WATERPROOF
CONNECTIONS
CONTROL
VALVE
NOTE:
ALL ELECTRICAL WORK TO COMPLY
WITH APPLICABLE CODES
*12-48 ZONES
RAINBIRD XERI-BUBBLER
SPIKE MOUNT BUBBLERS
SCALE:  NTS
H
*SPIKE MOUNT
1/4" DISTRUBUTION TUBING
*STAKE *5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
1/4" BARB CONNECTOR
*INCLUDED ON SPIKE
1/2" or 3/4" POLY TUBING
MULCH
FINISHED GRADE
NOTE:
USE RAINBIRD XERI-MAN TOOL TO
INSERT BARB INTO POLY TUBING
EMITTER /
EMITTER SPACING
SCALE:  NTS
G
EMITTER /
LARGE SHRUB
SMALL SHRUB
1/2" - 3/4"
POLY TUBING
1/4" DISTRIBUTION
TUBING *STAKED
1/2" - 3/4"
POLY TUBING
5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
BUBBLER
BUBBLER
OR TREE
1/4" DISTRIBUTION
TUBING *STAKED
5'-0" MAX. LENGTH
NOTES:
1.  SPACE EMITTERS TO CREATE AN EVEN WET ZONE ABOUT THE SIZE
OF THE CANOPY OF ALL NEW SHRUBS, NEW TREES, & EXISTING
2.  PLACE EMITTERS AS TO AVOID AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IRRIGATING
OAK TREES & ANY OTHER EXISTING, MATURE NATIVE OR DROUGHT
TOLERANT PLANTS.
IMMATURE NON-NATIVE EXISTING TREES.
CONTROL VALVE
SCALE:  NTS
C
FINISHED GRADE
VALVE BOX
WATERPROOF WIRE
CONNECTIONS
IRRITOL 100 SERIES
CONTOL VALVE
PVC MALE ADAPTER
PVC SCH 40 SxT ELL
PVC SCH 80 NIPPLE
*6" LONG
PVC LATERAL LINE
*ANGLE TO CORRECT
DEPTH W 450 ELL'S
TYP BRICK
PEA GRAVEL *12" DEEP
PVC SCH 80 PIPE
COMMON & CONTROL
WIRES TO CONTROLLER
MAIN LINE PIPING
W/ FITTING
NOTE:
ALL ELECTRICAL WORK
TO COMPLY WITH
APPLICABLE CODES
FEBCO 825Y REDUCED
REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
SCALE:  NTS
A
12" MIN.
PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
FINISHED GRADE
NOTE:
REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY
TO BE INSTALLED PER MFR'S
FEBCO PRV SERIES
PRESSURE REGULATOR
*AS NEEDED
BRASS WYE-FILTER
*100 MESH SCREEN
SHUT-OFF VALVE
*BOTH SIDES
BRASS UNION
*BOTH SIDES
RISER PIPE
*COPPER TYPE 'K'
OR BRASS
SPECS & APPLICABLE CODES
IRRIGATION NOTES
1.  THE CONCEPTS ON THE IRRIGATION PLAN ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
CONTRACTOR.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE ADJUSTMENTS AS NECESSARY BASED ON ACTUAL SITE CONDITIONS.
2.  ALL IRRIGATION SYSTEM COMPONENTS SHALL BE INSTALLED PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS.  MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS
SUPERSEDE ANY SPECS ON THESE PLANS / DETAILS.
3.  IRRIGATION SYSTEM SHALL USE PRESSURE REGULATORS AS NEEDED TO KEEP ALL COMPONENTS WITHIN OPTIMAL PSI RANGE, PER
MANUFACTURER'S SPECS.
4.  CONTROLLER TYPE SHALL BE A SMART CONTROLLER.  RAIN SENSORS AND / OR WEATHER STATIONS ARE RECOMMENDED.
5.  CONTROLLER SHALL BE SET TO IRRIGATE BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 8PM AND 10AM.  CONTROLLER SHALL BE SET TO IRRIGATE DEEPLY AND LESS
FREQUENTLY TO ENCOURAGE DROUGHT RESISTANT ROOT GROWTH.  IRRIGATION SCHEDULE TO BE DETERMINED BY AUDITOR / CONTRACTOR.
6.  PIPING BETWEEN THE WATER METER AND A REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY SHALL BE BRASS OR COPPER TYPE 'K'.
7.  THE BOTTOM OF THE REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY SHALL BE INSTALLED MIN. 12" ABOVE THE GROUND.
8.  A 100 MESH FILTER SHALL BE INSTALLED ON THE MAINLINE BEFORE THE REDUCED PRESSURE ASSEMBLY.
9.  VALVES SHALL BE HOUSED IN WEATHER-PROOF PLASTIC BOXES, WITH LOCKABLE LIDS MARKED WATER.
10.  CONTROL WIRE CONNECTIONS SHALL BE MADE WITH WATERPROOF PLASTIC WIRE NUTS.
11.  MAIN SUPPLY LINES & FITTINGS SHALL BE PVC SCH 40, SIZE AS NOTED ON PLAN, BURIED 12" - 16" DEEP.
12.  LATERAL SUPPLY LINES & FITTINGS SHALL BE PVC SCH 40, SIZE TO BE DETERMINED BY CONTRACTOR, BURIED 9" - 12" DEEP.
13.  FLEXIBLE POLY PIPE TO BE  12" -34", DETERMINED BY CONTRACTOR .  ALL  14" FLEXIBLE DISTRIBUTION LINES TO BE A MAXIMUM OF 5'-0" IN LENGTH
& ARE TO BE STAKED.
14.  BUBBLERS SHALL BE SPACED TO CREATE AN EVEN WET ZONE ABOUT THE SIZE OF THE CANOPY OF ALL NEW SHRUBS, NEW TREES & EXISTING
IMMATURE NON-NATIVE TREES.  BUBBLERS SHALL BE PLACED TO AVOID AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE IRRIGATING OAK TREES & ANY OTHER EXISTING,
MATURE NATIVE OR DROUGHT TOLERANT PLANTS.
15.  HOSE BIBS SHALL BE MOUNTED ON GALVANIZED STEEL RISERS 30" ABOVE FINISHED GRADE.  SECURE TO A #4 STEEL BAR DRIVEN 18" INTO
SOLID GROUND.
16.  CHECK VALVES SHALL BE INSTALLED ON ALL DOWNHILL DRIPLINE & DISTRIBUTION LINE.
17.  RISER HEIGHT IN LAWN AREAS SHALL BE 4".  RISER HEIGHT IN MEADOW AREAS AND OTHER LANDSCAPE AREAS SHALL BE 12".  THE RISERS FOR
SPRINKLERS ON SLOPES SHALL BE SET APPROXIMATELY PERPENDICULAR TO THE PLANE OF THE SLOPE.
18.  IF LOCATION OF A SUPPLY LINE INTERFERES WITH THE DRILLING OF THE PLANT HOLES, THE PLANT HOLES SHALL BE LOCATED AS TO CLEAR THE
SUPPLY LINES.
18.  ALL LINES SHALL BE THOROUGHLY FLUSHED OUT PRIOR TO ATTACHMENT OF VALVES, SPRINKLERS, EMITTERS, & OTHER TERMINAL FITTINGS.
19.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE FINAL ADJUSTMENTS TO THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM TO ENSURE PROPER COVERAGE AND PREVENT WATER RUN-OFF
AND EXCESS SPRAY.
20.  ALL SPRAY AND DRIP ZONES TO BE MIN. 5'-0" AND PREFERABLY 10'-0" AWAY FROM OAK TREE TRUNKS.
SPRAY HEAD & BODY
SCALE:  NTS
D
FINISH GRADE
HUNTER MPR40 BODY
HUNTER MP ROTATOR
W/ CHECK VALVE
HUNTER PRO-FLEX TUBING,
(2) HSBE-050 ELBOWS &
(1) MARLEX STREET ELBOW
SWING JOINT:
LATERAL TEE OR ELL
LATERAL PIPE
SPRAY NOZZLE
NOTE:
LAWN SPRAY RISER: 6" POP-UP
MEADOW SPRAY RISER: 12" POP-UP
FINISHED GRADE
POP-UP MICROSPRAY 
SCALE:  NTS
F
XERI-POP MICROSPRAY
1/2" or 3/4" POLY TUBING
1/4" SELF-PIERCING
BARB CONNECTOR
1/4" DISTRIBUTION TUBING
NOTE:
LAWN SPRAY RISER: 6" POP-UP
MEADOW, SHRUB SPRAY RISER: 12" POP-UP
DRIPLINE SAMPLE LAYOUT
SCALE:  NTS
E
AUTOMATIC FLUSH VALVE
PLUMBED TO PVC OR POLY
EXHAUST HEADER
TECHLINE TEE
TECHLINE DRIPLINE
*CENTERED ON BERM
TECHLINE DRIPLINE
TECHLINE START
CONNECTION
AIR / VACUUM RELIEF
PLUMBED TO TECHLINE
AT EACH HIGH POINT
SUPPLY HEADER
REMOTE CONTROL
VALVE WITH DISC
FILTER AND PRV
SOIL BED
SPACING
TECHLINE
MULCH
FINISHED GRADE
PER SOIL
CONDITIONS
DRIPLINE
MALE ADAPTER
1/2" PVC IRRIGATION
POT IRRIGATION / DRAINAGE
SCALE:  NTS
I
W/ XERI-BUBBLER
& LASER LINE
BITUTHENE
WATER-PROOFING
FILTER FABRIC
4" DEEP PEA GRAVEL
PAVING
WATERPROOF SEAL
*PREVENT DRAINAGE
TO PAVING
4" PVC SLEEVE / DRAIN
FINISHED
GRADE
POT *PER OWNER
SUPERSOIL
*OR EQ.
CONNECT TO SITE
DRAINAGE / IRRIGATION
3"
4"
SEPTEMBER 00, 2015

--- page 347 ---
33"OAK
16"BIRCH
16"BIRCH
17"TREE
18"TREE
13"YUCCA
6"TREE
9"TREE
4
3
2
5
6
1
47" OAK TREE
7
ADU
(N)
RESIDENCE
(N)
GARAGE
(N)
SWIMMING 
POOL
15'x35'
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
STONE
PATIO
(N)
LAWN
(N)
LAWN
(N)
TOLERANT
GROUNDCOVER
DROUGHT
(N)
UNIT PAVER
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
(N) STONE PATIO
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
30'-0" VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT ZONE
(N)
PARKING
GRANITE FINES
(N)
STONE
PATIO
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
TREE PROTECTION 
FENCING
L6.0
DATE:
SCALE:  1/8" = 1'-0"
/ TREE PROTECTION PLAN
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
PLAN
PROTECTION
REVISIONS
TREE
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT
APRIL 20, 2022
TREE PROTECTION FENCING
SCALE:  NTS
BLACK CHAINLINK FENCING
BASEROCK FOOTING
3" DIA. STEEL POST *8'-0" O.C. MAX.
A
12"
18"
6'-0" MAX.
COMPACT
17.  NO MATERIALS SHALL BE STORED WITHIN THE TREE PROTECTION ZONE;
18.  NOTHING SHALL BE ATTACHED TO THE TREES WITHIN THE TPZ;
19.  UTILITY SERVICES SHALL NOT BE LOCATED WITHIN THE TPZ;
20.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST SHALL BE RETAINED FOR PERIODIC MONITORING OF THE TREES AND PROTECTION MEASURES;
21.  THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTACTING THE PROJECT ARBORIST IN A TIMELY MANNER TO HAVE THE PROJECT ARBORIST PRESENT FOR ALL WORK PERFORMED
WITHIN THE TPZ OF PROTECTED TREES;
22.  NO SELF-PROPELLED EQUIPMENT MAY ENTER THE TPZ;
23.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST IS TO MONITOR ALL WORK WITHIN THE TPZ;
24.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST IS TO DETERMINE THE IRRIGATION SCHEDULE FOR PROTECTED TREES. THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS EXPECTED TO APPLY SUPPLEMENTAL WATER AT THE
DIRECTION OF THE PROJECT ARBORIST.
*TPZ: TREE PROTECTION ZONE.
7/31/2022
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL - TREE PROTECTION / TREE REPLACEMENT
11.  RECOMMENDATIONS BY CONSULTING ARBORIST - THE RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE CONSULTING ARBORIST, INCLUDING THE MITIGATION MEASURES
OUTLINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION REGARDING TREE PRESERVATION, PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT PLANTINGS, AND ANY MODIFICATIONS IMPOSED THROUGH THE APPROVAL
PROCESS, SHALL BE INCORPORATED INTO THE FINAL DESIGN OF THE PROJECT AND WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE PLANNING DIVISION PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT AND WILL BE
MONITORED BY ROUTIME INSPECTIONS BY THE PLANNING, BUILDING AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS AND THROUGH MONTHLY REPORTS SUBMITTED FOR REVIEW TO THE PLANNING DIVISION BY THE
PROJECT ARBORIST AND APPLICANT.  (PLANNING, BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS
12.  TREE PROTECITON - THE APPLICANT SHALL PROTECT ALL MAJOR VEGETATION DESIGNATED TO REMAIN FROM DAMAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION.  TREE PROTECTION SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL
PROVISIONS OF THE HERITAGE TREE ORDINANCE, APPROMED ARBORIST'S REPORT, AND ANY REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED BY THE CITY.  THE FOLLOWING TREE PROTECTION MEASURES SHALL BE SHOWN
ON BUILDING PERMIT DRAWINGS:
A)  PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE LOCATED AT THE DRIP LINE OF EXISTING MAJOR VEGETATION TO REMAIN.  THIS PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED OF CHAIN LINK IN FOOTINGS AND
SHALL REMAIN IN PLACE UNTIL FINAL INSPECTION PER THE ARBORIST'S REPORT.
B)  ALL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREE PRESERVATION - INCLUDING ROOT PRUNING, PRUNING, FERTILIZATION AND MULCHING - CONTAINED IN THE APPROVED ARBORIST REPORT, AND / OR ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED BY THE CITY.
IN ADDITION, THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE COMPLIED WITH AT ALL TIMES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
C)  OIL, GAS, CHEMICALS, TOPSOIL, CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS, VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT SHALL NOT BE STORED WITHIN THE DRIP LINE OF TREES THAT ARE DESIGNATED TO BE PRESERVED.
D)  SIGNS, WIRES, OR OTHER TYPED OF OBSTRUCTIONS SHALL NOT BE ATTACHED TO TREES.
E)  TRENCHING UNDER THE DRIP LINE OF TREES IS TO BE AVOIDED.  IF TRENCING IS NECESSARY, TRENCHES ARE TO BE HAND DUG AND MAJOR ROOTS RETAINED.
F)  TO MITIGATE THE REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION AND HERITAGE TREES, REPLACEMENT LANDSCAPING WILL BE PROVIDED.  THE SIZE OF PROPOSED PLANTINGS INCLUDE:  50 (15-GALLON TREES),
28 (24-INCH BOX TREES), AND 8 (36-INCH BOX TREES).
ALL TREE PROTECTION MEASURES SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A GRADING PERMIT, DEMOLITION PERMIT, OR BUILDING PERMIT.  THE APPLICANT SHALL CONTACT THE PLANNING
DIVISION TO INSPECT THE TREE PROTECTION MEASURES PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF ANY PERMITS ON THE PROPERTY.  (PLANNING)
13.  TREE PROTECTION - THE APPLICANT SHALL PROTECT ALL MAJOR VEGETATION DESIGNATED TO REMAIN FROM DAMAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION.  TREE PROTECTION SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL
PROVISIONS OF THE HERITAGE TREE ORDINANCE AND SHALL DEMONSTRATE AND INCLUDE THE MITIGATION MEASURES OUTLINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION REGARDING TREE
PRESERVATION, PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT PLANTINGS ON THE BUILDING PERMIT DRAWINGS.  THE MITIGATION MEASURES IN THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE  CONSULTING ARBORIST SHALL BE
INCORPORATED INTO THE PROJECT PLANS AND WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE PLANNING DIVISION PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT AND WILL BE MONITORED BY ROUTINE INSPECTIONS BY
THE PLANNING, BUILDING AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS.  IN ADDITION, THE PROJECT ARBORIST WILL PROVIDE MONTHLY REPORTS (DURING PRE-DEMOLITION, DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES) REGARDING THE HEALTH OF ALL TREES PROPOSED TO BE RETAINED.  THESE REPORTS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING DIVISION FOR REVIEW.  (PLANNING,
BUILDING, PUBLIC WORKS)
14.  FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR TREE PRESERVATION - THE APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT FINANCIAL SECURITIES TO ENSURE THE PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A
BUILDING PERMIT.  TREE PRESERVATION FEES SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE LANDSCAPE UNIT (LU) VALUE AT A RATE OF NINETY DOLLARS ($90) PER LU.  IN ORDER TO RECLAIM FINANCIAL SECURITIES,
THE APPLICANT SHALL REQUEST A FINAL PROJECT INSPECTION BY THE PLANNING DIVISION.  IF THE APPLICANT DOES MEET THE OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE TERMS OF THE SECURITIES THAT MONEY SHALL
BE USED TO ACCOMP0LISH THE PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES.  (PLANNING)
15.  TREE REPLACEMENT / IN LIEU FEES - THE APPLICANT SHALL PLANT TREES EQUIVALENT TO THE LANDSCAPE UNIT (LU) VALUE OF TREES TO BE REMOVED OR PAY A FEE IN LIEU OF PLANTING TREES AT
THE RATE OF NINETY DOLLARS ($90) PER REQUIRED LU PER THE ARBORIST REPORT AND THE MITIGATION MEASURES CONTAINED IN THE MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION.  THE APPLICANT SHALL PAY
THE REQUIRED LU FEES PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.  THE FEES WILL GO INTO THE CITY'S PRESERVATION FUND TO ENSURE THAT REPLACEMENT PLANTING ARE PLANTED WITHIN THE
CITY OF SAN MATEO.  (PLANNING, PARKS AND RECREATION)
16.  PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION - THE APPLICANT SHALL OBTAIN A SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FROM THE PLANNING DIVISION FOR REMOVAL OF MAJOR VEGETATION (TREES 6"
DIAMETER OR LARGER) PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A GRADING OR BUILDING PERMIT.  FEES FOR TREE REMOVAL SHALL BE BASED ON THE NUMBER OF TREES TO BE REMOVED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
CITY REGULATIONS.  (PLANNING)
TREE PROTECTION NOTES
1.  THE CONCEPTS ON THE TREE PROTECTION PLAN ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED
BY THE CONTRACTOR.  THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE ADJUSTMENTS AS NECESSARY BASED ON ACTUAL SITE CONDITIONS.
2.  PRIOR TO INITIATING ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY IN THE AREA, INCLUDING GRADING, TEMPORTY PROTECTIVE FENCING SHALL BE INSTALLED AT
EACH SITE TREE.  FENCING IS IDEALLY LOCATED AT OR BEYOND THE CANOPY DRIPLINE AND AS MUCH DRIPLINE AS POSSIBLE WILL BE PROTECTED BY
FENCING.
3.  FENCING SHALL BE MINIMUM OF 5' TALL AT ALL LOCATIONS, AD SHALL FORM A CONTINUOUS BARRIER WITHOUT ENTRY POINTS AROUND ALL
TREES, OR GROUPS OF TREES.  BARRIER TYPE FENCING SUCH AS CHAINLINK IS PREFERRED, AND THE USE OF SIMPLE POST AND CABLE FENCING IS
DISCOURAGED.  ANY ENCROACHMENT INTO THE DRIPLINE FOR FENCING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES SHOULD BE DISCUSSED AND AGREED UPON IN
ADVANCE WITH THE PROJECT ARBORIST.
4.  THIS FENCING SHALL SERVE AS A BARRIER TO PREVENT DRIPLINE ENCROACHMENT OF ANY TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE TO BARK, ROOT CROWN, OR LIMBS MAY INCREASE POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE DECLINE.
5.  CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS SHALL DIRECT ALL EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL TO REMAIN OUTSIDE THE FENCED AREA AT ALL TIMES
UNTIL PROJECT IS COMPLETE, AND SHALL INSTRUCT EMPLOYEES AS TO THE PURPOSE AND IMPORTANCE OF FENCING.
6.  A WARNING SIGN SHALL BE POSTED AT EACH TREE INDICATING THE PURPOSE OF THE FENCING.
7.  THE PROJECT ARBORIST SHALL BE RESPOSIBLE FOR INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF THE FENCING PRIOR TO ANY GRADING OPERATIONS.
8.  FENCING MUST REMAIN IN PLACE AND SHALL NOT BE REMOVED UNTIL ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ARE COMPLETED.  THIS SHALL INCLUDE
GRADING AND COMPACTION ACTIVITIES, INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND, ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES AND ANY OTHER CONSTRUCTION OR
ACTIVITY WHICH IS SCHEDULED PRIOR TO LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION.
9.  ROOTS OF SINGLE STANDING TREES OFTEN EXTEND UP TO THREE TIMES THE DISTANCE OF THE ACTUAL DRIPLINE AD FUNCTION PRIMARILY IN THE
UPTAKE OF NUTRIENTS AND WATER.  THE DRIPLINE IS ARBITRARILY ESTABLISHED AS THE MINIMUM ROOT AREA GENERALLY REQUIRED TO PRESERVE
TREE HEALTH.  AS MUCH AREAS AROUND THE CIRCUMFERENCE OF THE TREE SHOULD HAVE MINIMUM INTRUSION TO FURTHER ENSURE TREE
SURVIVAL AND HEALTH.
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT NOTES
1.  MAINTAIN A FIREBREAK BY REMOVING AND CLEARING AWAY ALL FLAMMABLE VEGETATION AND OTHER COMBUSTIBLE GROWTH WITHIN 30 FEET OF
EACH BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, WITH CERTAIN EXCEPTIONS PURSUANT TO PRC §4291(A). SINGLE SPECIMENS OF TREES OR OTHER VEGETATION MAY
BE RETAINED PROVIDED THEY ARE WELL SPACED, WELL-PRUNED, AND CREATE A CONDITION THAT AVOIDS SPREAD OF FIRE TO OTHER VEGETATION OR
TO A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  CHIMNEY AND STOVEPIPE OUTLETS SHALL BE MAINTAINED WITH 10 FEET CLEARANCE TO ADJACENT VEGETATION.
2.  DEAD AND DYING WOODY SURFACE FUELS AND AERIAL FUELS WITHIN THE REDUCED FUEL ZONE SHALL BE REMOVED. LOOSE SURFACE LITTER,
NORMALLY CONSISTING OF FALLEN LEAVES OR NEEDLES, TWIGS, BARK, CONES, AND SMALL BRANCHES, SHALL BE PERMITTED TO A DEPTH OF 3
INCHES. THIS GUIDELINE IS PRIMARILY INTENDED TO ELIMINATE TREES, BUSHES, SHRUBS AND SURFACE DEBRIS THAT ARE COMPLETELY DEAD OR
WITH SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF DEAD BRANCHES OR LEAVES/NEEDLES THAT WOULD READILY BURN.  THE ROOF OF THE STRUCTURE SHALL BE
MAINTAINED FREE OF LEAVES, NEEDLES, AND OTHER VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
3.  DOWN LOGS OR STUMPS ANYWHERE WITHIN 100 FEET FROM THE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, WHEN EMBEDDED IN THE SOIL, MAY BE RETAINED
WHEN ISOLATED FROM OTHER VEGETATION. OCCASIONAL (APPROXIMATELY ONE PER ACRE) STANDING DEAD TREES (SNAGS) THAT ARE WELL-SPACE
FROM OTHER VEGETATION AND WHICH WILL NOT FALL ON BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES OR ON ROADWAYS/DRIVEWAYS MAY BE RETAINED.
4.  WITHIN THE REDUCED FUEL ZONE, ONE OF THE FOLLOWING FUEL TREATMENTS (4A. OR 4B.) SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED. PROPERTIES WITH GREATER
FIRE HAZARDS WILL REQUIRE GREATER CLEARING TREATMENTS. COMBINATIONS OF THE METHODS MAY BE ACCEPTABLE UNDER §1299(C) AS LONG AS
THE INTENT OF THESE
GUIDELINES IS MET.
4A. REDUCED FUEL ZONE: FUEL SEPARATION
IN CONJUNCTION WITH GENERAL GUIDELINES 1, 2 AND 3 ABOVE, MINIMUM CLEARANCE BETWEEN FUELS SURROUNDING EACH BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE WILL RANGE FROM 4 FEET TO 40 FEET IN ALL DIRECTIONS, BOTH HORIZONTALLY AND VERTICALLY.  CLEARANCE DISTANCES BETWEEN
VEGETATION WILL DEPEND ON THE SLOPE, VEGETATION SIZE, VEGETATION TYPE (BRUSH, GRASS, TREES), AND OTHER FUEL CHARACTERISTICS (FUEL
COMPACTION, CHEMICAL CONTENT ETC.).  PROPERTIES WITH GREATER FIRE HAZARDS WILL REQUIRE GREATER SEPARATION BETWEEN FUELS.  FOR
EXAMPLE, PROPERTIES ON STEEP SLOPES HAVING LARGE SIZED VEGETATION WILL REQUIRE GREATER SPACING BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL TREES AND
BUSHES (SEE PLANT SPACING GUIDELINES BELOW).  GROUPS OF VEGETATION (NUMEROUS PLANTS GROWING TOGETHER LESS THAN 10 FEET IN TOTAL
FOLIAGE WIDTH) MAY BE TREATED AS A SINGLE PLANT.  GRASS GENERALLY SHOULD NOT EXCEED 4 INCHES IN HEIGHT.  HOWEVER, HOMEOWNERS MAY
KEEP GRASS AND OTHER FORBS LESS THAN 18 INCHES IN HEIGHT ABOVE THE GROUND WHEN THESE GRASSES ARE ISOLATED FROM OTHER FUELS
OR WHERE NECESSARY TO STABILIZE THE SOIL AND PREVENT EROSION.  CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS INCLUDE:
• HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN TREE CANOPIES ON 0%-20% SLOPES SHALL BE 10 FEET, ON 20%-40% SLOPES 20 FEET, AND ON GREATER
THAN 40% SLOPES, 30 FEET.  HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN SHRUB CANOPIES ON 0%-20% SLOPES SHALL BE 2 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT, ON
20%-40% SLOPES 4 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT, AND ON GREATER THAN 40% SLOPES 6 TIMES THE SHRUB HEIGHT WITH A MINIMUM OF 4 FEET
CLEARANCE AND A MAXIMUM ON 40 FEET.  HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE HELPS STOP THE SPREAD OF FIRE FROM ONE FUEL TO THE NEXT.
• VERTICAL CLEARANCE BETWEEN LOWER LIMBS OF AERIAL FUELS AND THE NEAREST SURFACE FUELS AND GRASS / WEEDS SHALL BE 3 TIMES THE
HEIGHT OF THE VEGETATION WITH A MINIMUM OF 4 FEET CLEARANCE AND A MAXIMUM ON 40 FEET.  VERTICAL CLEARANCE REMOVES LADDER FUELS
AND HELPS PREVENT A FIRE FROM MOVING FROM THE SHORTER FUELS TO THE TALLER FUELS.
4B. REDUCED FUEL ZONE: DEFENSIBLE SPACE WITH CONTINUOUS TREE CANOPY
TO ACHIEVE DEFENSIBLE SPACE WHILE RETAINING A STAND OF LARGER TREES WITH A CONTINUOUS TREE CANOPY APPLY THE FOLLOWING
TREATMENTS:
• GENERALLY, REMOVE ALL SURFACE FUELS GREATER THAN 4 INCHES IN HEIGHT. SINGLE SPECIMENS OF TREES OR OTHER VEGETATION MAY BE
RETAINED PROVIDED THEY ARE WELL-SPACED, WELL-PRUNED, AND CREATE A CONDITION THAT AVOIDS SPREAD OF FIRE TO OTHER VEGETATION OR TO
A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
• REMOVE LOWER LIMBS OF TREES (“PRUNE”) TO AT LEAST 6 FEET UP TO 15 FEET (OR THE LOWER 1/3 BRANCHES FOR SMALL TREES). PROPERTIES
WITH GREATER FIRE HAZARDS, SUCH AS STEEPER SLOPES OR MORE SEVERE FIRE DANGER, WILL REQUIRE PRUNING HEIGHTS IN THE UPPER END OF
THIS RANGE.

--- page 348 ---
L6.5
DATE:
TITLE:
SHEET NO:
DETAILS
NOTES /
REVISIONS
ALSTON RESIDENCE
415 FAIRFAX AVENUE      SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
APRIL 20, 2022
7/31/2022

--- page 349 ---
AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

Washington Park
Oo

Lupi as Home Daycare e

Ns)
<=
Xe
wd
wd
z
)
Zz
Wd
Zz
©
cp)
O
w
Xe
on

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 -— 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

Burlingame “ License # 414004544
é
a Aj ax
a ao >O
Zo
oa
Goma SAN MATEO, CA 94402
; PROJECT %
yi a yr ay
re
ai
x
ae ‘ (am)
bg \
N \
ee \
\ oy
\ \
\
N.T.S. \ N.T.S.
\ \ é
, \ \ \ 5
n
ABBREVIATIONS \ \ \ EXISTING proposep LEGEND: >
\ wd
AB AGGREGATE BASE /
AC ASPHALT CONCRETE ) \ —ss——— ss —>— SANITARY SEWER
AD AREA DRAIN / \ \ —sp—— ss —sp—— STORM DRAIN
ATD ATRIUM DRAIN °
BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTION DEVICE / a STORM SUB—DRAIN (PERFORATED PIPE)
BW BOTTOM OF WALL ELEVATION —--— TRANSITION FROM PERF. PIPE TO SOLID PIPE
CB CATCH BASIN
CL CENTER LINE Li >— = —LE>— FORCE MAIN
cs CRAWL SPACE ELEVATION —LAw }+— = =—LEW + - FIRE WATER LINE
CIP CAST IRON PIPE
CONC CONCRETE —~ — | | vccumoawe W —_W}+— DOMESTIC WATER SERVICE
DD DECK DRAIN J \ i, RR — ORR} IRRIGATION SERVICE
DDCVv DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE Lor 11
DG DECOMPOSED GRANITE | fy = 3 G — eas—— NATURAL GAS
DIP DUCTILE IRON PIPE ) x oa EE ELECTRIC
DS ROOF DOWN SPOUT be a~ 6 a,
DWy DRIVEWAY * a boo ma ne se JT JT JOINT TRENCH
(E) EXISTING i Bo re TNE C , Xx o_o FENCE
ELEC ELECTRICAL sous a oe
EM ELECTRICAL METER | oo" A | | oll... O fo) CLEAN OUT
EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT + > 5 i atc son DOUBLE DETECTOR CHECK VALVE
FC FACE OF CURB ELEVATION | .
FDC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION y a | GARAGE | PROPOSED RES CEs - POST INDICATOR VALVE
FF FINISHED FLOOR ELEVATION a _ FE = 920 men ® @ VALVE
FG FINISHED GROUND ELEVATION se AN oe 2 -
FL FLOW LINE ELEVATION / 8 = es arr atts = LG CRAWL SPACE a bx & METER BOX
FM FORCE MAIN LINE iS eum we es — STREET LIGHT
FS FINISHED SURFACE ELEVATION = | es saeror—— LOT 10, 5 stucco nouse | @ e e AREA DRAIN
FP FINISHED PAVEMENT ELEVATION S| ep ° is Mids 3
FW FIRE WATER LINE E; op re ere | CATCH BASIN
GB GRADE BREAK Ps 20 . mM
GM GAS METER Ky ys . era N w Cd FIRE HYDRANT
GR GRATE ELEVATION . E Stone : Ce Oo OC FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
GV GATE VALVE “ay a 4, EP Sone
HP HIGH POINT / Se g 7 “ BENCHMARK
HW HEATED WATER LINE / ——_—> run Se ox L_| > ) MANHOLE
INV PIPE INVERT ELEVATION > > ania . eae SIGN
JT JOINT TRENCH ye . > = a
JP JOINT POLE ) / = agp ” r ° DOWNSPOUT
LD LANDSCAPE DRAIN ¥ —_ (
LF LINEAR FEET / , 2 mves — c> SPLASH BLOCK
LP LOW POINT / / f "S37 a / CONTOURS
(N) NEW / CONCRETE. RETAINING is a 24°2V/A9"TS*O e J —— = — — - -§ ——
PIV POST INDICATOR VALVE / Lore wal at aa Se a7 -~—_ _ PROPERTY LINE
POC POINT OF CONNECTION fe - | SS po) So ne SETBACK
a Nope ls ( e . if. > SNS - —-—-— — GRASS SWALE
SAP SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS y ke \ 7 a ~N eerzzzzza = RETAINING WALL/ BUILDING STEMWALL al
SBD STORM SUB DRAIN fg i /
SBDCO STORM SUB DRAIN CLEANOUT / Le / a >< (E) TREE TO BE REMOVED O
SD STORM DRAIN , Jo LLU Ww
SDCO STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT SS “& a ae LU >
SGR SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT L / 7 ZO)
SICB SIDE INLET CATCH BASIN Ue / SHEET INDEX O i
SLP SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS Lo / eeeaLS_E_—_——_—_—_—=- Zz
SPP SEE PLUMBING PLANS / _ LU > <
ss SANITARY SEWER / 0 20 40 SHEET NO. DESCRIPTION Q <q ©
SSCO SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT ; LL Q
SSP SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS L | ee ———| C-0 TITLE SHEET n
TW TOP OF WALL ELEVATION i C1 NOTES SHEET LL “) ~< O
TYP TYPICAL GRAPHIC SCALE LL oc <q LU
VD PIPE VERTICAL DROP C-2 GRADING PLAN Vy) LL
Ww DOMESTIC WATER LINE
WM WATER METER cs UTILITY PLAN zea <q
C-4 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN LL O <x >
1S)
( oS C-4.1 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) | — LL
EARTHWORK QUANTITIES a/ C-5 DETAIL SHEET — —Y) Zz
GROSS QUANTITIES: QUANTITY BREAKDOWN: Ives. 82 qwrw
CUT 445 C.Y. BUILDINGS:
FILL 40 CY. CUT 130 C.Y. & HYDROLOGY Date:
TOTAL TOBE MOVED 485 C.Y. FILL 10 C.Y. a (E) IMPERVIOUS | (N)IMPERVIOUS | REQUIRED | STORAGE VOL. 01/19/2022
BALANCE 405 C.Y. CUT (OFF-HAUL) POOL: / AREA AREA STORAGE VOL. PROVIDED Scale:

NET QUANTITIES (BUILDING AND SITE WORK:
STRUCTURES OMITTED CUT 145 CY.

Drawing Number:

CUT 145 C.Y. nn '
FILL 30 C.Y. 30 CY. wou

TOTAL TO BE MOVED 175C.Y. INV=81.78
BALANCE 115 C.Y. CUT (OFF-HAUL)

EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ABOVE ARE FOR PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY.
CONTRACTOR SHALL CALCULATE THEIR OWN EARTHWORK QUANTITIES, AND USE
THEIR CALCULATIONS FOR BIDDING AND COST ESTIMATING PURPOSES.

C-O

PEC 21-125



--- page 350 ---
E

CAUTION: DEMOLITION NOTES : GRADING NOTES: GENERAL UTILITY SYSTEM NOTES : SANITARY SEWER NOTES: YEE 8

2th 38

1. THE LOCATIONS, SIZES AND/OR DEPTHS OF EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITIES 1. PRIOR TO BEGINNING DEMOLITION WORK ACTIVITIES, CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE POSITIVE SURFACE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM ALL STRUCTURES BY 1. UNDERGROUND UTILITIES OR STRUCTURES ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE 1. USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE 7 > ss S
AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAN WERE OBTAINED FROM SOURCES OF VARYING INSTALL EROSION CONTROL MEASURES OUTLINED IN THE EROSION CONTROL SLOPING THE FINISHED GROUND SURFACE AT LEAST 5%, UNLESS OTHERWISE LOCATIONS AND EXTENT BASED UPON FIELD OBSERVATION ONLY. NO SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH > V3
RELIABILITY. THE CONTRACTOR IS CAUTIONED THAT ONLY ACTUAL EXCAVATION PLAN & DETAILS. NOTED ON THE PLANS. SLOPE LANDINGS 2% (1/4" PER FOOT) AWAY FROM, GUARANTEE IS MADE TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE "CAUTION-BURIED SANITARY SEWER LINE BELOW". 5 D ok
WILL REVEAL THE TYPES, EXTENT, SIZES, LOCATIONS AND DEPTHS OF SUCH STRUCTURES UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON PLANS. ANY AREAS ON THE SITE INFORMATION SHOWN. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY THE TYPE, SIZE, > S © ©
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES. (A REASONABLE EFFORT HAS BEEN MADE TO LOCATE 2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE NOT CONFORMING TO THESE BASIC RULES DUE TO EXISTING CONDITIONS OR LOCATION AND DEPTH OF ALL THE UTILITIES AND CROSSINGS TO ENSURE THEY 2. ALL SEWER WORK SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE CITY OR APPROPRIATE ra ) re
AND DELINEATE ALL KNOWN UNDERGROUND UTILITIES). CONTRACTOR SHALL RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY DISCREPANCIES IN THE DOCUMENTS ARE TO BE REPORTED TO THE CIVIL ARE CORRECT AS SHOWN. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE CAUTION WHEN SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT. ©
VERIFY LOCATION AND DEPTH PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION OR IMPROVEMENT. AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. ENGINEER PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH PLACEMENT OF BASE ROCK OR EXCAVATING AND SHALL PROTECT ALL EXISTING UTILITIES FROM DAMAGE DUE Zz -

FORMWORK FOR CURBS AND/OR FLATWORK. TO CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS. 3. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER MAIN AND SERVICE LINE 4-INCH 1S)

2. CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTACT UNDERGROUND SERVICE ALERT FOR LOCATION 3. CONTRACTOR IS TO COMPLY WITH ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL THROUGH 8-INCH WITH A MINIMUM OF TWENTY FOUR (24) INCHES OF COVER D °
OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AT LEAST 48 HOURS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE SAFETY AND HEALTH CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE EARTHWORK QUANTITIES BASED ON THE 2. CONTRACTOR SHALL PREPARE AN ACCURATE COMPOSITE UTILITY PLAN THAT SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 26 GREEN SEWER PIPE AND SHALL CO =
CONSTRUCTION- PHONE (800) 642-2444. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY, THE GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION AND THE TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE ACTUAL LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF ASTM DESIGNATION D 3034-73 WITH wd an
EXISTING UTILITIES AND SHALL CLEARLY MARK (AND THEN PRESERVE THESE HAZARDOUS MATERIAL(S). PROPOSED SURFACE THICKNESS AND BASE THE BID ACCORDINGLY. IT IS THE DETERMINED DURING THE DEMOLITION WORK, AND ALL PROPOSED UTILITIES GLUED JOINTS. ALL DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL BE MADE WITH WYE ge 3s
MARKERS) FOR THE DURATION OF CONSTRUCTION OF ALL TELEPHONE, DATA, CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO CONFIRM IF A SEPARATE DEMOLITION SHOWN ON THE CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, JOINT TRENCH AND FIRE SPRINKLER CONNECTIONS, 22.5° ELBOWS or 45° ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE ee
STREET LIGHT, SIGNAL LIGHT AND POWER FACILITIES THAT ARE IN OR NEAR THE 4. CONTRACTOR'S BID IS TO INCLUDE ALL VISIBLE SURFACE AND ALL SUBSURFACE CONTRACT HAS BEEN ISSUED TO TAKE THE SITE FROM THE WAY IT IS AT THE DRAWINGS. PROHIBITED. >O
AREA OF CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO BEGINNING ANY WORK ON THIS SITE. FEATURES IDENTIFIED TO BE REMOVED OR ABANDONED IN THESE DOCUMENTS. TIME OF THE BID TO THE CONDITIONS DESCRIBED IN THESE DOCUMENTS. BRING cw

ANY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE STATE IN WHICH THE SITE IS DELIVERED TO 3. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTACTING APPROPRIATE 4. ALL LATERALS SHALL HAVE A CLEANOUT AT FACE OF BUILDING, AT THE 88

3. THESE DRAWINGS DO NOT ADDRESS CONTRACTOR MEANS AND METHODS OF 5. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR A SITE INSPECTION TO FULLY THE CONTRACTOR AND THESE DOCUMENTS TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CIVIL UTILITIES AND REQUESTING VERIFICATION OF SERVICE POINTS, FIELD PROPERTY LINE AND AS SHOWN ON PLANS PER THE CITY STANDARD OR =
CONSTRUCTION OR PROCESSES THAT MAY BE ASSOCIATED WITH ANY TOXIC ACKNOWLEDGE THE EXTENT OF THE DEMOLITION WORK. ENGINEER. VERIFICATION OF LOCATION, SIZE, DEPTH, ETC. FOR ALL THEIR FACILITIES AND APPROPRIATE SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT. om
SOILS IF FOUND ON SITE. THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLYING TO COORDINATE WORK SCHEDULES. 5
WITH ALL CITY AND COUNTY STANDARDS AND APPROPRIATE REGULATIONS IF 6. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR OBTAINING ANY AND ALL ALL FILL SHALL BE COMPACTED PER THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND THE 5. IF (E) SEWER LATERAL IS TO BE USED, CONTRACTOR SHALL CONDUCT WATER °
TOXIC SOILS ARE ENCOUNTERED OR SUSPECTED OF BEING CONTAMINATED. PERMITS NECESSARY FOR ENCROACHMENT, GRADING, DEMOLITION, AND CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE AND COMPLY WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL 4. CONTRACTOR SHALL REPLACE ALL COVERS AND GRATE LIDS FOR MANHOLES, PRESSURE TEST AND A VIDEO INSPECTION ON THE ENTIRE SECTION OF EXISTING

DISPOSAL OF SAID MATERIALS AS REQUIRED BY PRIVATE, LOCAL AND STATE ENGINEER TO TAKE THE APPROPRIATE TESTS TO VERIFY COMPACTION VALUES. VAULTS, CATCH BASINS, ETC., WITH VEHICULAR-RATED STRUCTURES IN ALL LATERAL FROM HOUSE TO SEWER MAIN. CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM ANY

GENERAL SITE NOTES: JURISDICTIONS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY ALL FEES ASSOCIATED WITH THE TRAFFIC ACCESSIBLE AREAS. NECESSARY CLEANING AND/OR REPAIRS WITHIN THE LATERAL AND AT THE

MENENAL WII INV IThwW DEMOLITION WORK. IMPORT SOILS SHOULD MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SOILS REPORT AND CONNECTION.

SPECIFICATIONS. 5. TRENCHES SHALL NOT BE LEFT OPEN OVERNIGHT IN EXISTING PUBLIC STREET ti

1. CONTRACTOR SHALL VISIT THE SITE PRIOR TO BIDDING ON THIS WORK AND 7. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE AREAS. CONTRACTOR SHALL BACKFILL TRENCHES, OR PLACE STEEL PLATING Ee
CONSIDER THE EXISTING CONDITIONS AND SITE CONSTRAINTS IN THE BID. RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY DO NOT ADJUST GRADES ON THIS PLAN WITHOUT PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL OF WITH ADEQUATE CUTBACK TO PREVENT SHIFTING OF STEEL PLATE AND/OR WATER SYSTEM NOTES: Pa
CONTRACTOR SHALL BE IN THE POSSESSION OF AND FAMILIAR WITH ALL AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. THE CIVIL ENGINEER. HOT-MIX ASPHALT REQUIRED TO PROTECT OPEN TRENCHES AT THE END OF THE eae a ?+>>|''900 0 ea
APPLICABLE GOVERNING AGENCIES STANDARD DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS WORKING DAY. | USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE
PRIOR TO SUBMITTING OF A BID. 8. BACKFILL ALL DEPRESSIONS AND TRENCHES FROM DEMOLITION. REMOVAL OF SITE STRIPPINGS THAT CONTAIN ONLY ORGANIC MATERIAL (NO DEBRIS TRASH, SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH

LANDSCAPING SHALL INCLUDE ROOTS AND ORGANIC MATERIALS. BROKEN CONC. OR ROCKS GREATER THAN 1" IN DIAMETER) MAY BE USED IN 6. ALL TRENCHES SHALL BE BACK FILLED PER THE SPECIFICATIONS WITH "CAUTION-BURIED WATER LINE BELOW"

2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ALL SAFETY DEVICES, AND SHALL BE LANDSCAPE AREAS, EXCEPT FOR AREAS IDENTIFIED AS IMPORT TOP SOIL BY THE APPROPRIATE TESTS BY THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER TO VERIFY COMPACTION
RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMANCE TO ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL SAFETY 9. REMOVAL OF LANDSCAPING SHALL INCLUDE ROOTS AND ORGANIC MATERIALS LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS. EXCESS STRIPPINGS SHALL BE REMOVED FROM SITE. VALUES. > ALL WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS. INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WATER
AND HEALTH STANDARDS LAWS AND REGULATIONS. TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER. "VALVES TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT AIR RELEASE VALVES AND BLOW OFF

ROUGH GRADING TO BE WITHIN 0.1' AND FINISH GRADES ARE TO BE WITHIN 0.05", 7. CLEAN OUTS, CATCH BASINS, MANHOLES, AREA DRAINS AND UTILITY VAULTS ARE VALVES. SHALL BE INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CITY/COUNTY OR

3. ALL WORK ON-SITE AND IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY SHALL CONFORM TO ALL 10. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT FROM DAMAGE ALL EXISTING HOWEVER CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT CONSTRUCT ANY IMPROVEMENTS THAT TO BE ACCURATELY LOCATED BY THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO THE BUILDING, APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS

APPLICABLE GOVERNING AGENCIES STANDARD DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS. IMPROVEMENTS FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES WHICH ARE TO REMAIN. ANY WILL CAUSE WATER TO POND OR NOT MEET REQUIREMENTS IN GRADING NOTE FLATWORK, ROOF DRAINS, AND/OR CURB LAYOUT, NOT BY THE LENGTH OF PIPE
ITEMS DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR OR HIS AGENTS OR ANY ITEMS REMOVED #1. SPECIFIED IN THE DRAWINGS (WHICH IS APPROXIMATE). CONTRACTOR SHALL -
4. CONTRACTOR AGREES THAT HE SHALL ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE FOR HIS USE SHALL BE REPLACED IN EQUAL OR BETTER CONDITION AS STAKE LOCATIONS OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITY EQUIPMENT (BACKFLOW 3. RIOR ON AND CRE RTE LINES IN A OCORDANGE Wits TIE EST EDITION Y
RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE COURSE OF APPROVED BY THE OWNER. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE EXTREME CARE TO CONFORM TO THE LINES, PREVENTOR, TRANSFORMER, UTILITY METERS, ETC.) AND MEET WITH OWNER TO OF THE UNIFORM/CALIFORNIA SNUNBING AND FIRE CODES. (ALL FIXTURE UNIT ro)
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT INCLUDING SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND GRADES, SECTIONS, AND DIMENSIONS AS SET FORTH ON THESE PLANS. ALL REVIEW LOCATION PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. COUNTS SHALL BE REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY THE anys BUILDING AND/OR 7)
PROPERTY THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE 11. COORDINATE ALL UTILITY SHUT-DOWN/DISCONNECT LOCATIONS WITH GRADED AREAS SHALL CONFORM TO THE VERTICAL ELEVATIONS SHOWN WITH A a
LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR SHALL APPROPRIATE DRAWINGS (ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, ARCHITECTURAL, ETC.). TOLERANCE OF ONE-TENTH OF A FOOT. WHERE GRADED AREAS DO NOT 8. CATHODIC PROTECTION MAY BE REQUIRED ON ALL METALLIC FITTINGS AND WATER DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.) x
DEFEND INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE OWNER, THE CONSULTING ENGINEER AND CONTRACTOR IS TO SHUT OFF ALL UTILITIES AS NECESSARY PRIOR TO CONFORM TO THESE TOLERANCES, THE CONTRACTORS SHALL BE REQUIRED TO ASSEMBLIES THAT ARE IN CONTACT WITH THE SOIL, IF RECOMMENDED BY THE 4. ALL WATER LINES SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH 36" MINIMUM COVER
THE CITY HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN DEMOLITION. CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS WITH DO CORRECTIVE GRADING, AT NO EXTRA COST TO THE CLIENT. GEOTECHNICAL REPORT. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE TO FULLY ENGINEER Pf} pp fe
CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPTING THE OWNER. DO NOT INTERRUPT SERVICES TO ADJACENT OFF-SITE OWNERS. AND INSTALL THIS SYSTEM AND COORDINATE ANODE AND TEST STATION 5. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE WATER MAIN AND WATER SERVICE LINE4" THROUGH
FOR LIABILITY ARISING FROM THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE OWNER OR THE ANY EXISTING UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES TO BE ABANDONED, SHOULD BE IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CONFIRM THE GROUND LOCATIONS WITH PROJECT MANAGER AND HOME OWNER. "  42-INCH SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) AND SHALL MEET AWWA C900
CONSULTING ENGINEER. REMOVED FROM WITHIN THE PROPOSED BUILDING ENVELOPE AND THEIR ENDS ELEVATIONS AND OVERALL TOPOGRAPHY OF THE SITE PRIOR TO THE START OF RATED FOR 200 PSI CLASS PIPE WITH cB Goey Of ATED DUGTILE IRON FITTINGS
CAPPED OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING ENVELOPE. CONSTRUCTION AS TO THE ACCURACY BETWEEN THE WORK SET FORTH ON 9. ALL UTILITY SYSTEMS (SANITARY SEWER, STORM DRAIN, WATER SYSTEM, ETC.) AND FUSION EPOXY COATED GATE VALVES. ALL JOINTS SHALL BE FACTORY

5. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SECURING THE JOB SITE AND THESE PLANS AND THE WORK IN THE FIELD. ANY DISCREPANCIES SHALL BE ARE DELINEATED IN A SCHEMATIC MANNER ON THESE PLANS. CONTRACTOR IS MANUFACTURED WITH BELL AND SPIGOT ENDS AND RUBBER GASKETS
SHALL TAKE NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS TO PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 12. THIS PLAN IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF ALL EXISTING IMMEDIATELY BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION MANAGER TO PROVIDE ALL FITTINGS, ACCESSORIES AND WORK NECESSARY TO COMPLETE
ON THE JOB SITE BY PROVIDING A CONSTRUCTION FENCE AROUND THE ENTIRE STRUCTURES AND UTILITIES. THIS PLAN INTENDS TO DISCLOSE GENERAL AND CIVIL ENGINEER IN WRITING PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION WHICH THE UTILITY SYSTEM SO THAT IT IS FULLY FUNCTIONING FOR THE PURPOSE 6. ALL WATER LINES 2" OR SMALLER SHALL BE TYPE K COPPER WITH SILVER
AREA OF DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION, INCLUDING ALL STAGING AND INFORMATION KNOWN BY THE ENGINEER AND TO SHOW THE LIMITS OF THE AREA MAY REQUIRE CHANGES IN DESIGN AND/OR AFFECT THE EARTHWORK INTENDED. "  BRAZED JOINTS. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY PRESSURES FROM EXISTING LINES
STORAGE AREAS. CONSTRUCTION FENCE SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF A 6' HIGH WHERE WORK WILL BE PERFORMED. THIS PLAN SHOWS THE EXISTING FEATURES QUANTITIES. ARE ADEQUATE TO SERVICE BUILDINGS AS SPECIFIED BY THE PLUMBING PLANS
GALVANIZED CHAIN LINK WITH GREEN WINDSCREEN FABRIC ON THE OUTSIDE OF TAKEN FROM A FIELD SURVEY, FIELD INVESTIGATIONS AND AVAILABLE 10. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL EXISTING INVERT ELEVATIONS FOR STORM
THE FENCE. INFORMATION. THIS PLAN MAY OR MAY NOT ACCURATELY REFLECT THE TYPE OR THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ADJUST TO FINAL GRADE ALL EXISTING MANHOLES, DRAIN AND SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF 7 CONNECTIONS TO THE EXISTING WATER MAIN SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE

EXTENT OF THE ITEMS TO BE ENCOUNTERED AS THEY ACTUALLY EXIST. WHERE CURB INLETS, CATCH BASINS, VALVES, MONUMENT COVERS, AND OTHER ANY WORK. ALL WORK FOR STORM AND SANITARY SEWER INSTALLATION SHALL "APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PAY THE

7. EXISTING PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS, BIKE PATHS AND ACCESSIBLE PATHWAYS EXISTING FEATURES ARE NOT SHOWN, IT IS NOT IMPLIED THAT THEY ARE NOT TO CASTINGS WITHIN THE WORK AREA TO FINAL GRADE IN PAVEMENT AND BEGIN AT THE DOWNSTREAM CONNECTION POINT TO ALLOW FOR ANY ACTUAL COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM ALL

SHALL BE MAINTAINED, WHERE FEASIBLE, DURING CONSTRUCTION. BE DEMOLISHED OR REMOVED. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM A LANDSCAPE AREAS UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. NECESSARY ADJUSTMENTS TO BE MADE PRIOR TO THE INSTALLATION OF THE EXCAVATION, PREPARE THE SITE FURNISH ALL MATERIALS. INSTALL TAPPING
THOROUGH FIELD INVESTIGATION AND REVIEW OF THE SITE WITHIN THE LIMIT OF ENTIRE LINE. IF THE CONTRACTOR FAILS TO BEGIN AT THE DOWNSTREAM TEE. VALVE AND ALL THRUST BLOCKS. BACKFILL. RESTORE THE SURFACE. AND

8. IF ACONFLICT ARISES BETWEEN THE SPECIFICATIONS AND THE PLAN NOTES, WORK SHOWN IN THIS PLAN SET TO DETERMINE THE TYPE, QUANTITY AND CONNECTION POINT AND WORKS UP STREAM, HE SHALL PROCEED AT HIS OWN CLEAN UP. THE APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT STANDARDS WILL PROVIDE THE

THE MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENT SHALL GOVERN. EXTENT OF ANY AND ALL ITEMS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SOLELY STORM DRAIN NOTES RISK AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY ADJUSTMENTS NECESSARY. CONTRACTOR CONTRACTOR WITH A LIST OF APPROVED CONTRACTORS FOR MAKING WET
RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE EXTENT OF EXISTING STRUCTURES AND VIVAN VURAIN NV Too! SHALL VERIFY LOCATION OF SANITARY SEWER LATERAL WITH OWNER PRIOR TO TAPS
9. ALL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GEOTECHNICAL UTILITIES AND QUANTITY OF WORK INVOLVED IN REMOVING THESE ITEMS FROM CONSTRUCTION.
REPORT BY PGSOILS, INC. DATED NOVEMBER 2021. THE SITE. USE DETECTABLE METALIZED WARNING TAPE APPROXIMATELY 6" BELOW THE 8. ALL WATER VALVES SHALL BE CLUSTERED. UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY
SURFACE. TAPE SHALL BE A BRIGHT COLOR AND IMPRINTED WITH 11. CONTRACTOR SHALL UNCOVER AND EXPOSE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES WHERE THE CITY/COUNTY OR APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT.
EXISTING CONDITIONS: "CAUTION-BURIED STORM DRAIN LINE BELOW". THEY ARE TO BE CROSSED ABOVE OR BELOW BY THE NEW FACILITY BEING
a TREE/PLANT PROTECTION NOTES: CONSTRUCTED IN ORDER TO VERIFY THE GRADE AND TO ASSURE THAT THERE IS 9. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTING AND DELIVERING
——seaooeoeowsmm? OOO ST “u:[“[—=_—=_—"—=—"_—'—\V\“_eeorv- PRIVATE STORM DRAIN LINE 4-INCH THROUGH 12-INCH IN NON-TRAFFIC AREAS SUFFICIENT HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CLEARANCE. BRING ANY WATER SAMPLES FOR ANALYSIS TO A CITY/COUNTY/APPLICABLE WATER
1. EXISTING TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS PERFORMED BY LEA & BRAZE ENGINEERING SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH A MINIMUM OF EIGHTEEN (18) INCHES OF COVER AND DISCREPANCIES TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CIVIL ENGINEER PRIOR TO DISTRICT APPROVED LAB.
ON FEBRUARY 9, 2021 (JOB #2201777). GRADES ENCOUNTERED ON-SITE MAY 1. PRIOR TO BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION ON SITE, CONTRACTOR SHALL IDENTIFY SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 35. ALL DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL INSTALLATION.
VARY FROM THOSE SHOWN. CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW THE PLANS AND AND PROTECT EXISTING TREES AND PLANTS DESIGNATED AS TO REMAIN. BE MADE WITH WYE CONNECTIONS, 22.5° ELBOWS, 45° ELBOWS OR LONG SWEEP ;
CONDUCT FIELD INVESTIGATIONS AS REQUIRED TO VERIFY EXISTING ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE PROHIBITED. 12. VERTICAL SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS: 10. ALL ON AND OFF-SITE LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SHALL BE IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS AND

CONDITIONS AT THE PROJECT SITE. 2. PROTECT EXISTING TREES TO REMAIN FROM SPILLED CHEMICALS, FUEL OIL, SPECIFICATIONS AND SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE EXISTING AND/OR NEW
MOTOR OIL, GASOLINE AND ALL OTHER CHEMICALLY INJURIOUS MATERIAL; AS PRIVATE STORM DRAIN LINE 4-INCH THROUGH 12-INCH WITHIN VEHICULAR A MINIMUM OF SIX (6) INCHES VERTICAL CLEARANCE SHALL BE PROVIDED WATER SYSTEM AND METERED ACCORDINGLY
2. CLIENT AGREES TO HOLD ENGINEER HARMLESS FROM ANY AND ALL WELL AS FROM PUDDLING OR CONTINUOUSLY RUNNING WATER. SHOULD A SPILL TRAFFIC AREAS SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH A MINIMUM OF EIGHTEEN (18) INCHES BETWEEN CROSSING UTILITY PIPES, EXCEPT THAT THE MINIMUM VERTICAL ,

OCCURRENCES RESULTING FROM THE INACCURACIES OF THE CLIENT SUPPLIED OCCUR, STOP WORK IN THAT AREA AND CONTACT THE CITY'S OF COVER AND SHALL BE POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (PVC) SDR 35 PIPE. ALL CLEARANCE BETWEEN WATER AND SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES SHALL BE 44. INSTALL CITY/COUNTY/APPLICABLE WATER DISTRICT APPROVED PRESSURE
TOPOGRAPHIC AND/OR BOUNDARY SURVEY (PREPARED BY OTHERS). ENGINEER/INSPECTOR IMMEDIATELY. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO DIRECTION CHANGES SHALL BE MADE WITH WYE CONNECTIONS, OBTUSE 12 INCHES AND ALL NEW WATER PIPES SHALL BE TYPICALLY INSTALLED TO "REGULATOR AND REDUCED BACKFLOW PREVENTOR ON WATER LINE AT
SURVEYOR'S NOTES MITIGATE DAMAGE FROM SPILLED MATERIAL AS WELL AS MATERIAL CLEAN UP. ELBOWS OR LONG SWEEP ELBOWS, 90° ELBOWS AND TEE's ARE PROHIBITED. CROSS ABOVE/OVER EXISTING SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES. ENTRANCE TO BUILDING. REFERENCE PLUMBING PLANS FOR MORE DETAIL.

|
a TO. a—m—rmm_— hO000vOomr 3. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ONGOING MAINTENANCE OF ALL PAINT THE TOP OF THE CURBS ADJACENT TO EACH CATCH BASIN INSTALLED WHERE NEW WATER PIPELINES ARE REQUIRED TO CROSS UNDER EXISTING

BENCHMARK:

CITY OF SAN MATEO BM "H386"

BRASS DISK NE'LY END OF SMALL TRIANGULAR ISLAND
IN INTERSECTION OF PARROTT DR AND 3RD, AVE.
ELEVATION = 45.125'

(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM)

TO THE OWNER PRIOR TO FINAL ACCEPTANCE .

SITE MAINTENANCE

1.

UPON PROJECT COMPLETION THE OWNER SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE TO
ROUTINELY INSPECT AND MAINTAIN ALL ON-SITE STORM DRAIN FACILITIES.
STORM DRAIN FACILITIES INCLUDE; ROOF GUTTERS AND DOWNSPOUTS,
SURFACE DRAINS SEDIMENTATION BASIN, TRENCH DISSIPATER, PUMP(S) AND
DISCHARGE POINTS (BUBBLE UP BOX). STORM DRAIN SYSTEM SHALL BE
CLEANED AND/OR FLUSHED ON A BIANNUAL BASIS OR AS FOUND NECESSARY.

TREES DESIGNATED TO REMAIN AND FOR MAINTENANCE OF RELOCATED TREES
STOCKPILED DURING CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR WILL BE REQUIRED TO
REPLACE TREES THAT DIE DUE TO LACK OF MAINTENANCE.

HORIZONTAL CONTROL NOTES:

AND SECTION 39 "ASPHALT CONCRETE" PER LATEST EDITION OF CALTRANS
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.

UNDER THIS WORK OR ADJACENT TO THIS SITE WITH THE WORDS "NO DUMPING".
WORDING TO BE BLUE 4" HIGH LETTERS ON A PAINTED WHITE BACKGROUND.

ALL AREA DRAINS AND CATCH BASINS GRATES WITHIN PEDESTRIAN ACCESSIBLE
AREAS SHALL MEET ADA REQUIREMENTS.

DRAINS SHOWN ON CIVIL PLANS ARE NOT INTENDED TO BE THE FINAL NUMBER

CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE ANY VENT WELL DRAINS AND RAT SLAB DRAINS
WITH PERIMETER SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR VENT
WELL LOCATIONS. SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS FOR FOUNDATION AND RAT SLAB.

INSTALL SEPARATE SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM BEHIND RETAINING WALLS PER
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND CONNECT TO STORM DRAIN SYSTEM AT SUMP
PUMP.

AND/OR NEW SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES, THE MINIMUM VERTICAL
SEPARATION SHALL BE 12 INCHES. WATER LINE PIPE ENDS SHALL BE
INSTALLED NO CLOSER THAN 10' MINIMUM HORIZONTAL DISTANCE FROM
CENTERLINE OF UTILITY CROSSINGS, WHERE FEASIBLE.

HORIZONTAL SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS:

FIRE PROTECTION NOTES:

1.

CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL THE DESIGN BUILD FIRE SERVICE LINE, BACKFLOW
PREVENTOR, SPRINKLERS AND EQUIPMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRE
PROTECTION CONSULTANT'S PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, LATEST EDITION OF THE
UNIFORM/CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE AND CITY/TOWN STANDARDS.

1. ALL DIMENSIONS ON THE PLANS ARE IN FEET OR DECIMALS THEREOF UNLESS AND LOCATION OF ALL DRAINS. PLACEMENT AND NUMBER OF LANDSCAPING A MINIMUM HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN NEW PIPELINES AND ANY 2. THE UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM INSTALLER SHALL PREPARE
ITE BENCHMARK: SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT AS FEET AND INCHES. DRAINS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON GROUND COVER TYPE AND PLANT EXISTING UTILITIES SHALL BE 5' FEET, EXCEPT THAT THE MINIMUM SHOP DRAWINGS SHOWING ALL INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE LOCAL FIRE
SURVEY CONTROL POINT MATERIAL. CONTRACTOR SHALL ADD ADDITIONAL AREA DRAINS AS NEEDED AND HORIZONTAL SEPARATION FOR WATER AND SANITARY SEWER PIPELINES MARSHAL, INCLUDING ANGLES, THRUST BLOCKS, VALVES, FIRE HYDRANTS, PIV's,
' AS DIRECTED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT/OWNER. SHALL BE 10' MINIMUM, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. WHERE WATER LINES FDC's, BACKFLOW ASSEMBLIES, FLEXIBLE CONNECTIONS, VAULTS, ETC.
MAG AND SHINER SET IN ASPHALT PAVEMENT SECTION: HAVE TO CROSS SANITARY SEWER LINES, DO SO AT A 90° ANGLE AND
= JU. WHERE FEASIBLE ALL DOWNSPOUTS SHALL DISCHARGE TO A SPLASHBLOCK OR WATER LINES SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 12" ABOVE TOP OF SANITARY SEWER 3. SHOP DRAWINGS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL, THE
(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM) 1. SREDAR RONG DRAWINGS FOR BUILDING SLAB SECTIONS AND PAD IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AND FLOW TO LANDSCAPED FEATURES BEFORE LINES. RATING AGENCY AND THE PROJECT MANAGER, ALLOWING TIME FOR REVIEW AND
ENTERING THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM. USE OF AREA DRAINS (RATHER THAN DIRECT ACCEPTANCE, PRIOR TO START OF WORK.
2. SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT FOR ALL FLATWORK, VEHICULAR PAVEMENT CONNECTION TO DRAINAGE SYSTEM) TO COLLECT ROOF/SURFACE WATER IS A MINIMUM HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN NEW PIPELINES AND JOINT
RECORD DRAWINGS: SECTIONS, BASE AND COMPACTION REQUIREMENTS. STRONGLY ENCOURAGED IN CONFORMANCE WITH COUNTYWIDE C.3 TRENCH SHALL BE 5 FEET. 4. THE UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM INSTALLER SHALL OBTAIN ALL
eS=STa——aaaoaoerewnaoovrrererw°  O—Oo——rooTrox\—mu REQUIREMENTS. OTHERWISE, DOWNSPOUTS SHALL BE CONNECTED TO THE APPROVALS AND PERMITS PRIOR TO ORDERING MATERIALS, FABRICATING
1. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP UP-TO-DATE AND ACCURATE A COMPLETE 3. THE FINAL OR SURFACE LAYER OF ASPHALT CONCRETE SHALL NOT BE PLACED ROC TE Ue CLANS POR XACT LOOM IGN OF THE NOWN spourg SYSTEMS OR ANY INSTALLATION.
RECORD SET OF PRINTS OF THE CONTRACT DRAWINGS SHOWING EVERY UNTIL ALL ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED, INCLUDING ALL 5. GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFICATION OF ALL DIMENSIONS
CHANGE FROM THE ORIGINAL DRAWINGS MADE DURING THE COURSE OF GRADING, AND ALL UNACCEPTABLE CONCRETE WORK HAS BEEN REMOVED AND
CONSTRUCTION INCLUDING EXACT FINAL LOCATION, ELEVATION, SIZES, REPLACED, UNLESS OTHERWISE APPROVED BY THE CITY/COUNTY ENGINEER SOO COE SO OOO Ee AMOUNT FO LON eR ORNS EROMN AND EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS. RISER LOCATIONS ARE SHOWN ON
MATERIALS, AND DESCRIPTION OF ALL WORK. RECORDS SHALL BE "REDLINED" AND/OR DEVELOPER'S CIVIL ENGINEER U U U ARCHITECTURAL AND PLUMBING DRAWINGS AND ARE TO BE COORDINATED WITH
ON A SET OF CONSTRUCTION PLAN DRAWINGS. A COMPLETE SET OF ENTERING THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. ACTUAL FIELD CONDITIONS.
CORRECTED AND COMPLETED RECORD DRAWING PRINTS SHALL BE SUBMITTED 4. ALL PAVING SHALL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH SECTION 26 "AGGREGATE BASE"

LSTON RESIDENCE
15 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

NOTES SHEET

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

Drawing Number:

C1

PEC 21-125



--- page 351 ---
, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

Avenue

fax

ves\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fair

G:\Shared dri
01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

E
PAVEMENT LEGEND: \ \ S26 8
SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT BY PGSOILS, INC. DATED NOVEMBER 2021 FOR EXACT \ we = 3
PAVEMENT SECTIONS, OVER-EXCAVATION AND COMPACTION REQUIREMENTS. SEE \ \ J Ss © c
ARCHITECTURAL PLAN(S) FOR EXACT MATERIAL SELECTION. \ \ \ ws x Lo
\ 5 F BS
———— BRICK UNIT OVER A THIN LEVELING COURSE OF SAND OVER 6" MIN \ \ S 1S) -. ©
OF CLASS II AGGREGATE BASE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS \ \ ut V 7 2
| STONE RECOMMENDATIONS. COLOR AND TYPE TO BE APPROVED BY THE / \ > F
| | OWNER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. INSTALL EDGE CONSTRAINT / \ \ O
—— SUCH AS A FLUSH CURB. SAP. / \ \ i> a
————4 PAVER UNIT OVER A THIN LEVELING COURSE OF SAND OVER 6" MIN / \ oO 2
| OF CLASS II AGGREGATE BASE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS / \ uw] Da
| | CONCRETE PAVERS RECOMMENDATIONS. COLOR AND TYPE TO BE APPROVED BY THE ow \ \ he 3s
| | OWNER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. INSTALL EDGE CONSTRAINT / \ \ ‘ eo
——— SUCH AS A FLUSH CURB. SAP. \ \ >O
“ae / Sz
l c / . \ \ ge
| | GRASSCRETE SAP / \ \ sg
Lovo \ m
\ 2
| DG SAP \ \ -
\ -_
\ 2m z
| GRASS/LAWN SLP NEIGHBORING
| \ HOUSE
_ RP=113.26 |
LOT 11 |
| ww ane ¥ sO |
/ | © 2 a ~N oy =~ |
/ 87.08 Z2Q | / a | i |
/ “ee YS y, oe) a 4
; °* | BUBBLE BOX , 4 ua I
; 2% GR 87.8L (6) 7.75” RISERS . (3) 7.5” RISERS ~~ - I
z= 1.920 _—— 6 y, / ‘bj
= FS 91.92 STAC WALL, ; aN Zz
| \\ 5 87.9 FS .98_ YW em, OY > _ 89.98 of 89.6 » neice 90.0 a 90.3 ; 90.8 FE | ~ ie)
&, so %—— --- S19 1B-W = _|—- —_— + = - —_ ~Twl91.83 > D
| D3 : . A$ ; FG 90.02 | — ~~ 90.04 90.35 > Xa BW 91.08 if
On ~ v BNE 89. Icy S 91.83 91. 6
o 87.56 FG 88.26 88.7 5 89.3 Se 89.47 TT TREE, ~ IS 1. 90.6 | wy
l —- spo 17prker 5 ae oo 92%. le —< o @ 89.6 ao enact A S 91.72.86 | peer oof. — *
81.82 TY —— F or arae Ah = Z ee a
| OMe | i S 89.85 og , a H TESS 5% ° | LOT V9 Pt tt td
ASRS BE 58S Ssco 2 | wee BYp2” i See Ty 898 eT y | )
; a‘ ° | DE CHMOVERK . > SS | ied
I 4 : agree 3 RIM 89-9851 LIN 8YYSUMP* PUMP Er 22.00 83. NES 91,92 S \ 05 | \
~__{& peawst--/atawanizara=== asaes RIM 90.2+ 4 ra
| INSTALL (N) | WIDE DRIVEWAY A bs Res } ** a = orbeR | 160
APRON PER [CITY STANDARDS. YH Xvauss WF / 0” PUBLIC
| UC ab | GAR GE f = 7 PROPOSED RESIDENCE . | una CASEMENT
o, =89. SS yom n SN 16 MAPS 3
le sar anar amcamramiprememanen SLOP ae RISERS FF —_ 92 on LAWN (|| oa
4 WO an om r —- RAIN in, TYP ( a se
/ n 93.9RIM 91.8+ 914 y
5 VEL TONY BZ. oa 89.8 + 2 | ATD GR Oh > —_-— —__ - — —_—— — — —_— _ _ —_—— _ —__
z 1.8% OAL? . BIE 93.94 FF_92.00 sf! _-EE_92.00 FS 91.92 ATD ~
isl a BINS SERS 1”) LIP AT FF FS 91.92 (722) FS 91.92 915 z | GR 92.0
< z 30.00. oR LOT 10, BLOCK gTS, Fotstucce nevse Siam ane 2% | calesg ra
&, > \ 90.6 SBDCO 16 M 21. ‘ Lut [— SEES LILES ‘M.BS" 93.2 ) ,
Qe 90.6 790 OCK 8 RIM 90.0+ 0,558 BC FLT ~~ STEPS o Z aa St oO | a
~ = ————— |
= / ols cet FS 90:18" oe “FF 92.00 EF 92.00 ° A o o ia = es bts _ | wioonl
Fey 90 r Py RS 91.92. FS 91.92 ates _ OA BIRCH |f — FENC
~ be FS 90:3 aS MNEY N x 04.2 7GRE 91.44 Soy ds 92.7 ® |
si 90. 92.0 {92.18 92.47. CFF NI ‘Set 927 a TW 93.33
6 {aii ; {Tote ‘ \ em AAAARASASAAS AX N_A94.09 te ye 7BW) 91.83
rf TTL etrp Serer, Sh |Z 20 478M OT 16
= EP S¥one Ra rh 3) ] Of |e 91.84 i 7 TH [S258 ts -(N) \ scone CLs 4 BK 93.6 be
“= FS 92.00 ~~ RISE - / At ne. “ ob bs ay
19 97.6 . ATD = 94.12 a XY —FLAT | “
aS NA “9a CRS "COPING = 91. 2 L : ww RIM. 91,.6+ _ | aD
~ YUCCA 92.11 924 SLOT DRA T_DRAIN QD GR 92.94
a _~ ——“__ ) ° : 3 LODcc oe: “91, RICK | 91.8+ L y. C $5.59 |
_ ge y we 92.5 PLANTER VAR, ae ) |
oY . a mi 4 “FTW 195.83
/ + SSS oe aa NM = {1 “TY yee we, oF. BW |
/ / Zz. —s ro J Vege sy -
= 33.73 AID = WY) CONCRETE 7 og 94 I.
ASIN” GR 91.24 bye 939 ba yo - 192 © \LD=FLAT,/ 945 -
SEDIMENTATION BASIN < STONE a aeeeee eee z “RIM 91.7 |
RIM 92.14 / AT. ST 59°57 ~ - 7 Sone A .
GR ATD 5 ICV ( Z ROCK ~
oy 13> —( ~~ —)
( 93.83/ GR O3ar oS : 66.44TW fo ™ N
BW 91.92 TW 93.83 ae = 7 ATD = 1p" / )! ~ SN O
/ BW 21° AINING 94.7 nm 24°21 185’ AK wt
LOT 9 RIM 93.64 = FENCE a c 95.2 (i) BW'9T. RETAINING ; ~ =
% ~ = WIT. WOOD \ —_ 7 LU T
| BW; 2 AD 5 [x FEWCE } _ O Z Oo
| S83 I ® / LOT 17. ~ < LL
| GR 94.72 Ss 1 : =~ z> <x
( YF > ~ —! Wi
‘ 98.06 TWy RETANING ; ~ ‘al Q <I Oo
\ 96.762 Al a _~ Tp)
CHANGE ; ~ >< fe)
/ ae / / » “.__ —* | Om ction
/ / a Z or
- e / Jf Oa z a <
— Pi
me .~A*K ~N <<
/ 7 / jAW<_
__
/ O 7)

'

SEE SHEET C-O FOR ee
LEGEND AND SHEET ——o | C-2
C-1 FOR NOTES GRAPHIC SCALE

Ks PEC 21-125

7a
~

7a



--- page 352 ---
, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

Avenue

ir fax

\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 - 415 Fa

G:\Shared drives
01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

\ \
O92 :
\ \ ZzQ 5°
\ \ ans 33
bul = S 26
\ \ \ \ Lt] a Qo
\ Zz 5 3&3
\ \ \ GO 2 84
\ \ z= 8 2S
\ \ w o
/ \ \ z= a
/ \ \ ie °
/ \ \ O 5
© \ a= sz
j \ =o
\ 2.
( \ \ o5
\ Of
5a

\ \ ——
\ _7
\
\ oe u

! E
L <
/ aN "
| / ~~ CONTRACTOR TO INSTALL 4” SS LINE AS SHOWN. NEIGHBORING )
\ / | FIELD LOCATE, POTHOLE, AND CONNECT TO (E) HOUSE |
/ SSCO AND ENSURE THAT A 2% MINIMUM SLOPE RP=113.26 |
/ CAN BE ACHIEVED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. LOT 11 |
/ \ BRING ANY DISCREPANCIES TO THE ATTENTION |
/ = OF THE CIVIL ENGINEER PRIOR TO INSTALLATION. I
| J o/| | SEE SANITARY SEWER NOTE NUMBER 5. 7 LU |
= OS 7 ‘
/ B | BUBBLE Box / 6 oa Wea ms hy
/ 5S oR Bree «(NC / -EXTEND SD FOR (N) RAT a - i _
\ 2s : STUCCO WALL, TYP <o SLAB DRAINA SEE STORM UC Io g
| . . __ Sn eeygisty sso | DRAINNOJE NUMBER 9. a S
| Hs 287 4 SD 7 4" SD Icy "y c
= | ~ \ ff
| “ Pian S=2% o {f\ S=2% a a | A or
= io —— Se SIS ( —-9-—
) ston, || AE % ‘ ' I dys PCE
é 2 ED woo — WET OS =  —~ — — ‘
| “oT Ie C—5JRI a ot DECKPIOVERHEA | yw
ee \ , LIN MP PUMP 16 nly \ |
jyL---, o7 oF - 20 RIM 90.24 \c—5 - "| SUBDRAIN/ 12 at i;
| / D ly aslo INV IN 86.6 _—— \e-5 | S
, r GR 91.4 0’ PUBLIC
| UC \ GARAGE | PROPOSED RESIDENCE INV 90.04. ye | uni CASEMENT
ja Ns | =89. ane A | re 16 MAPS 3
ln Do. | —— = O ‘DS_ CONNECTION ( 14 v) ~
fe : | is Riv oes pe FF 92.0 oS mw cS) 7p eae
hay © —5 . = ATD i 7 u
ma = Peo, 65 CANV 88.94 CRAWL SPACE = 8 00 | GR O14 | / Yio I
5 RIM=88.83 PILLAR ILITY LIGHT aa ° | |ATD GR 9 INV 89.64 | v 2 _—
S WA SS Ref7.15' eee INV 89.54 l= | GR 92.0£\C-5
ky tu =40.00 . —- — LJ Bt
< | Oa lw 5 0,00" _— LOT 10, = SCC OCS OO eT a ese L | na ~ | INV 89.8
ep Ne Ay es : ht fe
BS ‘ S\sspco oN TS S=2% = 2% op BS i a !
pe (E) WM. DEFERRED//FIR 19O-Racr _ gs RIM 90.02 0, SS8RIBG-FT. —_ o Oo} es] il 4) | YY
a SYSTEM DESIGN 4 @fistee HAN INV 88.04 0.24 =)}4 a a ” | op
APPROVAL. SEE /FIRE,> — y 6’ TR AQ xe 7 |
- PROTECTION NOTES. U SN \ ae A 34 0A ff} BIRCH |[ — FENCY \
| ~ be | N-éR 50 sane oar) re oor \ ]
oe INV 88.94 S | > l L
a / STON Par, rE R90 | (N) 4 STONE Of mn Pye a
4 Wz 5+ c -~—~
EXTEND (N) he ANY a, > Ms ip-riat (6)! J -
SERVICE LINE AS)  ~ ATD OPING = 91 C = Lil sa
SHOWN. = 0) 2 ean GR 91.44 Cc = 9192 . RIM 91.6£ \c— |
/ 5 © a ee : YUCCA ‘ INV 88.2+ SLOT DRAI T_DRAIN OAS INV 89.04 Hs ao = 92.94
/ s ee ° 3 — rReTBPERICK IM_ 91.8 ee : l INV 90.0%
: FE _ . a. BORDER, | . | 8202 TER 2 + |
a oy > 4
3 13. \MRENCH DISSIPATER i r 2% = = 7
& S\C-5 1.0+ TA 4” SD oS, sy
& “7 4 INV IN 86.5 ) = (J S=2% -Y -
S = 4” INV OUT 87.1+ yY ADs CONCRETE Kl
24” INV 84.84 } GR 91.2+ vO LD=FLAT, n
SEDIMENTATION BASI 8 INV 87.4+ ~~ STONE RIM 91. Vj |
RIM 92.1 / \C-5 AID NS159%5°, ? an eivdNV 88. 7 a
4" INV IN 86.84 / GR 92,5+ ATD 1 S = =< = ( yy, ROCK 7 ~_/ ™
/ 4” INV OUT 86.64 INV 90.5 GR 93.3+£ 87" ee ss lS —— —= fo ™ OU
a / / INV_90.5 SS AD > 1 / )' O
~ . 24°21 18" TS” BAK
\ / 2 sabig J Rye pee voor ™ wit
LOIK@-—5/RIM 93.64 = FENCE 0 ( ‘ly ss \ Ld = v
INV 90.5+ S ° = >
| q Sn ZO)
WV
/ | . AD iv / (oT iy 2 zs LU
/ | f INV 90.02 8 / ) wi > <
S ( tO
\ ly RETAJNING ; a
\ Kos ~ SHR
7 / A Oni *O
/ v i ao <u
n¢ / / ) LL -_—
/ ( / >
- o~
~ ie yo (zac
/ jor =° tH
poem 7
/ ees =n ,Z
/ / = x
/ II<yrw

/
/ i / / Date:
/ 01/19/2022
/ / / Scale:
/ T= 10
/ ae
rR

SEE SHEET C-O FOR ee
LEGEND AND SHEET ——o | C-3
C-1 FOR NOTES GRAPHIC SCALE

: PEC 21-125

S70
~

oP



--- page 353 ---
NEIGHBORING
DRIVEWAY ACCESS

\

/
STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION
EN TRAN CE stueco WALL, TYP.

NEIGHBORING
HOUSE
RP=113.26

SDMH
RIM=87.72

~

LOT 11

Oxy BED wooo)

DECHDVERHEAI
Lind I\

/

0").

/*

GARAGE

Y

\
|
971 ~~ 4 > woop a
3 pn _——=] — SN
|
1

\

IH
RIM=88.83

STEPS

| STONE

PROPOSED. reste

TF sac) GRAWL SPACE = 88,00|/

—=

\
FAIRFAX AVENUE (5

VERTICAL SPACING

IVER ROCK 10,5589F BQ.FT.
0.24 +HA\

L CHIMNEY.

STUCCO HOUSE e

FF = 92.0

92

(oe
4
é
ATE

qstone

-L (EF) TREE TO BE

ROCK

oe _— Border, JAW
TYP

P

ASHOUT PIT / 12 ™ CONGRETE
CA
/

/ 5
La

~
ow.

INSTALL STRAW ROLLS INA
TRENCH, 2" TO 4" DEEP, DUG
ON LEVEL CONTOURS

IF MORE THAN ONE STRAW
ROLL LENGTH IS NEEDED INA
ROW, THE ROLLS SHALL BE
OVERLAPPED, NOT ABUTTED

SEDIMENT AND ORGANIC
MATTER ARE CAPTURED
BEHIND THE ROLLS

USE #" BY #" WOOD STAKES
MINIMUM 24" LONG

8" DIAMETER MIN. (20"
DIAMETER MIN. SHALL BE
USED AT TOE OF SLOPES

CONCRETE RETAINING

Lol STRAW BE S/ 6

CONCRETE BRICK & © | REMOVED INCLUDING

PLANTER

ROOT MASS. TYP.

‘ Qy4- — oe

met

STONE
RIVER

\
© J ROCK 7- :
= i
= SS 24"21749°T5*O ki / ~~
%, wool
)
= "e@ vhs, ~
_ Fegfce } ~
ip LOT 17
2 / 4
iS 2

Rersfin
WAL! aad
CHANGE

—4

/ GRAPHIC SCALE

PLAN VIEW scaet=1

BUBBLE BOX

SCALE : 1"=1'-0"

PLAN VIEW

CAST IRON GRATE. SEE
PLANS FOR GRATE
ELEVATION.

CHRISTY V-9 DRAIN BOX
WITH EXTENSION(S) OR
EQUIVALENT.

4" STORM DRAIN

1" TO 1-4" CRUSHED,
WASHED DRAIN ROCK.

BUBBLE BOX -—012-*MSTR

3" TO 6" ANGULAR ROCK

SCALE : 3" = 1 EXISTING ROAD

EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES:

1.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

ALL EROSION CONTROL MATERIALS, INCLUDING SILT FENCE(S), FIBER ROLL(S) AND STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION
ENTRY, SHALL BE FURNISHED AND INSTALLED BY CONTRACTOR BY SEPTEMBER 15TH AND SHALL REMAIN IN PLACE
UNTIL THE PERMANENT LANDSCAPING GROUND COVER AND FLATWORK IS INSTALLED. CONTRACTOR SHALL
CONTINUOUSLY MONITOR THESE MEASURES, FOLLOWING AND DURING ALL RAIN EVENTS, TO ENSURE THEIR
PROPER FUNCTION.

BMP'S AS OUTLINED IN THE CALIFORNIA STORMWATER QUALITY ASSOCIATION'S (CASQA) BMP HANDBOOK, JANUARY
2015, OR THE LATEST EDITION, SHALL APPLY DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT. ALL CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENTS SHALL ADHERE TO NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR SEDIMENTATION PREVENTION AND EROSION CONTROL TO PREVENT DELETERIOUS
MATERIALS OR POLLUTANTS FROM ENTERING THE TOWN/CITY STORM DRAIN SYSTEMS AND PUBLIC RIGHT OF
WAYS. ADDITIONAL MEASURES MAY BE REQUIRED IF DEEMED APPROPRIATE BY TOWN/CITY INSPECTORS.

SEDIMENTS AND OTHER MATERIALS MUST BE RETAINED ON SITE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSPORTED FROM THE SITE
VIA VEHICLE TRAFFIC, SHEET FLOW, SWALES, AREA DRAINS, NATURAL DRAINAGE COURSES, OR WIND. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL A STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE PRIOR TO THE INCEPTION OF ANY WORK
ONSITE AND MAINTAIN IT FOR THE DURATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION PROCESS SO AS TO INHIBIT SEDIMENTS FROM
BEING DEPOSITED INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. ACCIDENTAL DEPOSITIONS MUST BE SWEPT UP IMMEDIATELY
AND MAY NOT BE WASHED DOWN BY RAIN OR OTHER MEANS.

STOCKPILES OF EARTH AND OTHER CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATERIALS MUST BE PROTECTED FROM BEING
TRANSPORTED FROM THE SITE BY THE FORCES OF WIND OR WATER. COVER STOCKPILED MATERIAL WITH PLASTIC
UNTIL THE MATERIAL IS REMOVED FROM THE SITE.

CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN ADJACENT STREETS IN A NEAT, CLEAN, DUST FREE AND SANITARY CONDITION AT
ALL TIMES AND TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE TOWN/CITY AND HOME OWNER. THE ADJACENT STREET SHALL BE
KEPT CLEAN OF DEBRIS, WITH DUST AND OTHER NUISANCE BEING CONTROLLED AT ALL TIMES. CONTRACTOR
SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY CLEAN UP ON ADJACENT STREETS AFFECTED BY THEIR CONSTRUCTION, METHOD
OF STREET CLEANING SHALL BE BY DRY SWEEPING.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT DOWN SLOPE DRAINAGE COURSES, STREAMS AND STORM DRAINS WITH ROCK
FILLED SAND BAGS, TEMPORARY SWALES, SILT FENCES, AND EARTH BERMS IN CONJUNCTION WITH PROPERLY
INSTALLED INLET FILTERS.

THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL DUST CONTROL MEASURES AND FOR OBTAINING ALL REQUIRED DUST
CONTROL PLANS, APPROVALS AND PERMITS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEMONSTRATE DUST SUPPRESSION
MEASURES, SUCH AS REGULAR WATERING, WHICH SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED TO REDUCE EMISSIONS DURING
CONSTRUCTION AND GRADING IN A MANNER MEETING THE APPROVAL OF THE TOWNICITY.

THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE SUFFICIENT DUST CONTROL FOR THE ENTIRE PROJECT SITE AT ALL TIMES AND
SHALL IMPLEMENT WATER TRUCKS AS NEEDED TO CONTROL DUST. ALL PORTIONS OF THE SITE SUBJECT TO
BLOWING DUST SHALL BE WATERED AS OFTEN AS DEEMED NECESSARY BY THE TOWN/CITY IN ORDER TO INSURE
PROPER CONTROL OF BLOWING DUST FOR THE DURATION OF THE PROJECT. IN THE EVENT THAT THE
CONTRACTOR NEGLECTS TO USE ADEQUATE MEASURES TO CONTROL DUST, THE HOME OWNER RESERVES THE
RIGHT TO TAKE WHATEVER MEASURES ARE NECESSARY TO CONTROL DUST AND CHARGE THE COST TO THE
CONTRACTOR.

ALL DEBRIS BINS SHALL BE COVERED AT THE END OF EACH WORKING DAY WITH WATERTIGHT COVER TO MITIGATE
BLOWING TRASH/DEBRIS AND LEACHING DUE TO RAINFALL.

CONTRACTOR SHALL ASSUME THE CONCEPTS ON THE EROSION CONTROL PLAN, WHICH ARE SCHEMATIC MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS, THE FULL EXTENT OF WHICH ARE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE TIME OF
CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EXACT DESIGN AND EXTENT OF THE EROSION CONTROL
SYSTEM SO THAT IT WORKS WITH THE INTENDED USE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION SITE.

ALL EROSION CONTROL FACILITIES SHALL BE INSPECTED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE CONCLUSION OF EACH
WORKING DAY AND SHALL MAKE NECESSARY REPAIRS PRIOR TO ANTICIPATED STORMS AND AT REASONABLE
INTERVALS DURING STORMS OF EXTENDED DURATION. REPAIRS TO DAMAGED FACILITIES SHALL BE MADE
IMMEDIATELY UPON DISCOVERY.

FOLLOWING EACH STORM AND AS NEEDED, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE ANY ACCUMULATION OF SILT OR
DEBRIS IN THE STREET AND FROM THE EROSION CONTROL SEDIMENT BASINS AND SHALL CLEAR THE OUTLET PIPES
OF ANY BLOCKAGES.

NECESSARY EROSION CONTROL MATERIALS SHALL BE AVAILABLE ON SITE AND STOCKPILED AT CONVENIENT
LOCATIONS TO FACILITATE RAPID INSTALLATION AND REPLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY DEVICES WHEN RAIN IS
IMMINENT.

ANY SLOPES WITH DISTURBED SOILS OR DENUDED OF VEGETATION MUST BE STABILIZED SO AS TO INHIBIT
EROSION BY WIND AND WATER. PROTECT UNDISTURBED AREAS FROM CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS USING
VEGETATIVE BUFFER STRIPS, SEDIMENT BARRIERS OR FILTERS, DIKES, MULCHING OR OTHER MEASURES SEEN
APPROPRIATE.

ALL TRUCKS HAULING SOIL, SAND, AND OTHER LOOSE MATERIALS SHALL BE COVERED WITH TARPAULINS OR OTHER
EFFECTIVE COVERS.

WHEEL WASHERS SHALL BE USED AS NEEDED TO CLEAN ALL TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT LEAVING THE
CONSTRUCTION SITE. IF WHEEL WASHERS CANNOT BE INSTALLED, TIRES OR TRACKS OF ALL TRUCKS AND
EQUIPMENT SHALL BE WASHED OFF BEFORE LEAVING THE CONSTRUCTION SITE.

FUELS, OILS, SOLVENTS, AND OTHER TOXIC MATERIALS MUST BE STORED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THEIR LISTING
AND ARE NOT TO CONTAMINATE THE SOIL AND SURFACE WATERS. ALL APPROVED STORAGE CONTAINERS ARE TO
BE PROTECTED FROM THE WEATHER. SPILLS MUST BE CLEANED UP IMMEDIATELY USING DRY METHODS AND
DISPOSED OF INA PROPER MANNER. SPILLS MAY NOT BE WASHED INTO THE DRAINAGE SYSTEM. CALL 911 IN CASE
OF A HAZARDOUS SPILL.

EXCESS OR WASTE CONCRETE MAY NOT BE WASHED INTO THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR ANY OTHER DRAINAGE
SYSTEM. PROVISIONS SHALL BE MADE TO RETAIN CONCRETE WASTES ON SITE UNTIL THEY CAN BE DISPOSED OF
AS SOLID WASTE. NEVER CLEAN MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT OR TOOLS INTO A STREET, GUTTER OR STORM DRAIN.

AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

1331 Old County Road, Suite B
Belmont, CA 94002

DATE:

REVISIONS:

G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

GREATER THAN 5:1) 2'
AROUND

ENTIRE 1
PERIMETER

19. TRASH AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED SOLID WASTES MUST BE DEPOSITED INTO A COVERED RECEPTACLE TO
PREVENT CONTAMINATION AND DISPERSAL BY WIND.

WATERPROOF MEMBRANE,
MIRAFI, MCF1212, OR 95)-0"
APPROVED EQUIVALENT. MIN

3" TO 6" ANGULAR
ROCK

20. UPON SATISFACTORY COMPLETION OF THE WORK, THE ENTIRE WORK SITE SHALL BE CLEANED BY THE
CONTRACTOR AND LEFT WITH A SMOOTH AND NEATLY GRADED SURFACE FREE OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE,
RUBBISH, AND DEBRIS OF ANY NATURE.

1. INSTALL SUCH THAT RUNOFF WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO RUN UNDER OR AROUND ROLL.
TURN ENDS UP SLOPE TO PREVENT RUNOFF FROM GOING AROUND ROLL.

21. SITE CONDITIONS AT TIME OF PLACEMENT OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES WILL VARY. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL
a ADJUST EROSION CONTROL MEASURES AS THE SITE CONDITIONS CHANGE AND AS THE NEED OF CONSTRUCTION
Te Te SS SHIFT TO PREVENT EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION FROM LEAVING SITE
an

1 ed eee Ape Ged ee

art sis
ama
“E =I

quali Ape fe eed

TT
lll I

Ae ee eee Ape ed eee

2. | SPACE STRAW ROLLS AS FOLLOWS: _
con ~an—i1
e SLOPE OF 4:1 ORFLATTER = 20 FEET APART SECTION A A SCALE: 1"=3

° SLOPE BETWEEN 4:1 AND 2:1 = 15 FEET APART

e SLOPE OF 2:1 OR GREATER =10FEET APART

22. PLANS SHALL BE DESIGNED TO MEET THE C.3 REQUIREMENTS OF THE MUNICIPAL REGIONAL STORMWATER NPDES
PERMIT (“MRP”) CAS612008.

NOTES: EXISTING ROAD EXISTING GRADE FILTER FABRIC

3. INSPECT AND REPAIR STRAW ROLLS AFTER EACH STORM EVENT AND REMOVE SEDIMENT 23. THE CONTRACTOR MUST INSTALL ALL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES PRIOR TO THE
WHEN NECESSARY. REMOVED SEDIMENT SHALL BE DEPOSITED TO AN AREA THAT WILL NOT 1. LOCATE AWAY FROM STORM DRAIN INLETS, DRAINAGE FACILITIES, OR WATERCOURSES. DO SECTION A A_ SCALE:32"=1' INCEPTION OF ANY WORK ONSITE AND MAINTAIN THE MEASURES UNTIL THE COMPLETION OF ALL LANDSCAPING.
CONTRIBUTE SEDIMENT OFF-SITE. NOT DISCHARGE WASH WATER TO STORM DRAINS OR WATERCOURSES.

2. BERM UP EDGES AS SHOWN IN SECTION A-A TO CONTAIN WASH WATERS AND TO PREVENT NOTES: 24. ALL EXPOSED SLOPES THAT ARE NOT VEGETATED SHALL BE HYDROSEEDED. IF HYDROSEEDING IS NOT USED OR IS

4. INLIEU OF STRAW ROLL INSTALLATION AROUND PROJECT PERIMETER, CONTRACTOR HAS RUNON AND RUNOFF. = NOT EFFECTIVE BY OCTOBER 1, THEN OTHER IMMEDIATE METHODS SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED, SUCH AS EROSION

OPTION TO PRESERVE A NATURAL VEGETATED BUFFER 3 FOOT MINIMUM IN WIDTH OR A 6 3. IF WASH WATER REACHES WITHIN 3" OF THE TOP OF BERM, CONTRACTOR SHALL UTILIZE CONTROL BLANKET. HYDROSEEDING SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISION OF SECTION 20 “EROSION
INCH HIGH BERM. SUMP PUMP AND DESILTING BASIN TO REMOVE SEDIMENT LADEN WASH WATER. 1. PROVIDE A FANNED STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE TO ACCOMMODATE THE CONTROL AND HIGHWAY PLANTING” OF THE STANDARD SPECIFICATION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA OF

STRAW ROLL TEMPORARY WASHOUT PIT GRAVEL CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE | :

ROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN

LSTON RESIDENCE
15 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

<v

LL

Drawing Number:
Cc I

PEC 21-125

25. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE SECONDARY CONTAINMENT FOR PORTABLE TOILETS.

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" STRAW ROLL -016-*MSTR TEMP GRAV CONST ENT -060-*MSTR

SCALE : AS SHOWN WASHOUT PIT -024—*MSTR

SCALE : AS SHOWN

SEE SHEET C-O FOR

LEGEND AND SHEET
C-1 FOR NOTES



--- page 354 ---
AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

iw JS

ee”

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as
they apply to your project, all year long.

Belmont, CA 94002

Painting & Paint Removal

1331 Old County Road, Suite B

, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community.

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials a os *) nate i. area, nied wt , —— nos L) Schedule grading and excavation work from contacting stormwater runoff. rain, COGCEL a Rae, U) Paint chips and dust from non-hazardous
_] Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dirt or other construction material veiele and equipment parking and storage. during dry weather. LJ Cover storm drain inlets and manholes ) Wash out concrete equipment/trucks dry stripping and sand blasting may be
with tarps when rain is forecast or if not actively being used within | Perform major maintenance, repair jobs, and vehicle Q Stabilize all denuded areas, install and when applying seal coat, tack coat, slurry offsite or in a designated washout swept up or collected in plastic drop
14 days. and equipment washing off site. maintain temporary erosion controls (such seal, fog seal, etc. area, where the water will flow into a cloths and disposed of as trash
) Use (but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust control. UW If refueling or vehicle maintenance must be done 48 erosion control fhiie:er bonded fibee ) Collect and recycle or appropriately temporary waste pit, and in a manner O Chemical paint strippine residue and chips
ite. work i vay i , ; —_— ; a that will prevent leaching into the at paint Sitpping residue and Chip
onsite, W ork ina bermed area away from storm drains matrix) until vegetation is established. dispose of excess abrasive grav el or sand. : : and Acar frofii eacine paints ae paints
Hazardous Materials and Over a drip pan or drop cloths big enough to collect | Remove existing vegetation only when Do NOT Sweep OF wash it into gutters. underlying “~ or onlp SUITES — containing lead mercury, Or tributyltin
. fluids. Recycle or dispose of fluids as hazardous waste. — : ; ; Let concrete harden and dispose of as ? J» J
—] Label all hazardous materials and hazardous wastes (such as ° P . absolutely necessary, and seed or plant L) Do not use water to wash down fresh garbage must be disposed of as hazardous waste.
pesticides, paints, thinners, solvents, fuel, oil, and antifreeze) in 4 If vehicle or equipment cleaning must be done onsite, vegetation for erosion control on slopes asphalt concrete pavement. Lead based paint removal requires a state-
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations. clean with water only in a bermed area that will not or where construction is not immediately 4 When an i aperceale, certified contractor.
] Store hazardous materials and wastes in water tight containers, store allow rinse water to run into gutters, streets, storm planned. Sawcutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal eee lark ae felacomfonetan
; a ; . 6 | drains, or surface waters. ; , 6 ‘I drains. Block any inlets and vacuum .
in appropriate secondary containment, and cover them at the end of ; a, LI Prevent sediment from migrating offsite O Protect nearby storm drain inlets when cutters, hose washwater onto dirt areas, or Dewatering VY)
every work day or during wet weather or when rain is forecast. U Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite using soaps, and protect storm drain inlets, gutters, -cuttine. Use filter fabri h basi a LL
solvents, degreasers, or steam cleaning equipment ; , ; BAW CUMING. Wise MAT 1AUIiC, Coch basin drain onto a bermed surface to be pumped
Follow manufacturer’s application instructions for hazardous , ditches, and drainage courses by installing inlet filters, or gravel bags to keep slurry and disposed of properly. O
materials and be careful not to use more than necessary. Do not and maintaining appropriate BMPs, such out of the storm drain system. [=
apply chemicals outdoors when rain is forecast within 24 hours. Spill Prevention and Control a her rolls, silt fences, sediment basins, O Shovel. abosorb. or vacuum saw-cut ©
_! Arrange for appropriate disposal of all hazardous wastes. U Keep spill cleanup materials (¢.g., rags, absorbents and gravel bags, perms we ; slurry and dispose of all waste as soon Landscapin <
cat litter) available at the construction site at all times. UI Keep excavated soil on site and transfer it as you are finished in one location or at ping ‘am
Waste Management QO) Inspect vehicles and equipment frequently for and to dump trucks on site, not in the streets. the end of each work day (whichever is ~t mt \ Oo.
; repair leaks promptly. Use drip pans to catch leaks sooner!). - ‘4 >)
] Cover waste disposal containers securely with tarps at the end of 7 ; ' . . : LF \
- work dav i nok until repairs are made. Contaminated Soils QO If sawcut slurry enters a catch basin, clean ee a. » \ _
every work day and during wet weather. Q Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of O i f the follow; iti it up imme diatels fe \ Ye ) Discharges of groundwater or captured Z al
lean u aks immediately and di any of the following conditions are ediately. “i shat :
—) Check waste disposal containers frequently for leaks and to make - i. ‘ runoff from dewatering operations must
sure they are not overfilled. Never hose down a dumpster on the cleanup materials properly. observed, test for contamination and be properly managed and disposed. When LL ©
tian @ . P O Do not hose down surfaces where fluids have spilled. contact the Regional Water Quality hl oie a LS
construction site. ve Sp C | Board: possible send dewatering discharge to Lu >
—! Clean or replace portable toilets, and inspect them frequently for Use dry cleanup methods (absorbent materials, cat oniro me , . landscaped area or sanitary sewer. If LLI © Z O)
leaks and spills ° ° litter, and/or rags). - Unusual soil conditions, discoloration, discharging to the sanitary sewer call your 5 Z ~ a
A Dispose of all wastes and debris properly, Recycle materials and L) Sweep up spilled dry materials immediately. Do not or odor. Q Protect stockpiled landscaping materials local wastewater treatment plant. < rat IO)
wastes that can be recycled (such as asphalt, seresrcte, aggregate base try to wash them away with water, or bury them. - Abandoned underground tanks. from wind and rain by storing them under L) Divert run-on water from offsite away Zz U) .
materials, wood, gyp tesard pipe, etc.) QO) Clean up spills on dirt areas by digging up and - Abandoned wells tarps all year-round. from all disturbed areas. <{ Lu * O
_! Dispose of liquid residues from paints, thinners, solvents, glues, and properly disposing of comamunagegian. - Buried barrels, debris, or trash. U Stack bagged material on pallets and UW When dewatering, notify and obtain S = LL.
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste. . . U) Report significant spills immediately. You are required under cover. approval from the local municipality Zae€d
by law to report all significant releases of hazardous UO Discontinue application of any erodible before discharging water toa street gutter = 0o xcs
Construction Ent ind Berimet materials, including oil. To report a spill: 1) Dial 911 landseape:tnaterial within 8 days before a or storm drain. Filication or diversion / — LL
onstruction Entrances and rerimeter or your local emergency response number, 2) Call the forecast rain event or during wet weather. through a basin, tank, or sediment trap LU YW) LO Z
— Establish and maintain effective perimeter controls and stabilize all Governor’s Office of Emergency Services Warning may be required. roa) I+ <

construction entrances and exits to sufficiently control erosion and
sediment discharges from site and tracking off site.

—] Sweep or vacuum any street tracking immediately and secure
sediment source to prevent further tracking. Never hose down streets
to clean up tracking.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

Maintenance and Parking

Center, (800) 852-7550 (24 hours).

Earthmoving

Paving/Asphalt Work

LJ Avoid paving and seal coating in wet
weather or when rain is forecast, to
prevent materials that have not cured

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

L) Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets under cover to protect them from

| pee] FP

Painting Cleanup and Removal

L) Never clean brushes or rinse paint
containers into a street, gutter, storm
drain, or stream.

LJ For water-based paints, paint out brushes
to the extent possible, and rinse into a
drain that goes to the sanitary sewer.
Never pour paint down a storm drain.

Q) For oil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible and clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container. Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents. Dispose of
excess liquids as hazardous waste.

(J In areas of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine whether the ground water must
be tested. Pumped groundwater may need
to be collected and hauled off-site for
treatment and proper disposal.

DATE:

REVISIONS:

01/19/2022
NONE

ves\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue

01-19-22

G:\Shared dri
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

Storm drain polluters may be liable for fines of up to $10,000 per day!

Drawing Number:

C-4.1

PEC Job No.

PEC 21-125


--- page 355 ---
G:\Shared drives\PEC Project Files\2021\PEC 21-125 — 415 Fairfax Avenue, San Mateo\Dwg\PEC 21-125 SHEETS. dwg

01-19-22
Windows

DRAWING NAME:

PLOT TIME:
PLOTTED BY:

FINISHED GRADE. SEE
PLANS FOR ELEVATION.

18" BOLTED DOWN ACCESS
RISER. DRAIN-RITE IN LINE 4" OVERFLOW PIPE.

DRAIN. 4" QWIKSEAL FITTING.
41-6" .
MIN 15' MIN
“SIS SSS | SSAA INS DADRA | IIIs SESSA Ss
RRRRQRRQRQRAQRQRQIRRRR tS RAR] RORRORRG <4" OVERFLOW PIPE <0 AY, a @ mer RR
SYNYYSQ\y We y VILGGLT Ta IY
LSS, ni nn III AN IG ————— KX
4" INLET PIPE RRRRRRRE RRR 4 z
DOOOOYMOYYYE - OH$9Y” Yeas
RKRQRRORORRRRERX CRORIRG, BX So
<<, MANUFACTURER WELDED : xg 2S
(<< INLET/ OUTLET PIPE : KY <
CKKKX_KXQKCQ_XCKOCGICOKX QZ a
[ESSISSHSNHAIWY  MHHQOHy yw ES
CAKX_™?°0u67:?:61Ci<( ZIG: 4“ we
IIIS, YNONY YY
RARRRRRREE i KRRK Bg WO
IIIS, YONY YY ae
CK{XK&{<XC{Xx<X“XXXKGIKKKX KxX<
III, YEON? YY
IKXK*&«€*_ KGIKXKX XS
SOY) MOON S
«—[KRDMD/[CUSKISS KEK x
: SOOO LOLOL IY,
RKKKRKARKKKX SERRA KKKKKKKKKKKRAKKKRAKRRKARAKKKRK
SIRENS INIENIENSINSIASININIRNILNINSIN SASKAKRSKEKAEASSAS LIRIAS SESKSAKSSES EEK EIRENE
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR  KRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
3/4" TO 1-1/2" CRUSHED WRAP DRAIN ROCK IN BELL AND SPIGOT FOR NOTES: PERFORATIONS (TYP)
WASHED DRAIN ROCK FILTER FABRIC. OVERLAP PIPES OVER 20.0'

FABRIC 12" MIN. (TYP)

TRENCH DISSIPATER

SCALE : 3/8"=1'-0"

SEE STORM DRAIN NOTE #7.

SQUARE OR CIRCULAR ROOF
DOWN SPOUT

DOWNSPOUT FILTER BY K&M
SHEET METAL, AQUABARREL
OR APPROVED EQUIVALENT.

2" OR 3" (DEPENDING ON DS
SIZE) DS TO 4" DIAMETER
REDUCER. WYE CONNECTION
CAN BE USED FOR CLEANOUT.

Zz FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
=
iy

| =a EF
ue : PLANS)
\ MATERIAL AS SPECIFIED IN

NOTES.

4

‘” ( —*— CONNECT TO STORM DRAIN
OR CATCH BASIN. SEE UTILITY
PLAN FOR SIZE AND SLOPE.

LONG SWEEP ELBOW

DOWNSPOUT CONNECTION

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" DS CONNECT -016-*MSTR

PLAN
24" @ HDPE OR FIBERGLASS
COVER. SEE GRADING PLAN FOR
RIM ELEVATION.

24" HDPE STANDPIPE
2" SCH 40 FORCED MAIN

INSTALL ZOELLER TRI-CHECK
VALVE (BALL VALVE, CHECK
VALVE AND UNION)

4" INLETS FROM SUB-DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLAN FOR INVERT.

4" QWIKSEAL FITTING. TYP ALL
STORM DRAIN PIPES.

SUBMERSIBLE NON-CLOG PUMPS,
RATED MIN. 20 GPM WITH TOTAL
DYNAMIC HEAD OF 15FT.
(SUGGESTED PUMPS: (2) ZOELLER
MODEL #57's)

FIELD POURED CONCRETE BASE

NOTES:

=

INSTALL PUMP PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.

2. CONTRACTOR SHALL SUPPLY A COMPLETELY SELF-CONTAINED DUPLEX MOTOR CONTROL PANEL FOR THE
ALTERNATING LEED/LAG PUMP SYSTEM. THE CONTROL PANEL SHALL PROVIDE SHORT CIRCUIT AND
OVERLOAD PROTECTION FOR THE PUMPS.

3. PROVIDE FLOAT SENSORS AND HIGH-WATER ALARM PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.

4. CONNECT SUMP PUMPS TO BATTERY BACKUP / GENERATOR FOR A CONTINUOUS POWER SUPPLY TO ALL

PUMPS.

® DUAL SUMP PUMP

SCALE : 3/8"=1'-0”
DUAL SUMP PUMP -032—-*MSTR

24" DIAMETER PERFORATED
DUAL WALLED HDPE. (0O.D. 28")

1. PIPE SHALL BE DUAL WALLED HDPE AS SHOWN.

DETENTION TANK -S24—*MSTR

POOL COPING

ACO BRICKSLOT DRAIN OR
EQUAL

PATIO
An
2

PLAN
LENGTH AS SHOWN ON PLANS

“co

TO 27
11.69"
2.7" PLUS
CHANNEL DEPTH

SECTION A-A END VIEW
NOTE:
ACO BRICKSLOT 0.6% SLOPED CHANNELS IN METER LENGTHS AND 30 DEPTHS WHICH CONNECT TO
CREATE CONTINUOUSLY SLOPING RUN. HALF METER CHANNELS AND NEUTRAL SLOPING CHANNELS
ARE ALSO AVAILABLE. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDATIONS.

ACO BRICKSLOT TRENCH DRAIN

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" BRICKSLOT TRENCH DRAIN—016—*MSTR

FINISHED FLOOR

FINISHED io S
GRADE

« N
R SOIL »
© SAYAYAY DY.

RRBRRZ
“Gy ~
wy

ESA
- Res

iT OVERLAP FILTER FABRIC 12"
j MIN

i PLACE 4" STORM DRAIN
i OUTSIDE OF FILTER FABRIC.
a
oe TC MIRAFI 140N FILTER FABRIC
Ue Z OR EQUIVALENT.
“Ng
| |

ima . — —| IES | " wi"
See Te Te = ROCK ee

===

Oe Te ee Te ROCK
4" PERFORATED PIPE WITH
OPENINGS PLACED DOWN
UNDERLAIN BY 2" THICK
LAYER OF CRUSHED DRAIN

¢-— CRUSH ZONE ———2 ¢ ROCK.
XY,
(NO PIPES ALLOWED) €

NOTES:

1. PROVIDE A MINIMUM SLOPE OF 0.5% ON SUB-DRAIN TRENCH AND PIPE. SEE PLANS FOR
CLEANOUT LOCATIONS AND INVERT ELEVATIONS.

2. NEVERLOCATE ANY UTILITY TRENCH BELOW THE BEARING PLANE OF THE BUILDING
FOUNDATION. SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM MAY NEED TO BE MOVED AWAY FROM THE BUILDING FACE IN
ORDER TO MAINTAIN SLOPE WHILE ALSO AVOIDING THE FOUNDATION BEARING PLANE.

3. SEE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT FOR ALL COMPACTION RECOMMENDATIONS. GEOTECHNICAL
ENGINEER SHALL INSPECT AND APPROVE THE FINAL INSTALLATION OF THE SUB-DRAIN SYSTEM.

4. SEE STRUCTURAL PLANS FOR FOOTING AND FOUNDATION DESIGN.

SUB-DRAIN

SCALE : NO SCALE

4" NDS ROUND DRAIN. SEE
GRADING AND UTILITY
PLANS FOR GRATE
ELEVATION

FINISHED SURFACE.

SEE GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT

90° LONG SWEEP ELBOW

~~ SEE NOTES AND PLANS

END OF LINE FOR PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

4" NDS ROUND DRAIN. SEE
GRADING AND UTILITY
PLANS FOR GRATE
ELEVATION

FINISHED SURFACE.

SEE GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT

45° BEND
WYE CONNECTION

IN-LINE

SEE NOTES AND PLANS
FOR PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

LANDSCAPE DRAIN — FLAT

SCALE : 1"=1'-0" LAND DRAIN FLAT —012—*MSTR

PLAN 18" BOLT DOWN COVER (OR
CB GRATE). SEE GRADING
AND UTILITY PLAN FOR RIM
ELEVATION.

18" HDPE/FIBERGLASS
STANDPIPE (OR 24"x24" CATCH
BASIN).

4" PVC TEE FITTING.

4" QUICK SEAL FITTING. TYP
ALL STORM DRAIN PIPES.

90° ELBOW
4" NDS ATRIUM GRATE

1" TO 1-1/2" CRUSHED,
WASHED DRAIN ROCK.

SEDIMENT BASIN

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" SED BASIN-016-*MSTR

FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT)

F-8 CHRISTY BOX W/ LID
MARKED "SEWER" OR
"STORM" OR EQUIVALENT.
BOX NOT REQUIRED WHEN
LOCATED WITHIN LANDSCAPE
AREAS.

4" CLEANOUT WITH THREADED
CAP

WYK"

My,

SALLELLE: PEELLEEE UY

45° BEND

WYE CONNECTION

SEE NOTES AND PLANS FOR
PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

END OF LINE Pvc CAP

FINISHED SURFACE (SEE
GRADING PLANS FOR
ELEVATION AND SURFACE
TREATMENT)

F-8 CHRISTY BOX W/ LID
MARKED "SEWER" OR
"STORM" OR EQUIVALENT.
BOX NOT REQUIRED WHEN
LOCATED WITHIN LANDSCAPE
AREAS.

4" CLEANOUT WITH THREADED
CAP

WG

My,

AALELLEE: PELLEESE UY

45° BEND

WYE CONNECTION

SEE NOTES AND PLANS FOR
IN LINE PIPE SIZE AND INVERT

CLEANOUT NON-TRAFFIC RATED

SCALE : 3/4"=1'-0" CLEANOUT RES -016-*MSTR

ATRIUM GRATE: 9" NDS #981
BLACK, BOLT DOWN TYPE.

DRAIN HOUSING: NDS #932

GLUE PIPE AND SET GRATE
TOP TO PROPOSED FINISHED
GRADE.

4" PIPE RISER

90° ELBOW

STORM DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLANS FOR SIZE
AND INVERT ELEVATION.

END OF LINE

ATRIUM GRATE: NDS #981
BLACK, BOLT DOWN TYPE.

DRAIN HOUSING: NDS #932

GLUE PIPE AND SET GRATE
TOP TO PROPOSED FINISHED
GRADE.

4" PIPE RISER

WYE FITTING

STORM DRAIN. SEE
UTILITY PLANS FOR SIZE
AND INVERT ELEVATION.

INLINE

SQUARE ATRIUM DRAIN

SCALE : 1"=1'-0" SQUARE ATRIUM DRAIN-012-*MSTR

AND

CONSTRUCTION
T: 650.226.8640
Travis@precision-ec.com

ne)
<=
Xe
wd
w
z
9
Zz
Ww
Zz
©
ce)
O
w
he
Oo

Belmont, CA 94002

1331 Old County Road, Suite B

DATE:

REVISIONS:

DETAIL SHEET
ALSTON RESIDENCE

415 FAIRFAX AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402

Date:

01/19/2022

AS SHOWN

Drawing Number:

C-5

PEC 21-125

