source: packet.pdf
sha256: cf4bebe971f4362ca3284952fb41799e5698acf43a983b3066d21758a09449cd
pages: 146
ocr_pages: 48
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Agenda
January 6, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance: Bay Area Community Health Advisory Council
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
RethinkWaste Fall Poster Contest Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the Regular meeting minutes of December 2, 2019.
3.
City Council Member Service Travel Expenses - Approval
Authorize the affiliated travel expenses for Council Member Rick Bonilla's appointment and service on the League
of California Cities policy committee on Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations for the 2020 calendar year,
estimated at approximately $2,500 in total.
4.
Employee and Labor Relations Negotiations and Consultant - Agreement
Approve an agreement with Industrial Employers Distributers Association for Employee and Labor Relations
Negotiations and Consulting in the not-to-exceed amount of $415,756.24 and authorize the Human Resources
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
5.
Santa Inez Apartments Refinance – Subordination Agreement
Approve Subordination Agreement for the Santa Inez Apartments, located at 24 East Santa Inez Avenue, and
authorize the City Manager to execute related documents and approve future revisions with the concurrence of
the City Attorney, as long as the changes do not alter substantial rights and obligations of the City.
6.
Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant - Application
Adopt a Resolution to approve an application with the State of California for the Land and Water Conservation
Fund for future improvements to Borel Park.
1 of 146

--- page 2 ---
7.
Transportation Development Act Article 3 - Grant Acceptance
Adopt a Resolution to accept a Transportation Development Act Article 3 grant award from the Metropolitan
Transportation Commission in the amount of $75,117.35; appropriate a total of $150,234.70 in grant and local
matching funds, use Measure A fund balance equivalent to the grant amount, to the Transit Oriented
Development Pedestrian Access Study Project; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute all required
grant documents.
8.
Underground Flow Equalization System - Easement Acquisition
Adopt a Resolution to approve an agreement between the County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for the
acquisition and conveyance of property rights for a purchase price of $7,400,000 in order to construct and
operate the City’s Underground Flow Equalization System project at the San Mateo County Event Center; approve
an Easement Deed and Agreement for the Underground Flow Equalization System Project; and authorize the City
Manager to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented.
9.
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act – Loan Application
Authorize the City of San Mateo to submit a full loan application and to dedicate revenues of $100,000 for the
application fee in connection with a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan application for the
Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements Project.
10.
Columbia/Crystal Springs Storm Drain Improvements - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Freyer & Laureta, Inc. for additional design work and field
investigation in the amount not-to-exceed $62,300 for a new agreement total of $202,400; approve an additional
contingency reserve of $6,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in
substantially the form presented and approve change orders up to the reserve amount.
11.
2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street Rehabilitation Project - Bid Rejection
Reject all bids received for the 2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street Rehabilitation Project.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
12.
St. Matthew's Episcopal Day School – Tax Exempt Financing
Conduct a Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act public hearing and adopt a Resolution to approve the
reissuance for federal income tax purposes of tax-exempt revenue obligations originally issued by the California
Enterprise Development Authority for the purpose of financing capital improvements to St. Matthew’s Episcopal
Day School, located at 16 Baldwin Avenue in San Mateo, California.
2 of 146

--- page 3 ---
OLD BUSINESS
13.
North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project - Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of $760,000 from the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Project to
the North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project; approve an agreement with RK Engineering, Inc. for the
construction of the North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project in the amount of $3,006,775; establish a
contingency reserve in the amount of $300,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
NEW BUSINESS
14.
Public Employee Pension Reform Act – 180-Day Waiting Period Waiver Request – City Attorney’s Office, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Department of Public Works
Adopt a Resolution to waive the Public Employee Pension Reform Act 180-day waiting period to hire retired
annuitants Karen Bertrand, Vicki Wilson, and Grace Yoshida for a limited duration to train their respective
replacements in critical tasks related to administrative support of the City Attorney’s Office, Parks and Recreation
Department, and Public Works Department.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City's website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting. Background material can be viewed at City
Hall or on the City's website www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be available for review in the City Clerk's Office.
City Council meetings are broadcast live at 7:00 p.m. on Cable Channel 27 for Comcast, Channel 26 for Astound, and Channel 99 for
AT&T customers. For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk's Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 146

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2311
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Regular meeting minutes of December 2, 2019.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - December 2, 2019 Regular Meeting Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
4 of 146

--- page 5 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/2/2019
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Diane Papan, Mayor
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, December 2, 2019    
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Pledge of Allegiance:  Goethals Family
Roll Call
Present:  Mayor Papan, Council Members: Bonilla, Rodriguez, Goethals and Lee
CEREMONIAL
 
1.
Mayor’s Quarterly Hero Award – Olivia Lourdes
CONSENT CALENDAR – CITY COUNCIL
The following items 2 through 5, and 7 through 13 were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 6 was removed 
to be considered after the Consent Calendar. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was 
invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Papan, Rodriguez, Goethals, Bonilla, Lee
Noes: 
None
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the minutes of the regular and special meetings of June 3, 2019, June 17, 2019, July 15, 2019, August 19, 
2019, September 3, 2019, September 16, 2019, October 7, 2019, October 21, 2019, November 4, 2019, and 
November 18, 2019; and the special meeting minutes of August 26, 2019, August 29, 2019, and November 12, 2019.
 
3.
Merit Employees Salary Schedule - Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo merit employee current pay rates and ranges 
(salary schedule).
Enactment:  Resolution No. 107 (2019)
 
4.
Classification Update – Finance Department
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate a Senior Accounting Assistant position to Accounting Assistant I/II in the Finance 
Department.
 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 108 (2019)
5 of 146

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/2/2019
Page 2
5.
School District "School Resource Officers" Agreement - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with the San Mateo Union High School District and San Mateo-Foster 
City School District for School Resource Officers at public high schools and middle schools to reduce the cost sharing 
provided by the districts from January 1, 2020 - June 30, 2020; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented. 
 
7.
Per Diem Employee Health Insurance Agreement – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 7 to the agreement with the San Mateo Community Health Authority to extend the Group 
Agreement for per diem employee health insurance for two years effective January 1, 2020. 
 
8.
Receipt and Use of Development Impact Fees and In-Lieu Fees – Annual Report 
Adopt a Resolution to make findings and accept the annual report on receipt and use of development impact fees 
and in-lieu fees for the year ended June 30, 2019. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 109 (2019)
 
9.
Citywide Building Access Control System – Contingency and Contract Change Orders
Approve an additional contingency to the contract with Edgeworth Security, LLC, DBA VAS Security Systems Inc. for 
the Citywide Building Access Control System Project in the amount of $50,000 for a revised contingency reserve of 
$91,000; approve Change Orders No. 4, 5 and 6; and authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders up 
to the new contingency amount.
 
10. California High Speed Rail Authority Reimbursement Agreement - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the Reimbursement Agreement with California High Speed Rail Authority for a three-
year Reimbursement Agreement extension, with no change to the original amount of $100,000, and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the Amendment in substantially the form presented. 
 
11. 4th and Fremont Green Infrastructure Project - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with the Association of Bay Area Governments to extend the term of 
the agreement to June 30, 2020; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially 
the form presented.
 
12. Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Management Upgrade and Expansion Project - 
Amendment 
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Trussell Technologies Inc. for additional professional services in 
an amount of $73,700 for a total agreement amount of $170,930; approve a contingency reserve of $20,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders within the contingency amount. 
 
13. Transportation Analysis Policy Development – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $146,731 from the available balance of the Advance Planning Fund; approve a 
professional services agreement with Kittelson and Associates, Inc. for transportation policy development in the 
amount of $127,731; establish a contingency reserve of $19,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute 
the agreement in substantially the form presented and approve amendments within the contingency reserve.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 110 (2019)
 
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
6 of 146

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/2/2019
Page 3
REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR
6.
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
This item was pulled by Finance Director Rich Lee to highlight the award winning financial report and to commend 
staff for their work on it. 
Accept the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Papan, Rodriguez, Goethals, Bonilla, Lee
Noes: 
None
 
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers. 
CEREMONIAL
14. City Council Reorganization
Council Member Joe Goethals presented Commendatory Resolution No. C-7 (2019) to Mayor Diane Papan expressing 
appreciation and commending her for her year as Mayor. He presented a crystal gavel and flowers. Her husband and 
daughter were also presented with items of appreciation for their assistance over this year. Council provided 
comments. Mayor Papan provided comments on her year. Public Comment – Mayor Wayne Lee and Council Member 
Gina Papan expressed appreciation to Mayor Papan. 
Mayor Papan nominated Council Member Goethals for Mayor. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Papan, Rodriguez, Goethals, Bonilla, Lee
Noes: 
None
Mayor Goethals nominated Council Member Rodriguez for Deputy Mayor. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Papan, Rodriguez, Goethals, Bonilla, Lee
Noes: 
None
Mayor Goethals provided his comments on the upcoming year. Public Comment was offered, there were no 
speakers. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                                                                                 
Diane Papan, Mayor                                                   Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
 
7 of 146

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2309
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Member Service Travel Expenses - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the affiliated travel expenses for Council Member Rick Bonilla's  appointment and service on the League of 
California Cities policy committee on Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations for the 2020 calendar year, estimated at 
approximately $2,500 in total. 
BACKGROUND:
On December 16, 2019, the League of California Cities ("League") President, John Dunbar, reappointed Council Member 
Rick Bonilla to a League policy committee on Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations for the 2020 calendar year. This 
appointment requires attendance at a minimum of three meetings, one in Sacramento, one in Anaheim, and one in South 
San Francisco. The League requires member cities to pay for affiliated travel costs for a member to serve on a policy 
committee. 
The City Council Guidelines (Chapter 8 - Financial Matters) state that any appointment expected to cost the City over $100 
annually needs to be approved by the City Council.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City Council budget has sufficient funds to cover these travel expenses. Note that attendance at the annual League 
conference is already included in the Council budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appointment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - League Appointment Notification
Att 2 - 2020 League Policy Committee Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
8 of 146

--- page 9 ---
From: Meg Desmond <mdesmond@cacities.org>
Sent: Monday, December 16, 2019 12:05 PM
To: Rick Bonilla
Cc: seth miller
Subject: Peninsula Division Confirmation Appointment to League Policy Committee
 
Dear Council Member Bonilla:
 
The Peninsula Division president has appointed you to a one-year term on the Governance, 
Transparency and Labor Relations Policy Committee. Your term will run through the 2020 
Annual Conference. On behalf of the Board of Directors and members of the League of 
California Cities, I extend our congratulations and support. Your participation during the year 
will afford you an opportunity to effectively represent your division. 
 
Your acceptance of this appointment brings with it a strong commitment and assumes that you will 
attend a majority of the meetings in 2020. As I am sure you understand, League presidential and 
other similar appointments are subject to any conditions or requirements imposed by the 
appointee’s city.
 
Please keep your Division president informed of the activities and actions of the committee. 
From time to time, you may be asked to give a report on those committee activities. Also bear in 
mind that your participation and support as a committee member are essential to the effective 
functioning of the League. Committee members provide statewide representation of cities, as 
well as leadership and information to other city officials at the division, department, or city level. 
We appreciate and all benefit from your efforts in League affairs. 
 
Your committee will meet three or four times this year, depending on whether or not an annual 
conference resolution is referred to this committee. Meetings begin at 10 a.m. and conclude by 
3 p.m., except for meetings held at the annual conference. An agenda packet with background 
material is emailed approximately one week prior to the meeting. Agenda materials will also be 
available on the League’s Website at www.cacities.org/polcomm (navigate to specific policy 
committee page).
 
Please contact Meg Desmond at (916) 658-8224 or mdesmond@cacities.org if you have any 
questions regarding your policy committee appointment.
 
Thank you for your commitment to the League. I look forward to working with you this year.
 
Sincerely,
 
John Dunbar, Mayor, Yountville
President, League of California Cities
9 of 146

--- page 10 ---
2020 POLICY COMMITTEE SCHEDULE1 
Meetings begin at 10:00 a.m. and end by 3:00 p.m. 
 
January 23 & 24 
Hyatt Regency, 1209 L Street, Sacramento 
*Committee meeting at League Office, 1400 K Street, Sacramento 
 
 
Thursday, January 23 
 
 
 
Friday, January 24 
*Community Services  
 
 
 
Environmental Quality 
Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations. 
Housing, Community & Economic Dev 
Revenue and Taxation 
 
 
 
Public Safety 
Transp., Comm., & Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 2 & 3  
Sheraton Park Hotel, 1855 S Harbor Blvd, Anaheim  
 
Thursday, April 2  
 
 
 
Friday, April 3 
Community Services  
 
 
 
Environmental Quality 
Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations 
Housing, Community & Economic Dev 
Revenue and Taxation 
 
 
 
Public Safety 
Transp., Comm., & Public Works 
 
 
 
 
June 4 & 5 
South San Francisco Conference Center 
255 S Airport Boulevard, South San Francisco 
 
Thursday, June 4  
 
 
 
Friday, June 5 
Community Services  
 
 
 
Environmental Quality 
Governance, Transparency & Labor Relations. 
Housing, Community & Economic Dev 
Revenue and Taxation 
 
 
 
Public Safety 
Transp., Comm., & Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deadline for Submitting Annual Conference Resolutions 
Midnight on Saturday, August 8, 2020 – E-mail, regular mail, or fax 
 
 
ANNUAL CONFERENCE 
 
October 7 – 9, 2020 in Long Beach, California 
 
NOTE: Policy committee members should be aware that lunch is usually served at these meetings. The state’s Fair Political Practices 
Commission takes the position that the value of the lunch should be reported on city officials’ statement of economic interests form.  Because of 
the service you provide at these meetings, the League takes the position that the value of the lunch should be reported as income (in return for 
your service to the committee) as opposed to a gift (note that this is not income for state or federal income tax purposes—just Political Reform 
Act reporting purposes).  The League has been persistent, but unsuccessful, in attempting to change the FPPC’s mind about this interpretation.  
As such, we feel we need to let you know about the issue so you can determine your course of action. If you would prefer not to have to report 
the value of the lunches as income, we will let you know the amount so you can reimburse the League.  The lunches tend to run in the $30 to $45 
range.   
                                            
1 The 2020 policy committee locations were changed due to construction work on the Sacramento Convention 
Center. Seating at January policy committee meetings in the Hyatt Recency will be in “rounds” instead of 
traditional hollow square format. We appreciate your patience while the Sacramento Convention Center is being 
remodeled.   
 
10 of 146

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2265
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Employee and Labor Relations Negotiations and Consultant - Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Industrial Employers Distributers Association for Employee and Labor Relations Negotiations 
and Consulting in the not-to-exceed amount of $415,756.24 and authorize the Human Resources Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City utilizes a consultant as its Chief Negotiator in labor contract negotiations and to represent the City in meet and 
confer functions. Since 2003, the City has contracted with Industrial Employers Distributers Association (IEDA) to provide 
these services.  
Because it had been some time since the City had last evaluated its provider options, in August 2019 the Human Resources 
Department issued a Request for Proposals for provision of labor relations services. 
Of the six responses received, three firms were invited for interviews. After conducting interviews and reference checks, 
the recommendation is to continue contracting with IEDA.
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The agreement and corresponding not-to-exceed amount of $415,765.24 is for a 5-year contract. The consultant fees are 
based on a formula using a per capita monthly fee for the number of employees in represented bargaining units. The fees 
are estimated on annual basis. Fees are reviewed and adjusted each July. The fees include an estimated 3.5% increase per 
year.
Cost for the current fiscal year’s employee and labor relations services had been budgeted in the Human Resources 
Department. Approving this agreement will have an additional financial impact of approximately $1,500 in the General 
Fund in the current year, which can be absorbed within the Human Resources operating budget, so no supplemental 
appropriation is required. The additional years of the contact will be incorporated into the 2020-22 Business Plan and long-
term forecast.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
11 of 146

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - ELR Professional Services Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Senior Human Resource Analyst
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
12 of 146

--- page 13 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 12
Rev 9/17
AGREEMENT WITH IEDA FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR EMPLOYEE AND LABOR RELATIONS NEGOTIATIONS AND 
CONSULTING
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of January 6, 2020, by and between the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and Industrial Employers and Distributors Association (IEDA), a non-profit corporation, 
("CONSULTANT"), whose address is 2200 Powel Street, Suite 1000, Emeryville, CA 94608.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain Employee and Labor Relations (ELR) Negotiations 
and Consulting services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these ELR 
Negotiations and
Consulting services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set 
forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described 
in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to 
perform the services of CONSULTANT.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
13 of 146

--- page 14 ---
SECTION - 
Professional Services
Page 2 of 12
Rev 9/17
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions 
pertaining thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
4 TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on January 6, 2020 and 
be completed on or about December 31, 2024.
SECTION 5 PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a not-to-exceed 
fee in an amount of $415,756.24, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached 
and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall 
have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon 
ten (10) days' written notice to CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this 
Agreement upon receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, 
documents become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon 
request without additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance 
of this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONSULTANT shall not 
make any such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed 
by CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
14 of 146

--- page 15 ---
SECTION - 
Professional Services
Page 3 of 12
Rev 9/17
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any 
interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree 
with the performance of the services under this Agreement.
10 CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under 
this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as 
defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not 
the means by which the result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make 
CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT's performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising 
out of CITY's sole negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to 
this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of 
CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the 
prior written consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL SKILL OF 
CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT 
is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the 
most skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
15 of 146

--- page 16 ---
SECTION - 
Professional Services
Page 4 of 12
Rev 9/17
15 WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of 
this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of 
such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or 
violation of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not 
be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, 
covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement 
shall continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this
Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions, It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of 
its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, 
national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless 
based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and 
Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted 
to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State 
16 of 146

--- page 17 ---
SECTION - 
Professional Services
Page 5 of 12
Rev 9/17
Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected 
by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once
17 of 146

--- page 18 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/17
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties 
but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITYI S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, 
or is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation 
for testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Teresa 
Abrahamsohn 
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
IEDA
Attn: Bruce Heid
2200 Powell Street, Suite 
1000
Emeryville, CA 94608
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either 
written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to 
execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party warrants that the individuals who 
have signed this Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement 
and to bind each respective party.
18 of 146

--- page 19 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/17
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
19 of 146

--- page 20 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 12
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and IEDA have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEOCONSULTANT
Casey Echarte
Bruce Heid
Human Resources Director
Its Authorized Agent
President
PPROVED A T
FORM
Bahar
ahi
Assistant City Attorney
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance 
Requirements
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
1. Assist Human Resources in advising and consulting with the City Council and the City Manager 
on matters relating to employer-employee relations. This includes in-person and other 
consultations with Human Resources as deemed necessary by Human Resources personnel, 
including, but not limited to:
Meet with designated staff to define management goals and policy for labor 
negotiations;
20 of 146

--- page 21 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/17
Provide research and consultation on current trends, practices and community 
standards of other public employers on a variety of labor related issues;
Meet with designated staff to assist in formulating the management proposals for 
negotiations;
Participate in drafting proposals for negotiations;
Perform necessary fact research for negotiations;
Provide progress reports, make recommendations, and receive direction;
Provide consultation and assistance with grievance handling, disciplinary appeals, and 
other conflict resolution procedures;
Provide consultation and assistance with determining questions of scope of bargaining 
and bargaining obligations; and
Provide employee/labor relations training as needed.
2.
Meet and confer in good faith for and on behalf of the City, as the designated representative 
of the City Manager, with representatives of recognized employee organizations of the City of San 
Mateo, including, but not limited to:
Attend negotiation sessions as the City's lead negotiator;
Serve as spokesperson for situational meetings and conferences as they arise, including, 
but not limited to, the impact of layoffs, statutory changes, pension modification, work 
schedule changes, revisions of departmental rules and staffing guidelines.
Act as the City's management advisor in mediation, impasse proceedings, fact-finding, 
arbitration and related procedures.
3.
Assist Human Resources in reporting to the City Council and the City Manager on the 
progress of meeting and conferring in good faith with each of the recognized employee 
organizations.
4.
Present before the Public Employment Relations Board.
21 of 146

--- page 22 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 12
Rev 9/17
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
CONSULTANT fees are based on a formula using a per capita monthly fee for the number of 
employees in representation units. Based on the total number of employees (560), the annual fee 
for services are:
Year I:
January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020
$77,530.80
Year 2:
January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021
$80,244.38
The monthly fee shall be adjusted each subsequent July in accordance with the Computation of 
Dues as adopted by the IEDA's Board of Directors. Below is an estimated 3.5% increase per year.
Year 3:
January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022
Year 4:
January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023
Year 5:
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024
Estimated Total 5 Year Contract
$83.052.93
$85,959.75
$88,968.38
$415,756.24
Formula Employees: All full time employees and full time equivalent employees (FTE) of the CITY 
who are represented by a union or employee organization in which, on behalf of the agency, IEDA 
expects to negotiate and/or administer memoranda of understanding—whether or not those 
employees are themselves members of the union or employee organization.
Full Time Equivalent Employees: The number of full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) is 
determined by dividing the total number of part-time hours by 2020.
Major Memorandum of Understanding: Any memorandum of understanding that covers 100 or 
more employees.
COMPUTATION
IEDA rate increases go into effect on July 1 of each year
CONSUTANT shall invoice the CITY quarterly, Jan 1, April 1, July 1, Oct 1 of each year of service
EXHIBIT C
22 of 146

--- page 23 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 12
Rev 9/17
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-completed operations, personal 
& advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers' Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT's 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds 
on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or 
on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided 
in the form of an endorsement to the CONSULTANT's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT's insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
23 of 146

--- page 24 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 12
Rev 9/17
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT's insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance. CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this 
waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received 
a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City 
may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide 
proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses 
within the retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences. 
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
CONSULTANT's obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require complete, 
certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these 
specifications, at any time.
24 of 146

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2266
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Santa Inez Apartments Refinance – Subordination Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Subordination Agreement for the Santa Inez Apartments, located at 24 East Santa Inez Avenue, and authorize the 
City Manager to execute related documents and approve future revisions with the concurrence of the City Attorney, as 
long as the changes do not alter substantial rights and obligations of the City.
BACKGROUND:
Santa Inez Apartments, LP (SIA) is the owner this affordable housing project consisting of 44 units located at 24 East Santa 
Inez Avenue in San Mateo. The project was built using Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) and a loan from the San 
Mateo Redevelopment Agency, now called the Housing Successor Agency, among other sources in 2002. SIA acquired the 
property from the former tax credit investor in 2017.  At the time it financed the acquisition with a Freddie Mac loan from 
CBRE in the amount of $3,350,000 and the Housing Successor loan, which stayed in second position with a loan amount of 
$4,000,000.
At this time SIA is refinancing the property for the following reasons:
    1.  Switching from an adjustable rate mortgage to a fixed rate mortgage
    2.  Lowering the interest rate (ranged from upper 3% to upper 4%) to 3.65%
    3.  Taking out approximately $400,000 for capital improvements to the building
SIA has determined that this is a good time to refinance to take advantage of a favorable FNMA loan, which will result in a 
reduction in their monthly mortgage payment.   The funds for capital improvements will provide updates to the property 
earlier than originally scheduled including: new flooring, kitchen counters, and appliances for all of the units; exterior 
paint; improvements to the courtyard; replacement of playground equipment; and updates to interior common area 
hallways and staircases.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Housing Successor Loan terms will remain the same.  Repayment of this loan is based on available cash flow on the 
property after expenses are deducted from rent proceeds. It is not anticipated that the refinance will impact repayment of 
the Housing Successor loan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This subordination request is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
25 of 146

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Subordination Agreement City Santa Inez
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
26 of 146

--- page 27 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 1
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
RECORDING REQUESTED BY: 
First American Title Insurance Company
101 Mission Street, Suite 1600,
San Francisco, CA 94105-1730
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: 
Thomas P. Wild, Esq.
Wild & Kearney LLC
475 Wall Street
Princeton, New Jersey 08540
_____________________________________________________________________________
SPACE ABOVE LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE 
APN 032-196-350 
SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY
(Santa Inez Apartments /City of San Mateo)
27 of 146

--- page 28 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 2
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT
(Affordable)
This SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) dated as of _____________, 
is executed by and among (i) JONES LANG LASALLE MULTIFAMILY, LLC, a Delaware 
limited liability company (“Senior Lender”), (ii) CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California municipal 
corporation, Successor to the Housing Assets of the former Redevelopment Agency of the City of 
San Mateo (“San Mateo RDA”) (“Subordinate Lender”), and (iii) SANTA INEZ 
APARTMENTS, LP, a California limited partnership (“Borrower”). 
RECITALS:
A.
Pursuant to that certain Multifamily Loan and Security Agreement dated as of the 
date hereof, executed by and between Borrower and Senior Lender (as amended, restated, replaced, 
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Senior Loan Agreement”), Senior 
Lender has agreed to make a loan to Borrower in the original principal amount of 
$________________ (the “Senior Loan”), as evidenced by that certain Multifamily Note dated 
as of the date hereof, executed by Borrower and made payable to the order of Senior Lender in the 
amount of the Senior Loan (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified 
from time to time, the “Senior Note”).
B.
In addition to the Senior Loan Agreement, the Senior Loan and the Senior Note are 
also secured by a certain Multifamily Mortgage, Deed of Trust or Deed to Secure Debt dated as of 
the date hereof (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to 
time, the “Senior Security Instrument”), encumbering the property described in the Senior 
Security Instrument as the “Mortgaged Property.”
C.
Borrower has requested Senior Lender to permit that certain subordinate loan in the 
amount of $4,000.000.00 (the “Subordinate Loan”) from Subordinate Lender to Borrower and to 
allow the Subordinate Loan to be secured by a mortgage lien against the Mortgaged Property.
D.
Senior Lender has agreed to permit the Subordinate Loan and to allow the 
subordinate mortgage lien against the Mortgaged Property subject to all of the conditions contained 
in this Agreement.
AGREEMENTS:
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to induce Senior Lender to permit the Subordinate Loan to 
Borrower and to allow a subordinate mortgage lien against the Mortgaged Property, and in 
consideration thereof, Senior Lender, Subordinate Lender and Borrower agree as follows:
28 of 146

--- page 29 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 3
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
1.
Recitals.
The recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by reference.
2.
Definitions.
In addition to the terms defined in the Recitals to this Agreement, for purposes of this 
Agreement the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below:
“Affiliate” means, when used with respect to a Person, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, 
limited liability company, limited liability partnership, trust or individual Controlled by, under 
common Control with, or which Controls such Person, and in all cases any other Person that holds 
fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership interests in such Person.
“Borrower” means the Person named as such in the first paragraph on page 1 of this Agreement, 
any successor or assign of Borrower, including without limitation, a receiver, trustee or debtor-in-
possession and any other Person (other than Senior Lender) who acquires title to the Mortgaged 
Property after the date of this Agreement.
“Business Day” means any day other than (a) a Saturday, (b) a Sunday, (c) a day on which Senior 
Lender is not open for business, or (d) a day on which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is 
not open for business.
“Condemnation Action” means any action or proceeding, however characterized or named, 
relating to any condemnation or other taking, or conveyance in lieu thereof, of all or any part of 
the Mortgaged Property, whether direct or indirect.
“Control” (including with correlative meanings, the terms “Controlling,” “Controlled by” and 
“under common Control with”), as applied to any entity, means the possession, directly or 
indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or operations of such 
entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, ownership interests or by contract or 
otherwise.
“Default Notice” means: (a) a copy of any written notice from Senior Lender to Borrower and 
Subordinate Lender stating that a Senior Loan Default has occurred under the Senior Loan 
Documents; or (b) a copy of the written notice from Subordinate Lender to Borrower and Senior 
Lender stating that a Subordinate Loan Default has occurred under the Subordinate Loan 
Documents.  Each Default Notice shall specify the default upon which such Default Notice is 
based.
“Person” means an individual, an estate, a trust, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability 
company or any other organization or entity (whether governmental or private).
“Senior Lender” means the Person named as such in the first paragraph on Page 1 of this 
Agreement, its successors and assigns and any other Person who becomes the legal holder of the 
Senior Loan after the date of this Agreement.
29 of 146

--- page 30 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 4
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
“Senior Loan Default” means the occurrence of an “Event of Default” as that term is defined in 
the Senior Loan Documents.
“Senior Loan Documents” means the Senior Security Instrument, the Senior Note, the Senior 
Loan Agreement, and all other “Loan Documents” as that term is defined in the Senior Loan 
Agreement.
“Subordinate Lender” means the Person named as such in the first paragraph on page 1 of this 
Agreement, any successor or assign of Subordinate Lender, including without limitation, a 
receiver, trustee or debtor-in-possession and any other Person who becomes the legal holder of the 
Subordinate Note after the date of this Agreement.
“Subordinate Loan Agreement” means the Loan and Security Agreement of March 31, 2003 by 
and between Borrower and Subordinate Lender.
“Subordinate Loan Default” means a default by Borrower in performing or observing any of the 
terms, covenants or conditions in the Subordinate Loan Documents to be performed or observed 
by it, which continues beyond any applicable period provided in the Subordinate Loan Documents 
for curing the default.
“Subordinate Loan Documents” means the Subordinate Note, the Subordinate Mortgage, the 
Subordinate Loan Agreement, the Subordinate Regulatory Agreement and all other documents 
evidencing, securing or otherwise executed and delivered in connection with the Subordinate 
Loan.
“Subordinate Mortgage” means the Long Form Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents from 
Predecessor to Borrower to San Mateo RDA dated December 17, 2002 recorded December 19, 
2002 in Official Records as document No. 2002-270903 as amended and assumed by Borrower 
pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of January 22,  2018 and recorded  
April 30, 2018 in Official Records as Document No. 2018-33053, encumbering the Mortgaged 
Property as security for the Subordinate Loan, which Subordinate Lender will cause to be recorded 
among the applicable land records immediately before this Agreement.
“Subordinate Note” means the promissory note of even date herewith issued by Borrower to 
Subordinate Lender, or order, to evidence the Subordinate Loan.
“Subordinate Regulatory Agreement “ means that certain Regulatory Agreement and 
Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, dated as of January 3, 2000, and recorded December 19, 
2002 in Official Records as Document No.2002-270899 as assumed by Borrower pursuant to an 
Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of January 22,  2018 and recorded  April 30, 
2018   in Official Records as Document No. 2018-33053.
3.
Permission to Place Mortgage Lien Against Mortgaged Property.
Senior Lender agrees, notwithstanding the prohibition against inferior liens on the 
Mortgaged Property contained in the Senior Loan Documents and subject to the provisions of this 
30 of 146

--- page 31 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 5
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
Agreement, to permit the Subordinate Mortgage and other recordable Subordinate Loan 
Documents to continue to encumber the Mortgaged Property to secure Borrower’s obligation to 
repay the Subordinate Note and all other obligations, indebtedness and liabilities of Borrower to 
Subordinate Lender under and in connection with the Subordinate Loan.
4.
Borrower’s and Subordinate Lender’s Representations and Warranties.
Borrower and Subordinate Lender each makes the following representations and warranties 
to Senior Lender:
(a)
Subordinate Loan Documents.
The Subordinate Loan is evidenced by the Subordinate Note and is secured by the 
Subordinate Mortgage, the Subordinate Loan Agreement and the Subordinate Loan Documents.
(b)
Subordinate Note.
The Subordinate Note shall be deemed to contain the following provision:
The indebtedness evidenced by this Note is and shall be subordinate in right 
of payment to the prior payment in full of the indebtedness evidenced by a 
Multifamily Note (and any schedules) dated as of _____________, 2019 in the 
original principal amount of $____________, executed by SANTA INEZ 
APARTMENTS, LP, and payable to the order of JONES LANG LASALLE 
MULTIFAMILY, LLC (“Senior Lender”), to the extent and in the manner 
provided in that certain Subordination Agreement dated as of even date herewith 
between the payee of this Note, and Senior Lender and CITY OF SAN MATEO 
(the “Subordination Agreement”).  The Mortgage, (and any exhibits) securing 
this Note is and shall be subject and subordinate in all respects to the liens, terms, 
covenants and conditions of the Multifamily Mortgage, (and any exhibits) securing 
the Multifamily Note and the terms, covenants and conditions of the Multifamily 
Loan and Security Agreement evidencing the terms of the Multifamily Note, as 
more fully set forth in the Subordination Agreement.  The rights and remedies of 
the payee and each subsequent holder of this Note under the Mortgage, Deed of 
Trust or Deed to Secure Debt (and any exhibits) securing this Note are subject to 
the restrictions and limitations set forth in the Subordination Agreement.  Each 
subsequent holder of this Note shall be deemed, by virtue of such holder’s 
acquisition of the Note, to have agreed to perform and observe all of the terms, 
covenants and conditions to be performed or observed by Subordinate Lender under 
the Subordination Agreement.
(c)
Relationship of Borrower to Subordinate Lender and Senior Lender.
Subordinate Lender is not an Affiliate of Borrower and is not in possession of any facts 
which would lead it to believe that Senior Lender is an Affiliate of Borrower.
31 of 146

--- page 32 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 6
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
(d)
Term.
The term of the Subordinate Note does not end before the stated term of the Senior Note.
(e)
Subordinate Loan Documents.
The executed Subordinate Loan Documents are substantially in the same forms as those 
submitted to, and approved by, Senior Lender prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.
Deliveries.
Borrower shall submit the following items to Senior Lender the later of (a) ten (10) 
Business Days after the date on which the proceeds of the Subordinate Loan are disbursed to 
Borrower, and (b) the effective date of the Senior Loan Documents:
(1)
Title Policy Endorsement.
An endorsement to the policy of title insurance insuring the lien of the Senior 
Security Instrument which insures that (A) there are no liens or other encumbrances 
affecting the Mortgaged Property, other than “Permitted Encumbrances” (as defined in the 
Senior Security Instrument), the Subordinate Mortgage, and other Subordinate Loan 
Documents filed or recorded against the Mortgaged Property, (B) the lien of the 
Subordinate Mortgage is subordinate to the lien of the Senior Security Instrument, and (C) 
this Agreement has been recorded among the applicable land records.
(2)
Certification.
A certification from Borrower to Senior Lender that the Subordinate Loan 
Documents do not contain any changes from the Subordinate Loan Documents submitted 
to, and approved by, Senior Lender prior to the date of this Agreement.
(3)
Subordinate Loan Documents.
A complete set of the fully executed Subordinate Loan Documents, certified by 
Borrower to be true, correct and complete.
(4)
Senior Loan Documents.
An executed copy of each of the Senior Loan Documents, certified by Borrower to 
be true, correct and complete.
6.
Terms of Subordination.
(a)
Agreement to Subordinate.
Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender agree that (1) the indebtedness evidenced by the 
Subordinate Loan Documents is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and 
32 of 146

--- page 33 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 7
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
in the manner provided in this Agreement, to the prior payment in full of the Indebtedness 
evidenced by the Senior Loan Documents, and (2) the liens, terms, covenants and conditions of 
the Subordinate Mortgage, the Subordinate Regulatory Agreement  and the other Subordinate Loan 
Documents are and shall be subject and subordinate in all respects to the liens, terms, covenants 
and conditions of the Senior Security Instrument and the other Senior Loan Documents and to all 
advances heretofore made or which may hereafter be made pursuant to the Senior Security 
Instrument and the other Senior Loan Documents (including but not limited to, all sums advanced 
for the purposes of (A) protecting or further securing the lien of the Senior Security Instrument, 
curing defaults by Borrower under the Senior Loan Documents or for any other purpose expressly 
permitted by the Senior Loan Documents, or (B) constructing, renovating, repairing, furnishing, 
fixturing or equipping the Mortgaged Property).
(b)
Subordination of Subrogation Rights.
Subordinate Lender agrees that if, by reason of its payment of real estate taxes or other 
monetary obligations of Borrower, or by reason of its exercise of any other right or remedy under 
the Subordinate Loan Documents, it acquires by right of subrogation or otherwise a lien on the 
Mortgaged Property which (but for this subsection) would be senior to the lien of the Senior 
Security Instrument, then, in that event, such lien shall be subject and subordinate to the lien of the 
Senior Security Instrument.
(c)
Payments Before Senior Loan Default.
Until Subordinate Lender receives a Default Notice (or otherwise acquires actual 
knowledge) of a Senior Loan Default, Subordinate Lender shall be entitled to retain for its own 
account all payments made under or pursuant to the Subordinate Loan Documents.
(d)
Payments After Senior Loan Default.
Borrower agrees that, after it receives a Default Notice (or otherwise acquires knowledge) 
of a Senior Loan Default, it will not make any payments under or pursuant to the Subordinate Loan 
Documents (including but not limited to principal, interest, additional interest, late payment 
charges, default interest, attorneys’ fees, or any other sums secured by the Subordinate Loan 
Documents) without Senior Lender’s prior written consent.  Subordinate Lender agrees that, after 
it receives a Default Notice from Senior Lender with written instructions directing Subordinate 
Lender not to accept payments from Borrower on account of the Subordinate Loan, it will not 
accept any payments under or pursuant to the Subordinate Loan Documents (including but not 
limited to principal, interest, additional interest, late payment charges, default interest, attorneys’ 
fees, or any other sums secured by the Subordinate Loan Documents) without Senior Lender’s 
prior written consent.  If Subordinate Lender receives written notice from Senior Lender that the 
Senior Loan Default which gave rise to Subordinate Lender’s obligation not to accept payments 
has been cured, waived, or otherwise suspended by Senior Lender, the restrictions on payment to 
Subordinate Lender in this Section 6 shall terminate, and Senior Lender shall have no right to any 
subsequent payments made to Subordinate Lender by Borrower prior to Subordinate Lender’s 
receipt of a new Default Notice from Senior Lender in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section 6(d).
33 of 146

--- page 34 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 8
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
(e)
Remitting Subordinate Loan Payments to Senior Lender.
If, after Subordinate Lender receives a Default Notice from Senior Lender in accordance 
with Section 6(d), Subordinate Lender receives any payments under the Subordinate Loan 
Documents, Subordinate Lender agrees that such payment or other distribution will be received 
and held in trust for Senior Lender and unless Senior Lender otherwise notifies Subordinate Lender 
in writing, will be promptly remitted, in kind to Senior Lender, properly endorsed to Senior Lender, 
to be applied to the principal of, interest on and other amounts due under the Senior Loan 
Documents in accordance with the provisions of the Senior Loan Documents.  By executing this 
Agreement, Borrower specifically authorizes Subordinate Lender to endorse and remit any such 
payments to Senior Lender, and specifically waives any and all rights to have such payments 
returned to Borrower or credited against the Subordinate Loan.  Borrower and Senior Lender 
acknowledge and agree that payments received by Subordinate Lender, and remitted to Senior 
Lender under this Section 6, shall not be applied or otherwise credited against the Subordinate 
Loan, nor shall the tender of such payment to Senior Lender waive any Subordinate Loan Default 
which may arise from the inability of Subordinate Lender to retain such payment or apply such 
payment to the Subordinate Loan.
(f)
Reserved.
(g)
Agreement Not to Commence Bankruptcy Proceeding.
Subordinate Lender agrees that during the term of this Agreement it will not commence, 
or join with any other creditor in commencing any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, 
insolvency or liquidation proceedings against or with respect to Borrower, without Senior Lender’s 
prior written consent.
7.
Default Under Subordinate Loan Documents.
(a)
Notice of Subordinate Loan Default and Cure Rights.
Subordinate Lender shall deliver to Senior Lender a Default Notice within five (5) Business 
Days in each case where Subordinate Lender has given a Default Notice to Borrower.  Failure of 
Subordinate Lender to send a Default Notice to Senior Lender shall not prevent the exercise of 
Subordinate Lender’s rights and remedies under the Subordinate Loan Documents, subject to the 
provisions of this Agreement.  Senior Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure 
any Subordinate Loan Default within sixty (60) days following the date of such notice; provided, 
however that Subordinate Lender shall be entitled, during such sixty (60) day period, to continue 
to pursue its rights and remedies under the Subordinate Loan Documents.  All amounts paid by 
Senior Lender in accordance with the Senior Loan Documents to cure a Subordinate Loan Default 
shall be deemed to have been advanced by Senior Lender pursuant to, and shall be secured by, the 
Senior Loan Agreement and the Senior Security Instrument.
34 of 146

--- page 35 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 9
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
(b)
Subordinate Lender’s Exercise of Remedies After Notice to Senior Lender.
If a Subordinate Loan Default occurs and is continuing, Subordinate Lender agrees that, 
without Senior Lender’s prior written consent, it will not commence foreclosure proceedings with 
respect to the Mortgaged Property under the Subordinate Loan Documents or exercise any other 
rights or remedies it may have under the Subordinate Loan Documents, including, but not limited 
to accelerating the Subordinate Loan (and enforcing any “due on sale” provision included in the 
Subordinate Loan Documents), collecting rents, appointing (or seeking the appointment of) a 
receiver or exercising any other rights or remedies thereunder unless and until it has given Senior 
Lender at least sixty (60) days prior written notice; during such sixty (60) day period, however, 
Subordinate Lender shall be entitled to exercise and enforce all other rights and remedies available 
to Subordinate Lender under the Subordinate Loan Documents and/or under applicable laws, 
including without limitation, rights to enforce covenants and agreements of Borrower relating to 
income, rent, or affordability restrictions contained in any land use restriction agreement.
(c)
Cross Default.
Borrower and Subordinate Lender agree that a Subordinate Loan Default shall constitute a 
Senior Loan Default under the Senior Loan Documents and Senior Lender shall have the right to 
exercise all rights or remedies under the Senior Loan Documents in the same manner as in the case 
of any other Senior Loan Default.  If Subordinate Lender notifies Senior Lender in writing that 
any Subordinate Loan Default of which Senior Lender has received a Default Notice has been 
cured or waived, as determined by Subordinate Lender in its sole discretion, then provided that 
Senior Lender has not conducted a sale of the Mortgaged Property pursuant to its rights under the 
Senior Loan Documents, any Senior Loan Default under the Senior Loan Documents arising solely 
from such Subordinate Loan Default shall be deemed cured, and the Senior Loan shall be 
reinstated, provided, however, that Senior Lender shall not be required to return or otherwise credit 
for the benefit of Borrower any default rate interest or other default related charges or payments 
received by Senior Lender during such Senior Loan Default.
8.
Default Under Senior Loan Documents.
(a)
Notice of Senior Loan Default and Cure Rights.
Senior Lender shall deliver to Subordinate Lender a Default Notice within five (5) Business 
Days in each case where Senior Lender has given a Default Notice to Borrower.  Failure of Senior 
Lender to send a Default Notice to Subordinate Lender shall not prevent the exercise of Senior 
Lender’s rights and remedies under the Senior Loan Documents, subject to the provisions of this 
Section 8(a), nor shall such failure constitute a default by Senior Lender under this Agreement.  
Subordinate Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure any such Senior Loan 
Default within sixty (60) days following the date of such Default Notice or the date on which 
Subordinate Lender otherwise acquires actual knowledge of Senior Loan Default; provided, 
however, that Senior Lender shall be entitled during such sixty (60) day period to continue to 
pursue its remedies under the Senior Loan Documents.  Subordinate Lender may have up to 
ninety (90) days from the date of the Default Notice to cure a non-monetary default if during such 
ninety (90) day period Subordinate Lender keeps current all payments required by the Senior Loan 
35 of 146

--- page 36 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 10
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
Documents.  In the event that such a non-monetary default creates an unacceptable level of risk 
relative to the Mortgaged Property, or Senior Lender’s secured position relative to the Mortgaged 
Property, as determined by Senior Lender in its sole discretion, then Senior Lender may exercise 
during such ninety (90) day period all available rights and remedies to protect and preserve the 
Mortgaged Property and the rents, revenues and other proceeds from the Mortgaged Property.  All 
amounts paid by Subordinate Lender to Senior Lender to cure a Senior Loan Default shall be 
deemed to have been advanced by Subordinate Lender pursuant to, and shall be secured by the 
Subordinate Loan Agreement and the Subordinate Mortgage.
(b)
Cross Default.
Subordinate Lender agrees that, notwithstanding any contrary provision contained in the 
Subordinate Loan Documents, a Senior Loan Default shall not constitute a default under the 
Subordinate Loan Documents (if no other default has occurred under the Subordinate 
Loan Documents) until either (1) Senior Lender has accelerated the maturity of the Senior Loan, 
or (2) Senior Lender has taken affirmative action to exercise its rights under the Senior Loan 
Documents to collect rent, to appoint (or seek the appointment of) a receiver or to foreclose on (or 
to exercise a power of sale contained in) the Senior Loan Documents.  At any time after a Senior 
Loan Default is determined to constitute a default under the Subordinate Loan Documents, 
Subordinate Lender shall be permitted to pursue its remedies for default under the Subordinate 
Loan Documents, subject to the restrictions and limitations of this Agreement.  If at any time 
Borrower cures any Senior Loan Default to the satisfaction of Senior Lender, as evidenced by 
written notice from Senior Lender to Subordinate Lender, any default under the Subordinate Loan 
Documents arising from such Senior Loan Default shall be deemed cured and the Subordinate 
Loan shall be retroactively reinstated as if such Senior Loan Default had never occurred.
9.
Conflict.
Borrower, Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender each agrees that, in the event of any 
conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the Senior Loan Documents, the Subordinate Loan 
Documents and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern and control 
solely as to the following:  (a) the relative priority of the security interests of Senior Lender and 
Subordinate Lender in the Mortgaged Property; (b) the timing of the exercise of remedies by Senior 
Lender and Subordinate Lender under the Senior Loan Documents and the Subordinate Loan 
Documents, respectively; and (c) solely as between Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender, the 
notice requirements, cure rights, and the other rights and obligations which Senior Lender and 
Subordinate Lender have agreed to as expressly provided in this Agreement.  Borrower 
acknowledges that the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall not, and shall not be deemed 
to: extend Borrower’s time to cure any Senior Loan Default or Subordinate Loan Default, as the 
case may be; give Borrower the right to notice of any Senior Loan Default or Subordinate Loan 
Default, as the case may be other than that, if any, provided, respectively under the Senior Loan 
Documents or the Subordinate Loan Documents; or create any other right or benefit for Borrower 
as against Senior Lender or Subordinate Lender.
36 of 146

--- page 37 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 11
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
10.
Rights and Obligations of Subordinate Lender Under the Subordinate Loan 
Documents and of Senior Lender under the Senior Loan Documents.
Subject to each of the other terms of this Agreement, all of the following provisions shall 
supersede any provisions of the Subordinate Loan Documents covering the same subject matter:
(a)
Protection of Security Interest.
Subordinate Lender shall not, without the prior written consent of Senior Lender in each 
instance, take any action which has the effect of increasing the indebtedness outstanding under, or 
secured by, the Subordinate Loan Documents, except that Subordinate Lender shall have the right 
to advance funds to cure Senior Loan Defaults pursuant to Section 8(a) and advance funds pursuant 
to the Subordinate Loan Documents for the purpose of paying real estate taxes and insurance 
premiums, making necessary repairs to the Mortgaged Property and curing other defaults by 
Borrower under the Subordinate Loan Documents.
(b)
Condemnation or Casualty.
Following the occurrence of (1) a Condemnation Action, or (2) a fire or other casualty 
resulting in damage to all or a portion of the Mortgaged Property (collectively, a “Casualty”), at 
any time or times when the Senior Security Instrument remains a lien on the Mortgaged Property 
the following provisions shall apply:
(A)
Subordinate Lender hereby agrees that its rights (under the 
Subordinate Loan Documents or otherwise) to participate in any proceeding or 
action relating to a Condemnation Action or a Casualty, or to participate or join in 
any settlement of, or to adjust, any claims resulting from a Condemnation Action 
or a Casualty shall be and remain subject and subordinate in all respects to Senior 
Lender’s rights under the Senior Loan Documents with respect thereto, and 
Subordinate Lender shall be bound by any settlement or adjustment of a claim 
resulting from a Condemnation Action or a Casualty made by Senior Lender; 
provided, however, this subsection or anything contained in this Agreement shall 
not limit the rights of Subordinate Lender to file any pleadings, documents, claims 
or notices with the appropriate court with jurisdiction over the proposed 
Condemnation Action or Casualty; and
(B)
all proceeds received or to be received on account of a 
Condemnation Action or a Casualty, or both, shall be applied (either to payment of 
the costs and expenses of repair and restoration or to payment of the Senior Loan) 
in the manner determined by Senior Lender in its sole discretion; provided, 
however, that if Senior Lender elects to apply such proceeds to payment of the 
principal of, interest on and other amounts payable under the Senior Loan, any 
proceeds remaining after the satisfaction in full of the principal of, interest on and 
other amounts payable under the Senior Loan shall be paid to, and may be applied 
by, Subordinate Lender in accordance with the applicable provisions of the 
Subordinate Loan Documents, provided however, Senior Lender agrees to consult 
37 of 146

--- page 38 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 12
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
with Subordinate Lender in determining the application of Casualty proceeds, 
provided further, however, that in the event of any disagreement between Senior 
Lender and Subordinate Lender over the application of Casualty proceeds, the 
decision of Senior Lender, in its sole discretion, shall prevail.
(c)
Insurance.
Subordinate Lender agrees that all original policies of insurance required pursuant to the 
Senior Security Instrument shall be held by Senior Lender.  The preceding sentence shall not 
preclude Subordinate Lender from requiring that it be named as a loss payee, as its interest may 
appear, under all policies of property damage insurance maintained by Borrower with respect to 
the Mortgaged Property, provided such action does not affect the priority of payment of the 
proceeds of property damage insurance under the Senior Security Instrument, or that it be named 
as an additional insured under all policies of liability insurance maintained by Borrower with 
respect to the Mortgaged Property.
(d)
No Modification of Subordinate Loan Documents.
Borrower and Subordinate Lender each agree that, until the principal of, interest on and all 
other amounts payable under the Senior Loan Documents have been paid in full, it will not, without 
the prior written consent of Senior Lender in each instance, increase the amount of the Subordinate 
Loan, increase the required payments due under the Subordinate Loan, decrease the term of the 
Subordinate Loan, increase the interest rate on the Subordinate Loan, or otherwise amend the 
Subordinate Loan terms in a manner that creates an adverse effect upon Senior Lender under the 
Senior Loan Documents.  Any amendment of the Subordinate Loan Documents or assignment of 
Subordinate Lender’s interest in the Subordinate Loan without Senior Lender’s consent shall be 
void ab initio and of no effect whatsoever.
11.
Modification or Refinancing of Senior Loan.
Subordinate Lender consents to any agreement or arrangement in which Senior Lender 
waives, postpones, extends, reduces or modifies any provisions of the Senior Loan Documents, 
including any provision requiring the payment of money.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Senior 
Lender may not modify any provisions of the Senior Loan Documents that increases the interest 
rate, extends the term or increases the Senior Loan, except as permitted in connection with a default 
under the Senior Loan as set forth in Section 8 hereof and except for increases in the interest rate, 
extensions of the term or increases in the Senior Loan that results from advances made by Senior 
Lender to protect the security or lien priority of Senior Lender under the Senior Loan Documents 
or to cure defaults under the Subordinate Loan Documents. Subordinate Lender further agrees that 
its agreement to subordinate hereunder shall extend to any new mortgage debt which is for the 
purpose of refinancing all or any part of the Senior Loan (including reasonable and necessary costs 
associated with the closing and/or the refinancing); and that all the terms and covenants of this 
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any holder of any such refinanced debt; and that all 
references to the Senior Loan, the Senior Note, the Senior Loan Agreement, the Senior Security 
Instrument, the Senior Loan Documents and Senior Lender shall mean, respectively, the refinance 
loan, the refinance note loan agreement, the mortgage securing the refinance note, all documents 
38 of 146

--- page 39 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 13
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
evidencing securing or otherwise pertaining to the refinance note and the holder of the refinance 
note.
12.
Default by Subordinate Lender or Senior Lender.
If Subordinate Lender or Senior Lender defaults in performing or observing any of the 
terms, covenants or conditions to be performed or observed by it under this Agreement, the other, 
non-defaulting lender shall have the right to all available legal and equitable relief.
13.
Reinstatement.
To the extent that Borrower makes a payment to Senior Lender or Senior Lender receives 
any payment or proceeds of the collateral securing the Senior Loan for Borrower’s benefit, which 
payment or proceeds or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or 
preferential, set aside and/or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party under 
any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable doctrine, then to the extent of 
such payment or proceeds received and not retained by Senior Lender, this Agreement shall be 
reinstated and continue in full force and effect until full and final payment shall have been made 
to Senior Lender.  Subordinate Lender agrees to hold in trust for Senior Lender and promptly remit 
to Senior Lender any payments received by Subordinate Lender after such invalidated, rescinded 
or returned payment was originally made.
14.
Notices.
(a)
Process of Serving Notice.
All notices under this Agreement shall be:
(1)
in writing and shall be:
(A)
delivered, in person;
(B)
mailed, postage prepaid, either by registered or certified delivery, 
return receipt requested;
(C)
sent by overnight courier; or
(D)
sent by electronic mail with originals to follow by overnight courier;
(2)
addressed to the intended recipient at the address(es) below the signature 
block, as applicable; and
(3)
deemed given on the earlier to occur of:
(A)
the date when the notice is received by the addressee; or
(B)
if the recipient refuses or rejects delivery, the date on which the 
39 of 146

--- page 40 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 14
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
notice is so refused or rejected, as conclusively established by the records of the 
United States Postal Service or any express courier service.
(b)
Change of Address.
Any party to Agreement may change the address to which notices intended for it are to be 
directed by means of notice given to the other parties identified in this Agreement.
(c)
Receipt of Notices.
Senior Lender, Subordinate Lender or Borrower shall not refuse or reject delivery of any 
notice given in accordance with this Agreement.  Each party is required to acknowledge, in writing, 
the receipt of any notice upon request by the other party.
15.
General.
(a)
Assignment/Successors.
This Agreement shall be binding upon Borrower, Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender 
and shall inure to the benefit of the respective legal successors, transferees and assigns of 
Borrower, Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender.  Borrower shall not assign any of its rights and 
obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of Senior Lender.
(b)
No Partnership or Joint Venture.
Senior Lender’s permission for the placement of the Subordinate Loan does not constitute 
Senior Lender as a joint venturer or partner of Subordinate Lender.  Neither party hereto shall hold 
itself out as a partner, agent or Affiliate of the other party hereto.
(c)
Senior Lender’s and Subordinate Lender’s Consent.
Wherever Senior Lender’s consent or approval is required by any provision of this 
Agreement, such consent or approval may be granted or denied by Senior Lender in its sole and 
absolute discretion, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.  Wherever Subordinate 
Lender’s consent or approval is required by any provision of this Agreement, such consent or 
approval may be granted or denied by Subordinate Lender in its sole and absolute discretion, unless 
otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
(d)
Further Assurances.
Subordinate Lender, Senior Lender and Borrower each agrees, at Borrower’s expense, to 
execute and deliver all additional instruments and/or documents reasonably required by any other 
party to this Agreement in order to evidence that the Subordinate Mortgage is subordinate to the 
lien, covenants and conditions of the Senior Loan Documents, or to further evidence the intent of 
this Agreement.
40 of 146

--- page 41 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 15
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
(e)
Amendment.
This Agreement shall not be amended except by written instrument signed by all parties 
hereto.
(f)
Governing Law.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Mortgaged 
Property is located without giving effect to any choice of law provisions thereof that would result 
in the application of the laws of another jurisdiction.  Senior Lender, Subordinate Lender and 
Borrower agree that any controversy arising under or in relation to this Security Instrument shall 
be litigated exclusively in the jurisdiction in which the Mortgaged Property is located.  The state 
and federal courts and authorities with jurisdiction in such locale shall have exclusive jurisdiction 
over all controversies that arise under or in relation to this Agreement.  The parties hereto 
irrevocably consent to service, jurisdiction, and venue of such courts for any such litigation and 
waive any other venue to which any might be entitled by virtue of domicile, habitual residence or 
otherwise.
(g)
Severable Provisions.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, then the 
other provisions of this Agreement, shall not be affected thereby and shall be enforced to the 
greatest extent permitted by law.
(h)
Term.
The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue until the 
earliest to occur of the following events: (1) the payment in full of the principal of, interest on and 
other amounts payable under the Senior Loan Documents; (2) the payment in full of the principal 
of, interest on and other amounts payable under the Subordinate Loan Documents, other than by 
reason of payments which Subordinate Lender is obligated to remit to Senior Lender pursuant to 
Section 6 hereof; (3) the acquisition by Senior Lender of title to the Mortgaged Property pursuant 
to a foreclosure or a deed in lieu of foreclosure of, or the exercise of a power of sale contained in, 
the Senior Loan Documents; or (4) the acquisition by Subordinate Lender of title to the Mortgaged 
Property pursuant to a foreclosure or a deed in lieu of foreclosure of, or the exercise of a power of 
sale contained in, the Subordinate Loan Documents, but only if such acquisition of title does not 
violate any of the terms of this Agreement.
(i)
Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be 
considered an original for all purposes; provided, however, that all such counterparts shall together 
constitute one and the same instrument.
41 of 146

--- page 42 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 16
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
(j)
Sale of Senior Loan.
Nothing in this Agreement shall limit Senior Lender’s (including any assignee or transferee 
of Senior Lender) right to sell or transfer the Senior Loan, or any interest in the Senior Loan.  The 
Senior Loan or a partial interest in the Senior Loan (together with this Agreement and the other 
Loan Documents) may be sold one or more times without prior notice to Borrower.
[Remainder of Page Intentionally Blank]
42 of 146

--- page 43 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page S-1
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
COUNTERPART SIGNATURE PAGE TO
SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT (AFFORDABLE)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower, Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender have 
signed and delivered this Agreement under seal (where applicable) or have caused this Agreement 
to be signed and delivered under seal (where applicable) by a duly authorized representative.  
Where applicable law so provides, Borrower, Senior Lender and Subordinate Lender intend that 
this Agreement shall be deemed to be signed and delivered as a sealed instrument.
COUNTERPART SIGNATURE PAGE TO
SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT (AFFORDABLE)
SENIOR LENDER:
JONES LANG LASALLE MULTIFAMILY, 
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
By:
___________________________________ 
Name:_________________________________
Closing Coordinator
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF MINNESOTA
)
)
COUNTY OF RAMSEY
)
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this ____ day of ____________, 
2019 by ________________,personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory 
evidence to be the person who appeared before me and authorized to execute the instrument and 
acknowledged it to be the free and voluntary act of such company for the uses and purposes 
mentioned in this instrument.  
_____________________________
Notary Public, State of Minnesota
Name: ________________________
My Commission Expires: _________
My Commission Number is: _______
43 of 146

--- page 44 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 2
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
SUBORDINATE LENDER
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a California municipal corporation
Successor to the Housing Assets of the former 
Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo
By:
Name:
Title:
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By: ____________________ 
Name: __________________ 
Title: ___________________ 
(acknowledgements continue on next page)
44 of 146

--- page 45 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 3
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
ALL PURPOSE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
}
COUNTY OF _____________________
}
On ________ __, 20___, before me, _______________________________, personally appeared 
_________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence 
to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to 
me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by 
his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the 
person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature ______________________________________ 
 
(NOTARY 
SEAL)
ATTENTION NOTARY:  Although the information requested below is OPTIONAL, it could prevent 
fraudulent attachment of this certificate to another document.
THIS CERTIFICATE MUST BE ATTACHED TO
Title of Document Type ______________________________
THE   DOCUMENT   DESCRIBED   AT   RIGHT.
Number of Pages _____
      Date of Document __________
Signer(s) Other Than Named Above ____________________ 
_________________________________________________.
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the 
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the 
truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
45 of 146

--- page 46 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 4
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
COUNTERPART SIGNATURE PAGE TO
SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT (AFFORDABLE)
BORROWER:
SANTA INEZ APARTMENTS, LP,
a California limited partnership
            
By:      AOF Santa Inez,  LLC
a California limited liability company
Its Managing General Partner
By:
AOF/Pacific Affordable Housing Corp.,
                       
a California Non-profit Corporation,
sole member                       
            
          
                       
By:
Name: _____________________________
Title: ____________________________
Address:
SANTA INEZ APARTMENTS, LP,
c/o AOF/Pacific Affordable Housing Corp
7755 Center Avenue, Suite 575
Huntingdon Beach, CA 92647 
 (ACKNOWLEDGMENT CONTINUES ON NEXT PAGE)
46 of 146

--- page 47 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page 5
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
ALL PURPOSE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
}
COUNTY OF _____________________
}
On ________ __, 2019, before me, _______________________________, personally appeared 
____________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the 
person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, 
executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
Signature ______________________________________ 
 
(NOTARY 
SEAL)
ATTENTION NOTARY:  Although the information requested below is OPTIONAL, it 
could prevent fraudulent attachment of this certificate to another document.
THIS CERTIFICATE MUST BE ATTACHED TO Title 
of 
Document 
Type 
______________________________
THE   DOCUMENT   DESCRIBED   AT   RIGHT. Number of Pages _____
      Date 
of 
Document __________
Signer(s) 
Other 
Than 
Named 
Above 
____________________ 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the 
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the 
truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
47 of 146

--- page 48 ---
Subordination Agreement (Affordable)
Form 6456
Page A-1
Fannie Mae
06-19
© 2019 Fannie Mae
                                                                       EXHIBIT A
                                                                  Legal Description
The Land referred to herein below is situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, 
State of California, and is described as follows:
PARCEL A, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED “PARCEL MAP 367 OF 
THE LANDS OF EL CAMINO FAMILY HOUSING, L.P., CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN 
MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA", FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER 
OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA ON JANUARY 26, 2000 IN 
BOOK 72 OF PARCEL MAPS AT PAGES 36 AND 37.
For conveyancing purposes only: APN 032-196-350
JPN 1: 032-19-196-32A
JPN 2: 032-19-196
48 of 146

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2271
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant - Application
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an application with the State of California for the Land and Water Conservation Fund for 
future improvements to Borel Park.
BACKGROUND:
On January 17, 2018, the City Council approved a resolution approving the application for the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund (LWCF) grant for the future development of Borel Park.  A grant application was submitted in February 
of 2018 to State Park, Office of Grants and Local Assistance (OGALS) for their review.  One of the requirements for the 
grant is that the CEQA process be completed within 60 days after the grant application submittal.   The City did not 
complete the CEQA process by that time due to the fact that the park and fire station projects were being reviewed 
together.  In June 2018, the Parks and Recreation Department received a letter from State Parks OGALS informing that the 
project was not recommended for funding.   After discussing the application with State Parks OGALS, they encouraged us 
to reapply once the CEQA process was completed for the next round of funding.
On January 22, 2019, the City Council approved a resolution that adopted the Negative Declaration, thereby completing 
the CEQA process, and also adopted the Borel Park Master Plan.  Since then, State Park OGALS released new LWCF grant 
application guidelines for their February 3, 2020 application cycle. Borel Park is still considered to be a good candidate for 
a LWCF grant, as it is located in a neighborhood that has no other parks within a ½ mile radius and is currently 
undeveloped.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The LWCF grant requires a match equal to 50% of the cost of the project. The project estimate for the park is $1,418,000, 
so the City match for the grant would be $709,000.  Currently there is $809,000 from Miscellaneous Fees and Taxes 
(Measure C) budgeted to the project and $609,000 tentatively budgeted from the General Fund.  If the City is awarded the 
grant, a budget adjustment to include the grant funds would be recommended. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), applying for the LWCF grand is not a project subject to CEQA in 
that it can be seen with certainty that it will not have a significant impact on the environment because it is simply a 
resolution authorizing staff to apply for grant funds.
A mitigated negative declaration has been completed for the proposed park improvements.
49 of 146

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
50 of 146

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.     (2020)
APPROVING THE APPLICATION FOR LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND 
BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WHEREAS, the Congress under Public Law 88-578 has authorized the establishment of a federal Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Grant-In-Aid program, providing Matching funds to the State of California and its 
political subdivisions for acquiring lands and developing Facilities for public outdoor recreation purposes; and
WHEREAS, the California Department of Parks and Recreation is responsible for administration of 
the program in the State, setting up necessary rules and procedures governing APPLICATIONS by local 
agencies under the program; and
WHEREAS, the APPLICANT certifies by resolution the approval of the APPLICATION and the availability of 
eligible MATCHING funds prior to submission of the APPLICATION to the State; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY RESOLVES that 
it:
1. Approves the filing of an APPLICATION for Land and Water Conservation Fund assistance for 
the proposed Borel Park Development Project; 
2. Agrees to abide by SECTION 6(f)(3) of Public Law 88-578 which states “No property acquired 
or developed with assistance under this section shall, without the approval of the National 
Secretary of the Interior, be converted to other than public outdoor recreation uses. The 
Secretary shall approve such conversion only if he finds it to be in accord with the then 
existing comprehensive statewide outdoor recreation plan and only upon such conditions as 
he deems necessary to assure the substitution of other recreation properties of at least equal 
fair market value and of reasonably equivalent usefulness and location.”
3. Certifies that said agency has MATCHING funds from eligible source(s) and can finance 100 
percent of the Project, which up to half may be reimbursed; and
4. Appoints the Director of Parks and Recreation as agent of the APPLICANT to conduct all 
negotiations and execute and submit all documents, including, but not limited to, 
APPLICATIONS, CONTRACTS, amendments, payment requests, and compliance with all 
applicable current state and federal laws which may be necessary for the completion of the 
aforementioned PROJECT.
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular 
meeting held on January 6, 2020 by the following vote of the City Council:
51 of 146

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2224
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Transportation Development Act Article 3 - Grant Acceptance
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept a Transportation Development Act Article 3 grant award from the Metropolitan 
Transportation Commission in the amount of $75,117.35; appropriate a total of $150,234.70 in grant and local matching 
funds, use Measure A fund balance equivalent to the grant amount, to the Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian 
Access Study Project; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute all required grant documents.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department applied for a fiscal year 2019-20 Transportation Development Act (TDA) Article 3 grant to 
fund a study of the pedestrian path of travel to the City’s three Caltrain stations within a radius of one-half mile from each 
station. The study will evaluate deficiencies in pedestrian access to the stations and identify and prioritize recommended 
improvements to create safe, comfortable walking routes to the stations for all ages and abilities. The Metropolitan 
Transportation Commission (MTC) approved $75,117.35 in grant funding for this project and the City is required to provide 
matching funds equivalent to the MTC grant amount. Staff recommends City Council approve a resolution as required by 
MTC to accept the funding, and staff also recommends using available Measure A fund balance as the required matching 
funds.
BUDGET IMPACT:
A total of $150,234.70 in grant and local matching funds will be appropriated to the TOD Pedestrian Access Study Project 
(#46m003). Sufficient funds are available in the Measure A fund balance for the required local match of $75,117.35.  
Planning for the five-year Capital Improvement Program (CIP) is currently underway to ensure that the Measure A fund 
balance and estimated revenues are sufficient to cover projects planned in the CIP.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This grant acceptance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) Projects 
identified as a result of this work will conduct required CEQA analysis at the time of design and construction. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
52 of 146

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
53 of 146

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
REQUESTING THE ALLOCATION OF FISCAL YEAR 2019-20 TRANSPORTATION DEVELOPMENT ACT ARTICLE 3 
PEDESTRIAN/BICYCLE PROJECT FUNDING FROM THE METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
WHEREAS, Article 3 of the Transportation Development Act (TDA), Public Utilities Code (PUC) Section 
99200 et seq., authorizes the submission of claims to a regional transportation planning agency for the funding 
of projects exclusively for the benefit and/or use of pedestrians and bicyclists; and
WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC), as the regional transportation planning 
agency for the San Francisco Bay region, has adopted MTC Resolution No.4108, entitled “Transportation 
Development Act, Article 3, Pedestrian and Bicycle Projects,” which delineates procedures and criteria for 
submission of requests for the allocation of “TDA Article 3” funding; and
WHEREAS, MTC Resolution No. 4108 requires that requests for the allocation of TDA Article 3 funding be 
submitted as part of a single, countywide coordinated claim from each county in the San Francisco Bay region; 
and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo desires to submit a request to MTC for the allocation of TDA Article 3 
funds to support the projects described in Attachment B to this resolution, which are for the exclusive benefit 
and/or use of pedestrians and/or bicyclists;
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is required to provide local matching funds; and
WHEREAS, sufficient funds are available in the Measure A fund balance to satisfy the local matching 
fund needs;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
Pursuant to section 15378(b)(5) of the California Environmental Quality Control Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, the adoption of the resolution to accept grant funding and appropriate local 
matching funds is not a project subject to CEQA in that it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment.  
2.
The City of San Mateo declares it is eligible to request an allocation of TDA Article 3 funds pursuant 
to Section 99234 of the Public Utilities Code.  
3.
There is no pending or threatened litigation that might adversely affect the project or projects 
described in Attachment B to this resolution, or that might impair the ability of the City of San 
Mateo to carry out the project. 
4.
The project has been reviewed by the Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC) of the City 
of San Mateo.
5.
The City of San Mateo attests to the accuracy of and approves the statements in Attachment A to 
this resolution.
6.
A certified copy of this resolution and its attachments, and any accompanying supporting materials 
shall be forwarded to the congestion management agency, countywide transportation planning 
54 of 146

--- page 55 ---
agency, or county association of governments, as the case may be, of San Mateo County for 
submission to MTC as part of the countywide coordinated TDA Article 3 claim.  
7.
The City Council authorizes the appropriation of the TDA Article 3 funding and local matching funds 
to the TOD Pedestrian Access Study Project (#46m003). 
55 of 146

--- page 56 ---
Attachment A
Re:
Request to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission for the Allocation of Fiscal Year 2019-20 
Transportation Development Act Article 3 Pedestrian/Bicycle Project Funding
Findings
Page 1 of 1
1.
That the CITY OF SAN MATEO is not legally impeded from submitting a request to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Commission for the allocation of Transportation Development Act (TDA) Article 3 funds, nor 
is the CITY OF SAN MATEO legally impeded from undertaking the project(s) described in “Attachment B” of 
this resolution.  
2.
That the CITY OF SAN MATEO has committed adequate staffing resources to complete the project(s) 
described in Attachment B.
3.
A review of the project(s) described in Attachment B has resulted in the consideration of all pertinent 
matters, including those related to environmental and right-of-way permits and clearances, attendant to the 
successful completion of the project(s).  
4.
Issues attendant to securing environmental and right-of-way permits and clearances for the projects 
described in Attachment B have been reviewed and will be concluded in a manner and on a schedule that 
will not jeopardize the deadline for the use of the TDA funds being requested.
5.
That the project(s) described in Attachment B comply with the requirements of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA, Public Resources Code Sections 21000 et seq.).  
6.
That as portrayed in the budgetary description(s) of the project(s) in Attachment B, the sources of funding 
other than TDA are assured and adequate for completion of the project(s).  
7.
That the project(s) described in Attachment B are for capital construction and/or design engineering; and/or 
for the maintenance of a Class I bikeway which is closed to motorized traffic; and/or for the purposes of 
restriping Class II bicycle lanes; and/or for the development or support of a bicycle safety education 
program; and/or for the development of a comprehensive bicycle and/or pedestrian facilities plan, and an 
allocation of TDA Article 3 funding for such a plan has not been received by the CITY OF SAN MATEO within 
the prior five fiscal years.  
8.
That the project(s) described in Attachment B is included in a locally approved bicycle, pedestrian, transit, 
multimodal, complete streets, or other relevant plan. 
9.
That any project described in Attachment B that is a bikeway meets the mandatory minimum safety design 
criteria published in Chapter 1000 of the California Highway Design Manual. 
10. That the project(s) described in Attachment B will be completed before the funds expire.
11. That the CITY OF SAN MATEO agrees to maintain, or provide for the maintenance of, the project(s) and 
facilities described in Attachment B, for the benefit of and use by the public.
56 of 146

--- page 57 ---
Attachment B
page 1 of 2
TDA Article 3 Project Application Form
Fiscal Year of this Claim: 2019/20
Applicant: City of San Mateo
Contact person: Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
Mailing Address: 330 W. 20th Ave. San Mateo CA 94403
E-Mail Address: seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
Telephone: 650-522-7288
Secondary Contact (in event primary not available) Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner
E-Mail Address: nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
Telephone: 650-522-7326
Short Title Description of Project: City of San Mateo Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Study
Amount of claim: $75,117.35
Functional Description of Project:
Comprehensive plan to identify and prioritize pedestrian improvements within one-half mile of San Mateo’s 
three Caltrain stations to improve safety, comfort, and accessibility along the full pedestrian path of travel. 
Financial Plan:
List the project elements for which TDA funding is being requested (e.g., planning, engineering, 
construction, contingency). Use the table below to show the project budget for the phase being funded or 
total project. Include prior and proposed future funding of the project.  Planning funds may only be used for 
comprehensive bicycle and pedestrian plans.  Project level planning is not an eligible use of TDA Article 3.
Project Elements: The proposed study will consist of the following elements to accomplish a prioritized, 
comprehensive plan of projects to increase pedestrian mode share to transit stations:

Inventory and Existing Conditions – The project team will assess existing conditions by analyzing collision 
data and existing and potential walking demand. Further, existing conditions will be mapped by 
conducting walk audits on streets and sidewalks. The walk audits will identify deficiencies in the walking 
environment, and will assess connectivity, quality, and accessibility in the walking path of travel.

Community Outreach and Engagement – Through outreach events during prime commute periods at the 
three transit stations, the project team will assess current pedestrian perception of safety and user-
identified areas where increased safety and accessibility is necessary.

Recommended Projects and Prioritization – Based on the existing conditions analysis and community 
outreach, the project team will develop recommended improvements, such as widened sidewalks, high-
intensity activated crosswalk beacons (HAWK beacon), rectangular rapid flashing beacons, raised 
crosswalks, pedestrian countdown signals, and pedestrian scale lighting. The team will prioritize projects 
for implementation and funding, highlighting project priority and implementation time scale (short term 
and long term). 

Plan Preparation – The project team will prepare a draft Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian 
Access Study for review by the City’s Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council. 
Feedback will be incorporated into a final plan. The team will also finalize environmental review for the 
project, which is not expected to result in any significant effect on the environment and a Negative 
57 of 146

--- page 58 ---
Declaration can be prepared. The final plan is expected to be adopted by City Council, after which 
project implementation may begin.
Funding Source
All Prior FYs
Application FY
Next FY
Following FYs
Totals
TDA Article 3
-
$75,117.35
-
-
$75,117.35
list all other 
sources:
1. Local Match
-
$75,117.35
-
-
$75,117.35
2. 
3.
4. 
Totals
$150,234.70
$150,234.70
Project Eligibility:  
YES?/NO?
A. Has the project been approved by the claimant's governing body?  (If "NO," provide the approximate 
date approval is anticipated).
Yes
B. Has this project previously received TDA Article 3 funding?  If "YES," provide an explanation on a 
separate page.
No
C. For "bikeways," does the project meet Caltrans minimum safety design criteria pursuant to Chapter 
1000 of the California Highway Design Manual? (Available on the internet via: 
http://www.dot.ca.gov).
n/a
D. Has the project been reviewed by a Bicycle Advisory Committee (BAC)? (If "NO," provide an 
explanation).  Enter date the project was reviewed by the BAC: July 10, 2019
Yes
E. Has the public availability of the environmental compliance documentation for the project (pursuant 
to CEQA) been evidenced by the dated stamping of the document by the county clerk or county 
recorder?  (required only for projects that include construction).
n/a
F. Will the project be completed before the allocation expires?  Enter the anticipated completion date 
of project (month and year) June 2021
Yes
G. Have provisions been made by the claimant to maintain the project or facility, or has the claimant 
arranged for such maintenance by another agency?  (If an agency other than the Claimant is to 
maintain the facility provide its name: 
)
n/a
58 of 146

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2242
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Underground Flow Equalization System - Easement Acquisition
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an agreement between the County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for the 
acquisition and conveyance of property rights for a purchase price of $7,400,000 in order to construct and operate the 
City’s Underground Flow Equalization System project at the San Mateo County Event Center; approve an Easement Deed 
and Agreement for the Underground Flow Equalization System Project; and authorize the City Manager to execute the 
agreements in substantially the form presented.  
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program includes improvements to the City’s sanitary sewer system to prevent sanitary sewer overflows 
(SSOs) and other unauthorized discharges. The Basins 2 and 3 Collection Systems Improvements project (Project) consists 
of upgrades to the sanitary sewer infrastructure that increase its capacity for the management of wet weather flow. The 
Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) is part of the Project and involves the construction of an underground 
wastewater holding facility that increases the capacity of the City’s sewer system and is designed to prevent SSOs. 
In August 2016, the City initiated an alternatives analysis of several potential locations within the City for the UFES facility. 
The project location selection process evaluated technical, environmental, economic, and social considerations and 
included coordination and communication with several stakeholders, including the community at-large, specific 
neighborhood groups, City Commissions, and City Council. After numerous evaluations and stakeholder engagements, staff 
received direction from City Council in July 2017 to proceed with design and evaluation of the UFES facility to be located at 
the San Mateo County Event Center, a property owned by the County of San Mateo (County). 
On September 26, 2017, the City acquired a three-year option to purchase a permanent easement on the San Mateo 
County Event Center property for the Project. The City paid the County $100,000 for the option, which the parties agreed 
to apply to the potential purchase of the permanent easement.
For the Project’s CEQA environmental impact review (EIR) process, a Notice of Preparation was issued and a public scoping 
period and meeting was conducted in late 2018, which described the Project to be located at the County Event Center. The 
Notice of Availability of the Draft EIR was issued on March 6, 2019, and the public review and comment period ran through 
May 31, 2019. The Final EIR was adopted by the City Council on October 21, 2019.
In support of the UFES project, the City now desires to acquire, and the County is willing to convey to the City, a 
permanent easement and temporary construction rights for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the facility 
on the County property. Obtaining the temporary construction rights for trucks to route through the Event Center allows 
the City to effectively manage construction traffic along Saratoga Drive and Delaware Street, which addresses community 
59 of 146

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
traffic concerns.
An appraisal of $7,310,000, for the permanent easement and temporary construction rights, was completed by the City in 
October 2019. The County reviewed the appraisal and adjusted the value to $7,500,000 as they felt the property to be 
valued more than what was stated in the appraisal. Both parties found $7,500,000 to be mutually acceptable in November 
2019. When deducting the previously applied $100,000 option payment, the balance of payment is $7,400,000.
On December 10, 2019, the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors approved the attached agreement between the 
County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for the acquisition and conveyance of property rights and an Easement 
Deed and Agreement in support of the UFES project. 
Staff requests that Council adopt a resolution (Attachment 1) approving the proposed agreement for the acquisition and 
conveyance of property rights (Attachment 2) and the proposed Easement Deed and Agreement (Attachment 3).
BUDGET IMPACT:
The UFES project is funded through the Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project (#46S003), which has a 
balance of approximately $130.5 million. The price of this agreement is $7,400,000. A one-time lump sum payment will be 
made to the County in the amount of $7,400,000 for the acquisition of easement and temporary construction rights at the 
San Mateo County Event Center. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of 
which are included as part of the Final Environmental Impact Report (Final EIR) (SCH No. 2018092013) that was prepared 
for the UFES project. The Final EIR was certified by City Council on October 21, 2019.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Acquisition and Conveyance of Property Rights Agreement
Att 3 – Easement Deed and Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
60 of 146

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
FOR THE ACQUISITION AND CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY RIGHTS IN SUPPORT OF 
CITY OF SAN MATEO’S UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT
WHEREAS, City is undertaking a project referred to as the “Underground Flow Equalization System” 
project (the “Project”) that involves the construction of an underground wastewater holding structure and 
related facilities to increase the capacity of the City’s sewer system and prevent sanitary sewer overflows;
WHEREAS, County owns certain real property situated in the County of San Mateo, State of 
California, at 2495 South Delaware Street, (APN:040-030-220) (the “Property”), on which the San 
Mateo County Event Center (“Event Center”) operates an active fairgrounds and events facility;  
WHEREAS, County and City entered into that certain Option Agreement for Purchase of 
Easement dated September 26, 2017 (“Option Agreement”), whereby County granted, and City 
purchased, an option to purchase a permanent easement on the Property in support of the Project 
subject to subsequent agreement among the Parties on certain issues including valuation and 
documentation of the easement;
WHEREAS, in support of the Project, City now desires to acquire, and County is willing to convey 
to City, pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in that certain agreement entitled “Agreement 
Between the County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of 
Property Rights in Support of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project,” an 
easement for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a below-ground wastewater holding 
structure and related surface and sub-surface appurtenances on the Property, as more particularly 
identified and described therein; and
WHEREAS, City also desires, and County is also willing to grant, certain temporary rights to use 
identified portions of the Property for temporary access, construction, staging, and other approved 
activities necessary for the Project as more particularly described therein; and
WHEREAS, City and County acknowledge and agree that the property being transferred by and 
between County and City is for public purpose and is necessary for the construction, operation, and 
maintenance of the Project improvements.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that: 
1. The Agreement between the County of San Mateo and City of San Mateo is hereby 
approved. 
2. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to record this Resolution with the deeds in the 
Office of the Recorder to the County of San Mateo
61 of 146

--- page 62 ---
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND THE CITY OF
SAN MATEO FOR THE ACQUISITION AND CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
RIGHTS IN SUPPORT OF CITY OF SAN MATEO’S UNDERGROUND FLOW

EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT

This Agreement is entered into on ; , between the City of San Mateo, a
municipal corporation ("City"), and the County of San Mateo, a political subdivision of the State
of California ("County"). The parties hereto shall be referred to individually as a “Party” and
collectively as the “Parties.”

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, City is undertaking a project referred to as the “Underground Flow
Equalization System” project (the “Project”) that involves the construction of an underground
wastewater holding structure and related facilities to increase the capacity of the City’s sewer
system and prevent sanitary sewer overflows;

WHEREAS, County owns certain real property situated in the County of San Mateo,
State of California, at 2495 South Delaware Street, (APN:040-030-220) (the “Property”), on
which the San Mateo County Event Center (“Event Center”) operates an active fairgrounds and
events facility;

WHEREAS, County and City entered into that certain Option Agreement for Purchase of
Easement dated September 26, 2017 (“Option Agreement’’), whereby County granted, and City
purchased, an option to purchase a permanent easement on the Property in support of the Project
subject to subsequent agreement among the Parties on certain issues including valuation and
documentation of the easement;

WHEREAS, in support of the Project, City now desires to acquire, and County is willing
to convey to City, pursuant to the terms and conditions specified herein, an easement for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of a below-ground wastewater holding structure and
related surface and sub-surface appurtenances on the Property, as more particularly identified
and described herein; and

WHEREAS, City also desires, and County is also willing to grant, certain temporary
rights to use identified portions of the Property for temporary access, construction, staging, and
other approved activities necessary for the Project as more particularly described herein; and

WHEREAS, City and County acknowledge and agree that the property being transferred
by and between County and City is for public purpose and is necessary for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the Project improvements.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions herein
contained, and for other good and valuable consideration moving between the parties, City and
County agree as follows:

62 of 146


--- page 63 ---
AGREEMENT:

1. Grant of Permanent Easement. In consideration of the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement, County hereby agrees to grant to City an easement for the construction,
operation and maintenance of a below-ground wastewater storage basin and minor appurtenances
(the “Easement’’), as more particularly identified and described in the form of Easement Deed
and Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit A (“Easement Deed”’), incorporated herein by
reference. The physical area described in Exhibit A subject to the Easement shall be referred to
as the “Easement Area.” It is agreed and confirmed by the Parties hereto that notwithstanding
other provisions on this Agreement, the right of possession and use of the Easement shall
commence on April 13, 2020.

2. Easement Purchase Price. In consideration of the Easement granted to City, City
shall pay to County a total of $5,092,000 [Five Million Ninety-Two Thousand Dollars], which
reflects the agreed-upon purchase price of $5,192,000 for the Easement less $100,000, paid by
the City for the option to purchase the Easement in accordance with the Option Agreement. Said
payment shall be made to County prior to the recordation of the Easement Deed.

3. Permit. County agrees to permit City to use certain portions of the Property, as
further identified and described herein (“Premises”), on a temporary basis for access and related
construction activities necessary for the Project. The Parties agree that City’s use of the Property
pursuant to this Section 3 shall commence upon April 13, 2020, and shall be subject to all terms
and conditions described in the “Permit Terms and Conditions” attached hereto as Exhibit B and
incorporated herein by this reference.

4. Permit Purchase Price. In consideration of the temporary rights granted to City
pursuant to Section 3 hereof, City shall pay to County a total of $ 2,308,000 [Two Million Three
Hundred and Eight Thousand Dollars]. Said payment shall be made to County prior to the City’s
exercise of any rights granted pursuant to Section 3 hereof.

5. Fees, Charges and Costs. City shall pay any and all recording fees or related
filing fees arising out of this transaction.

6. Required Improvements. Prior to the expiration of the Term of the Permit, as
defined in Exhibit B, City must install, at its sole cost and expense, the following improvements
on the Property as more particularly described in the “Project Site Plans” attached hereto as
Exhibit C:

(a) Eight-foot high CMU wall on Saratoga Drive and along Bay Meadows Park as further
described and depicted in Exhibit C;

(b) Landscaping on the Saratoga side of the Easement Area and on the Bay Meadows
Park side of the Easement Area, as further described and depicted in Exhibit C;

(c) Chain link fence and gate along the Event Center driveway, as further described and

63 of 146


--- page 64 ---
depicted in Exhibit C;

(d) Porous concrete paving over the Easement Area, as further described and depicted in
Exhibit C. City shall provide County reasonable notice, but in any event no less than six
months’ notice, prior to the installation of said concrete paving so that the Event Center
has sufficient time to install underground utility connections prior to the City’s paving of
the area;

(e) Following City’s construction activities, replacement asphalt pavement for all areas
of the Premises and the Permit areas described in Exhibit B of a condition equal to that of
the most recent parking lot pavement project performed by the County on the Property;

(f) A finished sidewalk southeast of the Event Center’s Saratoga main entrance driveway
and a 25-foot wide automatic gate on Saratoga Avenue, as depicted in Exhibit C.
Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the County shall reimburse City for the
actual materials and construction costs for the installation of the sidewalk and upgrades to
the gate, not to exceed $44,000.

7. Meet and Confer Process. County and City acknowledge that the City’s
construction and related activities on the Property authorized hereunder are situated in and
around an active event center and fairgrounds open to the public. City agrees to take all
reasonable measures to prevent, or minimize as the case may be, potential impact on Event
Center operations. In no event may any activities by City interrupt or deny access to the
Property by Event Center patrons via Saratoga Avenue. In the event that City’s activities on
either the Easement Area or the Premises may impact ingress or egress to the Property by Event
Center patrons, City shall submit traffic control plans, in writing, for County’s prior approval.
To the extent that any conflicts arise between City and County regarding said traffic plans, or in
the event of any conflicts generally concerning City’s work in connection with the Project and
the Event Center’s operations, County and City agree to meet and confer to resolve such issues
as set forth in this paragraph. County appoints the CEO of the Event Center or designee, and
City appoints the Director of Public Works for the City of San Mateo or designee, as their
respective representatives for issue resolution. Either party shall notify the other party by 48-
hour telephone notice or by 3- day written notice, excluding weekends and official County
holidays, whenever a party desires to meet and confer. The other party shall participate in a
conference call or attend a meeting at a mutually agreed upon place date, and time to resolve any
such conflict. The parties may agree at said meeting to engage in further meetings or engage in
non-binding arbitration or mediation proceedings with an arbitrator/mediator agreed to by the
parties. The parties agree to use this procedure before instituting any legal action which pertains
to this Agreement.

8. Blackout Dates. City agrees that no construction or related activities may be
performed or conducted in or around the Easement Area or Premises on the days on which the
Event Center hosts certain key events on the Property (“Blackout Dates”). The list of said
Blackout Dates for the period 2019 through 2021 is attached hereto as Exhibit D and
incorporated herein by this reference. The applicable list of Blackout Dates for subsequent years
will be sent to City no later than six months prior to January 1 of the applicable year. In
addition, the Event Center may identify up to twenty (20) additional Blackout Dates per calendar

64 of 146


--- page 65 ---
year with no less than thirty (30) days’ notice to City for any such additional Blackout Date.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at City’s request, County may approve, in its sole discretion,
certain construction or related activities by City during a given Blackout Date. Any such
approval must be communicated to City in writing by the San Mateo County Event Center CEO.

9. Noise and Other Complaint Process. Prior to the commencement of any
construction activities authorized hereunder, City shall designate a process, including a dedicated
phone number capable of taking messages, by which nearby residents or other interested parties
may submit complaints to the City regarding noise or other disruptions or concerns related to the
Project. Said process shall include a timeframe for City responses to such complaints and a
designated location or website where City shall make responses available for public viewing.

10. Integration. This Agreement, including attachments, constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties, and neither party relies upon any warrants or representation not
contained herein. This Agreement supersedes the Option Agreement on all matters addressed
herein.

11. Authority to Enter Agreement. Each party warrants that the individuals who have
signed this Agreement have the legal power, right and authority to enter into this Agreement so
as to bind each respective party to abide by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

12. Binding on Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and shall be binding on the parties to this Agreement and their respective heirs, executors,
administrators, assigns and successors.

13. Severability. If any provision in this Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full
force without being impaired or invalidated in any way.

14. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of California. In the event of litigation, venue will be in
the County of San Mateo, California.

15. Approval. Each party understands that this Agreement is subject to approval each
party’s respective governing body and this Agreement shall have no force or effect unless and
until such approval has been obtained.

16. Counterparts Signature. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, but all counterparts shall constitute one contract.

17. Notices. Any notice or document required or permitted to be delivered by either
party shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be given on the date received either physically,
by mail, or by e-mail as an attachment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any notice expressly
required by the terms of this Agreement may not be provided by e-mail alone. The address of
the parties shall for all purposes be the following, unless otherwise changed by the party by
notice to the other as provided in this paragraph:

65 of 146


--- page 66 ---
TO CITY: City of San Mateo
Attn: Drew Corbett, City Manager
330 West 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Email: dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org

TO COUNTY: County of San Mateo
Attn: Real Property Manager
555 County Center, 4th FI.
Redwood City, CA 94063
E-mail: dgrady@smcgov.org
WTH A COPY TO: Dana Stoehr, CEO
San Mateo County Event Center
2495 S. Delaware Street
San Mateo, CA 94403
E-mail: dstoehr@smcec.co

18. Time. Time is of the essence of every provision of this Agreement.

[Signature Page Follows]

66 of 146


--- page 67 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement by their duly authorized

representatives to be effective on the date first above written.

COUNTY OF SAN MATEO:

By: CAROLE GROOM, PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

Signature:

Name: Carole Groom

Date:

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

CITY OF SAN MATEO
By: MAYOR JOSEPH GOETHALS

Signature

Name:

Date:

ATTEST:

Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk

Approved as to Form:

Caio Arellano, Assistant City Attorney

67 of 146


--- page 68 ---
Exhibit A
Easement Deed

RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20" Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403

[Space Above For Recorder’s Use Only]

Recording Fee: Exempt pursuant to California
Government Code Section 27383

EASEMENT DEED AND AGREEMENT FOR THE
UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT

THIS EASEMENT DEED and AGREEMENT for the UNDERGROUND FLOW
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT (the “Easement Deed”) is made as of this ___ day of
,20__ by and between the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision of the
State of California (““Grantor” or “County”) and the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal
corporation (“Grantee”).

RECITALS

A. Grantor is the owner of that certain real property located in the City of San
Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, at 2495 South Delaware Street, APN 040-030-
220, (the “Grantor’s Land”), on which the San Mateo County Event Center (“Event Center’)
operates an active fairgrounds and events facility.

B. Pursuant to that certain Agreement Between the County of San Mateo
and the City of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of Property Rights in Support
of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project, dated as of
(“Agreement”), Grantee is acquiring the easement, as described in
Exhibit A-1, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

AGREEMENT

NOW THEREFORE, incorporating and in consideration of the foregoing recitals,
in order to comply with the Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt
and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.

1. Grant of Easement. Grantor hereby grants to Grantee the easement
described in Recital Paragraph B for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
repairing, replacing, and maintaining a sub-surface wastewater holding structure, as well as the
surface and sub-surface appurtenances depicted in the site plan for the Underground Flow
Equalization System Project, attached hereto as Exhibit A-2 “Project Site Plan” (collectively
“Easement”). The Easement granted herein shall be deemed to include such incidental rights as
are reasonably necessary to use the Easement for the purposes provided herein. The areas
described in Attachment Exhibit A-1 shall be referred to as the “Easement Area.” Grantor’s

68 of 146


--- page 69 ---
grant of the easement herein is made in the sole capacity as a landowner and not in any other
capacity, including as a regulatory or land-use authority. In the exercise of the rights granted
hereunder, Grantee shall take all reasonable measures to minimize any impact on Event Center
and/or County operations on Grantor’s Land.

2. No Grantor Liability for Improvements. Any and all improvements
constructed by Grantee pursuant to the authority granted by this Easement Deed, and the

location, design, operation, maintenance, inspection, and repair thereof, are entirely the
responsibility of Grantee, except as otherwise provided in Section 4 Maintenance. Grantee
accepts the Easement Area in its “AS IS” condition without any representation or warranty of
any kind from Grantor. Grantee agrees and acknowledges that it is solely responsible for any
and all current and future site investigation, condition assessment, inspection, or any other
determination of the condition of the Easement Area, any improvements in, on, or across the
Easement, or any other condition of the Easement Area that may affect improvements
constructed by Grantee. Neither Grantor nor its successors and assigns shall be liable in any
way for costs, expenses, losses, damages or otherwise, arising out of or in any way connected
with the design, operation, construction, maintenance, or repair of the improvements constructed
by Grantee on, over or across the Easement. Grantee shall defend, save harmless and indemnify
Grantor, its officers, employees, and agents, including the San Mateo County Event Center, from
any and all claims for injuries or damage to persons and/or property, or any other loss or cost, by
reason of Grantee constructing any improvement on, over, or across the Easement or arising out
of the operation, inspection, construction, maintenance, repair, performance, suitability, or
design of any improvements constructed by Grantee on, over, or across the Easement, including,
but not limited to, claims arising out of an alleged failure or discharge of the wastewater holding
structure. The duty of Grantee to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall
include the duty to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.

3. Use of Easement Area by Grantor. Grantor may use the Easement
Area in any manner that does not materially impede Grantee’s use of the Easement Area or
compromise any improvements constructed by Grantee therein, including but not limited to
parking or storage of vehicles or containers exceeding H-20 loading. The Easement is subject to
all rights, encumbrances, and other matters of record or of which Grantee has notice prior to the
date this Easement Deed is recorded, including specifically the permit to use the cell facility
located adjacent to the Easement Area.

4. Maintenance. Grantee shall inspect, operate, maintain, and repair the
Easement Area and any and all improvements made pursuant to the Agreement or this Easement
Deed, on, over, or across the Easement Area installed by Grantee, with the exception of the
following, which shall be maintained by Grantor upon completion of installation: concrete
masonry unit wall, motorized entrance gate on Saratoga Avenue, sidewalk, chain link fence, and
those lighting facilities used by Grantor. Grantee shall maintain the Easement Area, together with
any improvements constructed or installed by Grantee or associated with Grantee’s use of the
Easement Area, in a safe and sanitary condition consistent with the uses authorized hereunder.
The operation and maintenance of any such improvements and of the Easement Area shall be at
Grantee’s sole cost and expense. Grantee shall provide Grantor with no less than ten (10)
business days’ notice of any maintenance or repair work to be performed on the Easement Area,
in accordance with Section 10 hereof. Grantee shall perform all work for the activities described
in this Easement Deed, including the construction or installation of any improvements, in a good
and workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable legal, governmental, and industry
standards. Grantee shall be responsible for all local drainage inspections and maintenance.
Grantee shall be responsible for any and all stormwater management for the Easement Area or

69 of 146


--- page 70 ---
otherwise in connection with any and all improvements on, over, or across the Easement Area.
Any access by Grantee to perform maintenance or other work on improvements shall require
reasonable notice and good faith coordination with Grantor or designee and if necessary, a plan to
redirect/reroute Event Center traffic or other activities as well as reimbursement for any and all
expenses, costs, and/or lost revenues caused to Event Center or County by such access. Grantee
shall secure any necessary licenses, permits and approvals required for the construction,
reconstruction, repair, or maintenance of the improvements. Grantee must comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local law in connection with any work in, on, or across the Easement
Area or otherwise authorized by this Easement Deed. Grantee shall deliver a set of final as-built
plans to Grantor within 60 days of the completion of any construction or alteration project
completed by Grantee within the Easement Area.

5. Indemnity. In addition to the indemnity provided in Section 2, above,
Grantee shall indemnify, defend, reimburse, and hold harmless Grantor, its officers, agents,
employees, and contractors, including the San Mateo County Event Center (collectively,
“Indemnitees”), and each of them, from and against any and all demands, claims, legal or
administrative proceedings, losses, costs, penalties, fines, liens, judgments, damages, and
liabilities of any kind (“Claims”), arising in any manner out of (a) any injury to or death of any
person or damage to or destruction of any property occurring in, on, or about any part of the
Easement Area whether such injury, death, damage, or destruction is caused by the person or
property of Grantee, its officers, directors, members, employees, agents, consultants, contractors,
or subcontractors (collectively, “Agents”), its invitees, guests, or business visitors (collectively,
“Invitees’’), or third persons, relating to any use or act required or permitted by this Easement
Deed, (b) any failure by Grantee to faithfully observe or perform any of the terms, covenants, or
conditions of this Deed, (c) the use of the Easement Area or any activities conducted in, on, or
about Grantor’s Land by Grantee, its Agents, or Invitees, or (d) any release or discharge, or
threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by Grantee, its
Agents, or Invitees, on, in, under, or about the Easement Area, Grantor’s Land, any
improvements, or into the environment; except solely to the extent of Claims resulting directly
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Grantor, its Agents or Invitees, in which case
Grantor shall indemnify Grantee, its officers, employees, and agents for such Claims. In addition
to Grantee’s obligation to indemnify Grantor, Grantee specifically acknowledges and agrees that
it has an immediate and independent obligation to defend Indemnities from any claim that
actually or potentially falls within this indemnity provision even if such allegation is or may be
groundless, fraudulent, or false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to
Grantee by Grantor and continues at all times thereafter. The foregoing indemnity shall include,
without limitation, reasonable attorneys’, experts’, and consultants’ fees and costs, investigation
and remediation costs, and all other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the indemnified
parties. Grantee’s obligations under this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other
termination of this Easement Deed. Nothing in this Section 5 shall be understood to limit,
condition, affect, or otherwise revise in any way the indemnity provided in Section 2, above.

6. Insurance. Grantee shall obtain, at its sole expense, and furnish
evidence to Grantor prior to commencing any work authorized hereunder, a combined general
liability and property damage insurance policy in the amount of at least Two Million Dollars
($2,000,000) per occurrence and Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) aggregate, to be kept in full
force in perpetuity consistent with the rights granted hereunder. Said insurance amounts are
minimum requirements only, and if Grantee has other insurance coverage against a loss arising
from Grantee’s activities or work authorized hereunder, said policies must also comply with the
provisions of this Section 6. Grantor may increase the minimum limits of coverage if such
increase is warranted, in Grantor’s sole discretion.

70 of 146


--- page 71 ---
Grantee shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of the
insurance requirements required under this Easement Deed, to the extent permitted by applicable
law. In the event that Grantee elects to self-insure with respect to any of the insurance
requirements required under this Easement Deed, before commencing any work hereunder, and
upon written request by Grantor, within thirty (30) days of the commencement of each year
thereafter, Grantee shall submit to Grantor a certificate of self-insurance signed by a duly
authorized representative of Grantee, such certificate evidencing that Grantee’s self-insurance
program is adequately funded, in full force and effect and in compliance with and subject to all the
terms, agreements, covenants, conditions and provisions of this Easement Deed. If Grantee elects
to self-insure, Grantee shall give Grantor prompt written notice of any significant change in or the
depletion of its self-insurance fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Grantor is also responsible for
causing any contractors, subcontractors and/or agents to maintain commercially reasonable
insurance coverages and coverage limits as required under this Easement Deed in amounts no less
than as described in Grantee’s “Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts” dated 9/17.

Grantee shall furnish Grantor with certificates of insurance evidencing the
required coverage. These certificates shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30)
days’ notice must be given, in writing, to Grantor of any pending change in the limits of liability
or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.

Grantor, its officers, agents and employees, including the San Mateo
County Event Center, shall be named as additional insured on the liability insurance policies
described hereinabove, which shall also contain a provision that the insurance afforded thereby to
Grantor shall be the primary insurance to the full limits of liability of the policy. If Grantor has
other insurance coverage against a loss covered by the coverage that Grantee and/or its contractor
is required to have, such other insurance coverage of Grantor shall be excess insurance only.

7. Hazardous Materials. Grantee covenants and agrees that neither
Grantee, nor any of its employees, agents, or contractors, shall cause or permit any hazardous
material to be brought upon, kept, stored, staged, generated or disposed of in, on or about the
Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land. Grantee shall give immediate written notice to Grantor of:
(a) any action, proceeding or inquiry by any governmental authority (including, without
limitation, the California State Department of Health Services, the State or any Regional Water
Quality Control Board, San Mateo County Environmental Health, the Bay Area Air Quality
Management district, California Coastal Commission, or any local governmental entity) against
Grantee with respect to the presence or release or suspected presence or release of hazardous
material on or about the Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land, or the migration thereof from or to
other adjacent County property; (b) all demands or claims made or threatened by any third party
against Grantee relating to any loss or injury resulting from any hazardous materials on or about
the Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land; (c) any release of hazardous material on or about the
Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land due to the rights granted herein that may require any
investigation or remediation; and (d) all matters of which Grantee is required to give notice
pursuant to Section 25359.7 of the California Health and Safety Code. Nothing in the foregoing
paragraph shall preclude Grantee from using materials necessary to exercise Grantee’s rights to
the Easement Areas granted herein so long as any such hazardous materials are used, stored, and
disposed of in strict accordance with any and all applicable law.

Grantee shall be responsible for all costs and efforts associated with investigating and
remediating any environmental contamination whatsoever caused by Grantee on or about the
Easements.

71 of 146


--- page 72 ---
8. Repair of Damage. Grantee shall be responsible for any damage to
Grantor’s property or property of third parties resulting from any exercise of the rights herein
granted, including but not limited to soil erosion, subsidence, the development of a sinkhole or
other settling, and any consequential or incidental damages (including, but not limited to, lost
profits) resulting therefrom. If any portion of the Easement Area or any property of the Grantor,
or its agents or contractors, located on or about the Easement Area is damaged or threatened by
any of the activities conducted by Grantee, or anyone acting by or through Grantee, pursuant to
the rights granted herein, Grantee shall immediately notify Grantor of such damage or threat.
Grantor may, but shall not be obligated to, remedy such damage or threat at Grantee’s sole cost,
or Grantor may elect to witness Grantee’s repair work. Subject to Grantor’s inspection, review,
and approval, Grantee shall promptly repair and restore to its condition prior to the work by
Grantee any of Grantor’s property, including, but not limited to, roads, utilities (surface and sub-
surface), buildings, fences, other improvements, or surfaces that may be altered, damaged, or
destroyed in connection with the exercise of the rights granted herein. Grantor has no
responsibility or liability of any kind with respect to any utilities that may be on, in, around, or
under the Easement Area. Grantee has the sole responsibility to locate such utilities and other
existing facilities and protect them from damage. Grantee shall be solely responsible for
arranging and paying directly for any utilities or services necessary for its activities permitted
hereunder; provided, Grantee shall obtain Grantor’s prior written approval to the provision of
such services or utilities in, on, under, or through the Easement Area or the Event Center.

9. Taxes, Fees, and Liens. Grantee alone shall pay any and all taxes,
charges or use fee(s) levied by any governmental agency against Grantee’s interest in the
Easement Area or against any of Grantor’s Land as a result of the easement herein granted,
including possessory interests and Grantee’s proportionate share of any applicable special
assessments levied against Grantor’s Land. Grantee shall not cause liens of any kind to be placed
against the Easement Area or any of Grantor’s Land.

10. Notice. Any notice given under this Easement Deed shall be
effective only if in writing and given by delivering the notice in person or by sending it first-class
mail or certified mail with a return receipt requested or by overnight courier, return receipt
requested, with postage prepaid, to the addresses set forth below or to such other address as either
party may designate as its new address for such purpose. Any notice hereunder shall be deemed
to have been given two (2) days after the date when it is mailed if sent by first class or certified
mail, one day after the date it is made if sent by overnight courier, or upon the date personal
delivery is made.

To Grantor:

Real Property Manager
County of San Mateo

455 County Center, 4th Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063

With a copy to:
Chief Executive Officer
San Mateo County Event Center

2495 S. Delaware Street
San Mateo, CA 94403

72 of 146


--- page 73 ---
To Grantee:

Deputy Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, Ca 94403

11. Remedies. In the event of a violation of any of the terms of this
Agreement, Grantor may seek specific performance of this Agreement or any other remedy
permitted at law or in equity against Grantee.

13. Severability. If any provision of this Easement Deed is determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Easement
Deed shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect, provided that the invalidity or
unenforceability of such provision does not materially adversely affect the benefits accruing to
any party hereunder.

14. Entire Agreement. This Easement Deed, including the exhibits
attached hereto as well as the Agreement, contains the entire agreement between the parties
hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and fully supersedes all prior written or oral
agreements and understandings between the parties hereto pertaining to such subject matter.
Furthermore, this Easement Deed cannot be changed orally, and no executory agreement shall be
effective to waive, change, modify or discharge it in whole or in part unless such executory
agreement is in writing and is signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver,
change, modification or discharge is sought.

15. Successors. The terms and conditions of this instrument shall run
with and bind Grantor’s Land and shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon Grantor
and Grantee and their respective successors and assigns.

16. Modification. This instrument may only be modified by a written
instrument that is recorded in the Official Records of San Mateo County, California.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Easement Deed as of
the day and year set forth above.

GRANTOR:
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

By:

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

73 of 146


--- page 74 ---
GRANTEE:

CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:

Drew Corbett

City Manager

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Patrice Olds
City Clerk

Caio Arellano
Assistant City Attorney

74 of 146


--- page 75 ---
EXHIBIT "A-1"
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PERMANENT EASEMENT AREA

BEING REAL PROPERTY SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEING A PORTION OF THAT PARCEL DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT DEED,
RECORDED ON MARCH 26, 1956 IN BOOK 2992 AT PAGE 506 OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHERLY CORNER OF LOT A, AS SAID LOT IS SHOWN ON THAT
CERTAIN MAP FILED FOR RECORD AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGE 37,

OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING A POINT ON
THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT A THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
COURSES:

1) SOUTH 56° 52' 35" WEST, 165.68 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A NON-TANGENT
CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 675.00 FEET, WHOSE CENTER POINT BEARS
SOUTH 01° 32' 14" EAST, AND

2) ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 20° 15' 05", AN
ARC DISTANCE OF 238.58 FEET;

THENCE LEAVING SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE THE FOLLOWING FIVE (5) COURSES:
1) NORTH 00° 24' 43" EAST, 34.27 FEET,

2) SOUTH 87° 047' 34" EAST, 49.92 FEET,

3) NORTH 00° 59' 45" EAST, 197.51 FEET,

4) NORTH 33° 38' 35" WEST, 135.68 FEET,

5) NORTH 61° 17’ 35" EAST, 35.61 FEET TO SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA
DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, SOUTH 54° 33' 25" EAST, 381.74 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

CONTAINING 88,607 SQUARE FEET OR 2.0341 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

KIER & WRIGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS, INC.

Alls
DATE

2:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

75 of 146


--- page 76 ---
AREA
AREA= 88,6074 S.F.
OR 2.0341+ AC.

LINE TABLE

LINE # | DIRECTION | LENGTH

LOT A AT AA"
L2 7'47'34
197-37 $87°47'34"W | 49.92

LEGEND

PROPERTY LINE

EASEMENT LINE

MAPS

OFFICIAL RECORDS O 50’ 100’ 200’
POINT OF BEGNNING ——————— SS
POINT OF COMMENCEMENT Scale 1” = 100’

SQUARE FEET

ACRES

EXHIBIT “A-1"
ee KIER+W/RIGHT | PERMANENT EASEMENT Foo

3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22 Phone: (408) 727-6665 AREA JOB NO. A17535

Santa Clara, California 95054 www.kierwright.com SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

2: \2017\A17535~1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS\Al 7535-1~EXPO-PO.dwg 9-13-19 07:56:40 AM arobberson

76 of 146


--- page 77 ---
EXHIBIT "A-2" - PROJECT SITE PLANS

, 10’ HIGH X 16" AIR EXHAUST > : x
Re Ae

CONTROL PANEL
6" HIGH X 18" VENT PIPE

“Sy

8° CHAIN LINK i °
FENCE- BLACK 7 . : “S LEGEND

WITH PRIVACY
SLATS, (238) SHRUBS -FRADESI! ESCALLONIA
- 5 GAL CONT - IN TWO ROWS

8° CMU WALL

NO PARKING AREA

A
ISOLATION

VALYE VAULT é ~~ oS rs
S EXISTING
§ < IN

POROUS CONCRETE

{HN ASPHALT PAVEMENT
VEGETATION
~ TO REMAIN

BY. RADFORD, SCOTT

6) Stantec

UNDERGROUND FLOW
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM

<
4
a

100% DESIGN
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION

LOT DATE: Wednesday, March 13, 2019 12.54.52 PM

PROP 8' CMU WALL
TO INTERFACE WITH
EX CMU WALL

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

¢
12' TIPPING BUCKET GALLERY
36” HIGH X 6" DIA STEEL BOLLARDS

LANDSCAPE
UFES PROJECT SITE PLAN

|
PLANT SCHEDULE TANK SITE

TREES BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME

T-3-013-L-2100.dw9

ARBUTUS MENZIESII/ PACIFIC MADRONE
MULTI TRUNK

BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME

ESCALLONIA X EXOIESIS "FRADESII / FRADESII ESCALLONIA

% 8° CMU WALL

0a18.11/14/19)

XXX
Frorect ve 468003
scaue AS SHOWN,

PLANT SCHEDULE BAY MEADOWS PARK

ce cnecre0 8
SUBIALIAL OO

ocsicnce 6¢ SWR
orawn ay SWR

PLAN o HORIZONTAL SCALE: =>
——

[aca SCALE IN FEET 5
SCALE: 1°=20° SHEET Xx OF 55

OWG FILE. C:\pwworkdirid0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SA’


--- page 78 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

-2"

"A

EXHIBIT

Cilpwworkdind0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SITESECTIONS.dwg

EXISTING POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE * BAY MEADOWS PARK
ASPHALT t

PAVING/PARKING ;
eee 8' HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE - BLACK 8° CMU WALL
WITH PRIVACY SLATS ELECTRICAL BUILDING

PRECAST PARKING CURB WHEEL STOP

[xe EFFLUENT PUMP HATCH sy ie METITO ODOR CONTROL

UTILITY WATER PIPING TO
TIPPING BUCKETS (TYP) UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK

TANK COLUMN oe

(a) al

co itll

et I eat
SECTION

BY_ RADFORD, SCOTT

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

§ Stantec

SARATOGA DR N BOUND LANE
EX MEDIAN PLANTER

100% DESIGN
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION

z

s SARATOGA DR SOUTH BOUND LANES.

F

2

&

2 10’ WIDE PLANTER WITH

5 Peay el aay al ASPHAETIPAVING: LANDSCAPE PLANTING

3 exbuanine EXPO CENTER PARKING

§ el POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE

3 MECHANICAL VAULT AND

2 teases bile deel TIPPING BUCKET AND REMOVABLE

‘ CONCRETE PANEL 8' HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE -
g BLACK WITH PRIVACY SLATS
6 16" DIAx 10' HEIGHT AIR EXHAUST

5

=

i

—T 1 TST SST

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK

ut nm
TANK COLUMN il

at

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

LANDSCAPE
SITE SECTIONS/ELEVATIONS

SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

pate 4/12/19,
oate 4/12/19

WARNING

rescuns SR
sosctne 468003
1c: NO SCALE,

IF THIS BAR DOES

NOT MEASURE 1" 013-L-3001

THEN DRAWING IS
sweet XX or XX

NOT TO SCALE

OWG FR!

78 of 146


--- page 79 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

-2"

"A

EXHIBIT

DATE :a1972019 11:53:13 AM

4"H x 8" W OVERFLOW
SCUPPER

4"H x 8" W SCUPPER
WICONDUCTOR HEAD
AND DOWNSPOUT

USER :EN

NORTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

SOUTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1-0"

Bxd090616\SMCWP-A-ZBPNOG.Mt

LUMINAIRE, SEE ELEC LH umnnen

SURFACE APPLIEO
WATER REPPELLANT ON
ALL EXTERIOR CMU (TYP)

HM SINGLE MAN
DOOR AND FRAME

WEST ELEVATION

SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

PRECAST STONE
COPING (TYP) S

STEEL FRAMED WOOD
PANEL SWING GATE

8" FLUTED SPLITFACE
CMU (TYP)

4" SQUARE SCORED
SPLITFACE CMU (TYP)

SURFACE APPLIED
WATER REPELLANT
ON ALL EXTERIOR
‘CMU (TYP)

EAST ELEVATION
‘SCALE: 2/8" = 1-0"

SCALE: 2/8" = 1-0"

ARCHITECTURAL
ELECTRICAL BUILDING
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

are OB/10/1
oar 08/10/18
pRonct Me 465003
© [SAE 3/8" = 1-0"

=

SUNRATTAL: 100 DESH

[pescao EN
foam ee EN
lec oncem mEM

S
ge
-
rm
g

SHEET __OF__

79 of 146


--- page 80 ---
Exhibit B
Permit Terms and Conditions

The Parties agree that the City’s temporary use of certain portions of the Property to support the
Project shall be governed by and subject to the following terms:

1. Definitions. Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms in this Permit
Terms and Conditions shall have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement Between the
County of San Mateo and the City of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of Property
Rights in Support of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project
executed in connection herewith.

2. Premises. City’s temporary use of the Property is limited to those areas identified
in the attached Exhibit B-1, incorporated herein by this reference (“Premises’’).

3. Use. City’s use of the Premises shall be limited to the activities identified in
section 3 of the Agreement. City shall not use or permit the Premises to be used for any purpose
or use other than as described herein without the prior written consent of County. City shall not
do or permit anything to be done in or about the Premises nor bring or keep anything therein
which will in any way increase the existing rate of or affect any fire or other insurance upon the
Premises or any of its contents, or cause cancellation of any insurance policy covering the
Premises or any part thereof or any of its contents. City shall not use or allow the Premises to be
used for any improper, immoral, unlawful or objectionable purpose, nor shall City cause,
maintain or permit any nuisance in, on or about the Premises. City shall not commit or suffer to
be committed any waste in or upon the Premises.

4, Term. City shall be permitted to use the Premises for the period commencing
April 13, 2020 and terminating April 13, 2023 (“Term”). The County may, upon request of the
City, approve an extension of the Term for up to six months. The price of any such extension
shall be calculated pro-rata on a weekly basis and based on the length of the extension and the
Permit Purchase Price. Any such request and/or approval must be delivered in writing.

5. “As Is” Condition. County agrees to deliver Premises free from any physical
obstruction. City accepts the Premises in its “AS IS” condition without any representation or
warranty of any kind from County. City agrees and acknowledges that it is solely responsible for
any and all current and future site investigation, condition assessment, inspection, or any other
determination of the condition of the Premises, any improvements in or on the Premises, or any
other condition of the Premises that may affect City’s activities thereon.

6. City Improvements. City may construct and install any temporary improvements
on the Premises as described in Exhibit C. Any other improvements may not be constructed or
installed without express written approval of County.

7. Repair of Damage. Any and all work performed by City as authorized herein
shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner and performed in accordance with any and all
applicable federal, state, and local law. City shall be solely responsible for securing any and all

Exhibit B
Page | of 4

80 of 146


--- page 81 ---
necessary licenses, permits, and approvals. Any approvals by County made pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement or the Easement Deed, are approvals by the County as the Property
owner, and shall not be construed to be approvals of any licenses or permits required pursuant to
this section. Any existing structures, improvements, or other facilities, inclusive of any fences,
pavement, poles or chains, that are damaged or removed by City shall be reconstructed, replaced,
or repaired to a similar or better condition to the one existing prior to construction of the Project.

8. Uninterrupted Utilities. City warrants that none of its activities authorized
hereunder will disrupt, terminate, or otherwise affect uninterrupted utility service to the Property
and Event Center Operations.

9. Portable Restrooms. To accommodate City’s construction activities, the Event
Center shall relocate the parking trailer currently located within the Easement Area, City agrees
to reimburse the Event Center for such costs. City further agrees to provide appropriate and
accessible portable restroom facilities to the personnel who staff the relocated parking trailer
until it can be restored to its current location.

10. Construction Meetings. For the duration of the Project, City shall host regular
meetings at a time to be set by City, but in no event less frequently than every two weeks, at
which City shall provide County or its designee with City’s planned construction-related
activities in and around the Property for the ensuing two-week period (“Two Week Plan’’) as
well as updates on City’s planned activities beyond the next two-week period and any other
updates or information about the Project material to the terms of this Agreement. Any changes
to a Two-Week Plan after it has been provided to the County at said meeting must be approved
by the County or its designee.

11. Truck Routing. City is permitted to use a portion of the Premises for truck
routing as approved by County. The portion of the Premises to be used for truck routing shall be
separated from portions of the Property used by Event Center patrons by movable barriers that
may be removed during Blackout Dates and other periods when the truck route is not in use by
City. City agrees to coordinate in good faith with the Event Center CEO or her designee to
permit Event Center patrons to safely cross the truck route and any applicable barrier as
necessary for Event Center operations or pursuant to any parking or access agreement. Use of
the identified portion of the Premises by City for truck routing shall be limited to times when its
use shall not impact Event Center operations. The Event Center shall make every effort to
provide as much unrestricted access for truck routing as possible. Conflicts shall be addressed
through the meet and confer process outlined herein.

12. Hold Harmless and Indemnity. City shall indemnify, defend, reimburse, and hold
harmless County, its officers, agents, employees, and contractors, including the San Mateo
County Event Center (collectively, “Indemnitees”), and each of them, from and against any and
all demands, claims, legal or administrative proceedings, losses, costs, penalties, fines, liens,
judgments, damages, and liabilities of any kind (“Claims”), arising in any manner out of (a) any
injury to or death of any person or damage to or destruction of any property occurring in, on, or
about any part of the Premises whether such injury, death, damage, or destruction is caused by
the person or property of City, its officers, directors, members, employees, agents, consultants,
contractors, or subcontractors (collectively, “Agents”), its invitees, guests, or business visitors

Exhibit B
Page 2 of 4

81 of 146


--- page 82 ---
(collectively, “Invitees”), or third persons, relating to any use or act required or permitted
hereunder, (b) any failure by City to faithfully observe or perform any of the terms, covenants, or
conditions of this Permit Terms and Conditions, (c) the use of the Premises or any activities
conducted in, on, or about the Property by City, its Agents, or Invitees, or (d) any release or
discharge, or threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by
City, its Agents, or Invitees, on, in, under, or about the Premises, Property, any improvements, or
into the environment; except solely to the extent of Claims resulting directly from the negligence
or willful misconduct of County, its Agents or Invitees, in which case County shall indemnify
City, its officers, employees, and agents for such Claims. In addition to City’s obligation to
indemnify County, City specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and
independent obligation to defend Indemnities from any claim that actually or potentially falls
within this indemnity provision even if such allegation is or may be groundless, fraudulent, or
false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to City by County and continues
at all times thereafter. The foregoing indemnity shall include, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys’, experts’, and consultants’ fees and costs, investigation and remediation costs, and all
other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the indemnified parties. City’s obligations
under this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Permit Terms and
Conditions.

13. Hazardous Materials. City covenants and agrees that neither City, nor any of its
employees, agents, or contractors, shall cause or permit any hazardous material to be brought
upon, kept, stored, staged, generated or disposed of in, on or about the Premises or Property.
City shall give immediate written notice to County of: (a) any action, proceeding or inquiry by
any governmental authority (including, without limitation, the California State Department of
Health Services, the State or any Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Mateo County
Environmental Health, the Bay Area Air Quality Management district, California Coastal
Commission, or any local governmental entity) against City with respect to the presence or
release or suspected presence or release of hazardous material on or about the Premises or
Property, or the migration thereof from or to other adjacent County property; (b) all demands or
claims made or threatened by any third party against City relating to any loss or injury resulting
from any hazardous materials on or about the Premises or Property; (c) any release of hazardous
material on or about the Premises or Property due to the rights granted herein that may require
any investigation or remediation; and (d) all matters of which City is required to give notice
pursuant to Section 25359.7 of the California Health and Safety Code. Nothing in the foregoing
paragraph shall preclude City from using materials necessary to exercise City’s rights to the
Premises granted herein so long as any such hazardous materials are used, stored, and disposed
of in strict accordance with any and all applicable law. City shall be responsible for all costs and
efforts associated with investigating and remediating any environmental contamination
whatsoever caused by City on or about the Premises.

14. Taxes, Fees, and Liens. City alone shall pay any and all taxes, charges or use
fee(s) levied by any governmental agency against City’s interest in the Premises or against any
the Property as a result of the rights herein granted. City shall not cause liens of any kind to be
placed against the Premises or Property.

15. Insurance. City shall obtain at its sole expense, and furnish evidence to County

Exhibit B
Page 3 of 4

82 of 146


--- page 83 ---
prior to commencing any work authorized hereunder, a combined general liability and property
damage insurance policy in the amount of at least Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per
occurrence and Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) aggregate, to be kept in full force until the
completion of construction of the Project. Said insurance amounts are minimum requirements
only, and if City has other insurance coverage against a loss arising from City’s activities or
work authorized hereunder, said policies must also comply with the provisions of this Section 15.

City shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of the insurance requirements
required under this Permit Terms and Conditions, to the extent permitted by applicable law. In
the event that City elects to self-insure with respect to any of the insurance requirements required
under this Permit Terms and Conditions, before commencing any work hereunder, and upon
written request by County, within thirty (30) days of the commencement of each year thereafter,
City shall submit to County a certificate of self-insurance signed by a duly authorized
representative of City, such certificate evidencing that City’s self-insurance program is
adequately funded, in full force and effect and in compliance with and subject to all the terms,
agreements, covenants, conditions and provisions of this Permit Terms and Conditions. If City
elects to self-insure, City shall give County prompt written notice of any significant change in or
the depletion of its self-insurance fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, City is also responsible
for causing any contractors, subcontractors and/or agents to maintain commercially reasonable
insurance coverages and coverage limits as required under this Permit Terms and Conditions in
amounts no less than as described in City’s “Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts”
dated 9/17.

City shall furnish County with certificates of insurance evidencing the required coverage.
These certificates shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be
given, in writing, to County of any pending change in the limits of liability or of any
cancellation or modification of the policy.

County, its officers, agents and employees, including the San Mateo County Event Center,
shall be named as additional insured on the liability insurance policies described hereinabove,
which shall also contain a provision that the insurance afforded thereby to County shall be the
primary insurance to the full limits of liability of the policy. If County has other insurance
coverage against a loss covered by the coverage that City and/or its contractor is required to
have, such other insurance coverage of County shall be excess insurance only.

Exhibit B
Page 4 of 4

83 of 146


--- page 84 ---
EXHIBIT “B-1”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PERMIT AREA #1

BEING REAL PROPERTY SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEING A PORTION OF THAT PARCEL DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT DEED,
RECORDED ON MARCH 26, 1956 IN BOOK 2992 AT PAGE 506 OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

COMMENCING AT THE NORTHERLY CORNER OF LOT A, AS SAID LOT IS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN MAP FILED FOR RECORD AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGE
37, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING A POINT
ON THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, NORTH 54° 33' 25" WEST, 381.74 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

THENCE LEAVING SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, SOUTH 61° 17’ 35” WEST, 35.61 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 33° 38’ 35” WEST, 135.68 FEET;

THENCE SOUTH 1° 00’ 47” WEST, 252.58 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTHWESTERLY
BOUNDARY LINE OF SAID LOT A (137 M 37);

THENCE ALONG SAID NORTHWESTERLY BOUNDARY, ALONG THE ARC OF A 675.00
FOOT RADIUS NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE LEFT, WHOSE CENTER POINT BEARS
SOUTH 26° 30' 12" EAST, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 15° 07' 30", AN ARC DISTANCE
OF 178.19 FEET;

THENCE LEAVING SAID NORTHWESTERLY BOUNDARY, NORTH 41° 37' 42" WEST, 50.04
FEET;

THENCE NORTH 0° 29' 20" EAST, 48.56 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 36° 39’ 11” EAST, 119.01 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 30° 49' 56" EAST, 175.46 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 30° 50° 32" EAST, 46.52 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 33° 39' 08" EAST, 119.99 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 42° 49' 42" EAST, 14.67 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 51° 24' 03" EAST, 17.36 FEET TO THE SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE;

THENCE ALONG THE SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, SOUTH 54° 33' 25" EAST, 19.66 FEET
TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

Z:\2017\A17535- 1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

84 of 146


--- page 85 ---
CONTAINING 33,120 SQUARE FEET OR 0.7603 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

KIER & WRIGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS, INC,

KYO. 41% lia

RODNEY A. STEWART II P.L.S. 9225 DATE

2:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

85 of 146


--- page 86 ---
N
$54°33'25"E 19.66"
N51°24'03"E ow
N42"49°42°E 14,67’

O 50’ 100’ 200
a —<—<£
Scale 1” = 100’

N30°50°32"E 46.52’

2,
h %

, 39 /

47°W 252.58

ren

PERMIT AREA #1
AREA= 33,1204 S.F.
OR 0.76035 AC.

~~”

S1°00

LEGEND

137—-M~—37

EXHIBIT "B—-1"
PERMIT AREA #1

SAN MATEO,
Z:\2017\A17535~1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS \A1 7535~1-EXPO-PD.dwg 11-18-19 10:56:46 AM arobberson

GB KIERHWRIGHT

3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22
Santa Clara, California 95054

Phone: (408) 727-6665
www.kierwright.com

CALIFORNIA

PROPERTY LINE
EASEMENT LINE

MAPS

OFFICIAL RECORDS

POINT OF BEGINNING
POINT OF COMMENCEMENT
SQUARE FEET

ACRES

DATE SEPT., 2019
SCALE 1" = 100°
BY AGR
JOB NO. A17535
SHEET 1 OF 1

86 of 146


--- page 87 ---
EXHIBIT “B-1”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PERMIT AREA #2

BEING REAL PROPERTY SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEING A PORTION OF THAT PARCEL DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT DEED,
RECORDED ON MARCH 26, 1956 IN BOOK 2992 AT PAGE 506 OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

COMMENCING AT THE NORTHERLY CORNER OF LOT A, AS SAID LOT IS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN MAP FILED FOR RECORD AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGE
37, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING A POINT
ON THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG THE SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE NORTH 54° 33' 25" WEST, 401.40
FEET;

THENCE LEAVING SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, SOUTH 51° 24' 03" WEST, 17.36 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 42° 49' 42" WEST, 14.67 FEET,

THENCE SOUTH 33° 39' 08" WEST, 7.33 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING,
THENCE SOUTH 33° 39' 08" WEST, 112.66 FEET,

THENCE SOUTH 30° 50’ 32" WEST, 46.52 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 54° 50' 36" WEST, 50.39 FEET;

THENCE NORTH 33° 35' 08" EAST, 159.07 FEET;

THENCE SOUTH 54° 50’ 36” EAST, 48.29 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

CONTAINING 7,717 SQUARE FEET OR 0.1772 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

KIER & WRIGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS, INC.

Allis

RODNEY A. STEWART II P.L.S. 9225 DATE

Z:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

87 of 146


--- page 88 ---
PERMIT AREA #2
AREA= 7,717 S.F.
OR 0.1772+ AC.

LINE TABLE

[ne ¥ | oreo [aw

LoT A ai oe
137—M—37 L6 50.39"
L7 48,29’

LEGEND

PROPERTY LINE
Se ae ae ee Sane EASEMENT LINE
MAPS
OFFICIAL RECORDS
POINT OF BEGINNING
POINT OF COMMENCEMENT
eS FEET Scale 1” = 100’

EXHIBIT "B—1"
ee KIERTWRIGHT | permit AREA #2

3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22 Phone: (408) 727-6665 JOB NO. A17535
Santa Clara, California 95054 www. kierwright.com SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA Fcueey 10F 1

2: \2017\A17535~-1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS\ Al 7535-1-EXPO-PD.dwg 11-18-19 10:56:47 AM arobberson

88 of 146


--- page 89 ---
EXHIBIT “B-1”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PERMIT AREA #3

BEING REAL PROPERTY SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEING A PORTION OF THAT PARCEL DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT DEED,
RECORDED ON MARCH 26, 1956 IN BOOK 2992 AT PAGE 506 OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

COMMENCING AT THE NORTHERLY CORNER OF LOT A, AS SAID LOT IS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN MAP FILED FOR RECORD AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGE
37, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING A POINT
ON THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT A THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
COURSES:

1) SOUTH 56° 52' 35" WEST, 165.68 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A NON-TANGENT
CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 675.00 FEET, WHOSE CENTER POINT BEARS
SOUTH 01° 32' 14" EAST, AND

2) ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 40° 05' 28", AN
ARC DISTANCE OF 472.31 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

THENCE CONTINUING ALONG SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 54° 12’ 25",
AN ARC DISTANCE OF 638.61 FEET TO THE COMMON CORNER OF LOT A AND BLOCK 10
OF SAID MAP;

THENCE ALONG THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE SAID BLOCK 10, SOUTH 56° 53' 03" WEST,
521.43 FEET TO THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF SOUTH DELAWARE STREET (WIDTH
VARIES);

THENCE ALONG SAID NORTHEASTERLY LINE THE FOLLOWING TWO (2) COURSES:

1) NORTH 58° 26' 49” WEST, 22.36 FEET,

2) NORTH 56° 20' 49" WEST, 60.55 FEET;

THENCE LEAVING SAID NORTHEASTERLY LINE, NORTH 76° 49' 56” EAST, 118.84 FEET,

THENCE NORTH 56° 52' 55" EAST, 292.02 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A TANGENT
CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 250.02 FEET,

THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 51° 37' 29",
AN ARC DISTANCE OF 225.27 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A REVERSE CURVE TO THE
RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 708.00 FEET;

Z:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

89 of 146


--- page 90 ---
THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 43° 06' 53",
AN ARC DISTANCE OF 532.76 FEET;

THENCE SOUTH 41° 37' 42" EAST, 33.00 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

CONTAINING 43,949 SQUARE FEET OR 1.0089 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

KIER & WRIGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS, INC.

RODNEY A. STEWART II P.L.S. 9225 DATE

Z:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

90 of 146


--- page 91 ---
LINE TABLE

!
PERMIT AREA #3 LS ene oe

AREA= 43,9494 S.F.
OR 1.0089+ AC.

LEGEND

PROPERTY LINE
-——--———- EASEMENT LINE

MAPS

OFFICIAL RECORDS

POINT OF BEGINNING O 50’ 100’ 200’

POINT oF COMMENCEMENT

SQUARE FEET ” = 100’

pon Scale 7

EXHIBIT "B-1"

Ma SCALE 1" = 100'
w KIERTWRIGHT PERMIT AREA #3
3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22 Phone: (408) 727-6665

Santa Clara, California 95054 www.kierwright.com SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA SHEET 1 OF2
2: \2017\A17535-1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS \Al 7535~1—EXPO-PD.dwg 11-18-19 10:56:47 AM arobberson

91 of 146


--- page 92 ---
LEGEND

PROPERTY LINE
-—-—----- EASEMENT LINE
MAPS

OFFICIAL RECORDS

POINT OF BEGINNING

POINT OF COMMENCEMENT
FEET

2992—0.R.—506

PERMIT AREA #3
AREA= 43,9494 S.F.
OR 1.00894 AC.

LINE TABLE

BLOCK 10
137—-M—37

50’ 200’
Scale 1” = 100’

» EXHIBIT "B-1" er 03
oy KIERTWRIGHT PERMIT AREA #3

3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22 Phone: (408) 727-6665 JOB NO. A17535

7: \2017\A17535~1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS \A17535-1-EXPO-PD.dwg 11-18-19 10:56:47 AM arobberson

92 of 146


--- page 93 ---
EXHIBIT C - PROJECT SITE PLANS

KEY PLAN

CONTROL PANEL
y= 36" HIGH X 18" VENT PIPE

\

ELECTRICAL PULLBOXES 8° CMU WALL

8° CHAIN LINK A . *.

FENCE- BLACK 7 y : .

WITH PRIVACY OS L LEGEND
SLATS oS (238) SHRUBS -FRADESII ESCALLONIA

-5 GAL CONT - IN TWO ROWS UZ NO PARKING AREA

ISOLATION , \ ). , +] POROUS CONCRETE

EXISTING 4 4. HM ASPHALT PAVEMENT

VALYE VAULT
VEGETATIOI
~ TO REMAIN

BY. RADFORD, SCOTT

6) Stantec

UNDERGROUND. FLOW 4 ' “
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM a’ =)— 25' SLIDING ENTRANCE GATE

(MOTORIZED)

A

100% DESIGN
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION

POROUS CONCRETE PAVING
A
v

A

PLOT DATE. Wednesday, March 13, 2019 12.54.52 PM

PROP 8' CMU WALL
TO INTERFACE WITH
EX CMU WALL

LANDSCAPE
UFES PROJECT SITE PLAN
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

12' TIPPING BUCKET GALLERY
36" HIGH X 6" DIA STEEL BOLLARDS:

CHAIN LINK GATE ~<.” gv

4

av : 5 a = ‘ feat SCHEDULE TANK SITE
30" HIGH X 24" AIR INTAKE —— —
; Z Trees SOTANICAL / COMMON NAME

ARBUTUS MENZIESII/ PACIFIC MADRONE
MULTI TRUNK
SHR

S__ BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME
QB —__scatonnxexotesis ‘FRADESIT /FRADESII ESCALLONIA

8° CMU WALL

ate.11/14/19
oate11/14/19
pate 11/14/19]

BAY MEADOWS PARK
PLANT SCHEDULE BAY MEADOWS PARK

TREES BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME CONT Ty

LAN => PINUS CANARIENSIS /CANARYISLAND PINE 2°00K 9 013-L-2102
—————————

‘SCALE: 1°=20 SSMS MEREEE sweet X_ or 165

ccsionce ey SWR
craw ay SWR

ac ceceeD 87. XXX
cate AS SHOWN

FRONT Mo. 46S003

SUBATIAL "OO

DWG FILE. C:\pwworkdirid0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SAT-3-013-L-2100.dug


--- page 94 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

EXHIBIT C -

C:\pwworkdihd0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SITESECTIONS.¢wg

EXISTING

POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE
ASPHALT

BAY MEADOWS PARK

PAVING/PARKING

AREA 8 HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE - BLACK

WITH PRIVACY SLATS
PRECAST PARKING CURB WHEEL STOP

FOUL AIR DUCT TO ODOR CONTROL
UMP HATCH SKIT (TYP)

ELECTRICAL BUILDING

UTILITY WATER PIPING TO

TIPPING BUCKETS (TYP) UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK

UFES TANK DEWATERING

BY. RADFORD, SCOTT

Bune TANK COLUMN Re

ral ial

ee

All roll alr bal

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

SARATOGA DR N BOUND LANE

EX MEDIAN PLANTER

SARATOGA DR SOUTH BOUND LANES.

LOT DATE. Wednesday, March 13, 2019 12:54:52 PM

OWG Fi

10° WIDE PLANTER WITH

REVISED PLANTINGS ASPHALT PAVING.

POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE

8 CMU WALL.

6) Stantec

100% DESIGN
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION

LANDSCAPE PLANTING

EXPO CENTER PARKING

8° CMU WALL

MECHANICAL VAULT AND
ODOR CONTROL ROOM

ee errs

16" DIAx 10’ HEIGHT AIR EXHAUST

| | TIPPING BUCKET AND REMOVABLE
CONCRETE PANEL

ToT TT oo
UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE T,
um nm

TANK COLUMN

LL

TRENCH
EL 62.50

et Galil

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

STEM

Fl on iE

it

8' HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE -
BLACK WITH PRIVACY SLATS

LANDSCAPE
SITE SECTIONS/ELEVATIONS
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

par 4/12/19
oate 4/12/19

WARNING
a
——

rescun + SR
acaxcco sv
nowctxe 468003
sc: NO SCALE

IF THIS BAR DOES

NOT TO SCALE

013-L-3001
sweet XX or XX

94 of 146


--- page 95 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

EXHIBIT C

DATE :ata2019 11:53:13 AM

—— 4" x 8" W OVERFLOW

SCUPPER

4"H x 8" W SCUPPER
'WICONDUCTOR HEAD
AND DOWNSPOUT

8" SMOOTH FACE
CMU (TYP)

USER: EN

NORTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

SOUTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

BAd0G091 6 1\SMCWP-A-ZEPNOLvt

EXTERIOR
LUMINAIRE, SEE ELEC

SURFACE APPLIED
WATER REPPELLANT ON
ALL EXTERIOR CMU (TYP)

HM SINGLE MAN
DOOR AND FRAME

WEST ELEVATION

SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

PRECAST STONE
COPING (TYP) S

STEEL FRAMED WOOD:
PANEL SWING GATE

6) Stantec

CONSTRUCTION

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

ARCHITECTURAL
ELECTRICAL BUILDING
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

8" FLUTED SPLITFACE
‘CMU (TYP)

4" SQUARE SCORED
SPLITFACE CMU (TYP)

SURFACE APPLIED
WATER REPELLANT
‘ON ALL EXTERIOR
MU (TYP)

EAST ELEVATION

‘SCALE: 3/8" = 1-0"

care OB/10/18

comceo EM ove 08/10/18

Deawn ev: EN

ee | 013-A-3101

SCALE: 96° = 1-0"

95 of 146


--- page 96 ---
EXHIBIT "D"

September 2019-December 2021 Events - Parking Blackout

Description Start Date]Start Time [End Date statis |

02/08/20] 09:00 AM] 02/09/20] 06:00 P Eieteyd Tentative Hold (10)
SAP DKOM 02/13/20] 06:30 AM| 02/13/20] 07:00 P ASI] Tentative Hold (10)
Isha Foundation - Sahdguru 05/15/20] 07:00 AM] 05/17/20 yield Hold pending release oft: [Fimsnn

1 1
San Mateo Fair 06/13/20] 07:00 AM] 06/21/20] 11:59 PM ERP] Event (75)
MPK Summer 08/05/20] 11:00 AM] 08/05/20] 03:00 PM eYsteeW Contracted (35)
Aloha Festival 08/15/20] 10:00 AM] 08/16/20] 05:00 PM EIR} Tentative Hold (10)
10/08/19 [| 10/09/20 a Tentative Hold (10)
Abilities Expo 10/16/20] 07:00 AM| 10/18/20] 04:00 PM]  10018ff@Cfalug-tein-tel @}s))
i ih 10/23/20] 06:30 AM] 10/24/2 0 Eyed Contracted (35)
ibi 11/12/20] 07:00 AM| 11/16/2 9 EYZVA Tentative Hold (10)
11/25/20 fs 11/29/20 | Keen) Tentative Hold (10)
12/05/20] 07:00 PM| 12/05/20| 11:59 P 10008
: 12/12/20] 07:00 PM|{ 12/12/20] 11:59 P ‘KopeRO) Contracted (35)

01/15/20] 06:50 AM] 01/19/21] 11:00 PM a este Hold (10) Sat-Mon
02/04/21 | 02/07/21 rT Tentative Hold (10) Sat-Sun
04/22/21] 07:00 AM] 04/24/21] 11:59 PM Ess] Tentative Hold (10) Fri-Sun

Dv) VI Sy] rz] 2 v2) lee]
a) a] 3] a] o fo) 3.
</| <] o] 3] a ow roy
gm] @/ 3} <J] o = qa
a) ol 3] @| 5 m
oO] Oo] a] a] 3 Bs mn
sz} a} cf] + oO
Pl ol ol Ma i 4
>| =| 2] Bl] e © c
OQ) a} M alc >
o| 2 <| 5 = <
QO} <}] | s| 4 oO io)
a Oo; =) = fet)
= = o
z] Ss] 3/2} 9} | 5
2} S] | Ol] a m
a ul Al x x
o @] o| o oS
S| | 2] 3} 3] | 8
z) | 3] g| 3
oa Sioa
=< wl =| &%
s| Slo
Qo] gg
=! 5] m
=| 2
5S} 2

2
fe}
a
a
@
at
a
ie)
a
3
3
2
o
<
o.
GY
<
oy
a
>
wn
wn
(oy
2
o
&

i ire/Brick Fest Live

National Council of Examiners for Engi

Isha Foundation - Sahdguru 05/21/21] 07:00 AM] 05/23/21] 11:59 PM a etetve Hold (10) Fri-Sun

Northern California Volleyball Associati] 05/27/21] 06:50 AM| 06/01/2 PM ae etetve Hold (10) Sat-Mon

San Mateo Fair 06/12/21 | EI Hold (10) Sat-Sun- 9 Days
08/04/21 ae erste Hold (10) Wed —

Aloha Festival

08/12/21] 10:00 AM] 08/16/21 ae eetve Hold (10) Sat-Sun
10/04/21 | 10/10/21 FT Tentative Hold (10) Wed
10/21/21] 07:00 AM| 10/23/21] 11:59 PM Ey) Tentative Hold (10) Fri-Sat
11/11/21 11/15/21 ae ete Hold (10)

12/04/21 ae etetve Hold (10) Fri-Sat

National Council of Examiners for Engi

Harvest Festival/Western Exhibitors IN Fri-Sun

2] =| = =
o A a
m —h
a p g
cor 7
a EI 2
o 3

= g

oO

o

ct

—s

m

x

nO}

fo}

emeber weekend 1 - 2021

Oo
oO
Q

Decemeber weekend 2 - 2021 Tentative Hold (10) Fri-Sat

Decemeber weekend 3 - 2021 |

Tentative Hold (10) Fri-Sat

96 of 146


--- page 97 ---
97 of 146


--- page 98 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20" Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403

[Space Above For Recorder’s Use Only]

Recording Fee: Exempt pursuant to California
Government Code Section 27383

EASEMENT DEED AND AGREEMENT FOR THE
UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT

THIS EASEMENT DEED and AGREEMENT for the UNDERGROUND FLOW
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM PROJECT (the “Easement Deed”) is made as of this day of
,20__ by and between the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision of the
State of California (“Grantor” or “County”) and the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal
corporation (“Grantee’’).

RECITALS

A. Grantor is the owner of that certain real property located in the City of San
Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, at 2495 South Delaware Street, APN 040-030-
220, (the “Grantor’s Land”), on which the San Mateo County Event Center (“Event Center’’)
operates an active fairgrounds and events facility.

B. Pursuant to that certain Agreement Between the County of San Mateo
and the City of San Mateo for the Acquisition and Conveyance of Property Rights in Support
of City of San Mateo’s Underground Flow Equalization System Project, dated as of
(“Agreement’’), Grantee is acquiring the easement, as described in
Exhibit A-1, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

AGREEMENT

NOW THEREFORE, incorporating and in consideration of the foregoing recitals,
in order to comply with the Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt
and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.

1. Grant of Easement. Grantor hereby grants to Grantee the easement
described in Recital Paragraph B for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
repairing, replacing, and maintaining a sub-surface wastewater holding structure, as well as the
surface and sub-surface appurtenances depicted in the site plan for the Underground Flow
Equalization System Project, attached hereto as Exhibit A-2 “Project Site Plan” (collectively
“Easement”). The Easement granted herein shall be deemed to include such incidental rights as
are reasonably necessary to use the Easement for the purposes provided herein. The areas
described in Attachment Exhibit A-1 shall be referred to as the “Easement Area.” Grantor’s

98 of 146


--- page 99 ---
grant of the easement herein is made in the sole capacity as a landowner and not in any other
capacity, including as a regulatory or land-use authority. In the exercise of the rights granted
hereunder, Grantee shall take all reasonable measures to minimize any impact on Event Center
and/or County operations on Grantor’s Land.

2. No Grantor Liability for Improvements. Any and all improvements
constructed by Grantee pursuant to the authority granted by this Easement Deed, and the

location, design, operation, maintenance, inspection, and repair thereof, are entirely the
responsibility of Grantee, except as otherwise provided in Section 4 Maintenance. Grantee
accepts the Easement Area in its “AS IS” condition without any representation or warranty of
any kind from Grantor. Grantee agrees and acknowledges that it is solely responsible for any
and all current and future site investigation, condition assessment, inspection, or any other
determination of the condition of the Easement Area, any improvements in, on, or across the
Easement, or any other condition of the Easement Area that may affect improvements
constructed by Grantee. Neither Grantor nor its successors and assigns shall be liable in any
way for costs, expenses, losses, damages or otherwise, arising out of or in any way connected
with the design, operation, construction, maintenance, or repair of the improvements constructed
by Grantee on, over or across the Easement. Grantee shall defend, save harmless and indemnify
Grantor, its officers, employees, and agents, including the San Mateo County Event Center, from
any and all claims for injuries or damage to persons and/or property, or any other loss or cost, by
reason of Grantee constructing any improvement on, over, or across the Easement or arising out
of the operation, inspection, construction, maintenance, repair, performance, suitability, or
design of any improvements constructed by Grantee on, over, or across the Easement, including,
but not limited to, claims arising out of an alleged failure or discharge of the wastewater holding
structure. The duty of Grantee to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall
include the duty to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.

3. Use of Easement Area by Grantor. Grantor may use the Easement
Area in any manner that does not materially impede Grantee’s use of the Easement Area or
compromise any improvements constructed by Grantee therein, including but not limited to
parking or storage of vehicles or containers exceeding H-20 loading. The Easement is subject to
all rights, encumbrances, and other matters of record or of which Grantee has notice prior to the
date this Easement Deed is recorded, including specifically the permit to use the cell facility
located adjacent to the Easement Area.

4. Maintenance. Grantee shall inspect, operate, maintain, and repair the
Easement Area and any and all improvements made pursuant to the Agreement or this Easement
Deed, on, over, or across the Easement Area installed by Grantee, with the exception of the
following, which shall be maintained by Grantor upon completion of installation: concrete
masonry unit wall, motorized entrance gate on Saratoga Avenue, sidewalk, chain link fence, and
those lighting facilities used by Grantor. Grantee shall maintain the Easement Area, together with
any improvements constructed or installed by Grantee or associated with Grantee’s use of the
Easement Area, in a safe and sanitary condition consistent with the uses authorized hereunder.
The operation and maintenance of any such improvements and of the Easement Area shall be at
Grantee’s sole cost and expense. Grantee shall provide Grantor with no less than ten (10)
business days’ notice of any maintenance or repair work to be performed on the Easement Area,
in accordance with Section 10 hereof. Grantee shall perform all work for the activities described
in this Easement Deed, including the construction or installation of any improvements, in a good
and workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable legal, governmental, and industry
standards. Grantee shall be responsible for all local drainage inspections and maintenance.
Grantee shall be responsible for any and all stormwater management for the Easement Area or

99 of 146


--- page 100 ---
otherwise in connection with any and all improvements on, over, or across the Easement Area.
Any access by Grantee to perform maintenance or other work on improvements shall require
reasonable notice and good faith coordination with Grantor or designee and if necessary, a plan to
redirect/reroute Event Center traffic or other activities as well as reimbursement for any and all
expenses, costs, and/or lost revenues caused to Event Center or County by such access. Grantee
shall secure any necessary licenses, permits and approvals required for the construction,
reconstruction, repair, or maintenance of the improvements. Grantee must comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local law in connection with any work in, on, or across the Easement
Area or otherwise authorized by this Easement Deed. Grantee shall deliver a set of final as-built
plans to Grantor within 60 days of the completion of any construction or alteration project
completed by Grantee within the Easement Area.

5. Indemnity. In addition to the indemnity provided in Section 2, above,
Grantee shall indemnify, defend, reimburse, and hold harmless Grantor, its officers, agents,
employees, and contractors, including the San Mateo County Event Center (collectively,
“Indemnitees”), and each of them, from and against any and all demands, claims, legal or
administrative proceedings, losses, costs, penalties, fines, liens, judgments, damages, and
liabilities of any kind (“Claims”), arising in any manner out of (a) any injury to or death of any
person or damage to or destruction of any property occurring in, on, or about any part of the
Easement Area whether such injury, death, damage, or destruction is caused by the person or
property of Grantee, its officers, directors, members, employees, agents, consultants, contractors,
or subcontractors (collectively, “Agents”), its invitees, guests, or business visitors (collectively,
“Invitees”), or third persons, relating to any use or act required or permitted by this Easement
Deed, (b) any failure by Grantee to faithfully observe or perform any of the terms, covenants, or
conditions of this Deed, (c) the use of the Easement Area or any activities conducted in, on, or
about Grantor’s Land by Grantee, its Agents, or Invitees, or (d) any release or discharge, or
threatened release or discharge, of any hazardous material caused or allowed by Grantee, its
Agents, or Invitees, on, in, under, or about the Easement Area, Grantor’s Land, any
improvements, or into the environment; except solely to the extent of Claims resulting directly
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Grantor, its Agents or Invitees, in which case
Grantor shall indemnify Grantee, its officers, employees, and agents for such Claims. In addition
to Grantee’s obligation to indemnify Grantor, Grantee specifically acknowledges and agrees that
it has an immediate and independent obligation to defend Indemnities from any claim that
actually or potentially falls within this indemnity provision even if such allegation is or may be
groundless, fraudulent, or false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to
Grantee by Grantor and continues at all times thereafter. The foregoing indemnity shall include,
without limitation, reasonable attorneys’, experts’, and consultants’ fees and costs, investigation
and remediation costs, and all other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the indemnified
parties. Grantee’s obligations under this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other
termination of this Easement Deed. Nothing in this Section 5 shall be understood to limit,
condition, affect, or otherwise revise in any way the indemnity provided in Section 2, above.

6. Insurance. Grantee shall obtain, at its sole expense, and furnish
evidence to Grantor prior to commencing any work authorized hereunder, a combined general
liability and property damage insurance policy in the amount of at least Two Million Dollars
($2,000,000) per occurrence and Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) aggregate, to be kept in full
force in perpetuity consistent with the rights granted hereunder. Said insurance amounts are
minimum requirements only, and if Grantee has other insurance coverage against a loss arising
from Grantee’s activities or work authorized hereunder, said policies must also comply with the
provisions of this Section 6. Grantor may increase the minimum limits of coverage if such
increase is warranted, in Grantor’s sole discretion.

100 of 146


--- page 101 ---
Grantee shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of the
insurance requirements required under this Easement Deed, to the extent permitted by applicable
law. In the event that Grantee elects to self-insure with respect to any of the insurance
requirements required under this Easement Deed, before commencing any work hereunder, and
upon written request by Grantor, within thirty (30) days of the commencement of each year
thereafter, Grantee shall submit to Grantor a certificate of self-insurance signed by a duly
authorized representative of Grantee, such certificate evidencing that Grantee’s self-insurance
program is adequately funded, in full force and effect and in compliance with and subject to all the
terms, agreements, covenants, conditions and provisions of this Easement Deed. If Grantee elects
to self-insure, Grantee shall give Grantor prompt written notice of any significant change in or the
depletion of its self-insurance fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Grantor is also responsible for
causing any contractors, subcontractors and/or agents to maintain commercially reasonable
insurance coverages and coverage limits as required under this Easement Deed in amounts no less
than as described in Grantee’s “Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts” dated 9/17.

Grantee shall furnish Grantor with certificates of insurance evidencing the
required coverage. These certificates shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30)
days’ notice must be given, in writing, to Grantor of any pending change in the limits of liability
or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.

Grantor, its officers, agents and employees, including the San Mateo
County Event Center, shall be named as additional insured on the liability insurance policies
described hereinabove, which shall also contain a provision that the insurance afforded thereby to
Grantor shall be the primary insurance to the full limits of liability of the policy. If Grantor has
other insurance coverage against a loss covered by the coverage that Grantee and/or its contractor
is required to have, such other insurance coverage of Grantor shall be excess insurance only.

7. Hazardous Materials. Grantee covenants and agrees that neither
Grantee, nor any of its employees, agents, or contractors, shall cause or permit any hazardous
material to be brought upon, kept, stored, staged, generated or disposed of in, on or about the
Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land. Grantee shall give immediate written notice to Grantor of:
(a) any action, proceeding or inquiry by any governmental authority (including, without
limitation, the California State Department of Health Services, the State or any Regional Water
Quality Control Board, San Mateo County Environmental Health, the Bay Area Air Quality
Management district, California Coastal Commission, or any local governmental entity) against
Grantee with respect to the presence or release or suspected presence or release of hazardous
material on or about the Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land, or the migration thereof from or to
other adjacent County property; (b) all demands or claims made or threatened by any third party
against Grantee relating to any loss or injury resulting from any hazardous materials on or about
the Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land; (c) any release of hazardous material on or about the
Easement Areas or Grantor’s Land due to the rights granted herein that may require any
investigation or remediation; and (d) all matters of which Grantee is required to give notice
pursuant to Section 25359.7 of the California Health and Safety Code. Nothing in the foregoing
paragraph shall preclude Grantee from using materials necessary to exercise Grantee’s rights to
the Easement Areas granted herein so long as any such hazardous materials are used, stored, and
disposed of in strict accordance with any and all applicable law.

Grantee shall be responsible for all costs and efforts associated with investigating and
remediating any environmental contamination whatsoever caused by Grantee on or about the
Easements.

101 of 146


--- page 102 ---
8. Repair of Damage. Grantee shall be responsible for any damage to
Grantor’s property or property of third parties resulting from any exercise of the rights herein
granted, including but not limited to soil erosion, subsidence, the development of a sinkhole or
other settling, and any consequential or incidental damages (including, but not limited to, lost
profits) resulting therefrom. If any portion of the Easement Area or any property of the Grantor,
or its agents or contractors, located on or about the Easement Area is damaged or threatened by
any of the activities conducted by Grantee, or anyone acting by or through Grantee, pursuant to
the rights granted herein, Grantee shall immediately notify Grantor of such damage or threat.
Grantor may, but shall not be obligated to, remedy such damage or threat at Grantee’s sole cost,
or Grantor may elect to witness Grantee’s repair work. Subject to Grantor’s inspection, review,
and approval, Grantee shall promptly repair and restore to its condition prior to the work by
Grantee any of Grantor’s property, including, but not limited to, roads, utilities (surface and sub-
surface), buildings, fences, other improvements, or surfaces that may be altered, damaged, or
destroyed in connection with the exercise of the rights granted herein. Grantor has no
responsibility or liability of any kind with respect to any utilities that may be on, in, around, or
under the Easement Area. Grantee has the sole responsibility to locate such utilities and other
existing facilities and protect them from damage. Grantee shall be solely responsible for
arranging and paying directly for any utilities or services necessary for its activities permitted
hereunder; provided, Grantee shall obtain Grantor’s prior written approval to the provision of
such services or utilities in, on, under, or through the Easement Area or the Event Center.

9. Taxes, Fees, and Liens. Grantee alone shall pay any and all taxes,
charges or use fee(s) levied by any governmental agency against Grantee’s interest in the
Easement Area or against any of Grantor’s Land as a result of the easement herein granted,
including possessory interests and Grantee’s proportionate share of any applicable special
assessments levied against Grantor’s Land. Grantee shall not cause liens of any kind to be placed
against the Easement Area or any of Grantor’s Land.

10. Notice. Any notice given under this Easement Deed shall be
effective only if in writing and given by delivering the notice in person or by sending it first-class
mail or certified mail with a return receipt requested or by overnight courier, return receipt
requested, with postage prepaid, to the addresses set forth below or to such other address as either
party may designate as its new address for such purpose. Any notice hereunder shall be deemed
to have been given two (2) days after the date when it is mailed if sent by first class or certified
mail, one day after the date it is made if sent by overnight courier, or upon the date personal
delivery is made.

To Grantor:

Real Property Manager
County of San Mateo

455 County Center, 4th Floor
Redwood City, CA 94063

With a copy to:
Chief Executive Officer
San Mateo County Event Center

2495 S. Delaware Street
San Mateo, CA 94403

102 of 146


--- page 103 ---
To Grantee:

Deputy Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, Ca 94403

11. Remedies. In the event of a violation of any of the terms of this
Agreement, Grantor may seek specific performance of this Agreement or any other remedy
permitted at law or in equity against Grantee.

13. Severability. If any provision of this Easement Deed is determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Easement
Deed shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect, provided that the invalidity or
unenforceability of such provision does not materially adversely affect the benefits accruing to
any party hereunder.

14. Entire Agreement. This Easement Deed, including the exhibits
attached hereto as well as the Agreement, contains the entire agreement between the parties
hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof and fully supersedes all prior written or oral
agreements and understandings between the parties hereto pertaining to such subject matter.
Furthermore, this Easement Deed cannot be changed orally, and no executory agreement shall be
effective to waive, change, modify or discharge it in whole or in part unless such executory
agreement is in writing and is signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver,
change, modification or discharge is sought.

15. Successors. The terms and conditions of this instrument shall run
with and bind Grantor’s Land and shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon Grantor
and Grantee and their respective successors and assigns.

16. Modification. This instrument may only be modified by a written
instrument that is recorded in the Official Records of San Mateo County, California.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Easement Deed as of
the day and year set forth above.

GRANTOR:
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

By:

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

103 of 146


--- page 104 ---
GRANTEE:
CITY OF SAN MATEO

By:

Drew Corbett
City Manager

ATTEST:

Patrice Olds
City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Caio Arellano
Assistant City Attorney

104 of 146


--- page 105 ---
EXHIBIT "A-1"
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PERMANENT EASEMENT AREA

BEING REAL PROPERTY SITUATE IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEING A PORTION OF THAT PARCEL DESCRIBED IN THAT CERTAIN GRANT DEED,
RECORDED ON MARCH 26, 1956 IN BOOK 2992 AT PAGE 506 OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHERLY CORNER OF LOT A, AS SAID LOT IS SHOWN ON THAT
CERTAIN MAP FILED FOR RECORD AUGUST 25, 2010 IN BOOK 137 OF MAPS, PAGE 37,

OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING A POINT ON
THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT A THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
COURSES:

1) SOUTH 56° 52' 35" WEST, 165.68 FEET TO THE BEGINNING OF A NON-TANGENT
CURVE TO THE LEFT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 675.00 FEET, WHOSE CENTER POINT BEARS

SOUTH 01° 32' 14" EAST, AND

2) ALONG THE ARC OF SAID CURVE, THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 20° 15' 05", AN
ARC DISTANCE OF 238.58 FEET;

THENCE LEAVING SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE THE FOLLOWING FIVE (5) COURSES:
1) NORTH 00° 24' 43" EAST, 34.27 FEET,

2) SOUTH 87° 047' 34" EAST, 49.92 FEET,

3) NORTH 00° 59' 45" EAST, 197.51 FEET,

4) NORTH 33° 38' 35" WEST, 135.68 FEET,

5) NORTH 61° 17’ 35" EAST, 35.61 FEET TO SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SARATOGA
DRIVE;

THENCE ALONG SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE, SOUTH 54° 33' 25" EAST, 381.74 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

CONTAINING 88,607 SQUARE FEET OR 2.0341 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.

KIER & WRIGHT CIVIL ENGINEERS & SURVEYORS, INC.

Z:\2017\A17535-1\DOCS\SURVEY DOCS\LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS\A17535-EXPO-LD.doc

105 of 146


--- page 106 ---
N6117°35"E iN
—e

PERMANENT EASEMENT
AREA

AREA= 88,6074 S.F.
OR 2.03414 AC.

LINE TABLE

| UNE # | DIRECTION | LENGTH
LOT A patent ;
L2 $87°47 34 W | 49.92

LEGEND

PROPERTY LINE
EASEMENT LINE

MAPS ; ;
OFFICIAL RECORDS O 50’ 100

POINT OF BEGINNING

POINT OF COMMENCEMENT Scale 1” = 100’
SQUARE FEET

ACRES

EXHIBIT "A-1"
ey KIERTWRIGHT | peRMANENT EASEMENT

3350 Scott Boulevard, Building 22 ‘Phone: (408) 727-6665 AREA JOB NO. A17535

Santa Clara, California 95054 www.kierwright.com SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

2: \2017\A17535~1\DWG\SURVEY\EXHIBITS\Al 7535-1~EXPO-PO.dwg 9-13-19 07:56:40 AM arobberson

106 of 146


--- page 107 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

EXHIBIT "A-2" -

KEY PLAN

N, } a
ELECTRICAL PULLBOXES

8° CHAIN LINK s/f

FENCE- BLACK /

WITH PRIVACY
SLATS

8° CMU WALL

(238) SHRUBS -FRADESII ESCALLONIA \
-5 GAL CONT - IN TWO ROWS <s (ZZ NO PARKING AREA

A
ISOLATION

VALYE VAULT

+1] POROUS CONCRETE

EXISTING dey yy SN ASPHALT PAVEMENT
. veceranon » ; a

SS TO REMAIN

BY. RADFORD, SCOTT

6) Stantec

UNDERGROUND FLOW é : fs oN
EQUALIZATION SYSTEM <7 — 25’ SLIDING ENTRANCE GATE

(MOTORIZED)

CONSTRUCTION

<
POROUS CONCRETE PAVIN'
A
v

PLOT DATE. Wednesday, March 13, 2019 12:54:52 PM

PROP 8° CMU WALL
TO INTERFACE WITH
EX CMU WALL

LANDSCAPE
UFES PROJECT SITE PLAN
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

12' TIPPING BUCKET GALLERY
36" HIGH X 6" DIA STEEL BOLLARDS,

CHAIN LINK GATE ~ g

4

a 4a

g

4 PLANT SCHEDULE TANK SITE
30" HIGH X 24” AIR INTAKE

TREES BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME

ARBUTUS MENZIESII/ PACIFIC MADRONE
MULTI TRUNK

BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME

ESCALLONIA X EXOIESIS "FRADESI / FRADESI ESCALLONIA

8 cMu WALL

0418.11/14/19)
081: 11/14/19)
care 11/14/19]

XXX
FROKCT rs 465003
scsts AS SHOWN

BAY MEADOWS PARK
PLANT SCHEDULE BAY MEADOWS PARK

TREES BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME cont ary

PLAN > 013-L-2102
——

SCALE: 1-20 — sneet_X_ oF 165

ccacreesy SWR
orawnar SWR
C10 8

SUBALIAL OR

ccc

DWG FILE. C.\pwworkdirid0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SAT-3-013-L-2100.dwg


--- page 108 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

EXHIBIT "A-2" -

C:\pwworkdiAd0450145\SUP_SMCWP_SATO3_SITESECTIONS.¢wg

EXISTING E
ASPHALT POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE BAY MEADOWS PARK
PAVING/PARKING ;
AREA 8 CMU WALL
8' HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE - BLACK
WITH PRIVACY SLATS. ELECTRICAL BUILDING

PRECAST PARKING CURB WHEEL STOP.

Fe
Pai 10° x 8 EFFLUENT PUMP HATCH. car ce USTHTO COR CONTE

UTILITY WATER PIPING TO
TIPPING BUCKETS (TYP) UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK

TANK COLUMN, oe

fal a

UFES TANK DEWATERING

ere ne oe

BY RADFORD, SCOTT

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

SARATOGA DR N BOUND LANE
EX MEDIAN PLANTER
SARATOGA DR SOUTH BOUND LANES

10" WIDE PLANTER WITH
REVISED PLANTINGS ASPHALT PAVING LANDSCAPE PLANTING
EXPO CENTER PARKING

POROUS CONCRETE SURFACE al
MECHANICAL VAULT AND | |
ODOR. CONTROLROOM TIPPING BUCKET AND REMOVABLE

CONCRETE PANEL 8' HEIGHT CHAIN LINK FENCE -
BLACK WITH PRIVACY SLATS

Wednesday, March 13, 2019 12:54:52 PM

16" DIAx 10: HEIGHT AIR EXHAUST

LOT A’

ne!
UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM,

ui im
TANK COLUMN

UNDERGROUND FLOW EQUALIZATION SYSTEM STORAGE TANK SITE SECTION

WARNING

IF THIS BAR DOES

NOT MEASURE 1°

THEN DRAWING IS
NOT TO SCALE

OWG FR

LANDSCAPE
SITE SECTIONS/ELEVATIONS

pare 4/12/19
oate 4/12/19

rescuns SR

NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

acaxeep5v

sect 465003
‘cx. NO SCALE

01

L.

-3001

108 of 146


--- page 109 ---
PROJECT SITE PLANS

2"

"A

EXHIBIT

DATE : 8/19/2019 11:53:13 AM

4°H x 8" W OVERFLOW
SCUPPER

4°H x 8" W SCUPPER

'W/CONDUCTOR HEAD
AND DOWNSPOUT

CMU (TYP)

USER :EN

NORTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

SOUTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 3/8" = 1-0"

(BAg0900161\SMICWP.A-ZBPNOA.M

EXTERIOR
LUMINAIRE, SEE ELEC
SURFACE APPLIED

WATER REPPELLANT ON | |
ALL EXTERIOR CMU (TYP)

HM SINGLE MAN
DOOR AND FRAME

WEST ELEVATION

‘SCALE: 3/8" = 1°-0"

PRECAST STONE 9002
COPING (TYP) S

STEEL FRAMED WOOD:
PANEL SWING GATE

8" FLUTED SPLITFACE
CMU (TYP)

4" SQUARE SCOREO
‘SPLITFACE CMU (TYP)

‘SURFACE APPLIED
WATER REPELLANT
ON ALL EXTERIOR
CMU (TYP)

EAST ELEVATION

‘SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"

ARCHITECTURAL
ELECTRICAL BUILDING
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

109 of 146


--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2244
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act – Loan Application
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the City of San Mateo to submit a full loan application and to dedicate revenues of $100,000 for the application 
fee in connection with a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan application for the Basins 2 & 3 Collection 
System Improvements Project.
BACKGROUND:
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) established the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) 
in 2017 as a means of providing low-interest loans for water and wastewater projects. WIFIA funding is determined on an 
annual basis and the process is competitive. Interested parties submit a “Letter of Interest” describing the project, the 
project owner’s financial creditworthiness, engineering feasibility, and how the project aligns with WIFIA selection criteria. 
Once WIFIA selects a project, it works with applicants to provide a low-interest loan up to 49% of a project’s cost, the 
maximum amount allowed. 
In July 2018, the City, through the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (PFA), submitted a WIFIA Letter of 
Interest for City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade & Expansion Project. In October 2018, the WIFIA Program formally 
invited the PFA to submit a loan application for $277 million in WIFIA financing. Clean Water Program staff expects to 
finalize the WIFIA loan for the WWTP Project in spring of 2020.
Due to the PFA’s 2018 success with the WWTP project’s Letter of Interest, staff planned to submit a Letter of Interest to 
the WIFIA Program for the City’s Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements Project (Project), which consists of the new 
5.3-million-gallon Underground Flow Equalization System project; capacity upgrades with over 3 miles of new conveyance 
pipelines and force mains; and improvements to Dale Ave Pump Station and two lift stations.
On April 4, 2019, the WIFIA Program released a Notice of Funding Availability for the 2019 calendar year. In July 2019, staff 
submitted a Letter of Interest for the Project, requesting 49% (the maximum allowed) to be funded by WIFIA. After review, 
the WIFIA Program formally invited the City to apply for its second low-interest loan in an amount of $85.14 million, 
funding 49% of the Project.  
In order to apply for a WIFIA loan, the City will need to submit a $100,000 application fee with each application. This fee is 
non-refundable and is a credit processing fee. The application fee will be charged to the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System 
Improvements Project. Since the WIFIA loan’s interest rates are lower than revenue bond rates, Clean Water Program staff 
estimates the City will save millions in interest costs, if the loan is approved. Staff recommends authorizing the City to 
submit the full loan application and dedicating revenues for the application fee.
110 of 146

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in Project 46S003. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
California Environmental Quality Act requirements for the Basin 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements Project were 
fulfilled when the San Mateo City Council certified the Programmatic Environmental Impact Review (PEIR) on June 6, 2016 
and the Final EIR for the Underground Flow Equalization System, a project within Basin 2 & 3, on October 21, 2019.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
111 of 146

--- page 112 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2246
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Public Works
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Columbia/Crystal Springs Storm Drain Improvements - Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Freyer & Laureta, Inc. for additional design work and field investigation 
in the amount not-to-exceed $62,300 for a new agreement total of $202,400; approve an additional contingency reserve 
of $6,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and 
approve change orders up to the reserve amount.
BACKGROUND:
The goal of the Columbia/Crystal Springs Storm Drain Improvements Project is to divert stormwater runoff from an existing 
open ditch on a public utility easement on Columbia Drive to a new stormwater collection system to be constructed within 
the public right-of-way along Columbia Drive, Tulane Road, and Crystal Springs Road.
In 2018, Freyer & Laureta, Inc. (F&L) was selected to provide design engineering services through a qualifications-based 
consultant selection process.  The design engineering services included preparation of construction documents based on a 
conceptual design.  To date, F&L has performed utility research, visual field investigation, and utility mapping within the 
project limits.  
Based on the field investigations, F&L determined that the planned storm pipe alignment along Crystal Springs Road is not 
feasible due to previously unidentified and unavoidable utility conflicts and insufficient space.  Additional design work and 
field investigation are needed to identify and determine design alternatives and feasible alignments.  This amendment 
includes additional design alternative development, analysis of the hydraulic performance of the alternative storm pipe 
alignments, and a condition assessment of existing downstream storm pipelines. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Columbia/Crystal Springs Storm Drain Project (468007). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1
112 of 146

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Mario Ung, Senior Engineer
mung@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
Cathy Zammit, Engineering Manager
czammit@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7306
113 of 146

--- page 114 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
FREYER & LAURETA, INC. FOR 
 
DESIGN SERVICES FOR COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS DRAIN IMPROVEMENTS 
PROJECT ($140,100 ORIGINAL AMOUNT; ADDED AMOUNT $62,300) 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and Freyer & Laureta, Inc., a Corporation. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an 
Agreement for professional engineering services for the detailed design of the Columbia/Crystal 
Springs Road Drain Improvements Project (“Agreement”) on September 6, 2018 , and; 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to add services and 
increase compensation of this Agreement.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. Section 1, “Scope of Project,” of the Agreement is amended to add:  
 
“… and services as described in Exhibit A to Amendment No. 1 and made a part 
hereof” 
 
2. Section 4, “Term,” of the Agreement is amended to read: 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall be completed on or before 
June 30, 2020. 
 
3. Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to read: 
“…CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on vertified time and materials.  
The agreement not-to-exceed amount increased by $62,300.00; a total of 
$202,400.00. 
 
4. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
114 of 146

--- page 115 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and FREYER & LAURETA, INC. have 
executed this Amendment to the Agreement on _____________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
                 
   CONSULTANT 
a municipal corporation 
 
_____________________________    
   ________________________________          
BRAD B. UNDERWOOD 
 
 
   By Its Authorized Agent 
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS 
   _____________________________   
   Printed name and title* 
 
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below 
 
 
 
 
  
             ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
 (if necessary per the above)  
 
 
 
__________________________________  
By:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Printed name of additional 
 
 
 
 
 
 
corporate officer and title 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Schedule 
115 of 146

--- page 116 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
Columbia/Crystal Springs Storm Drain Improvement Project 
City of San Mateo 
 
Freyer & Laureta, Inc. 
 
Scope of Services 
 
 
Task 2 to 5: CEQA, Permitting, and Design 
 
The Consultant will coordinate with the City to develop the revised Task 2 to 5 pending on the 
information and findings from Task 6. 
 
Task 6: Additional Alternatives Evaluation 
 
The Consultant will evaluate alternative projects to develop a potential alternative that will meet 
the City’s goal of removing surface runoff from the existing storm drainage easements within 
private property and reducing the potential risk of requiring a new storm drain pipeline within Crystal 
Springs Road as described in Consultant’s February 6, 2019 electronic mail to the City and the 
meeting with City on March 21, 2019 presenting the results of the existing utility desktop 
study, which identified potential constructability challenges with placing a new storm 
drain pipeline within Crystal Springs Road that was identified in previous drainage 
studies. 
 
In addition to presenting the desktop study results, Consultant provided a summary of proposed 
professional services via electronic mail dated February 6, 2019 to further developed conceptual 
alternative storm drain improvement strategies to meet the City’s objective to remove surface runoff 
from existing storm drainage easements within private property. The alternatives initial identified by 
Consultant and proposed to be further evaluated are a modification to the original Project scope and 
include: 
 
• Confirmation of the proposed storm drain pipeline alignment within Columbia Drive and 
utilizing the existing 18-inch discharge line in Crystal Springs Road to serve all the flows from 
Columbia Drive. 
• Replacing the open channel within the easements on private property with an above or below 
grade pipe plus using both existing discharge lines that currently convey storm flows from the 
north side of Crystal Springs Road to the creek. 
 
To evaluate the alternatives, the City and F&L determined that next steps included: 
 
• Study the proposed Columbia Drive and Tulane Court storm drain pipeline alignment 
including: 
o Develop an existing utilities exhibit showing available information within Columbia and 
Tulane including proposed storm drain pipeline alignment presented in the previous 
drainage studies.  
o Initiate feasibility analysis of the previous drainage study proposed storm drain system 
alignment. 
116 of 146

--- page 117 ---
• Develop scope for a capacity study of existing discharge points that currently convey flows  
within drainage easements on private property within the City of Hillsborough. 
• Develop a proposal to collect necessary information to evaluate alternatives. 
 
The Consultant will perform additional research to identify potential utility conflicts and separation 
requirements within the remainder of the Project area as well as determining if the proposed storm 
drain pipeline can meet the maximum allowable invert depth at alternative downstream connection 
points.  
 
The Consultant will perform topographic survey to collect additional information to continue review of 
the existing conditions and analysis of alternatives as described below: 
 
• Identify underground utilities and confirm proposed storm drain pipeline alignment can be 
installed without conflict.  
• The Consultant will confirm that the storm drain pipeline alignment can be installed at the 
appropriate slope and elevation at downstream connection point while maintaining the 
required separations from the existing utilities.  
 
Condition Assessment of the downstream storm drain pipeline alignment from 732 Columbia to 
intersection of Tulane/Crystal Springs including 
• Topographic survey to: 
o Confirm pipe diameter. 
o Determine slope and length to outfall. 
o Pipe material type. 
• Perform conditions assessment of pipe and determine alignment from connection point to 
outfall using closed circuit television. 
• Manhole condition assessment for Inflow & Infiltration. 
• Outlet condition assessment – channel capacity assessment. 
• Maintenance agreement requirements for pipe and outfall. 
 
Capacity and conditions assessment of flow distribution –within the alignment from Crystal Springs to 
the existing outfall pipe 
 
• Evaluate installation of flow diverting chamber split flows to multiple discharge points in order 
to reduce the size of any new storm drain pipelines within Crystal Springs Road. 
• Review previous drainage study runoff flow estimates to existing open ditch within the 
easement to confirm required pipe size for the future, above ground pipeline that could be 
placed within the drainage easement. 
• Perform topographic survey to confirm City right of way and review for conflicts. 
• Evaluate existing storm drain discharge pipe crossing Crystal Springs Road: 
o Topo survey to: 
 Confirm 18-inch diameter. 
 Determine slope and length to outfall. 
 Pipe material type. 
o Determine limits of contributing flows. 
o Perform conditions assessment and determine alignment of the existing storm drain 
pipe to the existing outfall using CCTV. 
o Existing outfall conditions assessment including channel capacity assessment. 
o Develop potential draft maintenance agreement for any pipe and outfall that may be 
located within easements. 
117 of 146

--- page 118 ---
The Consultant will review the original design storm criteria used in the previous drainage study. 
The Consultant will develop potential alternative improvements using the 10-year storm event 
to identify the potential storm drain infrastructure required to convey the design storm flows 
without relying surface flows within the existing City easements. 
 
The Consultant will utilize specialty pipeline subcontractor to perform closed circuit television 
(CCTV) review of the existing storm drain pipes to allow the Consultant to perform a condition 
assessment of the existing storm drain pipes that convey runoff from Crystal Springs Road to the 
existing pipelines and creek outfall identified in the Schaaf & Wheeler study. The Consultant will 
confirm the storm drains condition and determine the approximate slope of the pipelines to 
allow the Consultant to calculate the hydraulic capacity of the existing infrastructure. 
 
The Consultant anticipates developing up to three alternatives to divert the proposed revised 
10-year design storm event from surface flows within the existing City easements to new storm 
drain infrastructure including splitting flows to the existing infrastructure identified in the previous 
drainage study. All three alternatives will include flow from Tulane Court. The alternatives 
evaluation will include a risk matrix that identifies potential project challenges and mitigation 
measures that the City may choose to implement. The Consultant will produce a conceptual 
alternatives evaluation technical memorandum to present the results of the technical evaluation 
performed under this task. 
 
The Consultant will facilitate a technical workshop to present the results of the draft technical 
memorandum to the City. The workshop will allow the Consultant and the City to review the 
proposed alternatives including the Consultant’s recommended preferred alternatives for the City’s 
approval. The Consultant anticipates that the City would be provided the draft technical 
memorandum two weeks prior to the workshop. Following the workshop, the Consultant will 
prepare written response to comments and produce a final technical memorandum with the City’s 
selected preferred alternative. 
 
Assumptions: 
 
• The CCTV inspection of the existing storm drain pipelines will be performed by qualified 
specialty pipeline contractor licensed and qualitied to perform the work.  Because the 
exact level of effort for performing the CCTV cannot be determined until the subcontractor 
mobilizes to the site, it is assumed that one, 8-hour day of field labor will be required to 
complete the CCTV work. The Consultant will be present during the CCTV effort to 
observe the conditions, and the Consultant will provide the City with a DVD of the CCTV 
video. 
• The Consultant’s evaluation will be based on the 10-year design storm event presented in 
the the previous drainage study. 
• The City will provide all historic documents available in addition to the previous 
drainage study. 
 
Deliverables 
1. Draft technical memorandum 
2. Agenda and minutes from technical review workshop 
3. Written response to comments 
4. Final technical memorandum 
 
118 of 146

--- page 119 ---
Proposed Completion Schedule 
 
F&L proposes the following schedule for performance of the Project: 
 
Task 
Proposed Schedule 
Draft Technical Memorandum 
4 weeks following NTP 
Technical Review Workshop 
2 weeks following Draft Technical 
Memorandum Submittal 
Final Technical Memorandum 
2 weeks following Technical Review 
Workshop 
 
 
Proposed Budget 
 
The proposed budget for the Project is $62,300. A budget break down table is attached to 
this proposal presenting the anticipated level of effort for each task. The table includes the 
Project tasks, labor categories, and the associated F&L labor rates used to develop the proposed 
budgets. The proposed budget will not be exceeded without prior written authorization. 
 
 
119 of 146

--- page 120 ---
Budget_Amendment_San Mateo Columbia Storm Drain 2019-10-16.xlsx/Budget_Estimate_Final
Page  1 of 1
Freyer & Laureta, Inc.
Last Printed: 12/3/2019
TABLE 1
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
ALTERNATE ANALYAIS
City of San Mateo, California
 ESTIMATED 
 
OTHER DIRECT COSTS
ESTIMATED COST (2)
LABOR  (Hours) (1)
 
  
 
 
 
TOTAL
 
  TASKS
F&L
TOTAL
UNIT
QNTY
UNIT
10%
COST
SUB
Clerical
Survey Crew
Project Engineer
Project Manager
QA/QC Officer
Principal-in-Charge
LABOR
COST
($)
COST
($)
MARKUP
($)
PER
ITEM
($)
TOTALS
($)
85
250
125
185
225
225
 
Task 6: Topographic Survey and Alternatives Evaluation
Review additional project information provided by City
8
4
1
$1,965
$1,965
Field survey
16
2
$4,250
$4,250
Prepare base map
16
4
2
1
$3,415
$3,415
Utility Potholing
8
$1,000
ls
1
$10,000
$1,000
$12,000
Perform condition assessment (Express Plumbing included as lump sum)
8
2
$1,370
ls
1
$6,000
$600
$7,970
Develop alternative project scope based on revised design criteria
40
24
8
$11,240
$11,240
Develop risk assessment matrix.
16
8
4
$4,380
$4,380
Prepare draft technical memorandum
1
40
24
8
$11,325
$11,325
Internal review
4
$900
$900
Technical review workshop (including prep)
8
4
4
$2,640
$2,640
Prepare final technical memorandum
8
4
1
1
$2,190
$2,190
Subtotal Labor Hours - Task 6
1
16
154
74
7
27
$44,675
Estimated Cost - Task 6
$62,300
Total Labor Hours
1
16
154
74
7
27
$44,675
Total Estimated Cost
$62,300
Notes to Table:
(1) Billing rates are based on F&L's Charge Rate Schedule dated January 1, 2017.
(2) Estimated costs are rounded to the nearest $100.
120 of 146

--- page 121 ---
CIVIL ENGINEERS •  SURVEYORS •  CONSTRUCTION MANAGERS
Effective 1/1/17
Professional and technical services of Freyer & Laureta, Inc. Staff are provided on a fixed fee or 
an hourly rate basis as follows: 
FIXED FEE 
Where a definitive scope of work can be established, many of our clients prefer that a specific fee 
be agreed upon in advance. Billings are submitted monthly based upon percent complete as of the 
last accounting day of the month. 
HOURLY RATE 
Applicable to Plan Preparation, Design and Report services where the scope of work must remain 
open. Freyer & Laureta, Inc. utilizes the following hourly charge rate basis for billing purposes. 
Production Aide - Clerical 
$ 80.00 
Drafter I - Technical Typist - Survey Tech II 
$ 85.00 
Drafter II - Word Processor 
$ 90.00 
Engineering Tech I - Drafter III 
$ 95.00 
Staff Engineer I - Engineering Tech II - Survey Tech III 
$ 115.00 
Staff Engineer II - Engineering Tech III - Survey Tech IV 
$ 120.00 
Staff Engineer III - Senior Engineering Tech 
$ 125.00 
Staff Engineer IV - Survey Tech V 
$ 140.00 
Construction Inspector 
$ 140.00 
Associate Engineer - Associate Surveyor (L.L.S.) 
$ 155.00 
Senior Engineer - Construction Manager 
$ 165.00 
Senior Construction Inspector 
$ 165.00 
Project Manager – Principal Surveyor (L.L.S.) 
$ 185.00 
Associate Principal 
$ 205.00 
Principal 
$ 225.00 
Forensic Engineering 
$ 325.00 
Deposition and Court Appearance 
$ 410.00 
Subconsultant, Reproduction, Printing, Travel, Mailing and Delivery - Cost plus 10% 
Interest Charge - Billings are due and payable within 30 days. A monthly interest charge equal to 
the Federal Discount Rate plus 5% will be applied on the next billing beyond the 30-day payment 
period. 
The foregoing Charge Rate Schedule is incorporated into the Agreement for the Services of Freyer & 
Laureta, Inc. and may be updated annually. 
C H A R G E R A T E S C H E D U L E 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F6074735-1B5E-418F-A6FD-A4E4BBFF71E9
Signing In Process
Exhibit B
121 of 146

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 19-2310
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street Rehabilitation Project - Bid Rejection
RECOMMENDATION:
Reject all bids received for the 2018-19 Community Development Block Grant Street Rehabilitation Project.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program provides federal grant funding from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to fund community development projects and programs to assist lower income 
neighborhoods and households. The Public Works and Community Development Departments collaborated to identify 
qualifying work within the CDBG boundaries that aligns with the feedback from residents during Traffic Action Plan 
outreach.
The 2018-19 CDBG Street Rehabilitation Project includes replacement of damaged curb, gutter, sidewalk, and pavement in 
the North Central and North Shoreview neighborhoods; installation of curb extensions with rectangular rapid flashing 
beacons; and improved traffic striping.
The project was advertised on November 17, 2019. The scheduled bid opening was held on Thursday, December 12, 2019. 
A total of four (4) bids were received. 
•
Golden Bay Construction, Inc. 
$826,552.50
•
O’Grady Paving, Inc. 
$914,227.00
•
McKim Corporation
$978,612.82
•
JJR Construction, Inc. 
$981,489.50
After review and analysis of the bid documents, all four bid packages were deemed incomplete and therefore non-
responsive due to various errors including failure to submit bid bonds, failure to acknowledge addenda, bidder not on plan 
holder list, and incorrect subcontracting information. Staff recommends rejection of all bids.  The project will be brought to 
Council for award at a future date after it has been re-bid.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for the rejection of bids.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code 21080(b)(5), rejection of the bids is statutorily exempt from CEQA.
NOTICE PROVIDED
122 of 146

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Bid Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Leo Chow, Associate Engineer
Lchow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7344
Cathi Zammit, Engineering Manager
czammit@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7306
123 of 146

--- page 124 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
 
 
 
 
1
Mobilization 
1
LS
$70,000.00
$70,000.00
$53,000.00
$53,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$23,900.00
$23,900.00
$27,649.50
$27,649.50
2
Traffic Control 
1
LS
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$54,914.00
$54,914.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$35,800.00
$35,800.00
$53,000.00
$53,000.00
3
Remove Concrete 
7600
SF
$10.00
$76,000.00
$1.00
$7,600.00
$6.00
$45,600.00
$10.40
$79,040.00
$11.95
$90,820.00
4
Remove Drain Inlet
1
EA
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$1,300.00
$1,300.00
$5,320.00
$5,320.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
5
Remove AB and Base material
20
TON
$100.00
$2,000.00
$50.00
$1,000.00
$250.00
$5,000.00
$145.00
$2,900.00
$161.00
$3,220.00
6
Concrete Driveway Approach 
1,340
SF
$20.00
$26,800.00
$21.00
$28,140.00
$20.00
$26,800.00
$23.58
$31,597.20
$22.00
$29,480.00
7
Concrete Sidewalk
3,710
SF
$15.00
$55,650.00
$16.00
$59,360.00
$16.00
$59,360.00
$12.09
$44,853.90
$17.50
$64,925.00
8
Concrete Curb and 2’ Gutter
145
LF
$65.00
$9,425.00
$78.00
$11,310.00
$100.00
$14,500.00
$103.10
$14,949.50
$95.00
$13,775.00
9
Concrete Curb and 3' Gutter
900
LF
$80.00
$72,000.00
$86.00
$77,400.00
$130.00
$117,000.00
$55.28
$49,752.00
$109.00
$98,100.00
10
Restore planter area
190
SF
$13.00
$2,470.00
$13.00
$2,470.00
$15.00
$2,850.00
$16.84
$3,199.60
$15.00
$2,850.00
11
Grind Asphalt Concrete Pavement
39,740
SF
$1.00
$39,740.00
$1.00
$39,740.00
$1.05
$41,727.00
$2.09
$83,056.60
$0.90
$35,766.00
12
Asphalt Concrete Overlay
545
TON
$135.00
$73,575.00
$161.00
$87,745.00
$181.00
$98,645.00
$181.54
$98,939.30
$155.00
$84,475.00
13
Modified Type "B" Wheelchair Access 
Ramp
6
EA
$5,500.00
$33,000.00
$5,400.00
$32,400.00
$5,500.00
$33,000.00
$7,766.67
$46,600.02
$5,395.00
$32,370.00
14
Modified Type "C" Wheelchair Access 
Ramp
2
EA
$5,500.00
$11,000.00
$5,400.00
$10,800.00
$5,500.00
$11,000.00
$7,150.00
$14,300.00
$5,395.00
$10,790.00
15
Modified Type "G" Wheelchair Access 
Ramp
2
EA
$5,500.00
$11,000.00
$5,400.00
$10,800.00
$5,500.00
$11,000.00
$8,050.00
$16,100.00
$5,395.00
$10,790.00
16
Type G-3 Catch Basin
1
EA
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$6,800.00
$6,800.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$6,900.00
$6,900.00
$4,500.00
$4,500.00
17
12”HDPE Pipe 
5
LF
$400.00
$2,000.00
$495.00
$2,475.00
$450.00
$2,250.00
$2,710.00
$13,550.00
$450.00
$2,250.00
18
Reconstruct Top of Catch Basin 
4
EA
$2,000.00
$8,000.00
$2,500.00
$10,000.00
$2,500.00
$10,000.00
$4,700.00
$18,800.00
$2,500.00
$10,000.00
19
Curb Painting
1
LS
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$1,980.00
$1,980.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$9,650.00
$9,650.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
20
Adjust Manhole Cover to Grade
4
EA
$750.00
$3,000.00
$1,000.00
$4,000.00
$1,000.00
$4,000.00
$2,000.00
$8,000.00
$715.00
$2,860.00
21
Adjust Water/Gas Valve Box to Grade
5
EA
$600.00
$3,000.00
$700.00
$3,500.00
$800.00
$4,000.00
$1,000.00
$5,000.00
$445.00
$2,225.00
22
Adjust Utilities Box to Grade
1
EA
$500.00
$500.00
$300.00
$300.00
$800.00
$800.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$1,400.00
$1,400.00
23
Install Blue Reflector
9
EA
$25.00
$225.00
$27.00
$243.00
$250.00
$2,250.00
$225.00
$2,025.00
$250.00
$2,250.00
24
Storm Water Pollution Prevention 
Program (SWPPP)
1
LS
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$2,805.00
$2,805.00
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
25
Rectangular Rapid Flashing  Beacon 
System
2
EA
$7,500.00
$15,000.00
$8,033.00
$16,066.00
$9,400.00
$18,800.00
$8,525.00
$17,050.00
$9,500.00
$19,000.00
26
Install “STOP” thermoplastic pavement 
legend
12
EA
$115.00
$1,380.00
$121.00
$1,452.00
$125.00
$1,500.00
$110.00
$1,320.00
$121.00
$1,452.00
27
Install "SCHOOL XING" thermoplastic 
pavement legend
1
EA
$300.00
$300.00
$297.00
$297.00
$300.00
$300.00
$270.00
$270.00
$300.00
$300.00
28
Thermoplastic Traffic Stripe, 12" White
115
LF
$3.50
$402.50
$4.40
$506.00
$5.00
$575.00
$4.00
$460.00
$4.50
$517.50
29
Remove and Replace high visibility 
white thermoplastic crosswalk
1,330
LF
$5.50
$7,315.00
$5.50
$7,315.00
$6.00
$7,980.00
$5.00
$6,650.00
$5.50
$7,315.00
$584,782.50
$536,613.00
$587,237.00
$643,788.12
$618,080.00
A-2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$1,700.00
$1,700.00
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
A-3
Remove Concrete
650
SF
$10.00
$6,500.00
$1.00
$650.00
$5.50
$3,575.00
$6.15
$3,997.50
$11.95
$7,767.50
A-5
Remove AB and Base material
47
TON
$50.00
$2,350.00
$50.00
$2,350.00
$100.00
$4,700.00
$85.11
$4,000.17
$161.00
$7,567.00
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BID SUMMARY
CITY PROJECT NO. 461214-46018
BID OPENING:  December 12, 2019
GOLDEN BAY CONSTRUCTION, 
INC.
2018-19 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
STREET REHABILITATION PROJECT 
MCKIM
 CORPORATION
BIDDER #3
JJR
CONSTRUCTION
BIDDER #4
BIDDER #1
O'GRADY 
PAVING, INC.
BIDDER #2
Subtotal Contract Base Bid
Additive Contract Bid Items A – Poplar and Claremont
Q:\pw\PWENG\A_CONTRACTS\2019\2018-19 CDBG\2018-19 CDBG Bid Summary - SP edits
Page 1
124 of 146

--- page 125 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BID SUMMARY
CITY PROJECT NO. 461214-46018
BID OPENING:  December 12, 2019
GOLDEN BAY CONSTRUCTION, 
INC.
2018-19 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
STREET REHABILITATION PROJECT 
MCKIM
 CORPORATION
BIDDER #3
JJR
CONSTRUCTION
BIDDER #4
BIDDER #1
O'GRADY 
PAVING, INC.
BIDDER #2
A-7
Concrete Sidewalk
750
SF
$15.00
$11,250.00
$16.00
$12,000.00
$17.00
$12,750.00
$16.93
$12,697.50
$17.50
$13,125.00
A-8
Concrete Curb and Gutter
55
LF
$65.00
$3,575.00
$78.00
$4,290.00
$150.00
$8,250.00
$122.73
$6,750.15
$109.00
$5,995.00
A-13
Type "B" Wheelchair Access Ramp
4
EA
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$5,400.00
$21,600.00
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$3,000.00
$12,000.00
$5,395.00
$21,580.00
A-23
Install Blue Reflector
2
EA
$25.00
$50.00
$27.00
$54.00
$30.00
$60.00
$767.50
$1,535.00
$30.00
$60.00
A-24
Storm Water Pollution Prevention 
Program (SWPPP)
1
LS
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$300.00
$300.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$325.00
$325.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
A-25
Rectangular Rapid Flashing  Beacon 
System
2
EA
$7,500.00
$15,000.00
$8,033.00
$16,066.00
$9,400.00
$18,800.00
$8,525.00
$17,050.00
$9,500.00
$19,000.00
A-26
Install “STOP” thermoplastic pavement 
legend
2
EA
$115.00
$230.00
$121.00
$242.00
$120.00
$240.00
$110.00
$220.00
$120.00
$240.00
A-28
Thermoplastic Traffic Stripe, 12" White
30
LF
$3.50
$105.00
$4.40
$132.00
$5.00
$150.00
$4.00
$120.00
$4.50
$135.00
A-30
Remove and Replace high visibility 
yellow thermoplastic crosswalk
465
LF
$5.50
$2,557.50
$5.50
$2,557.50
$6.00
$2,790.00
$5.00
$2,325.00
$5.50
$2,557.50
$76,117.50
$61,941.50
$77,315.00
$69,020.32
$92,027.00
B-2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$1,700.00
$1,700.00
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
B-3
Remove Concrete
650
SF
$10.00
$6,500.00
$1.00
$650.00
$5.50
$3,575.00
$3.08
$2,002.00
$11.95
$7,767.50
B-5
Remove AB and Base material
44
TON
$50.00
$2,200.00
$50.00
$2,200.00
$100.00
$4,400.00
$113.64
$5,000.16
$161.00
$7,084.00
B-7
Concrete Sidewalk
670
SF
$15.00
$10,050.00
$16.00
$10,720.00
$17.00
$11,390.00
$12.00
$8,040.00
$17.50
$11,725.00
B-8
Concrete Curb and Gutter
170
LF
$65.00
$11,050.00
$78.00
$13,260.00
$150.00
$25,500.00
$117.65
$20,000.50
$109.00
$18,530.00
B-13
Type "B" Wheelchair Access Ramp
4
EA
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$5,400.00
$21,600.00
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$6,000.00
$24,000.00
$5,395.00
$21,580.00
B-16
Type G-3 Catch Basin
2
EA
$5,000.00
$10,000.00
$5,800.00
$11,600.00
$5,000.00
$10,000.00
$5,400.00
$10,800.00
$4,500.00
$9,000.00
B-17
12” HDPE pipe (DR 17)
95
LF
$400.00
$38,000.00
$382.00
$36,290.00
$300.00
$28,500.00
$470.95
$44,740.25
$300.00
$28,500.00
B-23
Install Blue Reflector
2
EA
$25.00
$50.00
$27.00
$54.00
$30.00
$60.00
$775.00
$1,550.00
$30.00
$60.00
B-24
Storm Water Pollution Prevention 
Program (SWPPP)
1
LS
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$300.00
$300.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$325.00
$325.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
B-25
Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon 
System
2
EA
$7,500.00
$15,000.00
$8,033.00
$16,066.00
$9,400.00
$18,800.00
$8,525.00
$17,050.00
$9,500.00
$19,000.00
B-26
Install “STOP” thermoplastic pavement 
legend
2
EA
$115.00
$230.00
$121.00
$242.00
$120.00
$240.00
$110.00
$220.00
$120.00
$240.00
B-28
Thermoplastic Traffic Stripe, 12" White
25
LF
$3.50
$87.50
$4.40
$110.00
$5.00
$125.00
$4.00
$100.00
$4.50
$112.50
B-30
Remove and Replace high visibility 
yellow thermoplastic crosswalk
480
LF
$5.50
$2,640.00
$5.50
$2,640.00
$6.00
$2,880.00
$5.00
$2,400.00
$5.50
$2,640.00
B-31
Storm Manhole
3
EA
$9,000.00
$27,000.00
$9,200.00
$27,600.00
$9,000.00
$27,000.00
$5,866.67
$17,600.01
$9,000.00
$27,000.00
B-32
Remove Storm Manhole
1
EA
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$1,725.00
$1,725.00
$1,700.00
$1,700.00
$10,400.00
$10,400.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$159,307.50
$146,757.00
$160,170.00
$172,227.92
$169,239.00
C-2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$1,900.00
$1,900.00
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
C-3
Remove Concrete
550
SF
$10.00
$5,500.00
$1.00
$550.00
$5.50
$3,025.00
$3.08
$1,694.00
$11.95
$6,572.50
C-5
Remove AB and Base material
21
TON
$50.00
$1,050.00
$50.00
$1,050.00
$120.00
$2,520.00
$113.64
$2,386.44
$161.00
$3,381.00
C-7
Concrete Sidewalk
515
SF
$15.00
$7,725.00
$16.00
$8,240.00
$17.00
$8,755.00
$12.00
$6,180.00
$17.50
$9,012.50
Additive Contract Bid Items C – Monte Diablo and Eldorado
Subtotal Additive Contract Bid A
Additive Contract Bid Items B – Indian And Humboldt
 
Subtotal Additive Contract Bid B
Q:\pw\PWENG\A_CONTRACTS\2019\2018-19 CDBG\2018-19 CDBG Bid Summary - SP edits
Page 2
125 of 146

--- page 126 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BID SUMMARY
CITY PROJECT NO. 461214-46018
BID OPENING:  December 12, 2019
GOLDEN BAY CONSTRUCTION, 
INC.
2018-19 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
STREET REHABILITATION PROJECT 
MCKIM
 CORPORATION
BIDDER #3
JJR
CONSTRUCTION
BIDDER #4
BIDDER #1
O'GRADY 
PAVING, INC.
BIDDER #2
C-8
Concrete Curb and Gutter
25
LF
$65.00
$1,625.00
$78.00
$1,950.00
$150.00
$3,750.00
$117.65
$2,941.25
$109.00
$2,725.00
C-13
Modified Type "B" Wheelchair Access 
Ramp
4
EA
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$5,400.00
$21,600.00
$5,500.00
$22,000.00
$6,000.00
$24,000.00
$5,395.00
$21,580.00
C-16
Type G-3 Catch Basin
1
EA
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,800.00
$5,800.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,400.00
$5,400.00
$4,500.00
$4,500.00
C-17
12” HDPE pipe (DR 17)
30
LF
$400.00
$12,000.00
$374.00
$11,220.00
$300.00
$9,000.00
$501.47
$15,044.10
$300.00
$9,000.00
C-23
Install Blue Reflector
2
EA
$25.00
$50.00
$27.00
$54.00
$30.00
$60.00
$839.50
$1,679.00
$30.00
$60.00
C-24
Storm Water Pollution Prevention 
Program (SWPPP)
1
LS
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
$300.00
$300.00
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
$325.00
$325.00
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
C-25
Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon 
System
2
EA
$7,500.00
$15,000.00
$8,033.00
$16,066.00
$9,400.00
$18,800.00
$8,525.00
$17,050.00
$9,500.00
$19,000.00
C-26
Install “STOP” thermoplastic pavement 
legend
2
EA
$115.00
$230.00
$121.00
$242.00
$120.00
$240.00
$110.00
$220.00
$120.00
$240.00
C-28
Thermoplastic Traffic Stripe, 12" White
35
LF
$3.50
$122.50
$4.40
$154.00
$5.00
$175.00
$4.00
$140.00
$4.50
$157.50
C-29
Remove and Replace high visibility 
white thermoplastic crosswalk
530
LF
$5.50
$2,915.00
$5.50
$2,915.00
$6.00
$3,180.00
$5.00
$2,650.00
$5.50
$2,915.00
C-31
Storm Manhole
1
EA
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
$9,200.00
$9,200.00
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
$5,866.67
$5,866.67
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
$94,717.50
$81,241.00
$89,505.00
$93,576.46
$102,143.50
$914,925.00
$826,552.50
$914,227.00
$978,612.82
$981,489.50
c:
Brad B. Underwood, DPW
Leo Chow, Associate Engineer
Bid Summary Binder
Project File
Subtotal Additive Contract Bid C
Grand Total Bid
Q:\pw\PWENG\A_CONTRACTS\2019\2018-19 CDBG\2018-19 CDBG Bid Summary - SP edits
Page 3
126 of 146

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 19-2267
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
St. Matthew's Episcopal Day School – Tax Exempt Financing
RECOMMENDATION:
Conduct a Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act public hearing and adopt a Resolution to approve the reissuance for 
federal income tax purposes of tax-exempt revenue obligations originally issued by the California Enterprise Development 
Authority for the purpose of financing capital improvements to St. Matthew’s Episcopal Day School, located at 16 Baldwin 
Avenue in San Mateo, California.
BACKGROUND:
Under the California Government Code, public agencies may by agreement jointly exercise any power common to an 
individual public agency. These jointly formed agencies are generically referred to as Joint Powers Authorities (JPAs). A 
number of these JPAs currently exist in California to facilitate tax exempt financing programs to qualifying nonprofit and 
private-sector projects that provide public benefits to their communities. In order to secure tax exempt financing, there is 
a requirement that the agency where a financing project is located be a member of the JPA and conduct a public hearing 
to approve of the project.  This requirement is a provision under the Federal Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 
1982 (‘TEFRA”) and is commonly referred to as a “TEFRA hearing.” There is no financial obligation on the part of the City of 
San Mateo to become a JPA member or conduct a TEFRA hearing for the project. 
In 2013, a JPA known as the California Enterprise Development Authority (CEDA) worked with St. Matthew’s Episcopal Day 
School to issue tax-exempt financing for various capital improvements to the school facilities. The City conducted a TEFRA 
hearing and approved the financing through Resolution No. 66 (2013). 
St. Matthew’s Episcopal Day School, the debt issuer, and CEDA have now determined to amend certain terms of the Loan, 
which amendments will cause the Obligations to be deemed as “reissued” for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, the 
City must conduct a new TEFRA Hearing to approve such “Reissued Obligations” and the deemed “refinancing” of the 
Project with the proceeds thereof.
ANALYSIS
CEDA was created on June 1, 2006, pursuant to a joint exercise of powers agreement to promote economic, cultural and 
community development, through the financing of economic development and charitable activities throughout California. 
To date, over 55 cities and counties have become associate members of CEDA. As an associate member of CEDA, the City 
may provide TEFRA approvals without any other actions other than the public hearing and the requisite approval.
The City already approved the original issuance of the Obligations and financing of the Project with the proceeds thereof 
pursuant to Resolution No. 66 (2013). Solely because of the federal tax law analysis with respect to the Loan amendments, 
the City is now being requested by CEDA to provide such approval again, in the form of an approval of the deemed 
“Reissued Obligations” and the deemed “refinancing” of the Project.
127 of 146

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact to the City. The adoption of the Resolution approving the Reissued Obligations and the deemed 
refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof complies with the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Internal 
Revenue Code. The City does not bear any responsibility for the tax exempt status of the interest with respect to the 
Reissued Obligations, the debt service on the Reissued Obligations, nor any other matter related to the Reissued 
Obligations.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the Reissued Obligations and the refinancing of the Project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
128 of 146

--- page 129 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2020)
APPROVAL OF THE DEEMED “REISSUANCE” OF TAX-EXEMPT OBLIGATIONS ORIGINALLY ISSUED BY THE 
CALIFORNIA ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TO FINANCE CERTAIN CAPITAL FACILITIES OWNED BY 
THE RECTOR, WARDENS AND VESTRYMEN OF THE CHURCH OF ST. MATTHEW’S PARISH, IN SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA, AND CERTAIN OTHER MATTERS RELATED THERETO
WHEREAS, at the request of The Rector, Wardens and Vestrymen of the Church of St. Matthew’s Parish, in 
San Mateo, California (the “Borrower”), the California Enterprise Development Authority, a joint exercise of 
powers agency established under the laws of the State of California (the “Authority”), issued its tax-exempt 
obligations (the “Obligations”) in the   aggregate principal amount of  $12,000,000, for the purpose of making a 
loan (the “Loan”) to the Borrower to finance various capital facilities as more fully described below; and 
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Loan   were loaned to the Borrower pursuant to a master loan agreement 
(the “Loan Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, the Borrower has used the proceeds of the Loan (net of issuance costs) to finance the 
construction, improvement and equipping of certain of Borrower’s preschool through eighth-grade educational 
facilities located at 16 Baldwin Avenue, San Mateo, California 94401 (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the terms of the Loan Agreement are being amended by the parties thereto, such that the 
Obligations are deemed to be “reissued” for federal income tax purposes (such reissued Obligations being 
herein referred to as the “Reissued Obligations”), and the Reissued Obligations are deemed to refinance the 
Project; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), 
and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, “issuer approval” of the Reissued Obligations and the 
refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof must come from a governmental unit on behalf of which 
the Authority issues its obligations; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, 
“host approval” of the Reissued Obligations and the refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof must 
come from a governmental unit within whose territorial limits the Project is located; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has requested, pursuant to a certain Associate Membership Agreement, dated as 
of May 20, 2013, by and between the Authority and the City of San Mateo (the “City”), and a certain Joint 
Exercise of Powers Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2006 (together, the “Agreement”), among the local agencies 
that are members of the Authority and on behalf of which the Authority issues its obligations, including the City, 
that the City, in whose territorial limits the Project is located, provide its approval of the issuance of the 
Reissued Obligations and the refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (the “City Council”) is the elected legislative body of the City and is 
therefore an “applicable elected representative” eligible to approve the deemed issuance of the Reissued 
Obligations and the deemed refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof pursuant to Section 147(f) of 
the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder; and
WHEREAS, the City has caused a notice of public hearing to be held by the City Council with respect to the 
deemed issuance of the Reissued Obligations, which notice has been published once in a newspaper of general 
circulation in the City at least seven days prior to the date set for the hearing and which notice provided a 
reasonable opportunity for persons of differing views to appear and be heard at the hearing; and
129 of 146

--- page 130 ---
WHEREAS, the City Council has duly held the public hearing described above on the date of and prior to 
adoption of this Resolution, and a reasonable opportunity was provided for all persons present to be heard and 
to comment on the deemed issuance of the Reissued Obligations and the deemed refinancing of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, 
the City Council now desires to approve the deemed issuance of the Reissued Obligations and the deemed 
refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof; and
NOW THEREFORE, the City Council does hereby RESOLVE as follows:
SECTION 1.
Recitals.  This City Council does hereby find and declare that the above referenced recitals 
are true and correct.
SECTION 2.
Public Hearing.  Pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations 
promulgated thereunder, the City Council held a public hearing on January 6, 2020, and 
provided an opportunity to present arguments both for and against the deemed issuance of 
the Reissued Obligations and the nature and location of the Project.  The City Council has 
further considered all testimony and comments submitted in connection with the deemed 
issuance of the Reissued Obligations and the nature and location of the Project at the public 
hearing.
SECTION 3.
Approval of Obligation Issue.  The City Council hereby approves the deemed issuance of the 
Reissued Obligations and the deemed refinancing of the Project with the proceeds thereof, 
for the purpose of (i) Section 147(f) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated 
thereunder, as both “issuer approval” and “host approval,” and (ii) the Agreement.  The 
approval by the City Council of the deemed issuance of the Reissued Obligations of the 
Authority is neither an approval of the underlying credit issues of the Project nor an approval 
of the financial structure or the underlying documents of the Obligations.  None of the City 
nor any department thereof shall have any responsibility or liability whatsoever with respect 
to the Reissued Obligations or the Project.
SECTION 4.
Authorization.  The officers of the City are hereby authorized and directed, jointly and 
severally, to do any and all things and to execute and deliver any and all documents which 
they deem necessary or advisable in order to carry out, give effect to and comply with the 
terms and intent of this Resolution and the financing transaction approved hereby. 
SECTION 5.
Immediate Effect.  This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption by the City 
Council, and the City Clerk of the City shall certify to the vote adopting this Resolution.
130 of 146

--- page 131 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 19-2272
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project - Appropriation and Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of $760,000 from the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Project to the North 
San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project; approve an agreement with RK Engineering, Inc. for the construction of the 
North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project in the amount of $3,006,775; establish a contingency reserve in the 
amount of $300,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
North San Mateo Drive has been identified in the City's Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans as an area where safety 
improvements are needed. The North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Streets Project (Project) will improve pedestrian and 
bicyclist safety by incorporating “Sustainable Streets” features on North San Mateo Drive from Peninsula Avenue to 
Baldwin Avenue. 
 
The Project’s design consists of installing approximately one mile of Class II bicycle lanes through lane reductions, curb 
extensions at key intersections, enhanced striping and signage, one additional traffic signal installation, one upgraded 
traffic signal with pedestrian countdown infrastructure, and green infrastructure features to improve stormwater quality. 
The Project was advertised for construction on September 15, 2019, and bids were opened on October 15, 2019. Five (5) 
bids were received and are listed below.
Company Name
Base Bid Amount
Additive Bid Item
Total Bid Amount
Interstate Grading & Paving, Inc.
$2,717,100.00
$98,000.00
$2,815,100.00
RK Engineering, Inc.
$2,870,995.00
$135,780.00
$3,006,775.00
Redgwick Construction Co.
$2,841,630.00
$189,100.00
$3,030,730.00
J.J.R. Construction, Inc.
$2,863,910.00
$220,000.00
$3,083,910.00
Golden Bay Construction, Inc.
$3,227,018.50
$113,124.00
$3,340,142.50
The engineer’s estimate for the Project’s total amount (base bid plus additive) is $2,500,000. An analysis of the bids 
showed that costs for items such as asphalt, concrete, and the signal interconnect system were greater than estimated.
After review of the bid documents, staff determined that three (3) of the bidders (Interstate Grading & Paving, Redgwick 
Construction, and J.J.R. Construction) were nonresponsive because they did not meet the subcontracting requirement of 
performing at least 50 percent of the contract price. When comparing the remaining two bidders, RK Engineering had the 
lowest base bid and total bid amount.  Therefore, staff recommends awarding a contract for the complete scope, including 
the additive bid item, to RK Engineering, Inc.
131 of 146

--- page 132 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Adoption of the Resolution will transfer $600,000 from the Citywide Street Rehabilitation FY17-18 Project No. 467003 and 
$160,000 from the Citywide Street Rehabilitation FY18-19 Project No. 467002 to the North San Mateo Drive Sustainable 
Street Project.  After this transfer, sufficient funds will be able available in the North Mateo Drive Sustainable Street 
Project for this agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under Section 15301(c) of the CEQA Guidelines, Council action on this item is exempt from CEQA review in that the Project 
involves the operation, repair, or maintenance of an existing street facility with no expansion of use.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7320
Mario Ung, Senior Engineer
mung@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
132 of 146

--- page 133 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
AUTHORIZING A BUDGET TRANSFER OF $760,000 FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING TO THE NORTH SAN MATEO 
DRIVE SUSTAINABLE STREET PROJECT
WHEREAS, North San Drive has been identified in the City’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plans as an 
area where safety improvements are needed; and
WHEREAS, the North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Streets project will improve pedestrian and bicyclist 
safety by incorporating “Sustainable Streets” features on North San Mateo Drive, from Peninsula Avenue to 
Baldwin Avenue; and
WHEREAS, additional funding will be needed to cover the total project cost; and 
WHEREAS, $600,000 of the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Project No. 467003 budget and $160,000 of 
the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Project No. 467002 is available to be transferred to the project; and
WHEREAS, the project budget will then be fully funded;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
A budget transfer of $760,000 to the North San Mateo Drive Sustainable Street Project is 
authorized.
133 of 146

--- page 134 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 9/17
AGREEMENT WITH RK ENGINEERING, INC.
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE SUSTAINABLE STREET PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 467007-46000-0553-46320
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and RK ENGINEERING, INC., a corporation, with offices at 726 33rd Ave, San Francisco, CA 
94121 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ____________________.  
RECITALS:
(a)
City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b)
A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c)
After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the 
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
NORTH SAN MATEO DRIVE SUSTAINABLE STREET PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 467007-46000-0553-46320
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of $3,006,775 in full 
payment for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as 
described in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or 
a reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials 
will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, the Greenbook Standard Specifications for 
Public Works Construction, 2015 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material 
Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract documents”).
134 of 146

--- page 135 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 9/17
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, pertaining to 
the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed by all of the parties 
hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, 
so that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. The 
precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant 
to the Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 5 
days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their intention to take 
over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City may take over the 
work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, 
for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be liable to City for any excess 
cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, without liability for so doing, take 
possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property 
belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's 
work. Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess work is 
compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty 
to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the execution of this 
contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during which such laborer, 
workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in any calendar day and 40 
hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial 
Relations of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid 
to all craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials in the 
135 of 146

--- page 136 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 9/17
City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. Contractor 
must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance with Labor Code 
Section 1776.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 
1771.1, all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial 
Relations. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by 
the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and 
five years thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10. Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, defend, and 
indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and 
all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this Agreement, including 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of the 
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents; provided, however that this provision 
does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or expense arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful 
misconduct of the City or (b) the active negligence of the City; further provided, that this provision shall 
not affect the validity of any insurance contract, workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by 
an admitted insurer as defined by the Insurance Code. Contract will defend City of San Mateo, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any such claims
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as 
costs (that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable 
whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, 
trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Agreement shall have to pay the other 
more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of the 
contract documents. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will 
be resolved amicably.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator 
shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit 
one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State 
Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a 
blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and 
making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by 
a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 
days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
136 of 146

--- page 137 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 9/17
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to 
and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid. 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature block 
as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular 
includes the plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance 
hereon shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. 
The parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the 
contract documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be 
deemed to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or 
bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court 
to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be concluded 
from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, the parties 
would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all reasonable efforts to 
replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with provisions that are valid under 
the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract 
documents, or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) 
inspection by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, 
for any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of 
time; or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
137 of 146

--- page 138 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 9/17
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided 
shall be at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial grade, 
suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work performed 
hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements of the contract 
documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
138 of 146

--- page 139 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and RK ENGINEERING, 
INC. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
By:____________________________________
Its Authorized Agent
Title:__________________________________
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Caio A. Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney
Name_________________________________
Title__________________________________
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
139 of 146

--- page 140 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 9/17
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for 5 years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Surety Bonds as described below.
5. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
6. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
140 of 146

--- page 141 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 9/17
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
141 of 146

--- page 142 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 9/17
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.  .    
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
142 of 146

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 19-2229
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
January 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Public Employee Pension Reform Act – 180-Day Waiting Period Waiver Request – City Attorney’s Office, Parks and 
Recreation Department, and Department of Public Works
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to waive the Public Employee Pension Reform Act 180-day waiting period to hire retired 
annuitants Karen Bertrand, Vicki Wilson, and Grace Yoshida for a limited duration to train their respective 
replacements in critical tasks related to administrative support of the City Attorney’s Office, Parks and Recreation 
Department, and Public Works Department.
BACKGROUND:
Assembly Bill 340, the Public Employee Pension Reform Act of 2013 also known as PEPRA, was signed into law on 
September 12, 2012 and went into effect on January 1, 2013. PEPRA created Government Code Section 7522.56, 
which requires public agency retirees to wait 180 days after retirement before returning to work for a public 
agency. This waiting period can be waived should the City Council determine it is critical to fill the specific position.  
In general, the City’s operating departments try to effectively plan for retirements to ensure retired annuitants 
aren’t required to return immediately following their retirement from City service.  With 18 total retirements of City 
staff in the months of November and December 2019 and 19 active recruitments underway; however, there are 
three cases where the departments were unable to get critical positions filled prior to the incumbent retiring. 
Therefore, this request is before Council for approval at this time.  All three assignments will be temporary, with an 
end date of no later than March 31, 2020.
Karen Bertrand, Executive Secretary to the City Attorney, retired December 25, 2019 after 11 years of service. Due 
to holiday schedules and an unanticipated number of retirees prompting requisitions through HR, it was not 
possible to hire and train a replacement before Ms. Bertrand retired. Interviews are scheduled for completion in 
mid-January, and a new hire date is anticipated for mid-February. During this time, Bertrand will perform critical 
tasks related to specialized support of the City Attorney’s Office and train the new employee through March 31st, 
if needed. This timeframe will allow for adequate knowledge transfer and avoid a significant gap in coverage of 
critical aspects of the workload.
Vicki Wilson, Executive Assistant to the Director of Parks and Recreation, retired December 27, 2019 after 22 
years of service.  Due to understaffing in the Parks and Recreation Administrative office, unanticipated absences 
due to illness, and the number of retirees prompting requisitions through HR, it has not been possible to hire and 
train a replacement before Ms. Wilson retired.  The recruitment for the position did not officially open until 
December 20.  During this transition period, Ms. Wilson will be available to continue her support to two 
Commissions (Park and Recreation and Senior), complete the training of staff working on the quarterly activity 
guide, continue to provide orientation to two new hires in the administrative office, and be available to train her 
143 of 146

--- page 144 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
replacement.    
Grace Yoshida, Administrative Assistant in Public Works, retired on December 30, 2019 after 12 years of service.  Another 
administrative employee, Chris Ortega, with 13 years of service, retired on December 2, 2019.  This leaves Public Works 
administrative staff with one recently hired administrative assistant working through the training process and one vacancy.  
While the department goes through the recruitment process, Ms. Yoshida will be available to continue to support the 
department and train the new staff.  With her knowledge of the department, she is an integral part in answering the call 
center line, dispatching, and following up with residents.  During this transition period, Ms. Yoshida’s experience and 
knowledge is critical to training and providing orientation to new staff.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The savings achieved by reduction in hours and not immediately filling her vacated merit position will be sufficient to cover 
this expenditure.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061, this request to waive the 180-day waiting period is not a project 
subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it won’t have significant impact on the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
144 of 146

--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
WAIVING THE 180 DAY SIT-OUT PERIOD FOR THREE RETIRED ANNUITANTS TO PERFORM CRITICAL 
FUNCTIONS FOR THE CITY ATTORNEY’S OFFICE, PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT, AND 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, the State Legislature has adopted AB 340 in order to implement comprehensive pension 
reform through the enactment of the California Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) as well as 
other statutory changes; and
WHEREAS, PEPRA applies to all public employers that participate in the California Public 
Employees’ Retirement System (PERS) on or after January 1, 2013; and
WHEREAS, California Government Code section 7522.56, as enacted in PEPRA, requires newly retired 
persons to sit out for at least 180 days before returning to work for an employer in the same retirement 
system in which they receive a retirement allowance; and
WHEREAS, an exception can be made if the City Council certifies that the nature of the employment 
and the appointment is necessary to fill a critically needed position and the 180 days has not yet passed; and,
WHEREAS, Karen Bertrand (Bertrand) has been employed by the City for approximately 11 years 
and served as the Executive Secretary to the City Attorney; and
WHEREAS, Vicki Wilson (Wilson) has been employed by the City for 22 years and served as the 
Executive Assistant in the Parks and Recreation Department; and
WHEREAS, Grace Yoshida (Yoshida) has been employed by the City for 12 years and served as the 
Administrative Assistant in the Public Works Department; and
WHEREAS, Bertrand retired from City service on December 25, 2019, and will not be 
accepting a retirement incentive upon retirement; and
WHEREAS, Wilson retired from City Service on December 27, 2019, and will not be accepting 
a retirement incentive upon retirement; and
 
WHEREAS, Yoshida retired from City Service on December 30, 2019, and will not be accepting 
a retirement incentive upon retirement; and 
WHEREAS, Bertrand is familiar with and has extensive knowledge of the administrative work required 
of the City Attorney’s Office; and it is critical that she train her replacement in the details and facets of claims 
processing, legal filings, and other City Attorney’s Office projects; and
WHEREAS, Wilson is familiar with and has extensive knowledge of the administrative work required 
to support both the Park and Recreation and Senior Commissions, coordinate the quarterly activity guide, and 
provide general administrative support to the Director; 
WHEREAS, Yoshida is familiar with and has extensive knowledge of the administrative work required 
to support the Public Works Department and the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, monitor and 
respond to the Public Works mailbox and Public Records Requests, and provide general administrative 
support to the department;
145 of 146

--- page 146 ---
WHEREAS, Bertrand is currently a subject matter expert in Claims processing & reporting, gathering 
data for replacement of annual property and liability insurance, records retention and filing system, subpoena 
assistance and calendaring, assisting with legal filings, handling confidential information, and serving as City 
Hall Safety Coordinator;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1.
The City Council certifies that the employment of Karen Bertrand, Vicki Wilson, and Grace Yoshida 
is necessary to provide critically needed duties/processes, and that the 180 day sit-out period, 
pursuant to Government Code section 7522.56, has not yet passed.
2.
Bertrand, Wilson, and Yoshida shall be employed to train on duties and functions of the 
Executive Secretary to the City Attorney ($41.64), Executive Assistant ($40.81), and 
Administrative Assistant ($37.10), respectively, at the current hourly base rate for their 
positions, and no other compensation or benefits shall be provided.
3.
Bertrand, Wilson, and Yoshida shall work on a temporary and sporadic basis, depending 
upon the needs of the City Attorney’s Office, Parks and Recreation Department, and Public 
Works Department but shall not work more than nine hundred and sixty (960) hours.
4.
Bertrand, Wilson, and Yoshida are authorized to be employed as retired annuitants 
pursuant to this Resolution from January 7, 2020 through March 31, 2020.
5.
Bertrand, Wilson, and Yoshida have certified in writing that they did not, during the 12-
month period preceding the employment date of January 7, 2020 receive unemployment 
insurance arising from prior employment with the City.
6.
This Resolution was adopted at a properly noticed public meeting and was not placed on the 
consent calendar, in compliance with Government Code 7522.56(f)(l).
146 of 146