source: packet.pdf
sha256: 8922db61faabaa726437a617ce8458de3aae9c20d83615189c10c45ca541b535
pages: 556
ocr_pages: 21
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
November 15, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 15, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 841 1123 5254
Passcode: 727824
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
United Against Hate Week – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of November 1, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – Transition to District-Based Elections for Council Members
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.05 "City Council District Elections"
to establish five council districts, approve the map identifying district boundaries, set the first by-district elections
for three districts for November 2022 and two districts for November 2024, and provide final direction on the
sequence of district elections.
4.
Ordinance Adoption – Campaign Regulations
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City
Candidate Campaigns” to include in-kind donations as contributions and to provide for the aggregation of
contributions.
1 of 556

--- page 2 ---
5.
Ordinance Adoption – Impact and In-Lieu Fee Updates
Introduce an Ordinance to (a) amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.13, “Transportation Improvement
Fee,” and 23.60, “Art in Public Places,” (b) rescind Sections 03.54.060, “Sewer Connection Charges,” and 3.54.080,
“South Trunk Sewer Area Impact Fee,” and (c) add Section 7.38.065, “Wastewater Capacity Charge,” and Chapter
23.65, “Childcare Impact Fee”.
6.
Emergency Ordinance – Suspension of Minimum Parking Requirements and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations
for Outdoor Business Operations
Adopt an emergency ordinance to extend the temporary suspension of minimum parking requirements on private
parking lots and enforcement of zoning regulations for outdoor business operations for commercial uses in
private shopping centers to continue allowing schools, childcare facilities and other educational uses to operate
outdoors during the COVID- 19 public health emergency.
7.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for
30 days, through December 15, 2021, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the
Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the
health or safety of attendees.
8.
Classification Updates – Human Resources and Public Works Departments
Adopt a Resolution to approve the reallocations of the Deputy Human Resources Director position in the Human
Resources Department to a Senior Human Resources Analyst and one Administrative Technician position in the
Public Works Department to an Engineering Technician I-II, and abolish the classification of Deputy Human
Resources Director.
9.
Police Department – Budgeted Positions Reallocation
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate one authorized Senior Dispatcher position to a Dispatch Supervisor position;
reallocate one authorized Senior Dispatcher position to a Dispatcher I/II position; and abolish the job classification
of Senior Dispatcher.
10.
Child Care Provider Relief Program – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Child Care Coordinating Council of San Mateo County to provide assistance to child
care providers in the amount of $300,000 and authorize City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially
the form presented.
11.
Housing Element Update Consulting Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services for Housing Element Update
Services in the amount of $17,280 for a new agreement total of $147,100, and authorize the Community
Development Director to execute the amendment.
12.
Clean Water Program – Program Management Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 7 to the agreement with CH2M to authorize scope and funding for the eighth year of
program management services for the Clean Water Program; authorize payment in an amount not to exceed
$11,132,000 for Year 8 scope of services; establish a contingency amount of $1,113,000; and authorize the Public
Works Director to execute this amendment and task amendments within the contingency amount in substantially
the form presented.
2 of 556

--- page 3 ---
13.
480 East 4th Avenue City-Owned Parcel – Grant of Easement
Adopt a Resolution to grant an easement to Pacific Gas & Electric Company on the 480 East 4th Avenue City-
owned parcel and authorize the Mayor to execute the grant of easement in substantially the form presented.
14.
480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th Avenue Affordable Housing and Public Parking Garage – Appropriation and
Project Agreements
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental appropriation of $50,000 to the Housing Land Project to meet the
funding commitment for Kiku Crossing, an affordable housing project at 480 East 4th Avenue, and approve and
authorize the City Manager to execute the following documents and approve future revisions and related
documents, such as estoppel certificates, with the concurrence of the City Attorney, so long as the changes do not
alter substantive rights and obligations of the City: 1) Residential loan related documents for Kiku Crossing; 2)
Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement; 3) Rent Regulatory Agreement; and 4) Amendments to the Kiku Crossing
Ground Lease, Garage License Agreement, Garage Easement, and Garage Operations and Management
Agreement for the public parking garage at 400 East 5th Avenue, and the Disposition, Development and Loan
Agreement for both the garage and Kiku Crossing.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
15.
Ordinance Introduction – Municipal Code Cleanup Amendments
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.24 “Streets and Sidewalks,” Chapter
23.40 “Site Development,” Chapter 27.71 “Landscape for Planning Applications,” and Chapter 27.78 “Variances,”
to clarify tree provisions; Chapter 27.04 “Definitions,” to remove curb level and clarify floor area for structures
and basement; Chapter 27.64 “Off-Street Parking and Loading,” to clarify on-street loading and Site Plan and
Architectural Review provisions; update all references from “Uniform Building Code” to “California Building
Code”; and update all references from “City Engineer” to “Public Works Director.”
NEW BUSINESS
16.
Housing Element Update – Status and Adoption Process
Receive an informational update on the status of the Housing Element Update and adoption process.
17.
Ordinance Introduction – Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction
Introduce an Ordinance to add Chapter 7.35 “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction” to the San Mateo
Municipal Code in compliance with Senate Bill (SB) 1383, California's Short-Lived Climate Pollutants Reduction Act
(2016) and receive an update on SB 1383 implementation.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
3 of 556

--- page 4 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 556

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5409-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of November 1, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2021-11-01 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2021-11-01 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 556

--- page 6 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, November 1, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:
Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan and Goethals
Absent:
Council Member Lee
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Planning Commission Roles and Policy Discussion
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director, and Zachary Dahl, Community Development Deputy 
Director, provided the staff presentation overview on the role of the Planning Commission regarding development 
review and policymaking authority, including the Downtown office/housing balance and density bonus 
regulations.
Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Seema Patel, Planning Commissioner, stated it would be helpful to have clarification around 
how much time should be spent on an item; and concern with exposing the city to liability from actions of 
appointed and elected officials. Jordan Grimes commented on jobs housing imbalance and concern with vehicle 
miles traveled impacts from office projects. 
City Attorney Prasanna Rasiah clarified Brown Act law with regard agendizing items. 
Council would like to address and update the Planning Commission Handbook for clarification on policies to be 
more concise and precise and requested progress reports and an annual joint meeting with the Commission.  
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 6:45 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
6 of 556

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/01/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, November 1, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:
Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan and Goethals
Absent:
Council Member Lee
CEREMONIAL
1.
United Peace Collaborative San Mateo – Marlene Tam, UPC San Mato Co-leader, accepted the proclamation
2.
Parks and Recreation Department LEAP Program Recognition – Bob Palacio, Parks & Recreation Community 
Services Manager and Sheila Canzian, Parks & Recreation Director received the proclamation
3.
Human Resources Director Casey Echarte – Retirement Commendatory Resolution C-4 (2121)
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 4 through 12, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of October 4, 2021 and October 18, 2021 and 
the Special meeting minutes of October 14, 2021.
5.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for 
30 days, through December 1, 2021, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the 
Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the 
health or safety of attendees.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 108 (2021)
6.
San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report: “San Mateo County: California’s Ground Zero for Sea Level Rise”
Approve response to the San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report “San Mateo County: California’s Ground Zero 
for Sea Level Rise” in substantially the form presented.
7 of 556

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/01/2021
Page 2
7.
Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan – Approval
Approve the Art in Public Places 2021 Report & Plan, which includes expenditures to develop a Public Art Master 
Plan.
8.
US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Improvements Project – Measure A Highway Program Funding
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an application with the San Mateo County Transportation Authority for Measure A 
Highway Program Funding for the US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Improvements project.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 109 (2021)
9.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit Renewal – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Trussell Technologies, Inc. for professional services in support of the reissuance of the 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit for the San Mateo/Estero Municipal Improvement District 
Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not to exceed $153,490; establish a contingency of $15,350; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.
10.
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Engineering Services – Amendments
Approve amendments to four different agreements for on-call professional design services for the wastewater 
treatment plant rehabilitation projects with Hazen and Sawyer D.P.C., dba Hazen & Sawyer, HDR Engineering, Inc., 
Kennedy/Jenks Consultants, Inc. and West Yost Associates, Inc. for two-year extensions at no additional cost; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendments in substantially the form presented and issue 
project-specific task orders under these agreements.
11.
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance – Joint Powers Agreement Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to approve the second amendment to and restatement of the Joint Powers agreement 
establishing the Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance and authorize the Mayor to execute the amendment in 
substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 110 (2021)
12.
Poplar Creek Golf Course Pro Shop Concessionaire – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Dana Banke (dba as Golf Super Shop of San Mateo LLC) for an initial term of 7 years to 
provide pro shop concessionaire services at Poplar Creek Golf Course and authorize the Director of Parks and 
Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Rich Hedges proposed expanding the Get-Around Program.
PUBLIC HEARING
13.
Ordinance Introduction – Transition to District-Based Elections for Council Members – Public Hearing #5
Drew Corbett, City Manager, provided a presentation on the progress to district-based elections and noted the 
direction needed at this 5th public hearing was to identify which three districts would be up for election in 2022 
and which two districts in 2024.
Public Comment – Scott Rafferty, plaintiff’s attorney, noted that all of the sequencing options are appropriate. 
8 of 556

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/01/2021
Page 3
Council consensus was for Districts 1 and 3 to be held in 2022 and to have a coin toss to determine the third 
district. Paul Mitchell, Redistricting Partners, agreed that flipping a coin was possible. The City Manager flipped the 
coin, with the result that District B became labeled as District 5 and would be up for election in 2022.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.05 "City Council 
District Elections" to establish five council districts, approve the map identifying district boundaries, set the first 
by-district elections for three districts for November 2022 and two districts for November 2024, and provide final 
direction on the sequence of district elections. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
14.
Ordinance Introduction and Resolution Adoption – Impact and In-Lieu Fee Updates
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst, provided a presentation on the process to update the in-lieu fees 
and outlined the recommendations. Council had no questions for staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Introduce an Ordinance to (a) amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.13, “Transportation Improvement 
Fee,” and 23.60, “Art in Public Places,” (b) rescind Sections 03.54.060, “Sewer Connection Charges,” and 3.54.080, 
“South Trunk Sewer Area Impact Fee,” and (c) add Section 7.38.065, “Wastewater Capacity Charge,” and Chapter 
23.65, “Childcare Impact Fee;” and Adopt a Resolution to (a) establish a Wastewater Capacity Charge, (b) update 
the Art in Public Places In Lieu Fee, (c) update the Childcare Development Impact Fee, (d) update the 
Transportation Improvement Fee, and (e) rescind Resolution No. 34 (2004 and 88 (2005) relating to the previously-
imposed Childcare Development Impact Fee. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 111 (2021)
OLD BUSINESS
15.
COVID-19 Update
Drew Corbett, City Manager, provided an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-
19. Council had no questions. Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to confirm rules and regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in 
response to the declared emergency regarding modifications to City Hall operations, and to confirm the need for a 
continued local declaration of emergency. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
NEW BUSINESS
16.
Ordinance Introduction – Campaign Regulations
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney, provided a presentation on the proposed changes to the campaign contribution 
rules to clarify that it applies to in-kind donations and to require reporting of contributions by an individual and 
any organization that they may have a majority control and interest in aggregate. Council had no questions.
9 of 556

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/01/2021
Page 4
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to 
City Candidate Campaigns” to include in-kind donations as contributions and to provide for the aggregation of 
contributions. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
17.
Reimagine SamTrans Recommended Network – Update
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, introduced SamTrans Amy Linehan, Public Affairs Specialist, 
and Jonathan Steketee, Operations Planning Manager, who provided the presentation on proposed changes to 
transportation bus routes. Council had no questions.
Public Comment – Lisa Diaz Nash asked question about coordinating this with the General Plan. Raayan expressed 
concern about some of the routing. Rich Hedges commented on noting where buses stop. George Derby 
commented on the opportunity for real time recording of bus locations.
Staff and SamTrans responded to questions raised. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Mayor 
Rodriguez asked if the Council wanted comment on the supervisor district being proposed – there was no interest.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 8:51 p.m. 
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
10 of 556

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5370-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Transition to District-Based Elections for Council Members
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.05 "City Council District Elections" to 
establish five council districts, approve the map identifying district boundaries, set the first by-district elections for three 
districts for November 2022 and two districts for November 2024, and provide for the sequence of district elections. 
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance introduction date: November 1, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance with Exhibits A
Att 2 – Metes and Bounds
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
11 of 556

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
Providing for the Election of Members of the City Council by Five Districts, Establishing the Boundaries and 
Identification Number of Each District, Establishing  the Election Order of Each District, and Adding Chapter 
2.05 “City Council District Elections” to Title 2 of the San Mateo Municipal Code 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo uses an at-large method of election which is consistent with the 
guarantees of Section 7 of Article 1 and of Section 2 of Article II of the California Constitution; and 
WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 34886 permits the City Council to change the method of 
election by ordinance to a “by-district” system in which each member of the City Council is elected only by the 
voters in the district in which the candidate resides, in accordance with California Government Code Section 
34871; and 
WHEREAS, a by-district system can also be consistent with the guarantees of Section 7 of Article 1 and of 
Section 2 of Article II of the California Constitution; and 
WHEREAS, under the provisions of California Elections Code Section 10010, a city that changes from an 
at-large city council method of election to a by-district city council method of election must hold a total of five 
public hearings, which includes at least two public hearings regarding potential voting district boundaries prior 
to the release and consideration of any draft voting district maps, and two public hearings following the release 
of draft voting district maps; and 
WHEREAS, on June 21, 2021, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 69 (2021) that initiated the 
process of establishing a by-district election system and adopted a public hearing schedule; and 
WHEREAS, on July 19, 2021, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 76 (2021) that approved a revised 
public hearing schedule in order to use updated 2020 Census data; and 
WHEREAS, on August 23, 2021 and September 13, 2021, pursuant to California Elections Code Section 
10010(a)(1), the City Council held public hearings where the public was invited to provide input regarding the 
composition of the City’s voting districts before any draft maps were drawn, and the City Council of the City of 
San Mateo considered and discussed the same; and 
WHEREAS, on September 30, 2021 and October 14, 2021, pursuant to California Elections Code Section 
10010(a)(2), the City Council held public hearings where the public was invited to provide input regarding the 
content of the draft maps that had been released and published at least seven (7) days before each meeting, 
and the proposed sequence of elections, and the City Council of the City of San Mateo considered and discussed 
the same; and  
WHEREAS, at its meeting on October 14, 2021, the City Council directed staff to prepare an ordinance 
adopting a voting district map for the City Council’s consideration; and  
WHEREAS, on November 1, 2021, the City Council held a final public hearing on the proposal to establish 
district boundaries, reviewed additional public input, formally selected the voting district map and the election 
12 of 556

--- page 13 ---
sequence attached to, incorporated in, and set forth, in this ordinance as Exhibit A, which was introduced for a 
first reading at the same regular meeting; and 
WHEREAS, throughout the foregoing process, the City engaged in a significant amount of public 
outreach and engagement above and beyond the public hearings and other procedures required by California 
Elections Code Section 10010, including, but not limited to, community forums; and  
WHEREAS, the purpose of this ordinance is to enact, pursuant to California Government Code Section 
34886, an ordinance providing for the election of members of the City Council of the City of San Mateo by 
district in five single-member districts as reflected in the voting district map referred to as Map 3b and attached 
as Exhibit A to this ordinance, in furtherance of the purposes of the California Voting Rights Act of 2001 (Chapter 
1.5 (commencing with Section 14025) of Division 14 of the Elections Code) to encourage by-district elections as 
one method to implement the guarantees of Section 7 of Article 1 and of Section 2 of Article II of the California 
Constitution. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. Chapter 2.05 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 2 as follows: 
Chapter 2.05 
City Council District Elections 
2.05.010 Declaration of Purpose. 
The City Council hereby declares that the purpose of this ordinance is to change the method of electing 
members of this Council to a by-district method as defined in the California Voting Rights Act of 2001. 
2.05.020 City Council Districts Established. 
Five City Council districts are hereby established in the City of San Mateo. The boundaries and 
identifying number of each district shall be as described on the Council District Map as shown below. 
[District Map attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein to be published in the Municipal 
Code]  
2.05.030. Election of Members of the City Council by-District. 
(a) Following the effective date of this ordinance and upon the commencement of “by-district” elections 
in the order established in Section 2.05.040 of this Code, members of the City Council shall be elected “by 
district” as defined in California Government Code Section 34871 or any successor statute.  Any candidate for 
City Council must have been a resident and elector of the district in which he or she seeks election for at least 
thirty days before the time he or she files nominating papers or equivalent declaration of candidacy for such 
office, or such person’s appointment to fill a vacancy therein. No term of any member of the City Council that 
commenced prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall be affected by the adoption of this ordinance. A 
vacancy in an office filled by at-large election shall be filled by appointment or election from the City at-large in 
accordance with the Charter. 
13 of 556

--- page 14 ---
(b) Registered voters signing nomination papers or voting for a member of the City Council shall be 
residents of the geographical area making up the district from which the member is to be elected. 
(c) The terms of the office of each member elected to the City Council shall remain four (4) years. 
2.05.040 Commencement of District Elections.  
(a) Commencing on the general municipal election in 2022 and every four years thereafter, the voters in 
districts 1, 3, and 5 shall elect members of the City Council by district for full four (4) year terms. At the general 
municipal election in 2024 and every four years thereafter, the voters in districts 2, and 4 shall elect members of 
the City Council by district for full four (4) year terms. 
(b) The term of office of any council member who has been elected and whose term of office has not 
expired shall not be affected by any change in the boundaries of the district from which he or she was elected. 
Section 2. Technical Adjustments and Metes-and-Bounds.  
If necessary to facilitate the implementation of this ordinance, the City Clerk is authorized to make 
technical adjustments to the district boundaries that do not substantively affect the populations in the districts, 
the eligibility of candidates, or the residence of elected officials within any district.  The City Clerk shall consult 
with the City Manager and City Attorney concerning any technical adjustments deemed necessary and shall 
advise the City Council of any such adjustments required in the implementation of the districts. The City Clerk 
shall also direct the City’s demographer to provide a metes-and-bounds description of each district as shown on 
the map attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, which shall be submitted to the City 
Council at its next regular meeting and kept on file in the City Clerk’s office for public review. 
Section 3. Environmental Determination. Adoption of this ordinance is exempt from environmental review as 
the adoption of this ordinance does not qualify as a “project” pursuant to the California Environmental Quality 
Act (“CEQA”), under Public Resource Code Section 21065 and CEQA Guidelines Sections 15061(b)(3), 15320, and 
15378, as there is no possibility that such action would cause either a direct, or reasonably foreseeable indirect, 
physical change in the environment. 
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
Section 5. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
14 of 556

--- page 15 ---
City of San Mateo
Final Plan with District Numbers
15 of 556

--- page 16 ---
1 
 
City of San Mateo | Plan 3b | Metes and Bounds 
 
District One 
All of that portion of San Mateo County bounded and described as follows: Beginning at the point of 
intersection of the Hillsborough/San Mateo town/city line and nonvisible boundary, and proceeding 
easterly along the Hillsborough/San Mateo town/city line to the Burlingame/San Mateo city line, and 
proceeding easterly along the Burlingame/San Mateo city line to N San Mateo Dr, and proceeding 
easterly along N San Mateo Dr to Tilton Ave, and proceeding westerly along Tilton Ave to N El Camino 
Real, and proceeding easterly along N El Camino Real to S El Camino Real, and proceeding southerly 
along S El Camino Real to 9th Ave, and proceeding easterly along 9th Ave to Union Pacific RR, and 
proceeding southerly along Union Pacific RR to J Arthur Younger Fwy, and proceeding westerly along J 
Arthur Younger Fwy to S El Camino Real, and proceeding southerly along S El Camino Real to 22nd Ave, 
and proceeding westerly along 22nd Ave to Alameda de Las Pulgas, and proceeding westerly along 
Alameda de Las Pulgas to J Arthur Younger Fwy, and proceeding westerly along J Arthur Younger Fwy to 
nonvisible boundary, and proceeding northerly along nonvisible boundary to the point of beginning. 
 
District Two 
All of that portion of San Mateo County bounded and described as follows: Beginning at the point of 
intersection of the Burlingame/San Mateo city line and N San Mateo Dr, and proceeding easterly along 
the Burlingame/San Mateo city line to the San Mateo city line, and proceeding easterly along the San 
Mateo city line to the Foster City/San Mateo city line, and proceeding southerly along the Foster 
City/San Mateo city line to shoreline, and proceeding southerly along shoreline to E 3rd Ave, and 
proceeding westerly along E 3rd Ave to shoreline, and proceeding westerly along shoreline to San Mateo 
Crk, and proceeding westerly along San Mateo Crk to J Hart Clinton Dr, and proceeding westerly along J 
Hart Clinton Dr to E 3rd Ave, and proceeding westerly along E 3rd Ave to S Norfolk St, and proceeding 
westerly along S Norfolk St to Cypress Ave, and proceeding westerly along Cypress Ave to nonvisible 
boundary, and proceeding westerly along nonvisible boundary to Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding 
southerly along Bayshore Fwy to 3rd Ave E, and proceeding southerly along 3rd Ave E to S Humboldt St, 
and proceeding southerly along S Humboldt St to E 4th Ave, and proceeding westerly along E 4th Ave to 
S Railroad Ave, and proceeding southerly along S Railroad Ave to E 5th Ave, and proceeding westerly 
along E 5th Ave to Union Pacific RR, and proceeding southerly along Union Pacific RR to 9th Ave, and 
proceeding westerly along 9th Ave to S El Camino Real, and proceeding northerly along S El Camino Real 
to N El Camino Real, and proceeding northerly along N El Camino Real to Tilton Ave, and proceeding 
easterly along Tilton Ave to N San Mateo Dr, and proceeding northerly along N San Mateo Dr to the 
point of beginning. 
 
District Three 
All of that portion of San Mateo County bounded and described as follows: Beginning at the point of 
intersection of E 4th Ave and S Railroad Ave, and proceeding easterly along E 4th Ave to S Humboldt St, 
and proceeding northerly along S Humboldt St to 3rd Ave E, and proceeding easterly along 3rd Ave E to 
Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding southerly along Bayshore Fwy to nonvisible boundary, and proceeding 
westerly along nonvisible boundary to Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding southerly along Bayshore Fwy to 
nonvisible boundary, and proceeding northerly along nonvisible boundary to Bayshore Fwy, and 
proceeding southerly along Bayshore Fwy to the Belmont/San Mateo city line, and proceeding southerly 
16 of 556

--- page 17 ---
2 
 
along the Belmont/San Mateo city line to El Camino Real, and proceeding westerly along El Camino Real 
to S El Camino Real, and proceeding westerly along S El Camino Real to 37th Ave, and proceeding 
northerly along 37th Ave to El Camino Real, and proceeding northerly along El Camino Real to E Hillsdale 
Blvd, and proceeding westerly along E Hillsdale Blvd to S El Camino Real, and proceeding northerly along 
S El Camino Real to J Arthur Younger Fwy, and proceeding easterly along J Arthur Younger Fwy to Union 
Pacific RR, and proceeding northerly along Union Pacific RR to E 5th Ave, and proceeding easterly along 
E 5th Ave to S Railroad Ave, and proceeding northerly along S Railroad Ave to the point of beginning. 
 
District Four 
All of that portion of San Mateo County bounded and described as follows: Beginning at the point of 
intersection of nonvisible boundary and Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding easterly along nonvisible 
boundary to Cypress Ave, and proceeding easterly along Cypress Ave to S Norfolk St, and proceeding 
southerly along S Norfolk St to E 3rd Ave, and proceeding easterly along E 3rd Ave to J Hart Clinton Dr, 
and proceeding easterly along J Hart Clinton Dr to San Mateo Crk, and proceeding easterly along San 
Mateo Crk to shoreline, and proceeding easterly along shoreline to E 3rd Ave, and proceeding easterly 
along E 3rd Ave to shoreline, and proceeding northerly along shoreline to the Foster City/San Mateo city 
line, and proceeding southerly along the Foster City/San Mateo city line to the Belmont/San Mateo city 
line, and proceeding southerly along the Belmont/San Mateo city line to Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding 
northerly along Bayshore Fwy to nonvisible boundary, and proceeding southerly along nonvisible 
boundary to Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding northerly along Bayshore Fwy to nonvisible boundary, and 
proceeding easterly along nonvisible boundary to Bayshore Fwy, and proceeding northerly along 
Bayshore Fwy to the point of beginning. 
 
District Five 
All of that portion of San Mateo County bounded and described as follows: 1. Beginning at the point of 
intersection of the Hillsborough/San Mateo town/city line and the San Mateo city line, and proceeding 
northerly along the Hillsborough/San Mateo town/city line to nonvisible boundary, and proceeding 
southerly along nonvisible boundary to J Arthur Younger Fwy, and proceeding northerly along J Arthur 
Younger Fwy to Alameda de Las Pulgas, and proceeding southerly along Alameda de Las Pulgas to 22nd 
Ave, and proceeding easterly along 22nd Ave to S El Camino Real, and proceeding southerly along S El 
Camino Real to E Hillsdale Blvd, and proceeding easterly along E Hillsdale Blvd to El Camino Real, and 
proceeding southerly along El Camino Real to 37th Ave, and proceeding southerly along 37th Ave to S El 
Camino Real, and proceeding southerly along S El Camino Real to El Camino Real, and proceeding 
easterly along El Camino Real to the Belmont/San Mateo city line, and proceeding westerly along the 
Belmont/San Mateo city line to the San Mateo city line, and proceeding westerly along the San Mateo 
city line to the Highlands/San Mateo census designated place/city line, and proceeding westerly along 
the Highlands/San Mateo census designated place/city line to the San Mateo city line, and proceeding 
easterly along the San Mateo city line to the Highlands/San Mateo census designated place/city line, and 
proceeding westerly along the Highlands/San Mateo census designated place/city line to the San Mateo 
city line, and proceeding southerly along the San Mateo city line to the point of beginning. 2. Except for 
all of the region bounded by the San Mateo city line. 
 
17 of 556

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5413-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Campaign Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate 
Campaigns” to include in-kind donations as contributions and to provide for the aggregation of contributions.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance introduction date: November 1, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
18 of 556

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns” of Title 2 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code to Include In-Kind Donations as Contributions and to Provide for the Aggregation of 
Contributions
WHEREAS, on October 4, 2021, the City Council directed the City Attorney to draft amendments to 
Municipal Code Chapter 2.80 (Contributions and Loans to City Candidate Campaigns) to address in-kind 
donations that are currently not subject to existing contribution limits, and to require the aggregation of 
contributions; and
WHEREAS, the proposed amendments set forth below would further the purpose of Chapter 2.80, by 
helping to preserve integrity and openness in the political process, promote public confidence in government, 
and reduce the influence of special interests and wealthy individuals on the electoral process.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.80.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.80.020 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases shall be defined in the same manner as they are defined 
in the Political Reform Act of 1974 (including any amendments thereto) as found in California Government Code 
Section 81000 et seq., unless defined otherwise in this section. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms 
below are defined as follows:
(a) "Candidate" means any individual listed on the ballot for election to any City office, or who otherwise 
has taken affirmative action to seek election to City office, or who receives a contribution or makes an 
expenditure, or who gives his or her consent for any other person to receive a contribution or make an 
expenditure with the purpose of bringing about his or her election to any City office. "Candidate" also means an 
officeholder in connection with a recall election relating to such officeholder.
(b) "Candidate committee" means a committee that is controlled directly or indirectly by a candidate or 
that acts jointly with a candidate in connection with the making of expenditures.
(c) "Contribution" means a payment, a forgiveness of a loan, a payment of a loan by a third party, or an 
enforceable promise to make a payment except to the extent full and adequate consideration is received unless 
it is clear from the surrounding circumstances that it is not made for political purposes. Except as provided 
herein, "contribution" includes (1) an expenditure made at the behest of a candidate or candidate committee 
unless full and adequate consideration is received for making the expenditure, and (2) any goods or services 
received by or behested by a candidate or candidate committee at no charge or at a discount from the fair 
market value, unless the discount is given in the regular course of business to members of the public.
The term "contribution" does not include a payment made by the occupant of a home or business for 
costs related to any meeting or fund raising event held in the occupant's home or business; or volunteer 
19 of 556

--- page 20 ---
personal or professional services if the services are donated without any understanding or agreement that they 
shall be directly or indirectly repaid to him or her.
(d) "Individual" means a natural person and shall not include a partnership, corporation, association, 
firm, business entity, committee, club, or other organization.
(e) "Organization" means a partnership, corporation, association, firm, business entity, committee, club, 
union, or company.
Section 2. Section 2.80.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to read as follows:
2.80.045 Aggregation of Contributions.
(a) To determine when contributions are aggregated under this chapter, “majority owned” means 
ownership of more than 50 percent.
(b) If an individual directs or controls an organization’s contributions, the organization’s contributions 
shall be aggregated with contributions made by both of the following:
(1) That individual.
(2) Any other organization whose contributions that individual directs or controls.
(c) If two or more organizations make contributions that are directed or controlled by a majority of the 
same persons, the contributions of those entities shall be aggregated.
(d) Contributions made by organizations that are majority owned by a person shall be aggregated with 
the contributions of the majority owner and all other organizations majority owned by that person, unless those 
organizations act independently in their contribution-making decisions.  
Section 3. Section 2.80.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.80.050 Candidate Campaigns Only.
The provisions of this chapter apply to election campaigns for candidates only. The provisions of this 
chapter do not apply to any ballot measure, referendum or initiative election.
Section 4. Section 2.80.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended non-substantively to letter each 
existing paragraph as follows:
2.80.080 Post Election Review.
(a) No later than three (3) months after the certification of the results of a City election at which a City 
Council member is elected, the City Clerk shall calendar for City Council consideration a review of the provisions 
of this chapter. The purpose of such review is to allow the City Council to consider the ongoing appropriateness 
20 of 556

--- page 21 ---
of the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the amount of the contribution and loan limits 
established in Sections 2.80.030 and 2.80.040.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the City Clerk's failure to calendar this review 
within the time period specified shall not subject the City Clerk to any criminal or civil penalty.
Section 5. Environmental Determination. This ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).).
Section 6. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 7. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 8. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on January 1, 2022.
21 of 556

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5298-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Impact and In-Lieu Fee Updates
RECOMMENDATIONS:
Adopt an Ordinance to (a) amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.13, “Transportation Improvement Fee,” and 
23.60, “Art in Public Places,” (b) rescind Sections 03.54.060, “Sewer Connection Charges,” and 3.54.080, “South Trunk 
Sewer Area Impact Fee,” and (c) add Section 7.38.065, “Wastewater Capacity Charge,” and Chapter 23.65, “Childcare 
Impact Fee”.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance introduction date: November 1, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst
balexander@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7209
22 of 556

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO REPEAL SECTIONS 3.54.060, “SEWER CONNECTION 
CHARGE,” AND 3.54.080, “SOUTH TRUNK SEWER AREA IMPACT FEE,” ESTABLISH A WASTEWATER CAPACITY 
CHARGE IN SECTION 7.38.065, UPDATE AND CODIFY A CHILDCARE DEVELOPMENT FEE IN CHAPTER 23.65, AND 
UPDATE THE EXISTING ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FEE IN CHAPTER 23.60 AND THE TRANSPORTATION 
IMPROVEMENT FEE IN CHAPTER 27.13
WHEREAS, the City wishes to consolidate the existing Sewer Connection Charge and South Trunk Area 
Development Impact Fee, both codified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.54, and the City’s Wastewater 
Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion fee, adopted by Resolution No. 24 in 2006, into a new wastewater capacity 
charge; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to amend Chapter 23.60, establishing the “Art in Public Places Fee,” to 
provide that the fee amount will be adopted by City Council resolution; and
WHEREAS, the City’s childcare development impact fee is currently established by City Council 
resolution and the City wishes to codify the requirement in a new Chapter 23.65; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to provide that the childcare development impact fee is now applicable to 
commercial development of any size as well as all residential development; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to amend Chapter 27.13, establishing the “Transportation Impact Fee,” to 
add “Institution” as a land use; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 66018, newspaper notice of the time and place 
and a general explanation of the matter to be considered was published; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 66016, 14 days’ mailed notice was provided to 
interested parties and information regarding the cost to provide the services for which these charges are levied, 
as well as the anticipated revenue sources, was available to the public ten days before the hearing; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code Section 66018, the City held an open and public 
hearing.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.  In accordance with state Mitigation Fee Act (Gov. Code Section 66000(a), the 
City Council finds that.
(a) With regard to the amended childcare development impact fee:
(1) The purpose of the fee is to enhance public welfare and implement the City’s General Plan 
Land Use Policy 4.22, “Childcare and New Construction,” by enhancing the City’s supply of childcare 
facilities and mitigating the increased need for childcare facilities created by new commercial and 
residential development in the City of San Mateo.
23 of 556

--- page 24 ---
(2) The fee will be used to fund childcare facilities in the City of San Mateo to serve the need 
created by new residential and commercial development.
(3) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee’s use and the type of development on 
which the fee will be imposed, because both commercial and residential development in the City 
contribute to the need for childcare facilities, as demonstrated in the April 2021 nexus study prepared 
by Matrix Consulting Group, which is attached as Exhibit A to the resolution being considered 
concurrently with this ordinance (the “Childcare Fee Nexus Study”).
(4) There is a reasonable relationship between the need for childcare facilities and both 
commercial and residential development in the City, because the fee is calculated based upon the 
proposed development and the anticipated need for childcare facilities resulting from the development 
as demonstrated in the Childcare Fee Nexus Study.
(5) There is a reasonable relationship between the amount of the fee and cost of childcare 
facilities or portions of childcare facilities attributable to commercial and residential development, 
because the amount of the fee is tied to the demand for childcare facilities generated by the type and 
square footage of the proposed development, as demonstrated in the Childcare Fee Nexus Study.
(b) With regard to the wastewater capacity charge, the proposed charge does not exceed the estimated 
reasonable cost of providing wastewater connections and capacity as demonstrated by the April 2021 nexus 
study prepared by Bartle Wells, which is attached as Exhibit B to the resolution being considered concurrently 
with this ordinance.
Section 2. Section 03.54.060, “Sewer Connection Charges,” and Section 03.54.080, “South Trunk Sewer Area 
Impact Fee,” are repealed and replaced with a new wastewater capacity charge to be codified in Chapter 7.38, 
“Sanitary Sewer Use,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code as identified in Section 3 of this ordinance.
Section 3. Section 7.38.065 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.38, “Sanitary Sewer Use,” as 
follows:
Section 7.38.065 Wastewater Capacity Charge
A wastewater capacity charge is imposed on all new development to recover a proportionate share of 
costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City 
wastewater systems. The applicable wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and 
wastewater strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution.
Section 4. Subsection (a) of Section 23.60.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(a)  The program allocation, as used in this Chapter, is the percentage of the building cost which is set 
aside for the City’s Art in Public Places Program.  The amount of the program allocation shall be established by 
City Council resolution and based upon total building valuation, excluding land acquisition and off-site 
improvement costs.  The total building valuation shall be computed using the latest building valuation data as 
set forth by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) unless, in the opinion of the Building 
Official, a different valuation measure should be used.
24 of 556

--- page 25 ---
Section 5. Chapter 23.65 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 23 as follows: 
Chapter 23.65
Child Care Development Fee
23.65.010 Purpose
The purpose of the childcare development fee is to fund the development of child care facilities in order 
to serve a need created by both commercial and residential development.
23.65.020 Fee  
A childcare development impact fee, in an amount established by City Council resolution is imposed on 
all residential and commercial development, including new development, addition of square footage to existing 
development, and tenant improvements to existing structures if those tenant improvements require planning 
approval.
Section 6. Subsection (c) of Section 27.13.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
Land use categories are defined as follows:
(1) Hotel, which includes facilities used for the overnight lodging of guests.
(2) Industrial, which includes but is not limited to, facilities used for the manufacturing, 
processing, or storage of goods.
(3) Institution, which includes but is not limited to, religious, governmental, educational, and 
cultural uses.
(4) Multi-family residential, which includes but is not limited to, a secondary unit, duplex, 
townhouse, apartment, condominium, mobile home, multiple family dwelling, and community care 
facility with more than six residents.
(5) Office, which includes but is not limited to, facilities primarily used for professional (legal, 
engineering, accounting), financial, insurance, real estate, and other office-related uses which do not 
provide primarily walk-in services to the public. 
(6) Retail, which includes but is not limited to, facilities primarily used for the sale of retail goods 
or personal services, including all retail sales outlets, facilities for the on-site sale of food or beverages, 
and personal services such as laundries, cleaners, copy stores, and hairdressers.
(7) Single Family Residential, which includes but is not limited to, a single-family dwelling and a 
small community care facility with six or fewer residents.
(8) Other uses. The zoning administrator shall determine the appropriate land use category for 
any use not set forth above, based on similarity of use and peak hour trip characteristics of the use as 
indicated in the most current edition of the International Transportation Engineering Manual.
25 of 556

--- page 26 ---
Section 7. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(4), this action is not a project subject to CEQA because the adoption or amendment 
of fees is a fiscal activity not involving a commitment to any particular project.
Section 8. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 9. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 10. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 60 days after its adoption.
26 of 556

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5422
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Emergency Ordinance – Suspension of Minimum Parking Requirements and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations for 
Outdoor Business Operations
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an emergency ordinance to extend the temporary suspension of minimum parking requirements on private parking 
lots and enforcement of zoning regulations for outdoor business operations for commercial uses in private shopping 
centers to continue allowing schools, childcare facilities and other educational uses to operate outdoors during the COVID- 
19 public health emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On August 16, 2021, the City Council approved the continued suspension of minimum parking requirements for private 
shopping centers and enforcement of zoning regulations pertaining to outdoor business operations in private shopping 
centers, and allowed schools, childcare facilities, and other educational uses to operate outdoors in addition to 
restaurants, gyms and fitness centers, personal care services, hair salons and barbershops, places of worship, and retailers. 
The emergency ordinance was initially approved by City Council in June 2020 and has been extended several times by 
action of the City Council. The current ordinance will expire on November 15, 2021. 
On October 18, 2021, the City Council approved the extension of guidelines allowing temporary outdoor dining in the 
City’s right-of-way until April 30, 2022. The Council made the decision because of its desire to continue to support small 
businesses through the COVID-19 pandemic. The continuation of this ordinance allows businesses with the option to 
operate a portion of their business outdoors while public health officials work on inoculating a greater percent of the 
population from the virus. 
Staff recommends the extension of the current emergency ordinance for outdoor business operation on private parking 
lots in order to support local businesses, provide similar assistance to businesses using the City’s right-of-way, and 
minimize risk of community transmission. The emergency ordinance would allow schools, childcare facilities, other 
educational uses and service industry businesses to continue to operate outdoors. Businesses interested in moving or 
keeping their operations outdoors would require permission from the property manager/landlord and would be subject to 
State, County, industry and local guidelines. The emergency ordinance will be in effect for 90 days and will expire on 
February 13, 2022 unless extended beyond that time frame by further action of the Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no anticipated budget impact for the emergency ordinance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15304(e), adoption of this ordinance is categorically exempt from CEQA, 
27 of 556

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
because it results in a minor, temporary alteration in the use of land which will have no permanent effect on the 
environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Emergency Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
28 of 556

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
An Emergency Ordinance Imposing a Moratorium on Enforcement of Minimum Parking Space Requirements 
and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations for Outdoor Businesses
WHEREAS, the Governor of California has issued Executive Order N-25-20, requiring all residents to heed 
any orders or guidance of state and local health officials including but not limited to the imposition of social 
distancing measures, to control the spread of COVID-19; and
WHEREAS, the County is experiencing a high level of community transmission of the unvaccinated 
population and breakthrough transmissions of the COVID Delta variant despite high vaccination rates; and
WHEREAS, the COVID variant is highly transmissible in indoor settings; and
WHEREAS, on August 3, 2021, the Health Officer of San Mateo County issued Order No. C19-12, 
requiring face coverings in indoor workplace and public settings for all people regardless of their vaccination 
status; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to remove any impediments to outdoor operations; and
WHEREAS, the City’s minimum parking space requirements are codified in Municipal Code Section 
27.64.160; and
WHEREAS, minimum parking space requirements are also sometimes included as planning application 
conditions of approval; and
WHEREAS, the City’s zoning regulations are codified in Municipal Code Title 27; and 
WHEREAS, some Zoning Code provisions prohibit outdoor operation of businesses; and
WHEREAS, the City Council had previously adopted an emergency ordinance imposing a moratorium on 
enforcement of minimum parking space requirements for businesses located in shopping centers on August 17, 
2020, which would have expired on November 16, 2020; and
WHEREAS, the City Council had previously adopted an emergency ordinance suspending zoning 
requirements related to outdoor operations of businesses located in shopping centers on September 8, 2020, 
which would have expired on December 7, 2020; and
WHEREAS, City Charter Section 2.16 authorizes the re-enactment of emergency ordinances so long as 
the emergency continues to exist; and
WHEREAS, on November 16, 2020, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance extending the 
moratorium on minimum parking space requirements and the suspension of zoning requirements for businesses 
in private shopping which would have expired on February 14, 2021; and
WHEREAS, on February 1, 2021, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance extending the 
moratorium through May 2, 2021; and
29 of 556

--- page 30 ---
WHEREAS, on March 1, 2021, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance to expand its 
application to cover educational facilities, including day care centers, and other educational uses, and 
the ordinance would have expired on May 30, 2021; and
WHEREAS, on May 17, 2021, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance would have 
expired on  August 16, 2021; and
WHEREAS, on August 16, 2021, the City Council adopted an emergency ordinance 
extending the moratorium, and the ordinance is set to expire on November 15, 2021; and 
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic is ongoing, and the City Council wishes to continue suspending 
minimum parking space and zoning requirements, so long as all affected activities abide by City guidelines; 
and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is a charter city; and
WHEREAS, City Charter section 2.16 provides that any ordinance declared by the City Council to be 
necessary as an emergency measure for preserving the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and 
containing the reasons for its urgency, may be introduced, and passed at one meeting.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Findings. In accordance with City Charter Section 2.16, this Ordinance is necessary as an emergency 
measure to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Governor of 
the State of California has declared an emergency and the County of San Mateo has issued an indoor mask 
mandate for everyone regardless of vaccination status. In order to mitigate the financial impact of the COVID-
19 pandemic on businesses in the City and to reduce community transmission of COVID-19, the City wishes to 
temporarily enable the use of private parking lots for gyms and fitness centers, places of worship, personal 
care services, hair salons, barber shops, places of worship, shopping malls, educational facilities, including day 
cares, and other educational uses by imposing a moratorium on the enforcement of minimum parking space 
and other zoning requirements including those related to private parking facilities, so long as the parking lots 
are utilized in accordance with State and County Health Order requirements and City guidelines.
Section 2. Moratorium. For restaurants, gyms and fitness centers, personal care services, hair salons and 
barbershops, places of worship, shopping malls, educational facilities, including daycares, and other 
educational uses operated in accordance with State Health Order requirements and local guidelines, this 
Ordinance imposes a moratorium on the enforcement of the following minimum parking space requirements 
for a period of 90 days from the adoption of this Ordinance:
(a) Minimum parking space requirements codified in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.64.160;
(b) Minimum parking space requirements imposed as a planning application condition of approval; and
(c) Enforcement of City Zoning Code requirements that uses be conducted in an enclosed building.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15304(e), adoption of this ordinance is categorically exempt from CEQA, because it results 
30 of 556

--- page 31 ---
in a minor, temporary alteration in the use of land which will have no permanent effect on the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections 
or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation, posted in the 
City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced and adopted on Clerk to 
complete., and will take effect immediately upon passage by a 4/5 vote of the City Council. It will expire on the 
91st day after its adoption.
31 of 556

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5410-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for 30 days, 
through December 15, 2021, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the Governor’s 
emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of 
attendees. 
BACKGROUND:
At its October 18, 2021, City Council meeting, the Council adopted Resolution No. 100 (2021) authorizing continued 
remote meetings of the Council and its subordinate legislative bodies due to the imminent risk to the health and safety of 
attendees due to possible transmission of COVID-19 and the recent spread of variants. The resolution became effective 
October 18, 2021 through November 17, 2021, or until the City Council adopts a subsequent resolution. AB 361 requires 
confirming the emergency circumstances 30 days after the first teleconference meeting and every 30 days thereafter.  At 
the October 18 meeting, the Council accepted staff’s recommendation to pass a resolution at every meeting to ensure 
there is no gap in the effectiveness of authorizing resolutions. The action being requested at this November 15th meeting is 
to adopt a resolution reauthorizing remote teleconferenced Council and Commission meetings per the requirements of 
Assembly Bill 361. 
It was noted in the original resolution that current health orders require masking in all indoor facilities due to health and 
safety concerns. In addition, San Mateo County Health Order No. c19-12 provides that the Delta variant is highly 
transmissible in indoor settings and requires multi-component prevention strategies to reduce its spread. The California 
Department of Public Health is currently investigating the length of vaccine protection. The Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention recommends avoiding indoor spaces that do not offer fresh air from the outdoors as much as possible. 
Returning to meeting in the Council Chambers or smaller conference rooms means being in an enclosed space for 
meetings that commonly last for one to five hours and would seem to create additional exposure for participants to a 
possible transmission of the virus. These health directives and advice are still in place.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for taking this action as all software and hardware needs to meet remotely have already been 
purchased and are in use.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of this resolution authorizing remote teleconferenced meetings of the City Council and City Boards and 
Commission is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
32 of 556

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
33 of 556

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2021)
REAUTHORIZING REMOTE TELECONFERENCE MEETINGS OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES OF CITY OF SAN MATEO 
EFFECTIVE NOVEMBER 15, 2021 UNTIL THE EARLIER OF DECEMBER 15, 2021 OR SUCH TIME THE CITY COUNCIL 
ADOPTS A SUBSEQUENT RESOLUTION, PURSUANT TO THE BROWN ACT 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is committed to preserving and nurturing public access and participation in 
meetings of the City Council and its Boards and Commissions; and
 
WHEREAS, all meetings of City of San Mateo’s legislative bodies are open and public, as required by the 
Ralph M. Brown Act (Cal. Gov. Code 54950 – 54963), so that any member of the public may attend, participate, and 
watch the District’s legislative bodies conduct their business; and
 
WHEREAS, the Brown Act, Government Code section 54953(e), makes provisions for remote 
teleconferencing participation in meetings by members of a legislative body, without compliance with the 
requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3), subject to the existence of certain conditions; and
 
WHEREAS, a required condition is that a state of emergency is declared by the Governor pursuant to 
Government Code section 8625, proclaiming the existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety 
of persons and property within the state caused by conditions as described in Government Code section 8558; and
 
WHEREAS, a proclamation is made when there is an actual incident, threat of disaster, or extreme peril to 
the safety of persons and property within the jurisdictions that are within the City’s boundaries, caused by natural, 
technological, or human-caused disasters; and
 
WHEREAS, it is further required that state or local officials have imposed or recommended measures to 
promote social distancing, or, the legislative body meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health and 
safety of attendees; and
 
WHEREAS, such conditions now exist in the City, specifically, the Governor has proclaimed a state of 
emergency exists for the state of California due to the conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact 
on the health and safety of its residents; and
 
WHEREAS, the Delta variant is highly transmissible in indoor spaces, the California Department of Public 
Health is currently investigating how long vaccine protection lasts, and the Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention recommends avoiding indoor spaces that do not offer fresh air from the outdoors; and  
WHEREAS, in accordance with Assembly Bill 361, the City Council does hereby find that as a result of the 
emergency, meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees and the Council 
desires to authorize continued remote teleconferenced meetings of its legislative bodies; and
WHEREAS, as a consequence of the local emergency, the City Council does hereby find that the legislative 
bodies of City of San Mateo shall conduct their meetings without compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of 
Government Code section 54953, as authorized by subdivision (e) of section 54953, and that such legislative bodies 
34 of 556

--- page 35 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2021)
Page 2 of 2
Reauthorizing Remote Teleconference Meetings 
shall comply with the requirements to provide the public with access to the meetings as prescribed in paragraph (2) 
of subdivision (e) of section 54953; and  
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has taken measures to conduct public meetings via virtual tools that allow 
for members of its legislative bodies and members of the public to join and participate in meetings remotely and 
provide public testimony in the virtual environment and via teleconference; and
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2021, the City Council adopted a resolution authoring remote teleconference 
meetings of San Mateo legislative bodies, effective until the earlier of November 17, 2021 or when the City Council 
adopts a subsequent resolution; and
WHEREAS, this resolution represents a reauthorization of such remote teleconference meetings, pursuant 
to the Brown Act.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO DOES HEREBY FIND AND RESOLVE AS 
FOLLOWS:
1.
Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are true and correct and are incorporated into this Resolution by 
this reference.
2. AB 361 Findings. 
a.
On March 4, 2020, the Governor of the State of California issued a Proclamation of State of 
Emergency, which remains in effect.
b.
Meeting in person would present imminent risk to the health or safety of attendees, because:
(1)
The Delta variant of the coronavirus is highly transmissible in indoor settings.
(2)
The California Department of Public Health is currently investigating how long vaccine 
protection lasts.
(3)
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention recommends avoiding indoor spaces that do 
not offer fresh air from the outdoors as much as possible.
3. Remote Teleconference Meetings. The City Manager and legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo are 
hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this 
Resolution including, conducting remote teleconferenced meetings in accordance with Government 
Code section 54953(e) and other applicable provisions of the Brown Act.
4. Effective Date and Term. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and shall be 
effective until the earlier of (i) December 15, 2021, or (ii) such time the City Council adopts a 
subsequent resolution in accordance with Government Code section 54953(e)(3) to extend the time 
during which the legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo may continue to teleconference without 
compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953.
35 of 556

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5450
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Classification Updates – Human Resources and Public Works Departments
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the reallocations of the Deputy Human Resources Director position in the Human 
Resources Department to a Senior Human Resources Analyst and one Administrative Technician position in the Public 
Works Department to an Engineering Technician I-II, and abolish the classification of Deputy Human Resources Director.
BACKGROUND:
Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), classification revisions become effective upon approval by the City 
Council.
Reallocate the Deputy Human Resources Director position to a Senior Human Resources Analyst
On June 15, 2020, City Council approved the reallocation of a Senior Human Resources Analyst position to a Deputy 
Human Resources Director position (2099-001) for a short duration of succession planning. With the retirement of the 
Director of Human Resources on November 6, 2021 and the appointment of the Deputy Human Resources Director into 
this leadership role, the Department of Human Resources is requesting to reallocate the Deputy Human Resources 
Director position back to the classification of Senior Human Resources Analyst. As it is no longer needed, the classification 
of Deputy Human Resources Director can be abolished.
Reallocate the Administrative Technician position to an Engineering Technician I-II
Historically, a merit Administrative Technician position has existed within Public Works to staff the counter and issue over- 
the-counter permits. The position does not perform permit reviews and is limited to administrative tasks. Public Works has 
seen a steady increase in permits in the last ten (10) years. In the last three (3) years, encroachment and building permit 
volumes have increased by 57% and 25%, respectively. In 2018, there were a total of 925 encroachment permits and 591 
building permits submitted for review. In 2020, staff reviewed 1,456 encroachment permits and 741 building permits. With 
the increased demand in encroachment and building permitting, the Public Works Department is requesting to reallocate a 
vacant Administrative Technician position to an Engineering Technician I-II to help reallocate resources to areas in the 
right-of-way group and assist with the increased demand.
BUDGET IMPACT:
If approved by Council, the reallocation of the Deputy Human Resources Director to a Senior Human Resources Analyst will 
result in approximately $55,000 of budget savings for the remainder of the fiscal year, split between the General Fund and 
the Workers’ Compensation Fund. The associated salary and benefits for the Senior Human Resources Analyst will be 
incorporated into next year's 2022-24 Business Plan.
If approved, the reallocation of an Administrative Technician position to an Engineering Technician I-II in the Public Works 
36 of 556

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Department would result in a net savings of $15,000 to the General Fund for fiscal year 2021-22.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that they will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
    Exhibit A – Amended 2021-22 Position Budget for the Human Resources Department
    Exhibit B – Amended 2021-22 Position Budget for the Public Works Department
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
37 of 556

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2021)
CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN THE HUMAN RESOURCES AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revision of job specifications must be 
approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes as detailed below are in response to 1) the retirement of the Human 
Resources Director and the appointment of the Deputy Human Resources Director into this leadership role; and 
2) the increased demand in encroachment and building permitting in the Public Works Department; and
WHEREAS, the Amended 2021-22 Position Budget for the Human Resources Department is attached 
hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference and the Amended 2021-22 Position Budget for the Public 
Works Department is attached as Exhibit B and incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have been informed of 
the classification updates and have not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that 
the following classification updates are approved:
1.
The reallocation of the Deputy Human Resources Director position to a Senior Human Resources 
Analyst; and
2.
The reallocation of an Administrative Technician position to an Engineering Technician I-II; and
3.
Abolishment of the Deputy Human Resources Director classification.
38 of 556

--- page 39 ---
Exhibit A
HUMAN RESOURCES
 
 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2021-22 
ADOPTED
2021-22 
AMENDED
Human Resources Director
1.00
1.00
Administrative Assistant
-
-
Deputy Human Resources Director
1.00
-
Human Resources Technician
4.00
4.00
Senior Human Resources Analyst
4.00
5.00
Senior Human Resources Analyst Risk Manager
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
11.00
11.00
Per Diem
0.20
0.20
Total Positions
11.20
11.20
39 of 556

--- page 40 ---
Exhibit B
PUBLIC WORKS
 
 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2021-22 
ADOPTED
2021-22 
AMENDED
Public Works Director
         1.00 
           1.00 
Administrative Assistant
         6.00 
           6.00 
Administrative Technician
         2.00 
           1.00 
Associate Transportation Planner
         1.00 
           1.00 
Building Maintenance Supervisor
         1.00 
           1.00 
Business Manager
         1.00 
           1.00 
Central Services Worker
         1.00 
           1.00 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
         1.00 
           1.00 
Construction Inspector I/II
         4.00 
           4.00 
Database Specialist
         1.00 
           1.00 
Deputy Director
         2.00 
           2.00 
Engineering Manager
         3.00 
           3.00 
Engineering Technician I/II
         5.00 
           6.00 
Environmental Compliance Inspector
         2.00 
           2.00 
Environmental Programs Coordinator
         1.00 
           1.00 
Executive Assistant
         1.00 
           1.00 
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
         1.00 
           1.00 
Facility Maintenance Worker
         2.00 
           2.00 
Field Maintenance Manager
         1.00 
           1.00 
Fleet Services Supervisor
         1.00 
           1.00 
Instrument Control Technician
         1.00 
           1.00 
Junior/Assistant/Associate Engineer
       12.00 
         12.00 
Laboratory Analyst I/II
         3.00 
           3.00 
Laboratory Supervisor
         1.00 
           1.00 
Laborer
         1.00 
           1.00 
Maintenance Planner
         1.00 
           1.00 
Maintenance Worker I/II
       24.00 
         24.00 
Management Analyst I/II
         3.00 
           3.00 
Principal Transportation Planner
         1.00 
           1.00 
Project Manager I/II
         3.00 
           3.00 
Public Works Maintenance Leadworker
         3.00 
           3.00 
Public Works Supervisor
         2.00 
           2.00 
Pump Station Mechanic I/II
         2.00 
           2.00 
Pump Station Mechanic III
         1.00 
           1.00 
Regulatory Compliance Manager
         1.00 
           1.00 
Senior Engineer
         7.00 
           7.00 
Senior Facility Maintenance Worker
         3.00 
           3.00 
Senior Management Analyst
         1.00 
           1.00 
Solid Waste and Recycling Program Coordinator
         1.00 
           1.00 
40 of 556

--- page 41 ---
Traffic and Light Technician
         1.00 
           1.00 
Traffic Engineering Technician
         1.00 
           1.00 
Traffic Safety Worker
         3.00 
           3.00 
WWTP Electrical Technician
         1.00 
           1.00 
WWTP Maintenance Superintendent
         1.00 
           1.00 
WWTP Manager
         1.00 
           1.00 
WWTP Mechanic I/II
         3.00 
           3.00 
WWTP Mechanic III
         1.00 
           1.00 
WWTP Operations Superintendent
         1.00 
           1.00 
WWTP Operator In-Training I/II
         9.00 
           9.00 
WWTP Operator III
         6.00 
           6.00 
WWTP Shift Supervisor
         4.00 
           4.00 
Waste Management Supervisor
         1.00 
           1.00 
Total Merit
    142.00 
      142.00 
Per Diem
         6.91 
           6.91 
Total Positions
    148.91 
      148.91 
41 of 556

--- page 42 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5412
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Police Department – Budgeted Positions Reallocation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate one authorized Senior Dispatcher position to a Dispatch Supervisor position; reallocate 
one authorized Senior Dispatcher position to a Dispatcher I/II position; and abolish the job classification of Senior 
Dispatcher.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Police Department operates a highly professional 24-hour emergency dispatch center that receives and 
dispatches 911 calls and requests for police services.  Authorized staffing for the Dispatch Unit consists of 13.0 full time 
Dispatchers, 2.0 Senior Dispatchers, and 1.0 Dispatch Supervisor who provides supervisorial oversight for the unit.  
Management oversight is provided by the Police Communications and Records Manager (Attachment 2).  
There is a need for enhanced daily supervisory coverage to support dispatch operations.  The current staffing model 
provides just one supervisor position, and the unit therefore does not have access to supervisor working every day.  In 
addition, the lone supervisor is often required to assist with call taking on the dispatch floor during times of staffing 
shortages, which reduces capacity for performing supervisorial duties.  The 2.0 Senior Dispatcher positions were intended 
to serve as the line-level points of contact for day-to-day operational issues, but this has proved problematic because the 
Senior positions do not wield actual supervisorial and decision-making authority.  In addition, the Senior Dispatcher 
positions count towards minimum staffing levels and are often needed to assist with call taking on the dispatch floor.
Staff wishes to reorganize the Dispatch Unit to an updated staffing model to improve operations while enhancing stability.  
By reallocating the 2.0 Senior Dispatcher positions to 1.0 Dispatch Supervisor and 1.0 Dispatcher I/II, the unit will have 
access to quality supervision daily and will be able to provide greater service to the community.  There will be no change to 
the total number of authorized positions.
The positional reallocations have been discussed with the impacted bargaining groups, and they are supportive of the 
changes.  Per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of position reallocations and abolishment of job 
classifications must by approved by City Council Resolution.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Reallocating 2.0 Senior Dispatcher positions to Dispatch Supervisor and a Dispatcher I/II position results in very minimal 
impact to the General Fund. It is estimated there will be no financial impact for the remainder of the 2021-22 fiscal year.  
The additional annual cost of this reorganization is estimated at $4,700 beginning in fiscal year 2022-23. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
42 of 556

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1 – Proposed Resolution
Attachment 2 – Current Dispatch Organization Chart
Attachment 3 – Proposed Dispatch Organization Chart
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Marie Silva, Police Communications and Records Manager
msilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7709
43 of 556

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
APPROVING REALLOCATION OF AUTHORIZED POSITIONS  
AND ABOLISHING A CLASSIFICATION IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of position 
reallocations and abolishment of classifications must be approved by City Council Resolution; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, staff proposes reorganizing positions assigned to the San Mateo Police Department Dispatch 
Unit to provide stability and greater service to the community; and  
 
WHEREAS, the proposed changes are as detailed below:  
 
1. Reallocate 1.00 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Senior Dispatcher position to 1.00 FTE Dispatch Supervisor 
position; and  
2. Reallocate 1.00 FTE Senior Dispatcher position to 1.00 FTE Dispatcher I/II position; and 
3. Abolish the classification of Senior Dispatcher; and 
 
WHEREAS, the job description for Senior Dispatcher is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by 
reference; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have reviewed the 
proposed changes and have not raised any objections or concerns. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
THAT:  
 
1. The reallocation of 1.00 FTE Senior Dispatcher position to 1.00 FTE Dispatch Supervisor position; and 
2. The reallocation of 1.00 FTE Senior Dispatcher position to 1.00 FTE Dispatcher I/II position; and 
3. The abolishment of the classification of Senior Dispatcher are approved.  
 
 
44 of 556

--- page 45 ---
EXHIBIT A

SENIOR DISPATCHER

DEFINITION

To perform all duties of a public safety dispatcher and to provide shift supervision over public safety
dispatch; to provide training and scheduling for lower level Dispatchers; to participate in all dispatch
operations using a computer aided dispatch system; and to do related work as required.

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This is the advanced journey level class in the Dispatcher senes. Positions at this level are
distinguished from other classes within the series by the level of responsibility assumed and the

complexity of duties assigned. Employees perform the most difficult and responsible types of duties
assigned to classes within this series including the performance of all dispatching duties in

conjunction with the supervision of a public safety dispatch shift and the training and scheduling of
subordinate dispatchers. Employees at this level are required to be fully trained in all procedures
related to assigned area of responsibility.

SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED

Receives supervision and direction from Dispatch Supervisor or higher level personnel.

Exercises technical and functional supervision over lower level staff.

EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to,
the following:

Supervise and perform the activities of the public safety dispatcher in the public safety dispatch center
on an assigned shift; assist dispatchers in emergency situations.

Provide on-the-job and formalized training to employees regarding departmental procedures and use
of dispatch equipment; prepare and maintain procedure manuals and other training materials.

Assist Dispatch Supervisor in selecting and evaluating employees, investigate and prepare reports on
compliments and complaints regarding employee performance.

Assign qualified personnel to train new employees in police dispatching; monitor the progress of new
employees.

Compose work schedules for Dispatchers.

45 of 556


--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo

Senior Dispatcher

Page 2

Process emergency calls from the public requesting police, fire, medical or other emergency services
within a number of local jurisdictions on computer aided dispatch terminal.

or other emergency units through computer aided mobile data terminals in accordance with
established procedures.

Maintain radio contact with all units on assignment; maintain status and location of police field units

Answer non-emergency calls for assistance; order tow trucks and emergency public works services, or
contact appropriate agency.

Supervise and coordinate emergency calls; relay information and assistance requests involving other
law enforcement and fire fighting agencies.

Operate teletype machine to retrieve information from teletype networks relating to wanted persons,
stolen property, vehicle registration, stolen vehicles and other information.

Contact relatives of victims of traffic collisions or crimes for identification of subjects. Contact district
attomey’'s office, probation officers, state parole officers, police agencies and fire agencies regarding
vanlous emergency and non-emergency incidents.

Coordinate countywide roadblocks with the sheriff's department during major crime incidents; contact
Perform a variety of record keeping, filing, indexing, and other general clencal work.

Test and inspect equipment as required.

Extract and prepare evidentiary recordings of radio and telephone transmissions resulting in legal
proceedings; may testify in court.

Schedule and attend departmental meetings.

JALIFICATIONS
of:

Modern office procedures, methods and computer equipment.

46 of 556


--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo
Senior Di
Page 3
Uses and capabilities of City’s computer aided dispatch system.
Procedures and policies pertaining to the dispatching of emergency equipment.
Public safety classification codes and computer commands.
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation.

Ability to:

Remain calm in emergencies and think and act quickly with good judgment.
Exercise independent judgment and work with a minimum of supervision.
Operate a sophisticated computer aided dispatch system quickly and accurately.
Effectively elicit information from irate and upset citizens.

Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.

Work various shifts as assigned.

Understand and follow oral and written instructions.

Supervise, train and evaluate assigned staff.

Operate a computerized dispatch teletype and other office equipment quickly, accurately, and, at

times, concurrently.

Type at a speed necessary for adequate job performance.

Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with those contacted in the course of
work.

Experience and Education
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge

47 of 556


--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo
Senior Dispatcher
Page 4
and abilities is qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:

Two years experience performing duties comparable to those of Dispatcher II in the City
of San Mateo.

Education:
Equivalent to the completion of the twelfth grade.

ADA

Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:

Ability to work in a standard office environment with some ability to sit for long periods of
times, twist, and reach.

ADOPTED CC: 4-12-98
REVISED CC: QA07-HR, 2-16-99, 6-2 1-9F0, 2-18-20)
FORMER TITLES:

BARGAINING UNIT: POA-NS.

FLSA: NON EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL: DISPATCHERS
DOT: Ni

PRE APPT MEDICAL: YES

SAFETY SENSITIVE: YES

FORM 700: Ni

JOB CODES: 4557
ABOLISHED:

48 of 556


--- page 49 ---
Police 
Communications 
and Records 
Manager
Dispatch Supervisor
Senior Dispatcher
Senior Dispatcher
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Att 2 – Current Organizational Chart
49 of 556

--- page 50 ---
Police 
Communications 
and Records 
Manager
Dispatch Supervisor
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Dispatcher I/II
Att 3 – Proposed Organizational Chart
Dispatch Supervisor
50 of 556

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5418
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Child Care Provider Relief Program – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Child Care Coordinating Council of San Mateo County to provide assistance to child care 
providers in the amount of $300,000 and authorize City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
On March 27, 2020, the United States Congress passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), 
which provided the City of San Mateo additional funding through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG-CV) 
from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) specifically to provide assistance to eligible 
communities, households, and persons economically impacted by COVID-19. The City has received a total of $1,260,683 
from two rounds of funding.
The County of San Mateo awarded grant funds to cover operating expenses for in-home childcare providers, through its 
Child Care Relief Fund. The program was extremely oversubscribed and 21 in-home childcare providers from the City of 
San Mateo applied and were not funded. At its study session on November 16, 2020, Council directed staff to award a 
portion of the second round of CDBG-CV funds to provide similar assistance to eligible unfunded applicants whose net 
business income is less than $97,000 per year.
The City entered into an agreement with the Child Care Coordinating Council of San Mateo County (4C’s) in January 2021 
to administer the program, including providing assistance to the providers in compiling the additional documentation that 
is required by the CDBG funding source. 4C’s has also conducted additional outreach so more providers can be assisted.
The agreement with 4C’s to administer this program expired on June 30, 2021. 4C’s and City staff underestimated the 
amount of time it would take to assist small business providers in the initial agreement. The new agreement will allow 4C’s 
to continue distributing assistance from July 1, 2021 until December 31, 2022. Redwood City also launched a similar 
program and experienced similar administrative issues. San Mateo, Redwood City, and 4C’s worked together to try to 
simplify the program and increase assistance to the childcare providers and therefore recommend that the amount of 
assistance granted per applicant should be increased to $20,000 to further stabilize the providers.
In the event that there are funds remaining at the end of the agreement in December 2022, staff recommends 
reprogramming them to Samaritan House for Emergency Housing Assistance.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City received a supplemental grant to its Community Development Block Grant fund from HUD that will cover the cost 
51 of 556

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of this agreement in the amount of $300,000. The funds need to be expended by June 2023.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
52 of 556

--- page 53 ---
1
AGREEMENT TO PROVIDE FUNDS
FOR COMMUNITY PURPOSES
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUND
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on this ___ day of _______ 2021, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation, hereinafter referred to as City, and 4CS OF 
SAN MATEO COUNTY, a nonprofit corporation, hereinafter referred to as Organization.
WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo ratified a declaration of local health emergency in response 
to COVID-19 on March 10, 2020; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic 
Security Act (CARES Act),  on March 27, 2020 which provided the City of San 
Mateo additional funding through the Community Development Block Grant 
program to facilitate assistance to eligible communities, households, and persons 
economically impacted by COVID-19;and 
WHEREAS, child care providers who are small businesses have been severely impacted by 
COVID-19 and many are at risk of closing due to increased operating costs and loss 
of income; and 
WHEREAS the City wishes to assist in stabilizing these small businesses by providing economic 
assistance to the low-income childcare providers in San Mateo. 
To achieve common goals in the community, the City and the Organization agree as follows:
1.
ORGANIZATION: The Organization is an independent contractor, organized in 
accordance with the laws of California, willing to and capable of performing such 
community services.
2.
SERVICES:  Organization shall provide the services and/or the improvements described in 
Exhibit "A", the Organization Project Scope
3.
FUNDING:  The source of City funds is the federal Community Development Block Grant 
Program (CDBG).  Funding shall be used for lawful purposes only.  The City reserves the 
right to cancel, lower or rescind the amount of funding provided in this agreement if federal 
funds are less than expected or other Congressional rescissions or restrictions to the program 
occur. There shall be no liability to Organization as a result of the lowering or canceling of 
the funding under this agreement.
Funding by City to Organization shall be on progress payment basis as often as monthly, but 
to ensure timely expenditures, not less than quarterly and shall in no event exceed $300,000. 
In the manner prescribed by the City, Organization shall provide an invoice for each request 
for payment that shall specify how the funds requested for reimbursement have been spent. 
Requests for payment may be made to cover: a) operating expenses incurred during the 
53 of 556

--- page 54 ---
2
period April 1, 2020 - December 31, 2022 (not to exceed $20,000) for family child care 
providers operating within the City of San Mateo; b) emergency health and safety supplies 
or services for family child care providers needed in response to the pandemic; and c) 
administrative expenses incurred by 4Cs of San Mateo County. 
 
 Organization shall maintain receipts related to each reimbursable expense for five (5) years. 
4.
AGREEMENT TERM:  This agreement shall terminate on December 31, 2022, or the date 
on which the Subrecipient no longer controls CDBG funds or other CDBG assets, including 
program income, whichever occurs later. 
5.
FISCAL AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES OF ORGANIZATION:  Organization 
shall:
A.
Comply with Federal Regulations, particularly the provisions of 2 CFR Part 200, 
“Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for 
Federal Awards”. 
B.
Establish and maintain a written system of accounts for budgeted funds that shall be in 
conformance with generally accepted principles of accounting.  Such system of 
accounts shall be subject to review, approval and inspection by City.
C.
Document all costs by maintaining complete and accurate records of all financial 
transactions, including, but not limited to, contracts, invoices, time cards, cash and 
charge receipts, vouchers, cancelled checks, bank statements and/or other official 
documentation evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of all transactions.
D.
Independent Audits:  Organizations must perform an independent fiscal audit once a 
year, in conformance with the generally accepted standard accounting principles.  
Such audits must identify the total funds received and disbursed as well as funds 
granted and expended.  The costs for such audits shall be at Organization's expense, 
unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.  The Organization Board of Directors 
must provide copies of the completed audits to the City within thirty (30) days of their 
completion and acceptance by the Organization Board of Directors.
E.
Disallowed Costs:  Disallowed costs are costs not allowed and approved by the City.  
Organization is liable for repayment of disallowed costs.  Disallowed costs may be 
identified through Quarterly Reports, audits, examination of invoices, monitoring or 
other sources.  Organization shall be afforded the opportunity to respond to any 
adverse findings which may lead to disallowed costs.  
F.
Activities described in this agreement must be carried out in compliance with the 
following Federal laws and regulations.
1)
Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 276a to 276a-5 and 29 CFR, Part 5), as it 
relates to the hiring of laborers and mechanics on construction projects.  Section 103 and 
54 of 556

--- page 55 ---
3
107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327 et. seq. and 
29 CFR Part 5).
2)
The flood insurance purchase requirements of Section 102(a) of the Flood Disaster 
Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001)(Pub. L. 93-234).
3)
The relocation requirements of Title II and the acquisition requirements of Title III of 
the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 
(Uniform Act)(42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and HUD implementing regulations, 49 CFR Part 
24.
4)
The lead-based paint requirements of 24 CFR Part 35 Subpart B issued pursuant to 
Section 401(b) of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4831(b)).
5)
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.)(Pub. L. 88-352) and 
implementing regulations 24 CFR Part 1 as it relates to prohibiting discriminatory action 
under any activity receiving Federal funds.
The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3620)(Pub. L. 90-284) as it ensures fair housing 
practices and prohibits housing discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, 
national origin, handicap, or familial status.
Executive Order 11063, as amended by Executive Order 12259 (3 CFR, 1959-1963 
Comp., p.652; 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p.307)(Equal Opportunity in Housing), and 
implementing regulations in 24 CFR Part 107, as they relate to non-discrimination in 
housing.
6)
Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended;  
and the regulations issued pursuant thereto 24 CFR Section 470.601 as it relates to 
prohibiting discriminatory actions in activities funded by Community Development 
Funds.
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.)(Pub. L. 94-135) as 
amended, and implementing regulations contained in 24 CFR part 146.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing 
regulations contained in 24 CFR part 8 as they relate to prohibiting discrimination 
against individuals with disabilities.
7)
Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Orders 11375, 11478, 12086 and 
12107 (Equal Employment Opportunity) and implementing regulations issued at 41 
CFR Chapter 60 and Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 
U.S.C. 1701u), as amended and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 135 as they 
relate to equal employment opportunities.
8)
Use of debarred, suspended, or ineligible contractors or subrecipients is prohibited 
directly or indirectly as part of this award as set forth in 24 CFR part 5.
9)
The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) which requires new 
Federally funded buildings and other facilities to be accessible to physically disabled 
persons.
55 of 556

--- page 56 ---
4
The Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131; 47 U.S.C. 155, 201, 218 and 
225)(ADA) which protects the comprehensive civil rights of individuals with 
disabilities.
10)
No member, officer or employee of the organization, or its designees or agents, no 
member of the governing body of the locality in which the program is situated, and no 
other public official of such locality or localities who exercises any functions or 
responsibilities with respect to the program during his/her tenure or for one year 
thereafter, shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or subcontract, or 
the proceeds thereof, for work to be performed in connection with the program assisted 
under the Grant, and that it shall incorporate, or cause to be incorporated, in all such 
contracts or subcontracts a provision prohibiting such interest pursuant to the purposes 
of the certification.
11)
There shall be no religious worship, instruction or proselytization as part of, or in 
connection with the performance of this agreement.
G.      For public works projects, comply with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.61 and state 
prevailing wage laws, including contractor registration with the Department of Industrial 
Relations. 
6.
RECORDS, REPORTS AND AUDITS OF ORGANIZATION:
A.
Establishment and Maintenance of Records: Organization shall maintain records, 
including but not limited to books, financial records, supporting documents, statistical 
records, personnel, property, and all other pertinent records sufficient to reflect 
properly (1) all direct and indirect costs of whatever nature claimed to have been 
incurred and anticipated to be incurred to perform this Agreement, and (2) all other 
matters covered by this Agreement.
B.
Preservation of Records: Organization shall reserve and make available its records:
1)
Until the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the submission of the 
annual financial status report.
2)
For such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable law; or
3)
If this Contract is completely or partially terminated the records relating to the 
work terminated shall be preserved and made available for a period of five (5) 
years from the date of any resulting final settlement.
C.
Program Report: Organization shall provide Program Reports to the City of San Mateo 
detailing progress made toward the provision of services as described in Exhibit "A".  
Reports are due by the 15th of the month following the end of each quarter.  
Organization shall include an Annual Report, in addition to the final quarterly report, 
which summarizes the achievement of stated outcomes for the program year.
56 of 556

--- page 57 ---
5
7.
SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION:  In accordance with   2 CFR 200.339, suspension 
or termination may occur if the subrecipient materially fails to comply with any term of the 
award, and the award may be terminated for convenience in accordance with 2 CFR 
200.339.
8.
INTEREST OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS:  No members, officers, employees or agents of 
the City, shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in this agreement or a related subcontract.
9.
INSPECTION OF PROGRAM:  It is understood that periodic review of the 
Organization's program will be necessary under procedures set forth in the City's CDBG 
Subrecipient Performance Monitoring Procedures.
10.
PROGRAM INCOME:  Organization shall record program income as part of the financial 
transactions of the program.  Organization agrees that program income shall only be used in 
performing services and activities specified in Exhibit "A".  Program income not used for these 
purposes shall be accounted for and returned to the City. Any program income received  and the 
associated services and activities shall be reported in the quarterly reports.
11.
REVERSION OF ASSETS:  If the Organization is dissolved or ceases to exist, any CDBG 
funds on hand at the time of its dissolution shall be accounted for per Section 4.B and 
immediately returned to the City.  Any real property owned by the Organization which was 
purchased or improved with City funds in the amount of $25,000 or more under the terms of 
this Agreement shall either:
A.
Be used to meet one of the CDBG national objectives for at least five (5) years after 
the expiration of this agreement; or 
B.
Be disposed of at a fair market value and a proration of these funds shall be returned to 
the City.  The proration will be based on the percentage of CDBG funds used to 
acquire or improve the property as part of this contract.
12.
ASSIGNABILITY:  Organization shall not assign this Agreement, and shall not transfer 
any interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the City.
13. HOLD HARMLESS:  Organization agrees to hold harmless, defend, and indemnify the 
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all 
claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of Organization’s performance or 
nonperformance of this Agreement. 
14. INSURANCE:  Organization shall” procure and maintain for the duration of the contract 
the insurance specified in Exhibit “B to this Agreement.
15. NONDISCRIMINATION:
a.
General:  No person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religious 
affiliation or non-affiliation, marital status, medical condition, sex, age, disability 
57 of 556

--- page 58 ---
6
status, sexual orientation or political affiliation, be excluded from participation in, be 
denied the benefits, or be subjected to discrimination or harassment under this 
agreement.
b. Employment:  Organization shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on 
objective standards of recruitment, selection, promotion, classification, 
compensation, performance evaluations, and management relations, for all 
employees under this agreement.  Organization's personnel policies shall be made 
available to City upon request.
16.
  PROJECT REPRESENTATION:  The City and Organization hereby designate the 
following agents to act as project representatives and receive all notices in the execution of 
this agreement.
CITY: 
Sandra Council
Housing Manager
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
ORGANIZATION:
David Fleishman
4Cs of San Mateo County
330 Twin Dolphin Drive, Suite 119
San Mateo, CA  94402
This agreement has been duly executed by the following parties:
4CS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
A nonprofit organization
a municipal corporation
By: 
By: 
  David Fleishman, Executive Director
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Date:
Date: 
Approved as to Form:
By:
        Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
58 of 556

--- page 59 ---
7
Attachments:
Exhibit A Project Scope
Exhibit B Insurance Requirements
59 of 556

--- page 60 ---
8
EXHIBIT A 
 PROJECT SCOPE
1. PROJECT SUMMARY:  Provide financial assistance in the form of payment to 
family child care providers operating in the City of San Mateo to cover operating 
expenses (not to exceed $20,000)  in order to stabilize their businesses to maintain an 
adequate supply of child care for children and families living or working in the City of 
San Mateo. This will be accomplished by assessing client eligibility according to the 
City’s funding guidelines set forth in this Agreement. Upon approval, payments will be 
disbursed directly to family child care providers. Additional funding, if available, will 
be used to purchase health and safety supplies and services related to the pandemic for 
distribution to family child care providers in the City of San Mateo.
2. RECIPIENT ELIGIBILITY: Individuals who receive expense assistance shall 
operate a family child care program in the City of San Mateo.  Each recipient shall be a 
“micro businesses”, defined as less than 5 employees including the owner, and whose 
net business proceeds, or pe shall not exceed the HUD Section 8 Income limits for a 
one person, low income household , which is $102,450 per year,  or $8,537.50 per 
month.
3. DETERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE AMOUNT: 4Cs of San Mateo County will 
use its standard procedures for determining the amount of assistance for each in-home 
child care provider.  In no event shall the total assistance to a family child care provider 
exceed $20,000. Recipients shall certify that they have not received duplication of 
benefits from other sources for the same time period, and they must agree to repay 
assistance if it is determined to be duplicative.
4.  INCOME VERIFICATION: Each client who applies to 4Cs of San Mateo County 
must be screened for income eligibility prior to receiving services. Each client has an 
intake packet in which they fill out the income and expense information. The packet 
includes documents such as screening forms, which gather information on 
demographics, household information, income and expenses, history of program 
utilization, and other relevant information. Supporting documentation is required to 
support eligibility and verify income including pay stubs, bank statements, tax 
statements, utility bills, lease agreements, benefit letters and other documents as 
appropriate. Other verification (i.e. direct staff contact with landlord) may be required. 
This third party documentation and/or client signatures on certification forms are 
available on file for review at all times. In the event that documentation is not available 
for income source(s), the applicant will supply a description and amount of income 
along with a reason that the documentation is not available. Provider will certify that all 
60 of 556

--- page 61 ---
9
application information is truthful. If the preceding two conditions are met in the event 
of missing documentation, this will suffice in verifying income.”
5.  PROJECT BUDGET:
Funding Sources
Amount
Notes
City of San Mateo
                                  300,000 
Total Operating Revenue
300,000
Pass through
Provider Stipends
                                  265,000 
Emergency Supplies
                                      5,004 
Total Pass through
270,004
Labor Related
FTE
Office Rent/Leases
99
Telephone
41
Postage
50
Equipment Lease/Software Licenses
375
Insurance
31
Operating Expense
596
Consulant
29,400
30 hours/week @ $35.00 per hour for 7 months
Total Operating Costs
29,400
Shared Costs 10%
Total Cost
300,000
City of San Mateo
Provider Stipend Program
61 of 556

--- page 62 ---
10
    EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to 
this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit.
2. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
If the Organization maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the Organization; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability 
arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Organization including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General 
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Organization’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later 
revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Organization’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
or agents shall be excess of the Organization’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the 
City.
62 of 556

--- page 63 ---
11
Waiver of Subrogation
Organization hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
Organization may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance.  Organization agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this 
waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received 
a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City 
may require the Organization to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide 
proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Organization shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall 
not waive the Organization’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by 
these specifications, at any time. 
63 of 556

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5419
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Housing Element Update Consulting Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services for Housing Element Update Services 
in the amount of $17,280 for a new agreement total of $147,100, and authorize the Community Development Director to 
execute the amendment.
BACKGROUND:
The City’s Housing Element of the General Plan is required to be updated, reviewed, and approved by California 
Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) in accordance with State guidelines. The next Housing 
Element update for San Mateo, as well as the entire San Francisco Bay Area, needs to be finalized by January 2023. The 
City entered into an agreement (Agreement) with Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services in the amount of $129,820 to assist 
staff in community outreach, assessing housing needs as well as housing characteristics and related demographics, and to 
prepare goals, policies, and programs to address those needs. 
Guidance has recently been published by HCD to assist jurisdictions comply with new revisions to Housing Element law 
that greatly expands the fair housing requirements to affirmatively further fair housing. This undertaking is substantially 
more than anyone predicted when the original agreement was executed in August 2020. Although the 21 Elements group 
has hired a consultant to complete some of this work for the county jurisdictions, it is unclear whether and to what extent 
the consultant can produce the requisite information within a timeframe that meets the needs of San Mateo’s Housing 
Element work. Therefore, this amendment to the Agreement includes additional consulting services to 
research and prepare the fair housing section of the Housing Element, including additional community engagement, for an 
increase to the agreement of $17,280. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed agreement amendment has no impact to the City's General Fund. The City received confirmation of a 
Regional Early Impact Planning ("REAP") Grant from the Association of Bay Area Governments in the amount of $69,865 to 
support the Housing Element update. REAP funds will be used to cover the $17,280 cost of this additional consulting work.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
64 of 556

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment 
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
65 of 556

--- page 66 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
DIANA R. ELROD CONSULTING SERVICES FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
HOUSING ELEMENT UPDATE
 ($147,100)
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and Diana R. Elrod Consulting Services (“Consultant”), a sole proprietorship,  entered 
into an Agreement for professional consultant services for the Housing Element Update 
(“Agreement”) on August 25, 2020; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective November 1, 
2020 to include additional services for the Housing Element Update to complete the fair housing 
requirements to affirmatively further fair housing in accordance with AB 686 for an additional cost of 
$17,280 for a new agreement total of $147,100. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1. Section 5 of the Agreement is amended to read:
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY 
agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount of $ 147,100, pursuant to rates 
stated in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
2. The following is added to “Project Approach” section of Exhibit A “Scope of Services” 
of the Agreement:
Research and prepare the Affirmative Further Fair Housing Plan of the Housing 
Element as a standalone document including additional community engagement.
3. The following is added to the “Costs and Common Efforts” section of the Exhibit A 
“Scope of Services”:
DIRECT 
TOTAL
DIRECT 
HOURS
AFFH Research and Narrative
$10,880
68
Fair Housing Action Plan
$5,120
32
Public Participation
$1,280
8
TOTAL
$17,280
108
66 of 556

--- page 67 ---
4. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and DIANA R. ELROD CONSULTING SERVICES have 
executed this Agreement on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Christina Horrisberger
Community Development Director
Diana R. Elrod
Sole Proprietor
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
67 of 556

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5367
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Clean Water Program – Program Management Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 7 to the agreement with CH2M to authorize scope and funding for the eighth year of program 
management services for the Clean Water Program; authorize payment in an amount not to exceed $11,132,000 for Year 8 
scope of services; establish a contingency amount of $1,113,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute this 
amendment and task amendments within the contingency amount in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) is a $1 billion capital improvement program necessary to replace aging infrastructure in 
the wastewater treatment plant and collection system to meet regulatory requirements. On October 20, 2014, Council 
approved a professional services agreement with CH2M to provide program management for the Clean Water Program for 
one year with automatic extensions for five additional years, with scope and funding for subsequent years to be 
authorized annually by the City Council. Council authorized the scope of services for years two through seven under 
Amendments No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 respectively. Amendment No. 5 also extended the agreement period through the 
completion of the Wastewater Treatment Plan (WWTP) Upgrade & Expansion Project, which is scheduled for completion 
in 2024. The scope and funding for each subsequent year continues to be jointly developed and negotiated between City 
and CH2M staff, with annual authorization by City Council. The recommended Amendment No. 7 details the scope of 
services and funding for Year 8 of the contract. 
In accordance with the City’s municipal code and policy for procurement of services, the City selected CH2M through a 
Request for Proposals issued in July 2014. City staff selected CH2M based on the quality of the firm’s proposal, 
qualifications, and experience in similar programs; quality of key staff and program organization; understanding of unique 
project issues; well-defined scope and approach; capacity for innovative approaches; identification of sufficient staffing 
and appropriate level of effort; and client references. 
Year 1 activities focused on developing the structure and team needed to deliver the CWP, performing validation studies 
for the WWTP, and continuing progress on current improvement projects. Year 2 activities focused on refining established 
project scopes, budgets, and schedules; shifting project delivery and execution; certifying and adopting the Programmatic 
Environmental Impact Report; and selecting the In-System Storage Program Approach. Year 3 and 4 activities focused on 
project implementation; completion of project-level alternative analyses; preliminary and final design; development of 
financing strategies; evaluation of impacts to ratepayers; public outreach; continuing environmental and permitting 
requirements for the projects; and evaluation of underground flow equalization system sites. Years 5 and 6 activities 
focused on shifting to construction phase for most of its projects; implementing financing strategies through bond 
financing and submission of letters of interest and applications to request State and Federal loans; continuing public 
outreach; continuing environmental and permitting requirements for projects; and completion of some of the projects. 
68 of 556

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
During Year 6, the Program started construction of Phases 2 and 3 of the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion project, which is the 
largest CWP project. In addition, the Program started construction on the largest collection system project, the 
Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) project. Year 7 activities have focused largely on construction management 
services for the WWTP projects and at UFES, as well as several other projects in the City’s collection system; continued 
project delivery; and programmatic support. 
Year 8 services will continue to focus on project delivery, shifting the remaining projects from design phase to construction 
phase, and project completions; execution and continued evaluation of finance strategies; and continued public outreach 
during construction. The scope continues to be based on a project and functional services structure designed to support, 
lead, and progress the Program. Tasks include program administration, program controls, economic management, 
document management, project management, hydraulic modeling, construction management and inspection, oversight of 
third-party construction management teams, environmental and permitting support, and public outreach. The detailed 
scope of services is described in Attachment 1 - Exhibit A. The following projects will be in design, in construction, or 
completed during Year 8: 
• In Design 
o WWTP Immediate Action Projects, Package 3 
o WWTP Annual Major Components (various packages) 
o Basins 2 & 3 – El Camino Real Relief 
o Basin 4 Collection System Capacity Improvements 
o East San Mateo Lift Station Improvements, Package 2 
o Various Sewer CCTV Inspections and Rehabilitations 
o Biennial Lift Station Rehabilitation 
• In Construction
o WWTP Upgrade & Expansion (Package 3) 
o WWTP Immediate Action Projects, Package 3 
o WWTP Annual Major Components (various packages) 
o Basins 2 & 3 – Delaware Street Relief Sewer 
o Basins 2 & 3 – Underground Flow Equalization System Project 
o Annual Sewer CCTV and Rehabilitations 
• Scheduled for Anticipated Construction Completion 
o WWTP Upgrade & Expansion (Packages 1 and 2) 
o WWTP Immediate Action Projects, Package 2 
o WWTP Annual Major Components (various packages) 
o El Camino Real Sewer Rehabilitation 
o Basins 2 & 3 – Dale Ave Pump Station Improvements 
o Basins 2 & 3 – Pacific Blvd Force Main 
CH2M will continue to provide project management and construction management for the wastewater treatment plant 
and construction management oversight of the collection system projects. Amendment No. 7 includes the jointly 
developed scope of services for Year 8 and the associated budget of $11,132,000. The level of effort and fee was 
negotiated based on quantity and complexity of projects and program needs anticipated for the ensuing year. Fee rates for 
base salaries of CH2M staff will be fixed for Year 8 and rate increases from Year 7 will not exceed one percent for all staff. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
On October 20, 2014, City Council approved a professional services agreement with CH2M to provide program 
management for the Clean Water Program. Amendments were approved for each subsequent year. The table below 
shows the agreement and amendment contracted values and the actuals spent per year. 
69 of 556

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Year
Agreement / 
Amendment
Contracted
Actuals Spent
Underrun
1
Original Agreement
$4,856,900
$4,856,900
$0
2
Amendment No. 1
$8,998,731
$8,998,731
$0
3
Amendment No. 2
$14,366,405
$11,270,001
$3,096,404
4
Amendment No. 3
$17,493,206
$13,722,696
$3,770,510
5
Amendment No. 4
$23,670,000
$12,180,400
$11,489,600
6
Amendment No. 5
$17,876,538
$13,641,446
$4,235,092
7
Amendment No. 6
$14,353,926
$13,860,000*
$493,926*
TOTAL
$101,615,706 
$78,530,174*
$23,085,532*
* Value includes Year 7 Actuals as an estimate at completion and will be confirmed in November 2021
The level of effort for Amendment No. 7 for Year 8 is estimated at an amount not to exceed $11,132,000, including a 
contingency budget of $1,113,000, to fund increased level of effort for certain tasks if determined necessary and 
authorized by the Public Works Director. Program Management tasks constitute approximately $2,807,000 and will be 
charged to the Program Management Project. Project-specific tasks such as project management and construction 
inspection, estimated at approximately $8,325,000, have been included in the budgets for, and will be charged to, the 
individual projects to which they pertain. The breakdown of proposed funding for Year 8 is below. 
Program Management
Account: 469981
Fiscal year 2021-22 Allocation: $6,692,000
Project Account Balance, including fiscal year 2021-22 allocation: $9,282,207.82
Year 8 Contract: $2,807,000 ($11,132,000 total - $8,325,000 project-specific charges) 
Remaining Budget:  $6,472,208 (sufficient to fund City staff and other direct PMO costs)
Project Management
Accounts:  469988, 46S001, 46S002, 46S003, 46S005, 46S090, 46S091, 46S092, 46S093, 46T003, 46T009, 46T010, 46T090
Fiscal year 2021-22 Allocation: $23,673,000
Project Account Balance, including fiscal year 2021-22 allocation: $120,343,969
Year 8 Contract: $8,325,000 ($11,132,000 total - $2,807,000 program management charges)  
Remaining Budget: Sufficient funding is available in each project to fund the planned costs of other project tasks
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Council approval of Amendment No. 7 to the Agreement between the City and CH2M is exempt from CEQA review 
because entering into a professional services agreement amendment for continued program management can be seen 
with certainty that there is no possibility that the amendment may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 7 with Exhibits A, C, and D
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
70 of 556

--- page 71 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
71 of 556

--- page 72 ---
1 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 7 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
CH2M HILL FOR 
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and CH2M HILL (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for 
Program Management Services (“Agreement”) on October 27, 2014; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to extend 
and amend program management services as described below. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1, “Scope of Project,” of the Agreement is amended to add 
services as described in Exhibit A to Amendment No. 7 and made a part 
hereof.  
 
2. 
Section 3.2, “Consultant,” of the Agreement is amended, as described in 
Exhibit D, to replace the stated key personnel and contractually commit 
the noted staff to the delivery of the Clean Water Program and made a part 
hereof. 
 
3. 
Section 5, “Duties of Consultant,” of the Agreement is amended to add 
services as described in Exhibit A to Amendment No. 7 and made a part 
hereof.  
 
4. 
Section 8, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to add services as 
described in Exhibit A to Amendment No. 7 and made a part hereof. 
 
5. 
Section 8, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to provide the 
updated cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C to Amendment No. 7 and 
made a part hereof.  
 
 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 of 556

--- page 73 ---
2 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
___________________________________ 
 
Azalea Mitch  
 
 
 
Ron Williams  
Public Works Director 
 
 
Senior Vice President  
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
_____________________________ 
 
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
 
Attachments: 
 
Exhibit A – CH2M HILL Year 8 Scope of Services 
 
Exhibit B – Not Applicable 
Exhibit C – Revised Rate and Cost Schedule Including Hourly Rates, Sub- 
Consultants, and Reimbursable Expenses 
 
Exhibit D – Clean Water Program Year 8 Staff Commitment  
73 of 556

--- page 74 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
1 
 
EXHIBIT A 
CH2M Year 8 SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
Task 01. Program Management and Administration 
Task 1 includes activities related to the general administration of the City of San Mateo (City) Clean 
Water Program (Program). This task will provide services to keep the Program on schedule and 
communicate and mitigate team or quality concerns. The CH2M Program Manager Advisor and Deputy 
Program Manager Advisor, the City Program Executive, the City Engineering Delivery Leads, the CH2M 
Construction Management Lead, and the CH2M Program Controls Lead, referred to as the Program 
Management Team (PMT), together will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Program 
team, including work assignments, and performance monitoring. They will work together to adjudicate 
competing operational requirements, communicate a common plan, and enable overall Program 
schedule flow. They will also facilitate Program-level decision making and accurate root-cause problem 
identification for early and decisive corrective actions needed to deliver the Program within budget and 
on schedule.  
Task 01.01 Program Management 
a. Program Management: Key responsibilities and activities to be performed by the Program 
Manager Advisor and Deputy Program Manager Advisor include, but are not limited to, the 
following: 
 
Ensure a safe working environment, strong communications and inclusion, and forward 
strategic thinking and planning for successful Program implementation. Ensure safety 
training and equipment is provided for construction and field work for all Program staff. 
 
Ensure high team performance, assign appropriate staff for delivery, and proactively track 
delivery, cost, scope, and schedule changes at a Program level. 
 
Manage and retain key staff, flex to fill gaps, and maintain Program succession planning. 
 
Support the Program’s political, Council, Commissions, and public outreach strategy and 
needs.  
 
Oversee the management, tracking, and reporting of Program monthly performance and 
progress, including: 
o Review earned value, cost performance index (CPI), and schedule performance 
index (SPI). 
o Establish Key milestones and track successes. 
o Oversee critical path activities and all functional teams - including project delivery, 
environment and permitting, public outreach, procurement, funding, and 
construction. 
o Review CH2M and subconsultants invoices. 
o Participate in Annual Economic Summits. 
74 of 556

--- page 75 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
2 
 
 
Support planning and Program transition into construction phase with focus on Construction 
Management (CM) services and staffing needs, and management of additional work sites 
(construction sites at Wastewater Treatment Plant [WWTP] and Collection System). 
 
Provide timely assistance problem solving to resolve critical issues or unforeseen events that 
may arise, such as: significant construction delays, large variation orders, unforeseen events 
that can impact scope, schedule and costs, regulatory permit non-compliance, any safety 
concerns, key staff losses and retention needs. 
 
Conduct a mid-year contract progress status and lessons learned summit with the City. 
Produce a presentation and agenda for the meeting. 
 
Provide Programmatic oversight, guidance and training related to Program processes and 
procedures.  
 
Support City Engineering and Delivery Leads as follows: 
o Resourcing of Project Managers 
o Monthly project reviews 
o Process and procedure ownership 
o Delivery consistency 
o Periodic audit of process compliance 
o Review of scopes, budgets, changes 
o Review of internal and external deliverables 
o Review of agreements, administrative reports (ARs), and Amendments 
o Review of Estimates at Completion (EAC)/Estimates to Complete (ETC) and schedule 
updates 
o Management of Project level risk reviews/updates 
 
Coordinate and lead project deep dives with project managers at least monthly for all 
projects.  
 
Lead change management activities in close coordination with a Change Management 
Board. Organize and manage the weekly Change Board meetings. Support tracking and 
management of Change Request Forms (CRFs); coordinate with Project Managers to review 
and approve Level 4 CRFs; and coordinate with Project Managers to prepare Level 3 CRFs for 
Change Board approval. 
 
Provide leadership for risk management at the Program and project level to support the 
mission of the Program at the lowest possible cost and per the defined schedule. Conduct an 
annual Program risk review and significant project phase change risk reviews. Coordinate 
with the PMT and Project Managers to facilitate risk updates and review, monitor, and 
update mitigation strategies. Hold the project managers accountable and coordinating risk 
updates with the Program Controls team. Bring risk concerns to the attention of the City and 
PMT on an as-needed basis and discuss in detail at risk management meetings or PMT 
meetings. At the project level, Project Managers are expected to update and communicate 
individual risks to the Program Manager Advisor. 
 
Implement the quality management plan developed in Year 1 and updated in Years 2 
through 7 of the Program. Provide quality assurance (not quality control) and work with the 
Program team to ensure that proper quality measures are taken to prevent additional risk to 
the Program and the City. Project Managers and Program staff will be accountable for 
quality of their own work and assurance of the work they are managing. 
75 of 556

--- page 76 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
3 
 
b. Program Oversight: The Principal in charge will perform a site visit and client debrief once each 
quarter.  PIC will meet with the City Manager, Public Works Director and/or Deputy Public 
Works Director during these site visits to review status of Program, CH2M team performance 
and other related topics. 
The following roles will be provided under this task: 
 
Program Manager Advisor: CH2M Program lead and Advisor to the City's Program Executive 
and Engineering Delivery Lead(s). 
 
Deputy Program Manager Advisor: Supports the Program Manager Advisor in the day-to-day 
management of the Program administration, ensures appropriate and adequate staffing from 
the CH2M team and supports the Programs Engineering and Delivery needs. 
 
Principal-in-Charge: As CH2M’s executive representative, ensures that the Program Manager 
Advisor and Deputy Program Manager Advisor have adequate resources to deliver the Program 
and are delivering to the satisfaction of the City. 
Deliverables  
1. Annual updates to PMP as needed. 
2. Annual list of program successes/achievements. 
3. Succession plan and staffing recommendations as needed. 
4. Annual risk management update, and phase change updates for individual projects. 
5. Incorporation of new project-specific risk registers into the Program risk register. 
6. Agenda and presentation for a mid-year contract progress status and lessons learned meeting 
(held in April/May). 
7. As needed training materials or presentations for Program related processes and procedures. 
8. As needed training materials or presentations for Project Management tools and performance 
monitoring.  
Assumptions 
1. City will provide the following roles to support this task and the Program: 
a. Program Executive 
b. Engineering Delivery Leads – WWTP and Collection Systems 
2. City will provide office accommodations for Program related meetings. 
3. Bi-weekly PMT coordination meetings will be held. 
4. Activities related to the Regional Service Customers and Partner Agency Coordination/support 
will be led by City. Any Regional Service Customers and Partner Agency Coordination effort 
requested of CH2M team members will be handled as a change and funded from contingency. 
5. Individual Project Managers will work directly with designers and contractors to develop and 
update project-specific risk registers. 
6. Change Management Board meeting participants will include the Program Manager Advisor, 
Deputy Program Manager Advisor, WWTP Construction Manager, City Public Works Director 
(Program Executive), Deputy Public Works Director and Engineering Delivery Leads. 
7. Program travel expenses will be limited to maximum of two trips to the Bay Area, any additional 
trips will result in a change order.  
76 of 556

--- page 77 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
4 
 
8. All requests for staff to travel to the Bay Area in support of the WWTP projects will be 
considered a change. 
9. Collection system project travel expenses will be limited to maximum of two trips to the Bay 
Area, any additional trips will result in a change order. 
Task 02. Program Controls 
Task 2 covers activities related to financial management of the Program, including Program Controls 
Management, Economic Management, Document Management, and State and Federal Funding 
Coordination.  
Task 02.01. Program Controls Management 
The Program Controls team will maintain accurate and timely data to analyze and report on the status of 
the Program and its individual projects, revealing areas of potential risk or opportunity and highlighting 
recurring problems or best practices that can be addressed at both project and Program levels. The 
Program Controls team will continue to use the system of integrated tools and processes to support the 
monitoring and reporting on true progress of projects considering the work physically completed and 
approved by the PM/CM Team, the time taken, and the actual costs incurred to complete that work. 
Program Controls will coordinate between the PMT, Project Managers, Program team members, and 
City to get the most updated cost, schedule, and change management data.  
The Program Controls responsibilities are categorized into two separate focus areas, Program-level and 
project-level as described below.  
a. Program Controls Management: Performs the following key activities: 
o Manage the Program Controls function and team. 
o Oversee general Program reporting. 
o Oversee document and Program SharePoint site management. 
o Prepare quarterly cash flow analysis. 
o Coordinate with Program functional leads and Project Managers. 
o Ensure quality control of Program Controls deliverables. 
b. Project Controls (Cost, Schedule, and Reporting). Perform the following key activities: 
o Use and maintain the standard program work breakdown structure (WBS) for all 
projects. 
o Prepare project baseline budgets and schedules and perform cost and schedule 
management/updates for Project Managers. 
o Provide monthly project controls support for Project Managers and Construction 
Managers. 
o Conduct monthly cost and schedule update meetings with Project Managers and 
Construction Managers. 
Deliverables  
1. Program cash flow analysis and memorandum: provide quarterly. 
2. Provide PDF of P6 project schedule and costs monthly for all projects. 
77 of 556

--- page 78 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
5 
 
Assumptions 
1. City will provide the Program Controls team with access to EDEN to download actual costs 
monthly. These costs are imported to Primavera P6 (P6). Invoices in EDEN can be delayed by up 
to three months; therefore, project accruals will be tracked, and actual costs will be confirmed 
when available in EDEN. 
2. The City will prepare annual project charters in support of their fiscal year budgeting process. 
CH2M will not provide support of the Charter process.  
3. Any special Program or Project Controls analyses or reports will be managed via contingency.  
4. CH2M will not provide support or updates to the Dashboard. 
 
Task 02.02. Economic Management  
The Economic Management team will provide the necessary revenue requirement projections to 
support the City’s decisions in project scheduling to determine optimum timing for bond sales, 
drawdowns, contingency management, and any necessary changes in rates. The financial modeling will 
be performed using CH2M’s proprietary tool, TACT. Results of the modeling scenarios will be provided 
biannually to the City in a memorandum or presentation format, but the actual model will not be 
provided to the City and all components will remain the property of CH2M.  
Perform TACT model update quarterly with new P6 information and financial data as available and 
relevant to support the production of a quarterly cashflow. 
Lead economic summits annually with City finance, Public Works leadership, Foster City, the City’s 
financial advisors, and the City’s rate consultant to discuss the following items: 
 
Financing scenarios 
 
Cost and schedule  
 
Cash flow 
 
Rates, rate structure, and rate implementation 
 
Financial plan 
 
Strategic funding 
Support compliance reporting as required by the terms of the Program’s WIFIA and State Revolving Fund 
(SRF) loans for the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project and Basins 2 and 3 Collection System 
Improvements Project. This reporting includes both annual and quarterly current and projected financial 
conditions. 
Manage the economic summits and provide economic modeling (using TACT) updates, data analysis, 
coordination with the City, and technical memorandum or presentation development associated with 
the TACT modeling. This effort includes providing similar services to Foster City. 
 
Deliverables 
1. Quarterly cash flow analysis. 
2. Economic and sensitivity modeling results annually in a memorandum or presentation format 
for decision-making purposes. 
78 of 556

--- page 79 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
6 
 
3. Annual Economic summit agenda, presentation, and meeting minutes. 
4. WIFIA compliance reporting deliverables. 
Assumptions 
1. TACT model will remain the property of CH2M and will not be provided to the City. Results will 
be provided in memorandum or presentation format.  
2. Rate setting will be conducted by the City’s rate consultant based on City directions. The City will 
contract with and manage their own rate consultant and financial advisor. Foster City will do the 
same. 
3. Any additional TACT modeling scenario analysis beyond the biannual update will be managed 
with contingency.  
4. All economic summits or meetings will be held virtually. 
Task 02.03. Document Management 
The Program team will use the Program SharePoint site to manage project-related documentation 
outside of construction management-related documents, which will be stored and managed in Procore. 
This will allow the team to collaborate on documents in progress and provide a repository for project 
records. As part of project close-out procedures, construction related documents will be archived onto 
the Program SharePoint site. 
 
The following activities will be performed under this task: 
 
Assist team with records storage within SharePoint. 
 
Maintain the term store and update as needed. 
 
Monitor SharePoint records for compliance with meta data requirements. 
 
Perform periodic records storage cleanup, clean recycle bin, check for duplicate records, etc. 
 
Prepare records management training materials and provide training, as needed. 
Deliverables 
1. Document management training materials for the Program team, as needed. 
Assumptions 
1. City will provide Document Controls support to perform the necessary City processes for 
document management, including coordination with the City Clerk’s Office and updates to the 
Terms-Store. 
2. City will provide SharePoint administrative support as needed for maintaining the Program 
SharePoint site environment and adequate storage capacity. 
3. Procore will be used for document management of construction-related records. 
4. Special requests from the City regarding SharePoint storage management or other special topics 
will be managed with contingency.  
5. City will provide a solution to move files from Procore to SharePoint for completed projects. 
79 of 556

--- page 80 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
7 
 
Task 02.04. State and Federal Funding Coordination 
The State and Federal Funding team will provide ongoing support of the Program’s SRF financing and 
WIFIA loan efforts.  
Activities will include coordination with State and Federal agencies and City Finance Department; 
coordination between the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (PFA) and the State and 
Federal agencies; preparation for State and Federal audits; coordination with the Program Controls and 
Economic Management team to update cash flow projections; preparation of documentation to comply 
with WIFIA quarterly reporting requirements; and quarterly check-in/coordination with the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for administration of both WIFIA loans. 
Deliverables  
1. Financing agreement with SRF for the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project.  
2. Quarterly project status reports to WIFIA. 
Assumptions 
1. City will support coordination efforts with State and Federal agencies, including facilitation of 
meetings with City Finance Department/PFA and WIFIA and SRF organizations, and provide 
input on processes needed to satisfy loan requirements.  
2. City Management Analyst team will lead development and review of invoicing forms and 
formats, CH2M to provide oversight and support.  
3. Review of City-prepared payment and invoicing forms and formats ensuring that they are 
acceptable to State and Federal agencies and support of initiation of inter-PFA invoicing process 
is not included in the base scope but could be added through use of contingency.  
4. The WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project was placed on the fundable list for SRF during Year 5, 
and efforts to enter a financing agreement with the state will continue. An allowance for level of 
effort is included for Funding Support – WWTP for anticipated coordination with SRF. Should the 
budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from the City to continue to provide 
as-needed support for this task. 
 
Task 03. Engineering and Project Management 
This task will consist of project management and engineering activities to meet the goals of the 
Program, provide the best and most efficient solutions, and keep the Program on schedule and within 
budget.  
Task 03.01. Engineering Delivery Management 
A CH2M Engineering Delivery Management role will not be provided in Year 8. The project management 
and delivery activities will be coordinated by the Program Manager Advisor and Deputy under Task 01 
Program Management. 
The City will provide two Engineering Delivery Leads who will oversee activities related to wastewater 
treatment plant and collection system projects with support from CH2M to provide a holistic 
80 of 556

--- page 81 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
8 
 
perspective of how each project impacts the overall Program and to assist the Engineering Delivery 
Leads in driving consistency across the projects. 
Task 03.02/03. Project Management 
CH2M will provide Project Managers to deliver Program projects for the collection system and the 
WWTP. Project Managers will be responsible for efficient delivery of projects by managing Consultants 
and Contractors, managing project scope, cost, schedule and quality, and communication with the 
Engineering Delivery team.  
Primary Project Management Team responsibilities during the design phase of the project are detailed 
below: 
 
Scope, budget, schedule management and reporting 
o Review, manage and monitor Consultant scope of work, monitor and track progress 
against scope of work and report progress monthly 
o Review, manage and monitor Consultant budgets; monitor and track project budgets 
and costs using Program tools; status project-level earned value progress and prepare 
EACs monthly; coordinate and facilitate value engineering reviews if needed 
o Develop and coordinate project level schedule; review, manage and monitor Consultant 
schedules; report status against schedule and provide monthly progress report 
o Coordinate with the Engineering Delivery team and Program Controls to ensure the 
latest project information is reported on the Performance Dashboard 
 
Risk management 
o Identify, develop, and maintain project level risks, risk definitions and assessments  
o Develop risk mitigation strategies 
o Coordinate with Risk Manager to provide risk updates to PMT 
 
Change management 
o Provide oversight and communication of project Decision Log  
o Negotiate and process consultant and contractor amendment requests; preparation of 
Change Request Form (CRF) 
o Control Scope by identifying and managing changes during design 
o Support development of materials for and presentation of CRFs to Change Board 
 
Procurement, task order and contract management 
o Review and negotiation of Consultant proposed scope and fee 
o Develop procurement documents for Consultant Agreements 
o Prepare Administrative Reports for City Council action 
o Administer and manage Consultant (professional services) agreements 
o Administer and manage task orders and purchase orders request forms/POARS 
associated with project needs, such as right of way acquisition, PG&E services, etc. 
o Prepare contract amendments and change orders 
o Manage and approve Consultant invoices/payments 
o Resolution of Consultant contract issues/disputes 
 
Team leadership and management  
o Coordinate project involvement of Functional Leads and Technical Advisors as 
appropriate 
81 of 556

--- page 82 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
9 
 
o Coordination and oversight of Consultant(s) or other third parties during all phases 
o Monthly reporting to Engineering Delivery Team  
o Inform PMT of progress and issues 
o Coordinate with other projects as needed 
 
Quality assurance 
o Verify Consultant implements quality control process 
o Assure that Consultant has addressed review comments in subsequent deliverables 
o Coordinate and facilitate constructability and O&M review workshops 
o Coordinate input/reviews by Program Technical Advisors 
o Review and verify that Consultant deliverables meet scope and contract requirements 
o Coordinate and facilitate deep dive reviews 
 
Coordination and management of stakeholder engagement 
o Coordinate and facilitate City Staff/O&M review workshops/meetings 
o Coordinate and facilitate engagement with utility companies, such as PG&E, Cal Water, 
Comcast, AT&T, etc. 
o Coordinate and facilitate engagement with City, San Mateo Planning, or other City 
Departments 
o Coordinate and support project-related public outreach activities 
o Coordinate and participate in easement negotiations with property owners, if applicable 
o Coordinate and support public, Commission, and City Council meetings 
o Support content development for community meeting presentations and related 
materials (posters, handouts, etc.); attend community meetings 
 
Coordination and management of communications and meetings 
o Coordinate and facilitate regular Consultant coordination/project status meetings 
o Prepare and distribute meeting notes for managed meetings 
o Inform project team of City and Program activities and decisions 
o Coordinate and facilitate responses to information requests from all parties including 
public 
o Participate in regular Project Manager/Engineering Delivery review meetings 
o Respond to Program’s communication hotline comments and questions related to 
project 
 
Document and records management 
o Project level document management 
o Consultant deliverable management – Quality assurance, distribution, and storage 
o Submit project or program documents to Document Controls Lead for review and record 
storage  
 
Technical Support 
o Engineering support to facilitate consistency in design 
o Technical guidance to the City on projects, activities, and planning 
o Review of remaining design deliverables for conformance with the Program objectives 
and criteria 
During the construction phase of the project, the project’s CM team takes over the primary 
responsibilities for construction delivery and these services are detailed under Task 05.  
 
82 of 556

--- page 83 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
10 
 
The Project Management Team responsibilities during the construction phase of the project, primarily 
in a supporting role to Construction Management, are as follows: 
 
Internal and External Coordination  
o Serve as point of contact with the Program Management Team as well as with 
operations staff 
o Support coordination with Program and project team regarding progress and issues 
o Support coordination with Collection System O&M staff, Wastewater Treatment Plant 
O&M staff, and other City departments for existing facility shutdowns and/or tie ins.  
o Backup to CM to receive and file monthly labor compliance reports 
o Respond to Program’s communication hotline comments and questions related to 
project 
o Inform project team of City and Program activities and decisions 
o Coordinate and facilitate responses to information requests from all parties including 
public 
 
 
Meetings 
o Support preconstruction meeting which also represents the official project hand-off 
from PM to CM 
o Participate in monthly project progress meetings 
o Support regular project meetings including schedule updates, risk management, 
progress payment, Change Board, and public outreach 
o Participate in regular Project Manager/Engineering Delivery review meetings 
 
 
Scope, Cost, Schedule Management and Reporting 
o Support review, approval, and maintenance of Schedule of Values; progress payment 
reviews and approvals; maintain contract financial data and summaries 
o Support baseline schedule review and acceptance; monthly schedule update reviews; 
review and approval of schedule changes and schedule recovery plans 
o Support monthly reporting, and SRF/WIFIA reporting, if applicable 
 
Change Management 
o Support tracking and management of all communications to assure response 
compliance 
o Support CM to prepare and issue Field Orders (FO)/Work Change Directives (WCD); 
prepare and issue Requests for Proposals (RFP); review Change Order Requests for 
Entitlement and Merit; review and negotiate change order Pricing; review and analyze 
change order schedule impacts 
o Support tracking and management of all Change Orders; coordinate with the 
Engineering Delivery team to review and approve Level 4 Change Orders; and 
coordinate with the Engineering Delivery team to prepare Level 3 Change Orders for 
Change Board approval. 
 
Quality Management 
o Support preparation of Submittals and Deliverables Inventory 
o Support updates to the Submittals and Deliverables Inventory 
 
Safety Management 
83 of 556

--- page 84 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
11 
 
o Support safety culture and CM Team with monitoring Contractor’s safety program and 
implementation thereof 
o Support review of safety incidents and reporting requirements 
 
Dispute Resolution 
o Lead review of Conformed Bid Documents before Award 
o Support Construction Manager to review issues for Entitlement and Merit 
o Support Construction Manager to prepare responses to correspondence 
o Support Construction Manager to conduct resolution meetings and negotiations 
 
Testing, Startup, and Commissioning 
o Support coordination of review and acceptance of Testing, Commissioning, and Startup 
Plans 
 
Project Close-out 
o Support Construction Manager in conducting Substantial and Final Completion 
Inspections 
o Support Construction Manager in recommendation of final acceptance of work by the 
City 
o Prepare and submit a project close out memo (summary of actual costs, and project 
highlights, challenges, and lessons learned), and presentation (when requested), to the 
PMT for review 
o Coordinate submittal of as-built drawings to the City and Hydraulic Modeling Lead for 
updates to the City’s GIS and hydraulic model 
The following projects will be managed under this task according to the scope described above and per 
the additional constraints/limitations noted below:  
Task 03.02 Wastewater Treatment Plant Projects 
a. SCADA Merger Project: CH2M will provide management, technical, start-up, and commissioning 
support for this project and serve as the primary coordinator between the City and the System 
Integrator Contractor for the SCADA Merger Project. Project is scheduled to complete in March 
2022. There will be no IT support provided for this project; if needed, CH2M will seek approval 
from the City.  
b. WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project: CH2M to provide project management for construction 
from November 2021 through October 2022. There will be no technical review or support 
provided for this project; if needed, CH2M will seek approval from the City.  
c. WWTP IAP 2 Project: CH2M to provide project management, technical, startup and 
commissioning support during the remaining construction period anticipated to be complete in 
February 2022. CH2M will provide support through March 2022. If the project schedule becomes 
further delayed or there is support needed on any post-project claim activities, CH2M will seek 
approval for additional budget from the City.  
d. WWTP IAP 3 Project: CH2M to provide general project management support, technical advice, 
and quality assurance review of the 90% design deliverable to the City Project Manager during 
the design and construction phase periods through October 2022. 
e. WWTP Annual Major Components (AMC) Project: CH2M to provide project management 
support only to the City Project Manager during the design and construction phase periods 
through October 2022. Projects include AMC 23 Gas Line Replacement, AMC 20.1 and AMC 20.2 
84 of 556

--- page 85 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
12 
 
Digester Heating, AMC 36 Sludge cake conveyor replacement, and AMC 37 Ferric to combined 
sludge line. 
Task 03.03 Collection System Projects 
a. Basin 2 & 3 - Overall Project Management: CH2M to provide overall project management 
oversight for the ongoing suite of Basin 2 & 3 projects through October 2022. This subtask covers 
the broader project management responsibilities at the overall Basin 2&3 project level. Task-
specific project management activities are allocated to the respective project-level subtasks. 
Additionally, under this task CH2M will provide up to 48 hours over the course of Year 8 for 
technical reviews associated with the remaining active construction and design projects. These 
types of reviews will support the City’s decision-making processes and risk management. 
Examples of the technical specialties anticipated include but are not limited to 
geotechnical/tunneling, hydraulic modeling, mechanical/process, and electrical engineering.  
b. Basins 2 & 3 – DAPS, Lift Stations Project: CH2M to provide project management during the 
remaining construction period anticipated to be complete in March 2022. Project closeout 
protocols and final documentation at completion is included in this effort for both DAPS and Lift 
Stations projects. 
c. Basins 2 & 3 – Pacific Blvd FM Project: CH2M to provide project management during the 
construction period anticipated to be complete in March 2022. Project closeout protocols and 
final documentation at completion is included in this effort. 
d. Basins 2 & 3 – Delaware Relief Project: CH2M to provide project management and as needed 
technical support during the construction period. Bidding is anticipated to be completed in 
October 2021. Construction notice to proceed is anticipated to for October 2021. The overall 
construction project is anticipated to be completed by December 2022 with final closeout 
protocols and documentation completed by February 2023. 
e. Basins 2 & 3 – UFES Project: CH2M to provide project management support to the City’s UFES 
Project Manager during the construction phase through October 2022. An allowance of up to 96 
hours over the course of Year 8 has been provide for this effort. The City’s UFES Project Manager 
will continue to be responsible for the overall management of the UFES project and will be 
responsible to complete final closeout protocols and documentation.  
f. 
Basins 2 &3 – El Camino Real North/South: CH2M to provide project management support and 
technical design quality reviews for the final design phase of both El Camino Real projects, 
currently anticipated to be completed by December 2021. CH2M will lead the bidding and 
contractor procurement for the El Camino Real – North package between January and March 
2022. CH2M will provide project management during the construction period for the El Camino 
Real – North Package, currently anticipated to begin in April 2022 through December 2022. 
CH2M will lead the bidding and contractor procurement for the El Camino Real – South project 
which will be deferred for bidding until September 2022. CH2M will provide project management 
during the construction period for the El Camino Real – South package between September 2022 
and October 2022.  
g. Basin 4 Project- Dale/Norton Relief Sewer Package: CH2M to provide project management, 
90% design package quality assurance review, 100% design package quality assurance review, 
and an allowance of up to 100 hours of technical support over the course of Year 8 during the 
remaining design period services anticipated to complete July 2022 for the Dale/Norton Relief 
85 of 556

--- page 86 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
13 
 
Sewer Bid Package. Provide project management during the construction period August 2022 
through October 2022 for the Dale/Norton Relief Sewer Bid Package. 
h. Basin 4 Project- Odor Control Package: CH2M to provide project management and technical 
support during the magnesium hydroxide dosing study anticipated to complete in February 2022.  
i. 
El Camino Real Annual Rehab Project Manager: CH2M to provide project management during 
the close out phase from November 2021 through March 2022. 
j. 
East San Mateo Lift Station Package 2: CH2M to provide an allowance of up to 48 hours of 
technical review of deliverables only. Project management is being provided by the City.  
Deliverables  
1. Procurement documents for Consultant pursuits. 
2. Project ETC/EAC updates monthly. 
3. Reviewed consultant invoices. 
4. Project schedule updates monthly. 
5. RACI charts for construction projects. 
6. Quality Control/Assurance Review Comments for consultant deliverables.  
7. Initial project risk register including mitigations and phase change risk updates. 
8. Draft contract agreements, amendments, change order requests, CRFs, and administrative 
reports as necessary for their respective projects. 
9. Quarterly report narrative for respective projects. 
10. Review comments for design submittals.  
11. Meeting notes for managed meetings. 
12. Coordinating project as-builts and supporting their incorporation into City records (i.e., GIS, 
hydraulic model).  
13. Project closeout memo. 
Assumptions 
1. City will provide project manager(s) and/or continue the project management responsibilities 
for the following projects: 
a. WWTP IAP 3 
b. WWTP AMCs 
c. Annual CCTV Inspections 
d. Basin A Annual Rehab  
e. Basin C Annual Rehab 
f. 
Basin E Annual Rehab 
g. East San Mateo Lift Station Package 2  
h. Biennial Lift Station Rehab Project 
i. 
Basin 2 & 3 UFES Project 
2. The following key responsibilities of the City Engineering Delivery Leads are not included in the 
CH2M scope for this task:  
a. PM to Project assignment. 
b. Issue and decision resolution. 
c. Inform PMT of project progress/issues. 
d. Ownership of public, council meetings. 
86 of 556

--- page 87 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
14 
 
e. Approval of scopes, budgets, changes. 
f. 
Approval of internal and external deliverables. 
g. Approval of agreements, ARs, amendments. 
h. Monitor project EACs and schedule. 
3. All staff managing projects will use Program management tools provided by the Program 
Controls Lead and manage projects on an earned value basis.  
4. Project changes will be reported by Project Managers (CH2M and City) to the Engineering 
Delivery team for their respective projects. 
5. Project and Program risks identified will be reported by Project Managers (CH2M and City) to 
the PMT for their respective projects. 
6. An allowance for level of effort is included for as needed Project Management and Technical 
Support to various Program projects. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will 
seek approval from the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this task on a project-
by-project basis. 
7. Ad hoc technical support or special investigations will be assumed to be out of scope and will be 
handled with change proposals. 
8. An allowance for level of effort is included for as needed Technical Support to various Program 
projects. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from the City to 
continue to provide as-needed support for this task. 
9. In order to provide a hydraulic review, Consultant design submittals will need to include a 
hydraulic model submittal reflecting the plans for Program model review. 
Task 03.04. Technical Support 
CH2M will provide engineering support to facilitate consistency in design, support Project Managers, 
and provide technical guidance to the City on Program-related projects, activities, and planning.  
Assumptions 
1. An allowance for level of effort is included for Technical Support to various Program efforts on 
an as-needed basis in project budgets. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded on any 
project, CH2M will seek approval from the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this 
task. There is no additional budget or allowance for Technical Support for any other Program 
activities.  
Task 03.05. Hydraulic Modeling 
CH2M will provide hydraulic modeling support as described below in Year 8: 
a. Provide comment response and implement final completion of Hydraulic Assessment Report 
following City review. 
b. Model maintenance anticipated tasks are the following: 
 
Convert existing hydraulic model version (currently 8.5) to the latest Innovyze version 
(11.0+) on City server. Perform this update after 100% Basins 2 & 3 Conveyance Packages 
submittals and model submittals from Stantec. 
 
As projects are completed, as-built data (to include x-y coordinate information) will be 
compiled for use in updating City geographical information system and City’s hydraulic 
87 of 556

--- page 88 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
15 
 
model. This will include updating operational controls following commissioning (i.e., flows 
and pump controls at DAPS, 38th and 41st Ave lift stations). 
c. Training: Allow up to 100 hours to provide ongoing training to support the City’s use of the 
hydraulic model, on topics as defined by the City. 
d. Allow up to 60 hours to perform development reviews for project applications submitted to the 
City’s Community Development Office. 
e. Flow monitoring support:  
 
Temporary flow monitoring is proposed to validate the need/design support for the Dale 
Norton.  Following work completed in year 7 (e.g., site selection, basin delineation, initial 
contracting support), flow monitors will be installed in the wet-weather season after 
November 2021. This task includes contracting and contractor oversight including QA/QC, 
analysis (e.g., wet-weather and dry-weather metrics, rainfall dependent inflow/infiltration 
characterization and ranking), and report review. 
 
Deliverables  
1. Final Hydraulic Assessment Report. 
2. Hydraulic model converted to Innovyze Version 11.0+ and as-built model data. 
3. Hydraulic model training sessions for City staff to include resource documents and data links. 
4. Development review assessments in technical memorandum format. 
5. Flow monitoring report for Dale Norton. 
Assumptions 
1. City review comments on the Hydraulic Assessment Report to be addressed will be minor 
comments that do not require additional modeling or analysis. 
2. City staff will provide coordination with and data from Thunderbird Communications where 
necessary to support Program related modeling efforts. 
3. City staff will perform the field investigations to verify system configuration and hydraulic 
conditions in support of development review assessments. 
4. City staff will provide requested data (e.g., WWTP influent flows) 
5. City IT support may be required to address access issues of using hydraulic model on City server. 
6. The scope above excludes any activities supporting SCADA related implementation. 
7. An allowance for level of effort is included for some tasks as noted above on an as-needed basis. 
Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from the City to continue 
to provide as-needed support for this task. 
 
Task 03.06. Odor Control Support 
CH2M odor control support will not be provided in Year 8. Any odor control support related specific to a 
project will be covered under the Project PM Team tasks. 
Task 03.07. SCADA Support 
The SCADA scope of work for Years 2 through 7 was developed as a result of the SCADA workshop with 
the City and the initial gap analysis performed by CH2M. SCADA work for Year 8 will focus on providing 
88 of 556

--- page 89 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
16 
 
general as-needed support for the ongoing projects and existing facilities. SCADA tasks to be performed 
by CH2M will be coordinated with the City’s Information Technology Department. 
Specific CH2M tasks will include the following: 
a. Continued SCADA as needed support: CH2M will provide an allowance of 123 hours technical 
support for SCADA, PLC and IT related tasks to the WWTP I&C team. 
Deliverables  
None. 
 
Assumptions 
1. The City will be responsible for inviting the appropriate participants and stakeholders for all 
project meetings. The Consultant will provide guidance on the proposed meeting attendees 
prior to each meeting. 
2. No hardware or software will be purchased for this project. 
3. No hardware or software configuration or programming work will be performed under this 
scope of work.  
4. An allowance for level of effort is included for SCADA Support to various Program projects on an 
as-needed basis. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from 
the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this task. 
5. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from the City to continue 
to provide as-needed support for this task. Requests for support from the City will need to be 
submitted to CH2M via email.  
Task 04. Procurement 
CH2M procurement support will not be provided in Year 8. 
The City will provide overall procurement management and City procurement support services to 
support the Program. 
Task 05. Construction Management 
This task provides programmatic oversight for the construction related activities of the Program as well 
as specific construction management services to deliver the construction phase for each project under 
the Program in coordination with the City staff, other Program staff, and City operations and 
maintenance staff. CM and inspection services for the WWTP projects will be performed by CH2M; 
collection system projects will be managed by the third-party CM subconsultants to CH2M or City direct 
hired CM consultants 
 
Task 05.01. Program Construction Management  
CH2M will provide overall program wide construction management oversight and leadership and staff 
management. CH2M will update and manage the Program wide construction management plan, 
89 of 556

--- page 90 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
17 
 
processes, and procedures.  In addition, CH2M will manage third party CM subconsultants as an 
integrated part of the CM team as well as City direct hired CM consultants.  
Program level CM services will include: 
a. Program Construction Management: Provide Program Construction Management Lead (CML) to 
provide Program wide construction management leadership and management. Maintain and 
update the Construction Management Guidelines as necessary. 
b. Construction document control and system administration: Provide and maintain a Program 
wide document management system (Procore). Review and negotiate an annual Procore 
contract extension. Provide contract administration of this system throughout the duration of 
the Program and perform project setup, user administration, training, and auditing of 
appropriate application of Procore.  
c. General Construction Administrative support: Provide general construction administration and 
office management for the Program. Manage and procure office supplies, PPE and other 
supplies as needed. Manage company fleet vehicles included licensing and registration, 
maintenance contract issues and payments. Other activities include visitor management, 
meeting note preparation and distribution, general document management and distribution, 
coordination of office furniture and office equipment supply and management, coordination of 
IT services and maintenance, meeting room and office space coordination, and mail 
management and distribution. 
d. Construction Management Reporting: Support the preparation, compilation and distribution of 
the project specific Change and Payment Summaries (CPS) for each active project.  
e. Labor compliance contract management: Provide contract management and administration 
(invoice and report review) of the two labor compliance subcontractors under direct contracts 
to the City. Prepare task order amendments for City authorization. Ensure that Labor 
Compliance consultants perform their obligated scope of services for the City of San Mateo to 
stay in compliance with the State.  Manage prevailing wage compliance for all Jacobs inspection 
staff including compiling and tracking timesheets and establishing prevailing wages for each 
project. 
f. 
Third-party Contract Management: Prepare, implement, and administer annual contract and 
amendments for third-party CM services agreement (Kennedy Jenks) and the two materials 
testing and specialty inspection firms (Signet and Smith Emery). Review and negotiate project 
level CM services scopes and fees for projects assigned to Kennedy Jenks. Prepare responsibility 
matrices for CM services projects assigned to Kennedy Jenks. Monitor the performance of the 
Kennedy Jenks CM services and material testing consultants including periodic reviews of 
deliverables and provide feedback to each company as necessary. Review and approve changes 
in proposed staff resources as necessary. Provide change management oversight including 
participation in monthly change review meetings with the 3rd party CMs to review contractor 
proposals, review of the Change and Payment Summary (CPS), Contractor change proposal 
review, and CRF and Change Order review and facilitation/oversight. Assist Kennedy Jenks with 
final balancing change order and project closeout process. Communicate and train the 3rd party 
CMs regarding Program processes and tools. 
g. Health and safety visits and reporting: Compile and tabulate health and safety statistics for the 
entire Program, coordinating with each contractor/CM team as necessary. Prepare monthly 
90 of 556

--- page 91 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
18 
 
summary reports in the form of a PowerPoint graphic that will be published in other Program 
reports. Extract and compile the certified payroll hours reported through the Department of 
Industrial Relations (DIR) for all contractor and subcontractor hours worked.  Compile all 
professional consulting service hours worked for incorporation into the total Program Safety 
Report metrics. Perform program wide quarterly HSE site visits to review and monitor 
contractor health and safety practices associated with active construction sites. Prepare brief 
summary report of these site visits summarizing positive performance as well as any corrective 
actions.  
Deliverables  
1. Updates as necessary to the Construction Management Guidelines.  
2. Annual Procore Contract extension. 
3. Monthly construction reports and CPS for each project. 
4. Third Party CM, Labor compliance and material testing contract amendments. 
5. RFPs for each CM services project need. 
6. Responsibility matrix for each CM services project. 
7. Monthly Health and Safety Statistics Report Graphic 
8. Health and safety statistics report, monthly. 
9. Quarterly health and safety site visit reports. 
Assumptions 
1. Program Manager Advisor role will double-hat as the Program CM Lead. 
2. Kennedy Jenks will be maintained as one of three third-party CM subconsultants and will remain 
as a subconsultant to CH2M, under this Program Management contract. The remaining two 
third-party CM subconsultants (TMI and Tanner Pacific) will have direct contracts to the City. 
3. Smith Emery and Signet will remain as subconsultants to CH2M for four months of Year 8, after 
which the City will contract with them directly for the remainder of the year.  
4. Program construction managers and inspectors will oversee third-party subconsultants to 
ensure proper implementation of the Program Management Plan. 
5. No CH2M estimating support is provided, estimating support will be requested from the 
designer of record when needed. 
 
Task 05.02/03. Site Construction Management 
The CH2M CM team will perform CM services for the active construction projects defined below. Work 
related to the WWTP projects will be performed solely by CH2M staff, and that related to the collection 
system will be provided by third-party subconsultants. Whether services are provided by CH2M or a 
subconsultant, the following general activities will be provided, at a minimum for each project during 
the construction phase: 
 
Weekly progress meetings 
 
Perform review of Contractor baseline and monthly schedule updates 
 
Actual vs. planned progress schedule management 
 
Prepare and respond to Time Impact Analysis (TIA)  
91 of 556

--- page 92 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
19 
 
 
Coordination with Contractor, Program Manager, City, O&M and Design Engineer 
 
Review of Contractor’s performance for contract compliance  
 
Review Contractor submittals for compliance with contract documents  
 
Review Contractor Request for Information (RFI) and coordinate with Design Engineer for 
resolution and response  
 
Log all RFIs and associated responses 
 
Review Contractor monthly invoices and recommend payment requests 
 
Provide Contractor with acceptability or deficiencies in work and required actions for contract 
compliance 
 
Review and coordinate system outage requests  
 
Maintain project documents files and utilize document management in Procore Construction 
Management System 
 
Inspect and observe Contractor’s work  
 
Maintain daily inspection reports  
 
Review of material and equipment delivery 
 
Coordinate material testing and specialty inspections 
 
Review of Contractor’s compliance with health and safety standards 
 
Monthly monitoring of Contractor’s record/as-built documents  
 
Evaluate potential change orders and cost estimates/quotations 
 
Recommend course of action for contract change order requests  
 
Inspection and evaluation of site conditions  
 
Review, gather, and evaluate information for resolution of potential claims 
 
Site inspection to determine if facilities are complete and in compliance with contract 
documents 
 
Develop punch lists 
 
Recommendation of retention release to Contractor 
 
Preparation of substantial completion certificate 
 
Verification of all O&M Manual submittals  
 
Coordination of final submittal and obtain/review complete record drawings from Contractor 
 
Verification that Contractor has made all payments  
 
Preparation and submittal of final construction report 
Task 05.02 Wastewater Treatment Plant 
CH2M will provide the above-described CM services for the following projects. 
a. WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project: Period of performance to be October 30, 2021 to 
October 28, 2022. 
b. WWTP IAP 2 Project: Period of performance to be October 30, 2021 to January 31, 2022. 
c. WWTP IAP 3 Project: Period of performance to be February 2022 to October 28, 2022. 
d. WWTP Annual Major Components (AMC) Projects: LOE is based on providing CM services for 
the following sub-projects: 
o  AMC 23 Gas Line Replacement: Period of performance is expected to be from October 
30, 2021 to April 30, 2022. 
92 of 556

--- page 93 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
20 
 
Task 05.03 Collection System  
CH2M or our direct subconsultants will provide the above-described CM services for the following 
collection system projects. Note, the CM services for projects not listed below will be performed by one 
of the two on-call City direct hired consultants. 
a. Basins 2 & 3 – DAPS Project: Kennedy Jenks will provide the CM services under contract to 
CH2M. LOE based on final completion and closeout by December 31, 2021. 
b. Basins 2 & 3 – Pacific Blvd FM Project:  Kennedy Jenks will provide the CM services under 
contract to CH2M. LOE based on final completion and closeout by December 31, 2021. 
c. Basins 2 & 3 – UFES Project: Kennedy Jenks will provide the CM services under contract to CH2M. 
LOE based on period of services from October 30, 2021 to October 28, 2022. 
 
Deliverables  
1. Monthly construction progress reporting (provided as part of the Clean Water Program monthly 
report) to include the following: construction progress reporting, schedule management, change 
management, potential claims analysis, non-compliance reporting, environmental compliance 
reporting, health & safety reporting, Request for Information statistics, and submittal processing 
statistics. 
2. Meeting minutes for construction progress meetings. 
3. Change order tracking and documentation. 
4. Progress payment review and recommendations. 
5. Daily inspection reports. 
6. Review of contractor’s proposed post-bid changes to the design and advising on their 
justification, viability, and achievable cost reductions and impact on the schedule, and 
negotiating changes or extra work on behalf of City.  
7. Close-out documentation. 
8. Shutdown Outage Requests. 
9. Coordination with the Project Manager to prepare and submit a project close-out memo 
(summary of actual costs, and project highlights, challenges, and lessons learned), and 
presentation (when requested), to the PMT for review. 
Assumptions 
1. CH2M will not be responsible for overall site safety for construction projects under the Clean 
Water Program.  
2. Upon City approval, CH2M will augment the third-party subconsultants in event they are unable 
to provide timely resources. 
3. CH2M or our direct subconsultants will not provide CM services for the Basins 2 & 3 – Delaware 
Relief Project. These services will be provided by Townsend Management under a direct 
consultant agreement to the City. 
4. Jacobs will coordinate with the City to assign future Collection System projects CM services. 
5. The number of inspectors budgeted for Year 8 is based on City direction. CH2M will perform 
inspection services within this available budget. As a result, it is anticipated that portions of the 
construction work will not receive continuous inspection by CH2M. In addition, CH2M staff will 
93 of 556

--- page 94 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
21 
 
limit overtime work to no more than 2% of the budgeted time, any overtime needed above this 
amount will result in a change request.  
Task 05.04 Material Testing and Special Inspections 
Material testing will include compaction testing for trenches, excavations, and sampling as necessary to 
determine the appropriate soil compaction tests. Material testing will also include sampling of rebar, 
concrete, welding materials as necessary, masonry, and special non-destructive testing as needed. 
Special inspections will include all testing required in the contract documents as well as any special 
inspections specifically added by the City of San Mateo Building Code Permit.   
a. WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project: Period of performance to be October 30, 2021 
to October 28, 2022.  
b. WWTP IAP 2 Project: Period of performance to be October 30, 2021 to January 31, 2022. 
c. WWTP Annual Major Components (AMC) Projects: LOE is based on providing CM 
services for the following sub-projects: 
d. Basins 2 & 3 – DAPS Project: LOE based on final completion and closeout by December 
31, 2021. 
e. Basins 2 & 3 – Pacific Blvd FM Project:  LOE based on final completion and closeout by 
December 31, 2021. 
f. 
Basins 2 & 3 – UFES Project: LOE based on period of services from October 30, 2021 to 
October 28, 2022. 
g. Basin 2 & 3 – Delaware Relief: LOE based on period of services from October 30, 2021 to 
October 31, 2022. 
h. Basin A Sewer Rehab: LOE based on period of services from April 1, 2022 to October 31, 
2022. 
i. 
Basin 2 & 3 – EL Camino North: LOE based on period of services from June 1, 2022 to 
October 31, 2022. 
j. 
Basin 4 Package 01 - Dale Norton Conveyance Relief: LOE based on period of services 
from August 1, 2022 to October 31, 2022. 
94 of 556

--- page 95 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
22 
 
Deliverables 
1. Material test reports. 
2. Special Inspection Reports. 
Assumptions 
1. The budget established for Material Testing and Special Inspections is based on a percent of 
construction cost basis. As such, the budget serves as an allowance against which the services 
are managed and tracked. If this baseline budget is exceeded, a change proposal will be 
submitted to increase the budget. 
2. The material testing and special inspection testing for the WWTP projects is based on an 
assumption of 0.75% of the estimated constructed value for the period of service. The allowance 
for collection system related projects is based on an allowance of 0.5% of the constructed value 
for the period of service. 
Task 06. Environmental and Permitting 
CH2M will provide oversight of project permitting, and continue to provide CEQA support, and site 
compliance support for the Program.  
Task 06.01. Environmental and Permitting Lead 
CH2M will provide a lead to oversee environmental documentation, permitting activities, and agency 
coordination related to the Clean Water Program. In this role, the Environmental Functional Lead will 
perform the following tasks: 
 
Coordinate directly with project management, construction management, and various 
subcontractors to discuss and resolve environmental compliance issues for the program. 
 
Provide technical support and oversight of permit conditions and updates (e.g., Industrial 
General Permit and Construction General Permit SWPPPs). 
 
Oversee periodic and routine site inspections of project sites to ensure proper Best 
Management Practice (BMP)s are maintained and implemented as required.  
 
Coordinate environmental monitoring and surveys for the program, including biological and 
cultural. 
 
Attend weekly construction meetings for the program 
 
Oversee and review the draft and final All Permits Issued (API) packages 
 
Hold biweekly Environmental Function Team meetings 
 
Coordinate budget and scope management with Program Controls and Program Management 
for the Environmental & Permitting task 
Task 06.02. Permitting Tracking 
CH2M will provide a Permitting Tracking Lead and maintain a permit tracking tool to offer the following 
benefits to the Program: 
 
Rapid and visible access to the status of all permits. 
 
Consistency and integration of project and Program level permitting strategies. 
 
Support and streamlining of Project Manager responsibilities. 
95 of 556

--- page 96 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
23 
 
 
Program related reference permitting documents, standard approaches, templates, and 
contacts. 
 
Instant access to all permitting documents by project. 
The Permit Tracking Lead will work with individual Project Managers and their consultants to confirm 
and track the required permits, associated permit requirements, and timeline. A permitting schedule will 
be maintained for each project. The permit tracking lead will coordinate with the Project Controls 
Manager on permitting schedules from the consultant teams so critical path items can be flagged for the 
Program Management Team. All permits will be tracked in the Permit Tracking Tool on the Portal. 
CH2M will also provide an API (All Permits Issued) Development Lead to ensure that all Clean Water 
Program projects have an API document on-site during construction activities. This document will 
provide access to permits by City staff, Program staff, or regulators when visiting construction sites. It is 
expected that all construction activities will be completed under the permit requirements.  
The environmental and permitting function team will continue to provide construction permit support 
to assist with coordination between the designer/consultant and construction contractors, on behalf of 
the City. This includes coordination between the contractor(s) and City to determine which City permits 
are required and which are exempt from City permitting for the various Program projects. 
The following activities will be provided under this task: 
 
Direct coordination with Project Managers and Engineering Delivery Leads to obtain permits and 
coordinate project scope and schedule information for APIs.  
 
Compilation of draft and final APIs  
 
Review of construction permits for the program (e.g., SWPPPs, Hazardous Materials 
Management Plans, soil and water quality reports). 
 
Provide technical support for existing and developing regulatory permits, including permit 
application completion and consult and subcontractor coordination and review of permit 
conditions (e.g., SWPPPs). 
 
Coordinate with Project Managers and Engineering Delivery Leads to update the Permit Tracking 
Tool (PTL) weekly.  
Deliverables  
1. Individual project permitting schedules submitted to Program Controls Lead. 
2. Update Permit Tracking Tool weekly. 
3. Construction permit review and comments 
4. APIs for construction projects under the Clean Water Program.  
Assumptions 
1. Project Managers will keep the Permit Tracking Lead up to date on permitting progress, will hold 
consultants accountable on the permitting schedule, and will raise any concerns with the 
Program team. 
2. All permits will be obtained by project-specific consultants. The consultant will serve as the 
agency point of contact with communications requiring approval of the Program. 
3. City will manage any regular reporting requirements by permitting agencies. The Program team 
will provide information and assistance related to Program permitting. 
96 of 556

--- page 97 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
24 
 
4. An allowance for level of effort is included for Construction Permit Support to various Program 
projects on an as-needed basis. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek 
approval from the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this task. 
Task 06.03. CEQA 
CH2M will provide CEQA support up to the level of effort that is established under this amendment. 
Items may include: 
 
Prepare Addenda for projects not requiring subsequent review. 
 
Review and development of categorical exemptions, Site-Specific Environmental Checklists 
(SSEC), or other CEQA documentation for projects before entering construction phase. 
 
Technical review of third-party environmental documents (e.g., Contractor-prepared 
Archaeological Monitoring Plan). 
Deliverables  
1. CEQA review comments for the API process documentation. 
2. Development of Site-Specific Environmental Checklists for project APIs 
Assumptions 
1. City will provide legal support for CEQA decisions and documentation as well as coordination 
between various City departments on the level of documentation and requirements of the CEQA 
process. 
2. An allowance for level of effort is included for CEQA Support to various Program projects on an 
as-needed basis. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M will seek approval from 
the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this task. 
Task 06.04. Agency Coordination 
CH2M agency coordination support will not be provided in Year 8. 
The City will provide overall agency coordination to support the Program. 
Task 06.05. Sustainability Support 
CH2M sustainability support will not be provided in year 8. 
Task 06.06. Site Support  
Task 06.06.01. Air Quality Support 
CH2M air quality support will not be provided in Year 8. 
The City will provide overall air quality support to the Program. 
Task 06.06.02. Compliance Site Inspection 
CH2M will provide support on an as needed basis to the City’s compliance staff for all Clean Water 
Program projects related to site permit items as well as the following as budget allows: 
97 of 556

--- page 98 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
25 
 
 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP): CH2M Compliance Site Inspection lead(s) will 
be available to supplement the City’s SWPPP compliance team. Additional periodic site 
inspections will take place to ensure that BMPs are properly maintained and implemented on 
active construction sites. 
 
Waste management (HAZMAT): CH2M will provide on-call HAZMAT technical experts as needed 
to support contractor decisions regarding hazardous materials disposal. 
 
Nesting bird monitoring and surveys (Migratory Bird Treaty Act [MBTA]): CH2M Biologist will be 
available to provide monitoring and inspection services on an as-needed basis. 
Deliverables  
1. Site survey and monitoring reports, to be defined on as needed basis. 
2. Updates to existing permits and applications. To be defined on as needed basis. 
Assumptions 
1. City will provide direction on any specific hazardous waste generator issues or compliance. City 
will be listed as the owner/generator on all Hazardous Waste manifests or compliance forms. 
2. The City will provide oversight for the construction SWPPP as is done for other construction 
projects within the City.   
3. The Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) will control all activities related to construction 
dewatering at the Detroit Drive parcel and CH2M will support City and Program as needed with 
technical expertise and oversight. Neither CH2M or the Program will be directly responsible for 
SWPPP, dewatering permitting, or compliance reports. 
4. CH2M will support City with Program issues related to the existing Industrial SWPPP at the 
existing wastewater treatment plant site but will not perform inspection on the existing site. 
CH2M will continue to coordinate with City inspection staff on the existing site to address 
SWPPP issues for the Industrial SWPPP. 
5. An allowance for level of effort is included for Compliance Site Inspection support to various 
Program projects on an as-needed basis. Should the budgeted allowance be exceeded, CH2M 
will seek approval from the City to continue to provide as-needed support for this task. 
6. Cultural monitoring support is not included in this scope. CH2M Cultural Monitor will not be 
available as needed to support the Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements and El 
Camino Sewer Rehabilitation projects and other projects. If needed, CH2M will seek approval 
from the City to provide as-needed support.  
Task 07. Public Outreach 
Task 07.01. Public Outreach 
CH2M will provide support to the City’s overall management of the Clean Water Program public 
outreach program and provide information related to the Program and projects to support outreach 
activities. CH2M will also provide outreach support at the project level for project managers, 
construction managers, and design consultants/contractors and continue to fine-tune and maximize 
efficiencies in public outreach processes.  
Public outreach activities will include: 
98 of 556

--- page 99 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
26 
 
a. Program-Level Support: 
o Manage, maintain, and develop the Program website content quarterly, including GIS 
related updates. 
o Develop and coordinate signage, door hangers, postcards, and other material for 
construction projects. 
b. WWTP Project-Specific Support: 
o Coordinate and develop CEQA-related and other legally required notifications for 
projects. 
o Maintain the public-facing website quarterly and provide adequate staffing to manage 
and develop content.  
c. Collection System Project-Specific Support: 
o Coordinate and develop CEQA-related and other legally required notifications for 
projects. 
o Maintain the public-facing website quarterly and provide adequate staffing to manage 
and develop content.  
o Develop UFES specific quarterly newsletters.  
 
Deliverables  
1. Quarterly website updates and content.  
Assumptions 
1. City will provide the following roles to support this task and the Program: 
a. Public Outreach Lead 
2. Support for community meetings will be addressed by contingency. 
Contingency 
CH2M can provide additional services under this scope of work through a contingency budget. Activities 
under contingency may include, but are not limited to: 
 
Additional outreach expenses and staffing. 
 
General project management beyond that budgeted and/or identified in the amendment. 
 
Program controls related special requests or reporting above that defined in scope of work. 
 
Technical expertise or support resources for Project Managers. 
 
Additional hydraulic modeling support if needed 
 
Additional CEQA support, permit acquisition, and compliance site inspection for other City 
projects. 
 
Preparation of scope of works, RFPs or Task Order Amendments and related negotiations for 
future third party CM services for City direct hired consultants. 
 
Additional construction management or inspection resources. 
 
Cost estimating support for the construction phase services. 
 
Additional SCADA support if needed.  
 
Additional third-party construction management or materials testing requirements. 
 
Bond and funding planning. 
99 of 556

--- page 100 ---
Revision 4: 20211011 
27 
 
 
Flow monitoring support:  
o Temporary flow monitoring is proposed to validate the need/design support for possibly 
the East San Mateo Lift Station projects. Following work completed in year 7 (e.g., site 
selection, basin delineation, initial contracting support), flow monitors will be installed 
in the wet-weather season after November 2021. This task includes contracting and 
contractor oversight including QA/QC, analysis (e.g., wet-weather and dry-weather 
metrics, rainfall dependent inflow/infiltration characterization and ranking), and report 
review. 
o Permanent flow monitors (I.e., El Cerrito and Polhemus) may be replaced by other 
monitors/contractors. This task includes supporting the program in establishing 
contracting requirements, report/data needs, and providing access for WWTP operators 
within business machines. 
 
WWTP IAP 3 Project CM Services: Period of performance to be February 2022 to October 28, 
2022. 
 
Public Outreach Support for community meetings 
 
SCADA system startup support for UFES and WWTP projects: CH2M will provide control system 
supervision and startup support to test and commission the overall wet weather treatment 
strategy as each of the facilities are brought online.  Develop/update overall operational 
strategy. CH2M will work with the City and the Program modeling team to install the correct 
software packages and to conduct the initial pilot tests for the overall operational strategy. 
Provide SCADA support services during construction for active projects. CH2M will review 
submittals, respond to Requests for Information (RFIs), and coordinate SCADA support for the 
various active projects, as well as technical and on-site support for the network monitoring 
contract. Update SCADA Master Plan and existing standards based on the SCADA Merger 
Project. 
 
During the 2021/2022 wet-weather season, verify accuracy and methodology of the rain and 
flow projection tools in coordination with WWTP Operators. Following tasks are anticipated: 
o Expanding tool to apply regression equations within the daily autogenerated reports 
o Operator coordination and review of the projection tools 
 
Miscellaneous flow monitoring data and analysis requests as requested by Clean Water 
Program. 
Contingency activities will be identified as needed and scope and fee will be developed and agreed upon 
by both CH2M and the City. Budget will be allocated from the contingency task.  
Deliverables  
1. Deliverables shall be defined for each contingency scope activity agreed. 
Assumptions 
1. Use of the contingency budget will be prioritized by the Program Executive and the Program 
Manager Advisor. 
100 of 556

--- page 101 ---
EXHIBIT C 
Rate ‐ Multiplier Plus Expense Payment Structure 
CH2M HILL Engineers, Inc 
 
Rate Fee Basis: 
As of November 1, 2021 
 
1. Hourly charge basis is for CH2M Staff and will consist of the following: 
 
Direct Wages: actual hourly salary for each individual 
 
Fringe Benefits:  40.7% of direct wages 
 
Overhead: 137.2% of direct wages 
 
Profit:  10% 
2. The CONSULTANT direct hourly wage rates and unit rates are effective through October 31, 2022. 
These hourly and unit rates may be negotiated by the CONSULTANT and the City, provided 
CONSULTANT submits written notice to City of CONSULTANT’s request to revise the hourly and unit 
rates thirty (30) calendar days prior to requested changes. Both parties will use as a benchmark for 
negotiations the percent change for the previous twelve (12) months of the “Employment Cost Index 
(ECI), for total compensation for private industry workers, for the San Francisco‐Oakland‐San Jose, CA 
CSA Census region and metropolitan area (not seasonally adjusted)” as published by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. A negative index will result in rates remaining the 
same and maximum increases should not exceed 3% per person except in cases where an employee 
has received a promotion and associated raise. These exceptions will be evaluated on a case‐by‐case 
basis.  
 
Direct Program CH2M Expenses: 
a. Reimbursable expenses for all non‐local staff (except those on Long‐Term Assignments). Staff that are 
assigned to San Francisco, Oakland, or San Jose offices are considered local.  
 
Personal use vehicles for Program Business & Visits to Sites @ IRS reimbursement rate/mile 
 
Program and Project Delivery Equipment rental/lease @ actual cost, as needed. 
 
Reproduction “Outside” Program Office Services @ cost, as needed. 
(Note: CH2M may lease up to 7 Program “Pool” Vehicle at the WWTP Construction site to be available 
to all CH2M Program Staff. The number of leased vehicles and type may change year to year based on 
CIP and construction needs and will be address in each annual scope submission by CONSULTANT) 
b. Reimbursable Expenses for Remote Staff Assigned via Long‐Term Assignments to the Program 
 
Travel meals and hotel @ 70% of Federal GSA per diem rate/day (updated annually) as 
published on the USGSA website. Receipts will not be required. 
 
Rental Car, airline tickets, and other miscellaneous travel costs to and from home city at actual 
cost. Receipts for all costs over $25 will be maintained and submitted with invoices. 
101 of 556

--- page 102 ---
c. Specialty software as required (cost is for new software beyond any software or internal modeling 
tools already provided in the Scope of Services – i.e. Portal Software Products, TACT, Voyage, etc.) 
once approved by City Program Manager. 
d. Sub‐consultant charges @ cost + 5%. 
e.  Other Direct Program Related Costs @ cost. 
f. PMA housing allowance (based on 50% of Federal GSA rates – updated annually and rounded to the 
nearest $1,000). 
Other: 
a. Budget changes, rate increases, and any allocation of contingency dollars to be approved by City 
Program Manager. 
b. Software portal services will include both hourly and monthly charges. City Program Manager to 
review and approve monthly charges. 
 
 
Notes: 
See Attached pdf with Cost Schedule for 2021‐22. 
102 of 556

--- page 103 ---
Exhibit C ‐ Cost Schedule ‐ City of San Mateo
Program Management Services for Clean Water Program ‐ Year 8
CH2M HILL
Labor Hours
 CH2M HILL Direct 
Wages 
 CH2M HILL Fringe 
Benefits (.407) 
 CH2M HILL 
Overhead (1.372) 
 CH2M HILL Profit 
(.10) 
 CH2M HILL Labor 
Cost 
 Subconsultant Cost 
 Markup on all 
Subconsultant 
Costs 
 Total Cost
Funding Source
Task 01. Program Management and Administration
Task 01 ‐ Program Manager Advisor
1,200
138,285
$                
56,282
$                 
189,727
$               
38,429
$                  
422,724
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
422,724
$                       
Program
Task 01 ‐ Deputy Program Manager Advisor
840
58,431
$                  
23,781
$                 
80,167
$                 
16,238
$                  
178,617
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
178,617
$                       
Program
Task 01 ‐ Principal In Charge
12
7,750
$                    
3,154
$                   
5,686
$                   
1,659
$                     
5,187
$                    
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
5,187
$                           
Program
Expenses
CH2M HILL Expenses
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
13,500
$                         
Program
PMA Housing Allowance
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
40,000
$                         
Program
Subcontractors
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                          
‐
$                   
‐
$                               
Task 01. Subtotal
2,052
 $               204,466   $                 83,218   $              275,580   $                  56,326   $               606,528   $                            ‐     $                      ‐     $                      660,028 
Task 02. Program Controls
Task 02 ‐ Program Controls Lead
1,776
168,781
$                
68,694
$                 
231,567
$               
46,904
$                  
515,946
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
515,946
$                       
Program
Task 02 ‐ Program/Project Controls Specialists
288
21,571
$                  
8,779
$                   
29,595
$                 
5,995
$                     
65,940
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
65,940
$                         
Program
Task 02 ‐ Economic Management
320
44,928
$                  
16,366
$                 
61,641
$                 
12,293
$                  
37,904
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
37,904
$                         
Program
Task 02 ‐ Document Management
480
78,092
$                  
29,783
$                 
107,142
$               
21,502
$                  
53,270
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
53,270
$                         
Program
Task 02 ‐ State and Federal Funding Coordination
192
78,092
$                  
29,783
$                 
107,142
$               
21,502
$                  
40,828
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
40,828
$                         
Project
Expenses
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                               
Subcontractors
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                          
‐
$                   
‐
$                               
Task 02. Subtotal
3,056
 $               391,464   $              153,406   $              537,088   $                108,196   $               713,888   $                            ‐     $                      ‐     $                      713,888 
Task 03. Engineering and Project Management
Task 03 ‐ Project Management ‐ WWTP
2,308
166,796
$                
67,886
$                 
228,844
$               
46,353
$                  
509,878
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
509,878
$                       
Project
Task 03 ‐ Project Management ‐ Collection Systems
2,309
174,842
$                
71,161
$                 
239,884
$               
48,589
$                  
534,476
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
534,476
$                       
Project 
Task 03 ‐ Hydraulic Modeling
456
36,386
$                  
14,809
$                 
49,921
$                 
10,112
$                  
111,228
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
111,228
$                       
Program 
Task 03 ‐  SCADA Support
123
9,676
$                    
3,938
$                   
13,275
$                 
2,689
$                     
29,578
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
29,578
$                         
Program 
Expenses
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                               
Subcontractors
ADS 
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                          
‐
$                   
41,015
$                         
Project
Task 03. Subtotal
5,196
 $               387,700   $              157,794   $              531,924   $                107,742   $            1,185,160   $                            ‐     $                      ‐     $                   1,226,175 
Task 04. Procurement Support ‐ not used
103 of 556

--- page 104 ---
Exhibit C ‐ Cost Schedule ‐ City of San Mateo
Program Management Services for Clean Water Program ‐ Year 8
CH2M HILL
Labor Hours
 CH2M HILL Direct 
Wages 
 CH2M HILL Fringe 
Benefits (.407) 
 CH2M HILL 
Overhead (1.372) 
 CH2M HILL Profit 
(.10) 
 CH2M HILL Labor 
Cost 
 Subconsultant Cost 
 Markup on all 
Subconsultant 
Costs 
 Total Cost
Funding Source
Task 05. Construction Management
Task 05 ‐ Program Construction Management
2,808
165,218
$                
67,244
$                 
226,679
$               
45,914
$                  
505,055
$                
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
505,055
$                       
Program
Task 05 ‐ Site Construction Management
22,232
1,452,518
$            
591,175
$               
1,992,855
$           
403,655
$                
4,440,203
$            
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
4,440,203
$                   
Project
Expenses
Construction Management Expenses
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
338,549
$                       
Program
Procore
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
231,363
$                       
Program
Subcontractors
3rd Party CM ‐ Kennedy/Jenks
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
1,877,257
$              
93,863
$             
1,971,120
$                   
Project
Materials Testing ‐ Signet
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
521,075
$                 
26,054
$             
547,129
$                       
Project
Materials Testing ‐ Smith‐Emery
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
100,940
$                 
5,047
$               
105,987
$                       
Project
Task 05. Subtotal
25,040
 $            1,617,736   $              658,419   $           2,219,534   $                449,569   $            4,945,258   $             2,499,272   $          124,964   $                   8,139,406 
Task 06. Environmental and Permitting
Task 06 ‐ Environmental and Permitting Lead
384
17,957
$                  
7,309
$                   
24,638
$                 
4,990
$                     
54,894
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
54,894
$                         
Program
Task 06 ‐ Construction Permit Support
240
11,028
$                  
4,488
$                   
15,130
$                 
3,065
$                     
33,710
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
33,710
$                         
Program
Task 06 ‐ API Development Lead
420
16,841
$                  
6,854
$                   
23,105
$                 
4,680
$                     
51,480
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
51,480
$                         
Program
Task 06 ‐ CEQA Lead
42
4,328
$                    
1,761
$                   
5,938
$                   
1,203
$                     
13,230
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
13,230
$                         
Program
Task 06 ‐ Compliance Site Support
334
23,007
$                  
9,364
$                   
31,566
$                 
6,394
$                     
70,331
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
70,331
$                         
Project
Expenses
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                               
Subcontractors
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                          
‐
$                   
‐
$                               
Task 06. Subtotal
1,420
 $                 73,161   $                 29,776   $              100,377   $                  20,331   $               223,645   $                            ‐     $                      ‐     $                      223,645 
Task 07. Public Outreach
Task 07 ‐ General Public Outreach Support
528
21,035
$                  
8,561
$                   
28,860
$                 
5,846
$                     
64,302
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
64,302
$                         
Project
Task 07 ‐ WWTP Public Outreach Support
102
4,944
$                    
2,012
$                   
6,783
$                   
1,374
$                     
15,114
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
15,114
$                         
Program
Task 07 ‐ Collection Systems Public Outreach Support
588
29,207
$                  
11,887
$                 
40,072
$                 
8,117
$                     
89,283
$                  
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
89,283
$                         
Program
Expenses
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                               
Subcontractors
None
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐‐‐
‐
$                               
Task 07. Subtotal
1,218
 $                 55,186   $                 22,461   $                75,715   $                  15,336   $               168,699   $                            ‐     $                      ‐     $                      168,699 
Subtotals
37,982
2,729,713
$            
1,105,073
$           
3,740,219
$           
757,500
$                
7,843,178
$            
2,499,272
$             
124,964
$          
11,131,840
$                 
Total 
11,132,000
$                 
Contingency
1,113,000
$                   
Program/Projects
Total with Contingency
12,245,000
$                 
104 of 556

--- page 105 ---
Exhibit D 
Clean Water Program Year 8 Staff Commitment 
Per Section 3.2 of the October 2014 agreement between the City of San Mateo and CH2M, CH2M is 
replacing the stated key personnel and contractually committing the following staff to the delivery of 
the Clean Water Program. If any of these staff leave the firm or are in a situation where they can no 
longer serve the Program, the City of San Mateo will participate in selecting and approving a 
replacement with equal or greater qualifications. 
Program Management and Administration 
 
• 
Mike Duvendack 
• 
Anna James 
 
Program Controls 
 
• 
Ignacio Yanez 
• 
Tim McDonough 
 
Engineering and Project Management 
 
• 
Leswin D'Cunha 
• 
Skye Handley 
• 
Makarand Pendse 
• 
Dan O'Leary 
• 
Dhumal Aturaliye 
 
 
 
Construction Management 
 
• 
CM TBD 
• 
Jennifer Clarke 
• 
Barbara Hollo de Andrade 
• 
John Klepac 
• 
Kyle Gostkowski 
• 
Rexel Boter 
• 
Mitchell Haskins 
• 
Craig Lozano 
• 
Pat Duck 
• 
Samneet Sing 
• 
Inspector Structural TBD 
• 
Inspector Mechanical TBD 
 
Environmental and Permitting 
 
• 
Eva Johanson 
 
 
Public Outreach 
 
• 
Shawna Haymon 
105 of 556

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5407
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
480 East 4th Avenue City-Owned Parcel – Grant of Easement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to grant an easement to Pacific Gas & Electric Company on the 480 East 4th Avenue City-owned parcel 
and authorize the Mayor to execute the grant of easement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On August 17, 2020, City Council approved Planning Application (PA) 2019-033 for the Kiku Crossing development, which 
includes 225 affordable housing residential units on the City-owned parcel located at 480 East 4th Avenue. In 2021, the 
applicant, Midpen Housing Corporation (Midpen), applied for a PA Modification (PA 2021-013) to make changes to the 
original planning application. City Council approved PA 2021-013 on May 17, 2021. 
Condition of Approval (COA) #62 of the project requires that the applicant quitclaim or revise an existing Pacific Gas & 
Electric Company (PG&E) easement on the parcel to build the project as approved. The existing PG&E easement is 
referenced in Attachment 2. To quitclaim the existing easement, PG&E must remove the existing PG&E equipment within 
the easement and propose new PG&E infrastructure in a separate location. Under the project’s building permit, Vizion 
Utility Partners, Midpen’s consultant, provided drawings indicating the location of the new PG&E infrastructure southwest 
of the existing equipment. The new PG&E infrastructure, consisting of a below-ground vault and electrical appurtenances, 
provides electric service along East 5th Avenue. The infrastructure requires clear working space and the space is partially 
within the City-owned parcel, so a new PG&E easement on the City-owned parcel is required. 
The plat and legal description of the new PG&E easement is in Exhibit A found in Attachment 1. The easement will allow 
for activities such as installation, maintenance, use, and access of the PG&E vault and its appurtenances, as further 
described in the Easement Deed in Exhibit A. The City’s mapping consultant reviewed the legal description and plat to be 
technically correct. Therefore, staff has no objections to the grant of easement to PG&E to facilitate build out of the 
project. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The costs associated with review of the plat and legal descriptions and associated materials will be charged against the 
Construction Services Fund, which can absorb this expense within its existing appropriation. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council adopted the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) of PA 2019-033 on August 17, 2020. 
Pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15162, the proposed modifications in PA 2021-
033 did not substantially change the information or conclusions of the IS/MND, therefore no additional CEQA review was 
required. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), granting the PG&E easement is exempt from CEQA as 
106 of 556

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
granting of an easement will not have a significant effect on the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Existing PG&E Easement
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
107 of 556

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
GRANT OF EASEMENT TO PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY 480 EAST 4th AVENUE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
(APN: 034-183-060) 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is the record owner of real property located at 480 East 4th Avenue in 
the City of San Mateo, California, APN 034-183-060; and 
 
WHEREAS, City Council approved the Kiku Crossing development of 225 affordable housing residential 
units (PA 2019-033) on August 17, 2020, and approved a Planning Application Modification (PA 2021-013) on 
May 17, 2021; and 
 
WHEREAS, condition of approval #62 of PA 2021-013 specifies that the applicant shall quitclaim an 
existing PG&E easement to build the project as approved; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, to quitclaim the existing easement, PG&E must remove the existing PG&E equipment within 
the easement and propose new PG&E infrastructure in a separate location; and 
 
WHEREAS, the location of the new PG&E infrastructure, which shall maintain electric service along East 
5th Avenue, is partially within the City-owned parcel at 480 East 4th Avenue and a grant of easement (Exhibit A) is 
required; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed PG&E easement is approximately 126 square feet further described in Exhibit 
A; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City’s contracted Licensed Surveyor approved the legal description and plat of the 
proposed PG&E easement as technically correct.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. The City Council adopted the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) of PA 2019-033 
on August 17, 2020, and pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15162, the proposed modifications in 
PA 2021-033 did not substantially change the information or conclusions of the IS/MND. 
 
2. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), granting the PG&E easement is exempt 
from CEQA as granting of an easement will not have a significant effect on the environment. 
 
3. The City Council authorizes the Mayor to execute the PG&E Easement Deed in substantially the form 
attached. 
 
4. The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the City Clerk to record a certified copy of this 
Resolution attested by the City Clerk under seal, with the San Mateo County recorder’s office. 
 
108 of 556

--- page 109 ---
EXHIBIT "A"
PG&E EASEMENT DEED 
PLAT & LEGAL DESCRIPTION
109 of 556

--- page 110 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO: 
 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015 
P.O. Box 770000 
San Francisco, California 94177 
 
 
 
Location:       City of San Mateo     
Recording Fee $_____________________________ 
Document Transfer Tax $       None      
[X] This is a conveyance where the consideration and 
      Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911). 
[  ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or 
[  ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens 
  & Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale 
[  ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This 
     document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY) 
LD# 2304-04-10036 
EASEMENT DEED 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal a municipal corporation of California,  
 
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a 
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, 
construct, reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use 
facilities and associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, 
gas, and PG&E communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under 
the easement area as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and 
across the lands of Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of 
California, described as follows: 
 
(APN 034-183-060) 
All of Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No. 324, filed for record February 7, 1991 
in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at page 52-53, San Mateo County Records. 
The said facilities and easement area is described as follows:  
Such underground conduits, pipes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical 
conductors; risers, switches, fuses and terminals; and fixtures and appurtenances 
necessary to any and all thereof, as Grantee deems necessary for the distribution of 
electric energy and communication purposes located within the parcel of land described 
as follows: 
The parcel of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto 
and made a part hereof. 
 
110 of 556

--- page 111 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without 
Grantee paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement 
area, and shall have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along 
each side of said easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with 
or be a hazard to the facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with 
applicable state or federal regulations. 
 
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement 
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction, 
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities and Grantee shall restore the 
property to its original condition and repair any damage resulting from its activities. 
 
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or 
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, 
or construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially 
add to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the 
maintenance and operation of said facilities.   
 
Grantee shall be responsible for any damage within said easement area and/or such portions of said 
lands contiguous to said easement area due to Grantees activities such as excavation, construction, 
reconstruction, replacement, removal, maintenance, inspection, access, and/or use of said facilities. 
Grantee shall repair, replace, and restore in kind the said damage at Grantee’s sole expense. 
 
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, 
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the 
respective parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land. 
 
Dated:  __________________, _______. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation of California,   
 
 
 
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signatures continued on next page. 
111 of 556

--- page 112 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
Signatures continued from preceding page. 
 
 
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title: 
 
 
 
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted  
on the ____ day of _________, 20____, by the 
_____________________________________ 
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement. 
By___________________________________ 
 
112 of 556

--- page 113 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State of California 
County of  
 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
On __________________________, before me,  
 
 
 
 
 
     Notary Public,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insert name 
personally appeared  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, who proved to me 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.   
 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and 
correct. 
 
 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (Seal) 
Signature of Notary Public 
 
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER 
 
[  ]  Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves 
 
[  ]  Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s) 
 
[  ]  Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s) 
 
[  ]  Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s) 
 
[  ]  Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s) 
 
[  ]  Other  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who 
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
113 of 556

--- page 114 ---
October 21, 2021 
BKF No. 20181271 
 Page 1 of 1 
 
Exhibit “A” 
Legal Description 
 
PG&E EASEMENT 
Lands of the City of San Mateo 
 
An easement over real property, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, 
and being a portion of Block 15, as shown on that certain Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded 
February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County, 
more particularly described as follows: 
 
COMMENCING at the Easterly most corner of Block 15, as shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map, 
said corner also being the intersection of the Southwesterly right of way line of South Claremont Street and 
the Northwesterly right of way line of East 5th Avenue; 
 
Thence leaving said Easterly most corner, and along said Northwesterly right of way line, South 48°30’30” 
West, 166.06 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; 
 
Thence along said right of way line, South 48°30’30” West, 20.50 feet;  
 
Thence leaving said right of way line, North 41°29’30” West, 6.17 feet; 
 
Thence along a line parallel with said right of way line, North 48°30’30” East, 20.50 feet;  
 
Thence South 41°29’30” East, 6.17 feet to said right of way line and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING. 
 
Containing an area of 126 square feet, more or less. 
 
Basis of Bearings: South 48°30’30” West along the Northwesterly right of way line of E. 5th Ave. as said 
line is shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map recorded in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 & 53, 
San Mateo County Records. 
 
As shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
 
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direct supervision in conformance with the 
requirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act. 
 
 
 
__________________________  
David Darling, L.S. 7625 
BKF Engineers 
 
___10-21-2021______________                                 
Dated 
114 of 556

--- page 115 ---
115 of 556

--- page 116 ---
Documents provided by DataTree LLC via it's proprietary imaging and delivery system. Copyright 2003, All rights reserved

. s

>
3-31 le (REY t-me

AFTER RECORDING, RETURN TO: '

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY | | |

Land Rights Office

111 Almaden Bivd, Rm, 814 OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
San Jose, CA 95115 ASSESSOR-COUNTY CLERK-RECORDER

WARREN SLOCUM

Recorded at Request of
location: city/taine PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC Co
Recording Fee

ee

Document Transfer Tax $ NCNE 98-103943 07/01/98 1e:22

[ §$ Computed on Full Value cl Property Convayed, or

{[ J} Ccepuced on Pull Value Less Lien & Encumbrances Recording vi
Remaining at Tine of Sale,

RKORWEK

Signature of dectarant or agent determining tax

(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY)
EASEMENT

“f

JACKSON-AMADOR ASSOCIATES, a California general partnership,

hercinafter called first party, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC
COMPANY, a California corporation, hereinafter called second party, the right from
time to time to construct, reconstruct, install, inspect, maintain, replace, remove, and use

facilities of the type hereinafter specified together with a right of way therefor, within a 42
strip or parcel of land or along a route as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and a
egress therefrom, over and across the lands situate in the__City of San Mateo, i
County of San Mateo, State of Califomia, described as follows: bea
(APN 034-183-060) ts
di
Lot 8 in Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No, 324 filed on A

February 7, 1991 for record in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at
page 52, San Mateo County Records.

Said facilities shall consist of

Such underground conduits, pipes, manholes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical
conductors; aboveground marker posts, risers, and service pedestals; underground and
aboveground switches, fuses, terminals, and transformers with associated concrete pads;
and fixtures and appurtenances necessary to any and all thereof, as second party deems
necessary located within the strip of land as shown upon the print of second party's
Drawing No. SJL-13485 (EXHIBIT A) attached hereto and made a part hereof,

"The legal description herein, or the map attached hereto, defining the location of this utility
distribution easement, was prepared by Pacific Gas and Electric Company pursuant to Section
8730 (c) of the Business and Professions Code,"

PG&E
COPY

116 of 556


--- page 117 ---
Documents provided by DataTree LLC via it's proprietary imaging and delivery system. Copyright 2003, All rights reserved.

4
°

First party shal! not erect or construct any building or other structure or drill or operate any

well under or within said strip of land.

First party further grants to second party the right to assign to another public utility as
defined in Section 216 of the California Public Utilities Code the right to install, inspect,
maintain, replace, remove and use communication facilities within said strip or route

(including ingress thereto and egress therefrom).

The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the

respective parties hereto,

Daca Y~- 29 19978.

Land Rights Offices San Jose
Peninsula Division

S.D. 0166E34144, SO. 10011067,
PLAT B-€-9, FB 154-45

DWG.NO, SJL-13485

M.D.B.& M., T.4S,,R.48/,
SEC.20, SE1/4 of SE1/4

FILE: 66234144 ,.DOC/KKC

JACKSON-AMADOR ASSOCIATES,
a California general partnership

General hartner

a

General partner

WiLL iter J, By Stop ye

117 of 556



--- page 118 ---
Documents provided by DataTree LLC via it's proprietary imaging and delivery system. Copyright 2003, All rights reserved.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF SONOMA

On this 1" day of May in the year 1998 before me, Janice E, McHale, a Notary Public
of said State, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared William J. Bishop,
known to me (or proved to me on the oath of to be the person whose name
is/are subscribed to the within instrument, and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the
instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed
the instrument

My Commission Expires; August 20, 2000

118 of 556

eet Nad

FO a

a

—


--- page 119 ---
Documents provided by DataTree LLC via it's proprietary imaging and delivery system. Copyright 2003, All rights reserved.

62-4202 Notary (General) Rey.8/91

state or OS Foy nic.
SS.

COUNTY OF frome Ac i
On 2 / 77) before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public for said State, personally

(4 personally known ta me -OR- [ ] proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the persan(s) whose
name{s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that hefshe/ihey executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) an the instrument the person(s), or
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

[ | Indivictualis} Sigrung For Onesed/Thamaeives

{ ] Corporate Crficer(s) of fhe Above Named Corparatior(s)

J] ] Guarchan of the Above Named Indivicksal{s)

romeo of the Above Named Partnershp(a}

| ] Attomey(s}-in-Fact of tha Abovs Named Panapays'

| | Trustees) of the Above Named Trust{a)
WITNESS oy hand and official scat,
{ ] Other

CHER! L. BONNER
Comm. #1144439
ROTARY PLELIC. CALIFORNIA ]
Maneds County “
iy Comsa. Expires Jane 23,2001 7

119 of 556

CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER



--- page 120 ---
Documents provided by DataTree LLC via it's proprietary imaging and delivery system. Copyright 2003, All rights reserved.

98103949

cota ‘Rev. 5/85 EXH | B [ T " A "
Z\

Right of Way Map

JREKSON-RHRDOR ASSOCIATES,
@ Lalifornia general partnership,
fast, #97-006167 >

C, L. OF 10° STRIP
UG; ELECTRIC RV) ———~

\
7.

o,., ’
0166E34144 N41 7H 20.0

APH 034-183
HAP B-6-9

jess othernise spun
@ii courses exten ‘9g or
along boundaries or lines

CITY, RANCHO, SUBDIVISION, ETC. SCALE OATE |

CITY OF SAN MATEO 1"=40' |1e-6-97

SECTION TOWNSHIP RANGE HERIDOIAN
au | WoBee
county of: SAN MATEO SE1/4 OF SE1/4

or. By: KKC CH. BY:
UG. ELECTRIC - 400
rererences E. 4TH, STREET |

120 of 556


--- page 121 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5421
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th Avenue Affordable Housing and Public Parking Garage – Appropriation and Project 
Agreements 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental appropriation of $50,000 to the Housing Land Project to meet the funding 
commitment for Kiku Crossing, an affordable housing project at 480 East 4th Avenue, and approve and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the following documents and approve future revisions and related documents, such as estoppel 
certificates, with the concurrence of the City Attorney, so long as the changes do not alter substantive rights and 
obligations of the City:
1) residential loan related documents for Kiku Crossing;
2) Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement;
3) Rent Regulatory Agreement; and
4) amendments to the Kiku Crossing Ground Lease, Garage License Agreement, Garage Easement, and Garage Operations 
and Management Agreement for the public parking garage at 400 East 5th Avenue, and the Disposition, Development and 
Loan Agreement for both the garage and Kiku Crossing.
BACKGROUND:
On August 17, 2020 the City Council approved a Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement (DDLA), with MP 
Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a subsidiary of Mid Pen Housing (Mid Pen) for the development of 225 family rental 
units (Kiku Crossing) and a public parking garage at the City owned parking lots at 480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th 
Avenue. The housing parcel at 480 East 4th Avenue will be leased to Mid Pen through a ground lease for 99 years for $1 
year and the upper floor of the parking garage will include a permanent easement for the residents of Kiku Crossing.  Mid 
Pen will coordinate the construction of the parking garage on the 400 East 5th Avenue site and the housing concurrently.
The City will provide $5.5M for construction of the housing and $5M for the parking garage. In addition, the City has 
already provided $2M to the project via a grant to the Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County 
(HEART) in order to obtain matching funds from the State of California. Mid Pen has finalized its financing package and is 
preparing to close on its construction loan, obtain the building permit, and begin construction in January 2022. Other 
major funding sources include $9M from other local and state programs, about $70M in investor equity raised from the 
Low Income Housing Tax Credits, as well as a permanent loan upon completion for about $72M with bond financing from 
the State California Housing Finance Agency.
Since the DDLA was executed, the project development and financing plans have been refined, resulting in the need to 
make modifications to the original DDLA. In addition, the other financing partners for this project have reviewed the DDLA 
and have made requests for minor revisions.  Key revisions include:

The total amount of City funding provided is changed from $12.5 M to $10.5M since the City has already funded 
121 of 556

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
$2M for this project to HEART directly. 

The interest rate of the residential loans is revised from 0% to 3%. 

Conversion of City’s $5M garage contribution from a loan to a grant.  The City did not intend that the contribution 
of capital funds to pay for the garage should be a loan originally, but it was structured that way in the initial 
agreement due to provisions of other financing that have now changed.  The funding is now known as the “Garage 
Grant”. The amendment also provides the phasing of the release of the funds for construction of the garage.

The affordability of the residential units is redefined as up to 120% of the area median income (“Moderate 
Income”) in order to avoid conflicts with the State Density Bonus law, which will require a regulatory agreement 
using State income definitions.  In actuality, other funding sources will restrict all of the units to affordability levels 
to up to 80% of area median income known as “Low Income”.

Additional language to clarify City’s disclosure of environmental hazards at the sites.

Updated language regarding accessibility of residential units. 

Clarifies that the deferred development impact fees will be based on the fees that are in place at the time of 
building permit issuance.

Clarifies the final parking count in the parking garage structure is not to exceed 696 spaces, as entitled. The current 
anticipated parking count has been reduced to 688 spaces based on design revisions to the interior layout to allow 
for vehicle movements and turn-around areas.
The following documents will be executed to commence construction of the housing and garage: 

Ground Lease. This restricts the use of the property for the affordable housing development for 99 years. The form 
of this agreement was included as an attachment to the DDLA but has now been amended based on the updates 
to the DDLA, the need to provide easements for streetlights and a segment of sidewalk to be located on a portion 
of the leased property, and comments from the other lenders. This document is provided with track changes 
turned on so that the changes can be easily viewed.

Density Bonus Agreement. This describes the increase in units and the waivers and concessions granted by the City 
to allow the construction of 225 units on the housing parcel instead of 164, since it is an 100% affordable project. 
The State allows that 20% of the units to be restricted to Moderate Income households.   

Regulatory Agreement. This describes the affordability restrictions and monitoring requirements based on the 
funding sources for the project over the life of the property. These affordability provisions are stricter than the 
Density Bonus Agreement and do not include any Moderate Income units.

Promissory Notes and Deed of Trust. These documents include the terms of the $5.5M in loans from the City at 3% 
for 55 years after completion of construction. Annual payments will be made as a percentage of the available cash 
flow of the property. The City is utilizing three funding sources including federal HOME funds ($650,000), former 
redevelopment funds called the Low- Moderate Income Housing Asset Funds ($2,850,000) and Commercial 
Linkage Fee funds ($2,000,000).

The HOME Loan Agreement. This describes the regulatory conditions that are specifically required by the federal 
funds in the project. 

Intercreditor Agreement. Since the County, the City and HEART are all contributing funding with similar terms, this 
agreement describes the how cash flow from the project will be paid to the local agencies on a pro rata basis. 

Garage License Agreement. This establishes the terms and conditions on which Mid Pen and its contractors may 
enter onto the City property in order construct the garage. The form of this agreement was included as an 
attachment to the DDLA but has now been amended based on comments from the other lenders.  This document 
is provided with track changes turned on so that the changes can be easily viewed.

Garage Easement. This provides easements to establish residential parking areas including access in the parking 
garage. The form of this agreement was included as an attachment to the DDLA but has now been amended based 
on comments from the other lenders.  This document is provided with track changes turned on so that the 
changes can be easily viewed.

Garage Operating and Maintenance Agreement. This establishes the division of responsibilities for the 
maintenance and operation of the Garage between the City and Mid Pen. The form of this agreement was 
included as an attachment to the DDLA but has now been amended based on minor changes to the project and 
comments from the other lenders.  This document is provided with track changes turned on so that the changes 
122 of 556

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
can be easily viewed.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City has committed to provide $5.5 M in loan proceeds from three funding sources for the housing prior to 
commencement of construction in January 2022: 
•
$650,000 from the City’s HOME funding program income 

$2,850,000 from the Low-Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund
•
$2,000,000 from the City’s Commercial Linkage Fee Fund 
These funds are substantially budgeted in the Housing Land Project for this development. However, an appropriation of 
$10,000 in Home Funds from available fund balance and $40,000 from Commercial Linkage Fee fund from available fund 
balance is needed to fully fund the total loan commitment. 
The City will provide $5 million of parking in-lieu funds for the construction of parking garage, which are already 
appropriated for this purpose in the City’s Capital Improvement Plan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City evaluated the environmental impacts and adopted a Mitigated Negative Declaration for the development of this 
project on August 17, 2020. These agreements are within the scope of, and are implementing, the approved project.  None 
of the conditions requiring additional environmental analysis are present and therefore the City is relying on the Mitigated 
Negative Declaration that was previously adopted for this project.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15162.)   
 NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - DDLA Amendment
Att 3 - Ground Lease with track changes
Att 4 - Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement
Att 5 - Regulatory Agreement and Declaration of Restrictive Covenants
Att 6 - Promissory Notes
Att 7 - Deed of Trust
Att 8 - HOME Loan Agreement
Att 9 - Intercreditor Agreement
Att 10 - Garage License Agreement with track changes
Att 11 - Garage Easement with track changes
Att 12 - Garage Operating and Maintenance Agreement with track changes
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
123 of 556

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROPRIATE $10,000 FROM HOME FUNDS AND $40,000 FROM COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEES INTO THE 
HOUSING LAND PROJECT
WHEREAS, on August 17, 2020 the City Council approved a Disposition, Development and Loan 
Agreement (DDLA) with MP Downtown San Mateo Associates L.P. for the development of 225 units of 
affordable housing and a public parking garage on the City-owned Downtown properties at 480 East 4th Avenue 
and 400 East 5th Avenue which includes $7.5 M in financial assistance for the housing; and
WHEREAS, the City budgeted funds to provide financial assistance for the housing in the Housing Lands 
Project 310416 from three funding sources and further funds are required to meet the housing loan 
commitments as described in the DDLA; and
WHERAS, there are available uncommitted funds in the HOME Investment Partnerships Program 
(HOME) funds and Commercial Linkage Fee Fund to meet the City’s housing loan commitment; and
WHEREAS, The City evaluated the environmental impacts and adopted a Mitigated Negative Declaration 
for the development of this project on August 17, 2020. Approval of this fund appropriation is not a project 
subject to CEQA, because it is an administrative activity that it will not cause a direct or indirect physical change 
in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
HOME funds in the amount of $10,000 and Commercial Linkage Fee funds in the amount of $40,000, 
both from available fund balances, are appropriated to Housing Land Project 310416.
124 of 556

--- page 125 ---
1
660\11\3156829.4
FIRST AMENDMENT TO DISPOSITION, DEVELOPMENT AND LOAN AGREEMENT
This First Amendment to Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement (the "First 
Amendment") is entered into as of November __, 2021, by and among the City of San Mateo, a 
California Charter City (the "City"), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a 
California limited partnership (the "Developer"), with reference to the following facts:
RECITALS
A.
The City and the Developer entered into that certain Disposition, Development 
and Loan Agreement dated as of August 17, 2020 and recorded on November 4, 2020 in the 
Official Records of San Mateo County as Instrument No. 2020-122930 (the "Original 
Agreement").  These recitals refer to and utilize certain capitalized terms which are defined in 
Section 1.5 of the Original Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this First Amendment, but not 
defined, shall have the meaning set forth in the Original Agreement.  In the event of any conflicts 
between the Recitals herein and the Recitals of the Original Agreement, the Recitals herein shall 
govern.
B.
The purpose of this First Amendment, authorized under Section 13.24 of the 
Original Agreement is to: (1) revise the amount of the City Loan; (2) adjust affordability levels 
of the Units, (3) specify when development impact fees are to be paid to the City; and (4) make 
necessary conforming amendments.
NOW, THEREFORE, the City and the Developer agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
AMENDMENTS TO ORIGINAL AGREEMENT
Section 1. Amendment to Section 1.5(j).  Section 1.5(j) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(j)
"City Financing" shall mean a loan, or loans, in an amount of Ten Million 
Dollars ($10,500,000), consisting of the "Residential Loans" made from the City to 
the Developer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Garage Grant made 
from the City to MidPen Housing Corporation ("MidPen") as further described in 
Section 3.1.
All references to City Loan in the Original Agreement are hereby amended to refer to 
the Residential Loan, except as otherwise indicated in this First Amendment."
Section 2. Amendment to Section 1.5(x).  Section 1.5(x) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
125 of 556

--- page 126 ---
660\11\3156829.4
"(x)
"Garage Grant" means the grant funds provided by the City to MidPen In-
Lieu Parking Fund for Garage Improvements as further described in Section 3.1, 
below."
All references to Garage Loan in the Original Agreement are hereby amended to refer 
to the Garage Grant.
Section 3. Amendment to Section 1.5(bb).  Section 1.5(bb) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(bb)
"General Public Employees" are defined as those who work for the City of 
San Mateo, County of San Mateo, and eight additional taxing entities that are the 
successors to the former Redevelopment Agency, or the State of California, or the 
Federal Government of the United States."
Section 4. Amendment to Section 1.5(pp).  Section 1.5(pp) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(pp)
"Promissory Note" shall mean the promissory notes that will evidence the 
Developer's obligation to repay the Residential Loans set forth in this Agreement.  
There will be three promissory notes in total, one for each funding source for the 
Residential Loan."
Section 5. Amendment to Section 1.5(hhh).  Section 1.5(hhh) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(hhh)
Intentionally omitted."
Section 6. Amendment to Section 2.1.  Section 2.1 of the Original Agreement is 
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"The Development is divided into two components, the "Residential Improvements" 
to be completed as the "Residential Development" to be located on the 480 East 4th 
Avenue property and the airspace over the adjacent public street, and the "Garage 
Improvements" to be completed as the "Garage Development" to be located on the 
400 East 5th Avenue property.  These improvements will be constructed concurrently 
and together make up the Development, as approved and entitled by the City."
Section 7. Amendment to Section 2.2(b).  Section 2.2 of the Original Agreement is 
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"The Residential Improvements consist of approximately two hundred and twenty 
five (225) units, including two unrestricted manager units, of multi-family rental 
housing, to be made available to and occupied by low income households, and 
including all common areas, amenities, plans, entitlements, appurtenances, 
improvements, easements, buildings and fixtures associated with Residential 
Property.  The residential units will be a mix of studios, one, two, and three-bedroom 
126 of 556

--- page 127 ---
660\11\3156829.4
apartments.  On-site amenities include a laundry room, and community space, and an 
interior courtyard with a play structure.  The Residential Improvements will include a 
restricted- access pedestrian bridge for the Residential Development's tenants, located 
in the airspace over the adjacent public street, connecting the Residential 
Improvements to the Garage Improvements.
(a) The Residential Improvements shall be owned, maintained, and operated by the 
Developer.
(b) Monthly rents will be calculated based on the household income, adjusted for 
household and apartment size. The income levels targeted will range from 30% AMI 
to at or below 120% AMI.  The specific income levels and associated rents will be 
dictated by state density bonus law and the City's regulatory agreements, which will 
be developed based on the project funding requirements.
(c) Intentionally omitted.
(d) To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the 
regulations of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
the Developer shall grant a preference in rental of seventy-three (73) of the units to 
otherwise qualified households that live, work or have been offered work (and who 
subsequently accept such offer) in the City.  For such units, the Developer shall grant 
an additional preference in rental of units to otherwise qualified households that have 
been displaced by activity of the City, the City's code enforcement activities, or as 
provided in Health and Safety Code Section 33411.3.
(e) To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the 
regulations of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
fifty-seven (57) of the units will have a preference for General Public Employees.  
For the avoidance of doubt, such units shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the 
units that have the live/work preference set forth in subsection (d) above.  First 
priority for these units shall be for General Public Employees who live or work in the 
City of San Mateo to occupy all 57 units with this preference.  In the event that there 
are an insufficient number of General Public Employees who live or work in the City 
of San Mateo and the twenty-five percent (25%) threshold is not met, the remaining 
available units will be rented to General Public Employees regardless of the location 
of their employment or residence.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, to the extent the 
preferences required under this Section are in conflict with the requirements of 
Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code and implementing guidelines, the 
requirements of Section 42 will supersede.
127 of 556

--- page 128 ---
660\11\3156829.4
(i) In addition, the City acknowledges that, to the extent permitted by other Project 
funding sources and to the extent permitted by applicable law including fair housing 
laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations of the HCD or the US Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, the Developer may also give preference for the 
occupancy and restrict eight (8) studio units, to qualified persons or households with 
intellectual/developmental disabilities (I/DD), as defined the Lanterman 
Developmental Disabilities Services Act (Welfare and Institutions Code Section 4400 
et. seq. and Title 17, Section 54000 of the California Code of Regulations, and who 
are receiving services from the Golden Gate Regional Center or another regional 
center.  The preference in this subsection (i) is not being imposed by the City and 
shall have no bearing on compliance with the requirements under this Agreement.  
For the avoidance of doubt, such units shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the 
units that have the live/work and General Public Employee preferences set forth in 
subsections (d) and (e) above "
Section 8. Amendment to Section 2.3(c).  Section 2.3(c) is hereby amended and 
restated in its entirety as follows:
"Two hundred and thirty-five (235) parking spaces are replacing existing public 
parking spaces on the Properties and the remaining spaces are additional parking 
spaces that will be dedicated as public parking for a total not to exceed five hundred 
and thirty-two (532) public parking spaces."
Section 9. Amendment to add Section 2.3(e).  Section 2.3(e) is hereby added to the 
Original Agreement as follows:
"(e)
The City will develop a shared parking permit program to allow tenants of 
the Residential Development to use public parking spaces during off-peak hours."
Section 10. Amendment to Section 3.1(a).  Section 3.1(a) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended to reflect a City Financing in the principal amount of Ten Million and Five 
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,500,000).
Section 11. Amendment to Section 3.1(b).  Section 3.1(b) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"Of the total City Financing amount, the City will provide to MidPen a Garage Grant in 
the amount of $5,000,000.  Commencing on or around the close of escrow, the City will 
disburse the Garage Grant to MidPen in increments of up to $2,000,000 per request 
following receipt by the City of invoices for construction of the Garage Improvements.  
City will disburse the requested funds to MidPen no later than 10 calendar days following 
receipt of such request and all required invoices.  MidPen shall loan all of the Garage 
Grant funds to the Developer for costs incurred by Developer for constructing the Garage 
Improvements."
128 of 556

--- page 129 ---
660\11\3156829.4
Section 12. Amendment to Section 3.1(c).  Section 3.1(c) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(c)
"Of the total loan amount, the City will provide $5.5 million to support the 
construction of the Residential Improvements, referred to hereafter as the "Residential 
Loans".  The source of these funds will be approximately as follows:
(1) $2,850,000 from the Low-Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund.
(2) $2,000,000 from the City's Commercial Linkage Fee (CLF) Fund. 
(3) $650,000 from the City's HOME funding program income, which will be 
evidenced by a separate agreement between the Developer and the City."
Section 13. Amendment to add Section 3.4.  The Original Agreement is hereby 
amended to add section 3.4 as follows:
"The City is granting an additional $2,000,000 from the City's Commercial Linkage 
Fee (CFL) Fund to HEART, the San Mateo County Regional Housing Trust, as matching 
funds for the California Local Housing Trust Fund (LHTF) Program.  HEART, by separate 
agreement, will lend the City's CLF funds to Developer with the same loan terms as 
described in this Agreement."
Section 14. Amendment to Section 4.1(a).  Section 4.1(a) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby deleted in its entirety and is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(a)
Intentionally omitted."
Section 15. Amendment to Section 4.1(b).  Section 4.1(b) of the Original Agreement 
is amended to read as follows:
"The Residential Loan shall accrue simple interest at three percent (3%) per annum 
on the principal amount, except in a Developer Event of Default, whereupon interest 
shall accrue from and after the date of the promissory Note until paid at the lower of: 
five percent (5%), or the highest rate permitted by law."
Section 16. Amendment to Section 4.5.  Section 4.5 of the Original Agreement is 
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"The Residential Loans shall be disbursed to the Developer within 15 days of the 
City's receipt of a written draw request from Developer, including certification that 
the conditions set forth in Section 4.4 continues to be satisfied, and setting forth the 
proposed uses of funds consistent with the Financing Plan, and, where applicable, a 
copy of the bill or invoice covering a construction incurred or to be incurred.  
The Garage Grant will be provided to MidPen as set forth in Section 3.1(b)."
129 of 556

--- page 130 ---
660\11\3156829.4
Section 17. Amendment to Section 4.6(b).  Section 4.6(b) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(b)
Payments.  Commencing on the May 1 occurring after the fiscal year in 
which the Residential Improvements are completed pursuant to this Agreement, and 
on each May 1 thereafter throughout the term of the Residential Loans, the Developer 
shall make repayments of the Residential Loans equal to a pro-rata share of fifty 
percent (50%) of Residual Receipts, if any.  The Residential Loans' pro rata share 
shall be determined based on the Residential Loans' proportionate amount relative to 
the other Residual Receipts loans provided by other Project public agency lenders.  
The Developer shall provide the City, within sixty (60) days following the end each 
of the Developer's fiscal year, a report showing the actual income and expenditures 
with respect to the Development for the immediately preceding fiscal year, the 
calculation of Annual Operating Expenses, Gross Revenue, and Residual Receipts 
and the status of all reserve funds. Payments made shall be credited first against 
accrued interest and then against outstanding principal."
Section 18. Amendment to Section 4.7.  Section 4.7 of the Original Agreement is 
hereby deleted in its entirety and hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"4.7
Intentionally Omitted.".
Section 19. Amendment to Section 5.3.  Section 5.3 of the Original Agreement is 
hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(a)
The City Manager's office will review Construction Plans for the 
Residential Improvements and the Garage Improvements concurrently with the 
Building Permit process.  While a separate review and approval process is not 
required, no building permit will be issued until any concerns of the City Manager's 
office have been resolved."
Section 20. Amendment to Section 6.6(a).  Section 6.6(a) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(a)
In fulfillment of the purposes of Health and Safety Code Section
25359.7(a), the City represents and warrants that it has no further knowledge, and no 
reasonable cause to believe, that any hazardous materials are located on or beneath 
the Property, except as disclosed in the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for 
480 East 4th Avenue dated July 31, 2018, the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
for 400 East 5th Avenue dated July 31, 2018, and the Limited Phase II Subsurface 
Investigation for 480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th Avenue dated November 29, 
2018, all prepared by AEI Consultants, in addition to the Environmental Site 
Characterization for 400 East Fifth Avenue and 480 East Fourth Avenue
130 of 556

--- page 131 ---
660\11\3156829.4
dated for February 6, 2020 and prepared by Langan Engineering and Environmental 
Services, and the Additional Environmental Sampling completed by Langan 
Engineering and Environmental Services, Inc. in August 2020."
Section 21. Amendment to Section 6.6(b).  Section 6.6(b) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(b)
The physical condition, possession or title of the Residential Property shall
be delivered from the City to the Developer in an as is condition, with no warranty 
expressed or implied by the City, including without limitation, the presence of 
hazardous materials or condition of the soil, its geology, the presence of known or 
unknown faults, or the suitability of the Residential Parcel for the Residential 
Development. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Developer shall be 
indemnified by the City from liability due to any environmental issues not
identified in the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for 480 East 4th Avenue 
dated July 31, 2018, the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for 400 East 5th 
Avenue dated July 31, 2018, and the Limited Phase II Subsurface Investigation for 
480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th Avenue dated November 29, 2018, all 
prepared by AEI Consultants, in addition to the Environmental Site Characterization 
for 400 East Fifth Avenue and 480 East Fourth Avenue dated for February 6, 2020 
and prepared by Langan Engineering and Environmental Services, Inc. and the 
Additional Environmental Sampling completed by Langan Engineering and 
Environmental Services, Inc. in August 2020.  For the purposes of clarification only, 
and to limit the Developer's indemnity required herein, the City agrees to indemnify 
Developer for any liability associated with groundwater contamination at or under the 
Site that first existed on the Site prior to the Closing Date; City further agrees to 
indemnify Developer from liability due to any environmental issue that arises 
independent from the purpose of this Agreement."
Section 22. Amendment to Section 7.8(d).  Section 7.8(d) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(d)
The Developer shall construct the Development to comply with all
applicable federal and state disabled persons accessibility requirements including but 
not limited to the Federal Fair Housing Act, Section 504 of the Construction Act of 
1973, Title II and/or Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title 24 
of the California Code of Regulations and the Uniform Federal Accessibility 
Standards. In compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
U.S.C. 794, et seq.), a minimum of twelve (12) units in the Development shall be 
constructed to be readily accessible and usable by households with a mobility 
impaired member and a minimum of five (5) units shall be constructed and to be 
readily accessible and usable by households with a hearing or visually impaired 
member."
Section 23. Amendment to Section 8.4(b).  Section 8.4(b) of the Original Agreement 
is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
131 of 556

--- page 132 ---
660\11\3156829.4
"(b)
The Developer will pay those City impact fees that are determined to 
apply to this project and in the amounts in effect at the time of building permit 
issuance.  In accordance with Government Code Section 66007, the impact fees will 
be due to the City at the earlier of the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy or 
the date of final inspection of the structure on which the impact fee is levied."
Section 24. Amendment to Section 10.4(a)(2).  Section 10.4(a)(2) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows
(2) Any Transfer directly resulting from the foreclosure of a Security Financing Interest, 
including the transfer in lieu of foreclosure to nominees of any Lender, or the granting of a deed 
in lieu of foreclosure of a Security Financing Interest, including the transfer in lieu of foreclosure 
to the nominees of any Lender and any subsequent transfer, or as otherwise permitted under 
Section 10.4, or not prohibited by this Agreement.
Section 25. Amendment to Section 11.3(a)(3).  Section 11.3(a)(3) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(3)
The City fails to make the Residential Loans in accordance with Section 
3.1 of this Agreement."
Section 26. Amendment to Section 11.4(b)(1).  Section 11.4(b)(1) of the Original 
Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
(1)
Termination of this Agreement by written notice to the Developer.
Section 27. Amendment to Section 13.1(a).  Section 13.1(a) is amended to add as an 
additional “with copy to” Developer notice party: 
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
AND:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
132 of 556

--- page 133 ---
660\11\3156829.4
AND:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Facsimile:  (213) 630-5799
Matter No: B0965-0600
Section 28. Amendment to Exhibit A-2.  Exhibit A-2, Legal Description of Airspace 
Above Adjacent Public Street, of the Original Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with 
the new Exhibit A-2, attached hereto as Attachment A.
Section 29. Amendment to Exhibit D.  Exhibit D, Initial Financing Plan, of the 
Original Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with the new Exhibit D, attached hereto as 
Attachment B.
133 of 556

--- page 134 ---
660\11\3156829.4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Developer have entered into this First 
Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
DEVELOPER:
MP DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO ASSOCIATES, L.P., a 
California limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC,
a California limited liability company,
its general partner 
By:
Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc., 
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation,
its sole member/manager
By:
__________________________________
Jan M. Lindenthal, Assistant Secretary
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California Charter City
By:
________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Approved as to legal form 
____________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
134 of 556

--- page 135 ---
660\11\3156829.4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
135 of 556

--- page 136 ---
660\11\3156829.4
ATTACHMENT A
Exhibit A-2
Updated Legal Description of Airspace above Adjacent Public Street
The final height, width, and location of the pedestrian bridge may change by no more than five 
(5) feet when the construction drawings are prepared
136 of 556

--- page 137 ---
me September 27, 2021
=_ BKF No. 20181271

FNGINFFRS / SWPVFYMRS) PLANNERS Page 1 of 1

PARTI
THREE-DIMENSIONAL PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE OVERCROSSING EASEMENT

Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of Califomma, descnbed as follows:
Being a portion of East 5* Avemue, a City street 60 feet wide, between Railroad Avenue and South
Claremont Street, as shown on that certam Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded m Book (4
of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County, more particularly descnbed as
follows:

COMMENCING at the Easterly most comer of Block 15 of the Town of San Mateo, as said block is
sideline of South Claremont Street and the Northwesterly sideline of East 5 Avenue;

Thence leaving said Easterly most comer, and along said Northwesterly sideline, South 48°30°30" West,
139.49 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, called Point #1 for the purposes of this description;

Thence leaving Point #land said Northwesterly sideline, South 41°29°00" East, 60.00 feet to Pomt #2 at
the Southeasterly sideline of East 5* Avenue;

Thence along said Southeasterly sidelme, South 48°30°30" West, 14.50 feet, to Pomt #3;
of E. 5% Avenue:

Thence along said sideline, North 48°30°30" East, 14.50 feet to said Point #1 and the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING of this description.

Contaming an area of 870 square feet, more or less, and bemg a three dimensional easement 14.42 feet
high, for which the base elevation at Point #1 and Point #4 is 163.16 feet, and the base elevation at Pomt
#2 and Point #3 is 165.94 feet.

The benchmark used to establish these elevations is San Mateo City Benchmark No. 033-004, a ram set
nail and waster set in the top of curb at the Northeasterly of the intersection of B Street and 5* Avenue,
City of San Mateo: Elevation = 125.28 feet (San Mateo datum + 100 feet).

As shown on PART I attached hereto and made a part hereof.

This Tegal deschption was Prepared by me or under my direct supervision im conformance with the

9-27-2021
Dated

660\11\3156829.4

137 of 556


--- page 138 ---
c
“POINT OF

f COMMENCEMENT

Je

CLAREMONT ST.
(7o" WIDE)

PG&E

=— SBE 145—-41-35

CITY OF SAN MATE
64 PM 53-53
S48°30'30°W 139_49°

APN 024-183-060
SAP a7 30"W 44.25"

7 TRUE POINT OF
| BEGINNING
e Paint #1

|

LANDS OF

S47°?9'00"E 60.00"

tl

-PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
OVERCROSSING EASEMENT ~,
~_ ___ARFA = 8/0 SQFELt — 4
N41'279"00"W 60.00"
PROPOSED BRIDGE
WOTH=11.33°

>
[—

N48"30"30°E

Paint g4

BASIS OF BEARING:

THE BEARING N4TS8'OO"W ALONG THE CENTERUNE OF
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET AS SHOWN OW THAT
CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY MAP RECORDED IN
BOOK 19 OF LICENSED LAND SURVEYS AT PAGE 82,
SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.

(DTSM—
Residential}

BENCHMARK:

THE SEMCHMARK USED FOR THIS SURVEY IS A CITY
OF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK, BM 033-004, A RAM
SET NaéIL AND WASHER GM THE TOP OF CURB AT

THE EASTERLY ENO OF NORTHEASTERLY RETURN AT
THE INTERSECTION OF 8 STREET AND STH AVENUE,
CITy OF SAN MATEO.

ELEV=125.28 FEET (SAN MATEQ OATUM +100 FEET)

PART II
PLAT TO ACCOMPANY
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

APN 033-281-140
LANDS OF CIT’ OF SAN MATEO

PARCEL 1

(NO APN)
“FD. RAILROAD RAIL,
CL BEARS BRS.
SAN'27'42"E O40"

PARCEL 1, 70 PM 3-4

Point #3

Points #2 dc fo
Bev.=180.56 (Top

-Paints #1 & m4

Bew=177.58 (Top)
| ~ 60.06" (ped, Bridge} 2
“PED. SRIDGE EASEMENT=, j=

I

Points #2 & ga J

Blev.=165.94 (Bottom)

(Garage)
SLOPE=4 fax

Paints # & 4
Elev=183.16 (Bottom)

E. 5TH AVE.

0.00" WIDE

|
| FG @ PL

Pd 121.2"

SECTION A-A

HOR. & WERT. SCALE: 1°=20°

Kr \2018181271_480_E47H\SUROWGEA SEMEN T\BRIDGE\PLAT_PEGESTRIANBRIDGE.OWG

1730 NW. FIRST STREET
SUITE 660)

SAN JOSE, CA 93112
Amd 7=9 ] 0)

weew kf com

660\11\3156829.4

Subject PED, BRIDGE OVERCROSSING ESMT.
E, 5TH AVE., SAN MATEO, CA
Job No, 20187271 DTSM-Residential
By DSD Tote 08-77-71 Chkd._DSD
SHEET 1 OF 1

138 of 556


--- page 139 ---
660\11\3156829.4
ATTACHMENT B
Exhibit D
Updated Financing Plan
Sources of Funds
CONSTRUCTION
PERMANENT
 
 
State, Local, Federal Assistance:
County of San Mateo
5,185,817
5,185,817
Accrued/Deferred Interest
270,398
270,398
City of San Mateo: Low-Mod Loan
2,850,000 
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
146,667
146,667
City of San Mateo: HOME Loan
650,000
650,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
33,450
33,450
City of San Mateo: Commercial Linkage Loan
2,000,000
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
102,924
102,924
MidPen Sponsor Loan: Parking Funds
5,000,000
5,000,000
HEART AHTF Loan
3,800,000
3,800,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
198,139
198,139
Deferred Developer Fee
2,000,000
2,000,000
Capital Contributions – General Partner
100
100
Capital Contributions – Limited Partner
21,783,250
73,252,978
Bank of America TE Construction Bond
85,000,000
Bank of America Taxable Tail
30,918,515
Costs Deferred Until Permanent Loan Closing
6,610,213
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche A
44,333,000
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche B
27,726,000
CalHFA MIP Loan
2,000,000
Total Sources
166,549,474 
166,549,474 
Total Development Costs
166,549,474
166,549,474
                                                   
139 of 556

--- page 140 ---
660\11\3156829.4
Uses of Funds
TOTAL COST
LAND COSTS
Acquisition including Closing Costs
1,508,272
TOTAL LAND COSTS
1,508,272
DIRECT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Offsite Improvements (Repl. Parking)
8,194,669
Residential Site Work & Structures
85,658,107
Residential Parking Structure
5,718,833
Commercial Parking Structure
10,077,700
Contactor's Overhead & Profit
3,066,347
General Conditions
5,462,382
Construction Contingency
6,248,012
Contractor's Bond & Insurance
1,645,008
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS
126,071,058
INDIRECT COSTS
Local Permits and Impact Fees
7,336,373
Architectural and Engineering Fees
3,613,876
Consultants and Professional Services
3,915,681
Developers Fee
6,960,000
Indirect Construction Costs Contingency
3,749,309
Relocation
0 
Legal
303,200
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
25,878,439
FINANCING COSTS
Construction Loan Interest
7,167,668
Construction Loan Fees/Expenses
714,593
Permanent Loan Fees/Expenses
1,111,796
Tax Credit Costs
224,032
Capitalized Reserves
2,022,488
Other (Soft Cost Contingency)
1,051,128
TOTAL FINANCING COSTS
12,291,705
RENT-UP COSTS
Marketing /Advertising Expense
400,000
Common Area Furnishings
400,000
TOTAL RENT UP/MARKETING COSTS
800,000
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COSTS
166,549,474
140 of 556

--- page 141 ---
i
GROUND LEASE
By and Between
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(Lessor)
and
MP DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO ASSOCIATES, L.P.
(Lessee)
141 of 556

--- page 142 ---
ii
ARTICLE 1 Definitions ..................................................................................................................4
Section 1.1
Definitions ...................................................................................................4
ARTICLE 2 Lease of the Land; Rental Provisions; Taxes and Assessments .................................8
Section 2.1
Lease of the Land ........................................................................................8
Section 2.2
Lease Term ..................................................................................................8
Section 2.3
Ground Rent Charges ..................................................................................8
Section 2.4
Use of Project and Assurances of Lessee ....................................................8
Section 2.5
Taxes and Assessments .............................................................................10
Section 2.6
Definitions .................................................................................................10
Section 2.7
Purpose of Restrictions on Transfer ..........................................................11
Section 2.8
Prohibited Transfers ..................................................................................11
Section 2.9
Permitted Transfers ...................................................................................12
Section 2.10
Effectuation of Certain Permitted Transfers..............................................13
Section 2.11
Other Transfers with Lessor Consent........................................................13
Section 2.12
Assumptions ..............................................................................................13
ARTICLE 3 Maintenance; Use of Premises .................................................................................14
Section 3.1
Title to Improvements ...............................................................................14
Section 3.2
Permits, Licenses and Easements ..............................................................14
Section 3.3
Use of Project ............................................................................................14
Section 3.4
Construction of the Improvements ............................................................15
Section 3.5
Maintenance of the Project........................................................................15
Section 3.6
Outdoor Public Access Area......................................................................16
Section 3.7
Limitations on the Outdoor Public Access Area .......................................16
Section 3.8
Property Management ...............................................................................17
Section 3.9
Utilities ......................................................................................................18
142 of 556

--- page 143 ---
ii
Section 3.10
Inspection ..................................................................................................18
Section 3.11
Subordination ............................................................................................18
Section 3.12
Non-Discrimination...................................................................................19
ARTICLE 4 Mortgage Loans........................................................................................................19
Section 4.1
Loan Obligations .......................................................................................19
Section 4.2
Liens and Encumbrances against Lessee's Interest in the Leasehold
Estate .........................................................................................................19
Section 4.3
Cost of Other Loans to be Paid by Lessee.................................................21
Section 4.4
Proceeds of Loans......................................................................................22
Section 4.5
Notice and Right to Cure Defaults Under Loans.......................................22
ARTICLE 5 Insurance...................................................................................................................22
Section 5.1
Required Insurance Coverage....................................................................22
Section 5.2
Additional Insurance Provisions................................................................23
143 of 556

--- page 144 ---
i
Section 5.3
Proceeds of Insurance................................................................................24
Section 5.4
Indemnification..........................................................................................24
Section 5.5
Hazardous Materials Indemnification........................................................25
Section 5.6
"As Is" Conveyance...................................................................................26
ARTICLE 6 Condemnation, Damage or Destruction of the Project.............................................27
Section 6.1
Condemnation............................................................................................27
Section 6.2
Administration of Construction Fund in the Event of
Condemnation, or Damage or Destruction of Project ...............................29
Section 6.3
Lessee, Lessor, Lenders to be Made Parties in Legal Proceedings............29
ARTICLE 7 Assurances of Lessor................................................................................................30
Section 7.1
Lessor to Give Peaceful Possession ..........................................................30
Section 7.2
Lessor to Lease Project with Marketable Title..........................................30
Section 7.3
Release of Lessor.......................................................................................30
ARTICLE 8 Defaults and Remedies .............................................................................................31
Section 8.1
Events of Default; Remedy of Default by Lessee .....................................31
Section 8.2
Cure of Material Breach by Lessee ...........................................................32
Section 8.3
Termination ...............................................................................................32
Section 8.4
Redelivery of Premises..............................................................................32
ARTICLE 9 Miscellaneous...........................................................................................................33
Section 9.1
Instrument Is Entire Agreement ................................................................33
Section 9.2
Notices.......................................................................................................33
Section 9.3
Recording ..................................................................................................33
Section 9.4
Non-Waiver of Breach...............................................................................33
Section 9.5
Effective Date; Counterparts .....................................................................34
144 of 556

--- page 145 ---
v
Section 9.6
Lease Binding on Successors ....................................................................34
Section 9.7
Relationship of Parties...............................................................................34
Section 9.8
No Merger .................................................................................................34
Section 9.9
Gender and Number...................................................................................34
Section 9.10
Titles..........................................................................................................34
Section 9.11
Severability................................................................................................35
Section 9.12
Applicable Law and Venue .......................................................................35
Section 9.13
Costs and Attorney Fees............................................................................35
Section 9.14
Mediation...................................................................................................35
Section 9.15
Litigation ...................................................................................................35
145 of 556

--- page 146 ---
6
GROUND LEASE
This Ground Lease ("Lease"), is entered into effective as of __________, 20__, by and 
between the City of San Mateo, a California charter city (the "Lessor") and MP Downtown San 
Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership (the "Lessee").
RECITALS
A.
The Lessor is the fee owner of: (i) that certain property located at 480 East 4th 
Avenue; and (ii) the airspace over the adjacent public street, each as more fully described in 
Exhibit A-1 and Exhibit A-2 attached to this Lease and incorporated into this Lease by this 
reference (collectively, the “Land”).
B.
The Lessee will develop, own and operate two hundred and twenty-five (225) units, 
including 2 unrestricted manager’s units of affordable multifamily rental housing located on the 
Land in the City of San Mateo, California defined as the "Improvements" for a period of ninety-nine 
(99) years pursuant to the terms of the Lease. 
C.
The Improvements may be financed through one or more alternative construction 
and permanent lenders and insured or guaranteed by a credit enhancement provider.
D.
The Lessor desires to lease the land upon which the Improvements will be 
constructed for a period of ninety-nine (99) years pursuant to the terms of the Lease.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the respective covenants and 
agreements contained in this Lease, the Parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.1
Definitions.
(a)
"Operating Expenses" with respect to a particular fiscal year shall mean 
the following costs reasonably and actually incurred for operation and maintenance of the Project 
to the extent that they are consistent with the annual budget for the Project, approved by the City 
pursuant to the Regulatory Agreement and with an annual independent audit performed by a 
certified public accountant, reasonably acceptable to the City, using generally accepted 
accounting principles:  
(1)
Property taxes and assessments imposed on the Project; 
(2)
Debt service currently due on a non-optional basis (excluding debt 
service due from residual receipts or surplus cash of the Project) on loans associated with 
construction of the Project and approved by the City in the Financing Plan; 
(3)
Property management fees and reimbursements;
146 of 556

--- page 147 ---
7
(4)
Premiums for property damage and liability insurance; 
(5)
Utility services not paid for directly by tenants, including water, 
electrical, sewer, and trash collection; 
(6)
 Maintenance and repair expenses and services, including pest 
control, landscaping, grounds maintenance, painting and decorating, cleaning, common systems 
repair, janitorial supplies and services, including capital replacements, each to the extent not 
funded by reserves, insurance proceeds, grants, or loans;
(6)(7) Any annual license or certificate of occupancy fees required for 
operation of the Project, and any applicable annual program administration fees;
(7)(8) Security services; 
(8)(9) Advertising and marketing; 
(9)(10) Cash deposited into reserves for capital replacements of the 
Project; 
(10)(11)
Cash deposited into an operating reserve; 
(11)(12)
Resident services; 
(12)(13)
Any previously unpaid portion of the Developer Fee due 
(without interest) not exceeding a cumulative amount of the Developer Fee; provided that this 
shall only apply to any deferred portion of the net cash developer fee (net of any general partner 
capital contributions) that is approved by the City and County as payable from development 
sources (“Net Developer Fee”). For the avoidance of doubt, any deferred Developer Fee 
remaining after payment of the Net Developer Fee may be paid only from Borrower's share of 
Residual Receipts;
(13)(14)
AnCurrent and accrued annual partnership management fee 
of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars per year ($25,000) per year and current and accrued annual 
asset management fee of Seven Thousand Dollars ($7,000) per year, adjusted annually at three 
percent (3%) (Which shall accrue if not paid), and other fees approved by Senior Lenders 
included in the approved Financing Plan;; 
(15)
Reasonable accounting fees and legal fees;
(14)(16)
An annual audit fee; 
(15)(17)
Extraordinary operating costs specifically approved in 
writing by the City as part of the annual budget approval process pursuant to this Agreement;
(16)(18)
Payments of deductibles in connection with casualty 
insurance claims not normally paid from reserves; 
147 of 556

--- page 148 ---
8
(17)(19)
Fidelity bond premiums;
(18)(20)
The amount of uninsured losses actually replaced, repaired 
or restored, and not normally paid from reserves; and
(21)
Repayment of operating deficits, loans or advances from the 
general partner of the partnership or an affiliate thereof; 
(22)
 Repayment of loans made by the general partner of the partnership 
or an affiliate thereof to cover eligible basis adjusters required pursuant to the Lessee’s 
partnership agreement, but excluding any compliance adjusters required pursuant to the Lessee’s 
partnership agreement; 
(23)
Extraordinary operating costs specifically approved in writing by 
the City unless incurred in connection with an emergency; and 
(19)(24)
Other ordinary and reasonable operating expenses approved 
in the Financing Plan or as otherwise approved in writing by the City and not listed above.  
(20)(25)
Annual Operating Expenses shall exclude the following:  
depreciation, amortization, depletion or other non-cash expenses; initial deposits to establish the 
operating reserve and the replacement reserve and any amount expended from a reserve account; 
and any capital cost with respect to the Project not otherwise listed above, as determined by the 
accountant for the Project.
(b)
"City Disposition and Loan Agreement" means the Disposition, 
Development and Loan Agreement by and between Lessor and Lessee dated August 17, 2020.
(c)
"City Loans" shall mean a loan, or loans in than amount of TwelveFive 
Million Five Hundred Dollars ($125,500,000) from Lessor to Lessee as evidenced by the City 
Disposition and Loan Agreement.
(d)
"City Loan Documents" means the City Disposition and Loan Agreement, 
City Regulatory Agreement, the promissory notes evidencing the City Loans and the deed of 
trust securing the City Loans.
(e)
"City Regulatory Agreement" means the regulatory agreement by and 
between Lessor and Lessee, of even date herewith, setting forth the requirement to provide 
occupancy and certain services to a specified number of low and very low income households at 
affordable charges at the Project.
(f)
"Effective Date" means the date first written above on which this Lease is 
effective.
(g)
"Financing Plan" means a City approved Financing Plan pursuant to the 
terms of Section 5.4 of the City Disposition and Loan Agreement, containing the following: (1) a 
"sources and uses" breakdown of the costs of constructing the Improvement; and (2) an operating 
proforma for the Development.  Such sources and uses breakdown and operating proforma shall 
148 of 556

--- page 149 ---
9
reflect the Lessee's then current expectations for funding sources, development costs, and Annual 
Operating Expenses. The approved Financing Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit B. 
(h)
"Gross Revenue" with respect to a particular fiscal year shall mean all 
revenue, income, receipts, and other consideration actually receivedearned from operation and 
leasing of the Project.  Gross Revenue shall include, but not be limited to:  all rents, fees and 
charges paid by tenants, Section 8 payments or other rental subsidy payments received for the 
dwelling units, deposits forfeited by tenants, interest on tenant security deposits not otherwise 
required to be paid to tenants, all cancellation fees, price index adjustments and any other rental 
adjustments to leases or rental agreements; net proceeds from vending and laundry room 
machines; the proceeds of business interruption or similar insurance and not paid to Senior 
Lenders; the proceeds of casualty insurance not used to rebuild the Project or replace damaged 
property and not paid to Senior Lenders; and condemnation awards for a taking of part or all of 
the Project for a temporary period not paid to Senior Lenders.  Gross Revenue shall not include 
tenants' security deposits, loan proceeds, capital contributions or similar advances.
(i)
"Improvements" means the buildings, structures, surface parking, 
landscaping and other improvements, including any building fixtures, now or later located on the 
Land and generally consisting of approximately two hundred and twenty-five (225) units, 
including two unrestricted manager units, of multifamily rental housing as shown in the Lessee’s 
approved planning application. The Improvements will include a restricted-access pedestrian 
bridge for the Residents, located in the airspace over the adjacent public street, connecting the 
Improvements to the parking garage located at 400 East 5th Avenue.
(j)
"Investor" means a tax credit investor limited partner entity admitted to 
the partnership for purposes of syndicating federal low-income housing tax credits established 
pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, committed to purchasing a limited 
partnership interest in the Lessee.
(k)
"Land" has the meaning set forth in Recital A.
(l)
"Lease" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
(m)
"Lease Term" means the ninety-nine (99) year period set forth in Section 
2.2 below, during which this Lease shall be in effect unless earlier terminated in accordance with 
the provisions of this Lease.
(n)
"Lenders" means each and all of the lenders providing the Other Loans to 
Lessee, or guaranteeing, insuring or credit enhancing Other Loans to the Lessee.
(o)
"Lessee" means MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership.
(p)
"Lessor" means the City of San Mateo, a California charter city.
(q)
"Other Loan Documents" means all documents executed by the Lessee 
evidencing, guaranteeing, insuring or securing the Other Loans, including, but not limited to, 
149 of 556

--- page 150 ---
10
regulatory agreements, notes, deeds of trust, security agreements, fixture filings, and financing 
statements.
(r)
"Other Loans" shall mean any loans, certificates of participation financing 
and related credit enhancement now or later obtained by the Lessee as evidenced by promissory 
notes and secured by deeds of trust recorded against the Project or any installment sales 
financing (and any related security documents, including regulatory agreements, use agreements, 
security agreements, fixture filings, and financing statements required of the Lessee) which are 
given by the Lessee.  Other Loans shall not include the City Loans.
(s)
"Parties" shall mean the Lessor and the Lessee collectively.
(t)
"Party" shall mean the Lessor or the Lessee individually.
(u)
"Project" shall mean the Improvements and the Lessee's leasehold interest 
in the Land. Units.
(v)
"Resident" means the resident who is authorized by Lessee to occupy the 
Units.
(w)
"Residual Receipts" in a particular fiscal year shall mean the amount by 
which Gross Revenue exceeds Annual Operating Expenses.
(x)
“Tranche C Loan” means a Lessor-approved loan provided to 
the Lessee by MidPen Housing Corporation or its affiliate, or another lender 
approved by Lessee and the Lessor, that is required to be repaid from 90% of 
Residual Receipts.
ARTICLE 2
LEASE OF THE LAND; RENTAL PROVISIONS; TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS
Section 2.1
Lease of the Land.
For and in consideration of the covenants and agreements to be kept and performed by the 
Lessee and the Lessor, the Lessor leases the Land to the Lessee, and the Lessee does take, hire and 
lease the Land from the Lessor pursuant to the terms of this Lease.
Section 2.2
Lease Term.
The term of this Lease shall commence on the Effective Date as set forth above and shall 
continue from such date until the expiration of ninety-nine (99) years, unless earlier terminated in 
accordance with this Lease.
150 of 556

--- page 151 ---
11
Section 2.3
Ground Rent Charges.
The Lessee shall pay to the Lessor rent in the amount of Ninety Nine Dollars ($99.00), 
which shall represent payment of rent equal to 1 per year for the first ninety-nine (99) years of the 
Lease Term, payable one time only upon execution of this Lease.
Section 2.4
Use of Project and Assurances of Lessee.
The Lessor and the Lessee understand and agree that the rent has been set at a nominal 
amount for the specific purpose of assisting the Lessee to operate and maintain the Project.  In 
consideration of the nominal amount of the rent and the other financial assistance from the Lessor to 
the Lessee, the Lessee shall use the land and operate the Project in accordance with the uses outlined 
in this Lease.  The Lessee agrees:
(a)
To operate the Improvements as affordable multifamily residential 
housing in accordance with the terms of the City Regulatory Agreement, and this Lease;
(b)
To maintain the character of the Project as required by this Lease and any 
Other Loan Documents or the City Loan Documents for so long as such Other Loan Documents, 
the City Loan Documents remain in effect;
(c)
To select Residents in accordance with a resident selection plan approved 
by the City;
(d)
Not to use the Project for any disorderly or unlawful purpose;
(e)
To use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent any Resident from 
committing or maintaining any nuisance or unlawful conduct on or about the Project;
(f)
To use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent any Resident from 
violating any of the covenants and conditions of this Lease with respect to the Project;
(g)
To take commercially reasonable action, if necessary, to abate any 
violation of this Lease by any Resident upon notice from the Lessor; 
(h)
To provide Lessor with Project annual audited financial statements, copies 
of the current management plan, and the annual operating budget.  Lessee shall also notify 
Lessor of any financial situation that may result in Lessee's inability to meet the Project's Annual 
Operating Expenses.  In the event any payments due to Lessor as part of this Lease, the City 
Loan Documents and Other Loan Documents are not paid in full, the Lessee shall meet with 
Lessor to review alternatives to facilitate full payment; and 
(i)
To provide approximately 225 affordable units in accordance with the City 
Regulatory Agreement, provided, however, that such occupancy and rent restrictions shall 
terminate on a Permitted Transfer pursuant to Section 2.9 (b).  With the exception of two (2) 
unrestricted manager units, all of the units developed on the Property shall be rent-restricted for 
occupancy by households whose gross income does not exceed ninetyone hundred percent 
(90100%) of Area Median Income (the “Eligible Households”), and at least forty-nine percent 
151 of 556

--- page 152 ---
12
(49%) of those units shall be further rent-restricted for occupancy by low income households 
whose gross income does not exceed eighty percent (80%) of Area Median Income (also, 
“Eligible Households”).   “Area Median Income” means the median household income (adjusted 
for household size) of the Metropolitan Statistical Area in which San Mateo County is located, as 
established in accordance with Section 50093 of the California Health and Safety Code.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by the Lenders and/or Investor, commencing in the 
57th year of the Lease Term, the affordability restrictions set forth above shall be modified to the 
extent necessary for Project financial feasibility. If such modification is necessary, Lessor and 
Lessee hereby agree that this Lease shall be revised on the Effective Date at to reflect the 
mutually agreed upon specific modifications to the affordability levels.
Notwithstanding Section 2.4 (i) above, in the event that the Project has a rental subsidy contract, 
and such rental subsidy contract is terminated, discontinued, or reduced at no fault of Lessee, the 
rent restrictions set forth in Section 2.4 (i) may be altered, but only to the extent necessary for the 
Project to remain financially feasible, as determined in Lessor’s reasonable discretion, and 
provided that: 
(1)
Lessee diligently pursues an additional or alternative source of 
income or subsidy acceptable to Lessor to replace the rental subsidies; and 
(2)
All of the Project units must at all times be rent-restricted for 
occupancy by households whose gross income does not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of 
Area Median Income. To the extent financially feasible, as mutually determined by the Parties, 
any such rent increase will be limited to (or will be first implemented with) any vacant units. 
Lessor hereby acknowledges and agrees that Lessee’s rights to use the Land include the right to 
maintain and operate an exclusive, restricted-access pedestrian bridge for the Residents, located 
in the airspace over the adjacent public street (as more particularly described on Exhibit A-2), 
connecting the Improvements to the parking garage located at 400 East 5th Avenue.
Section 2.5
Taxes and Assessments.
(a)
Payment by Lessee.  Lessee covenants and agrees during the entire Lease 
Term, at its own cost and expense, to pay the public officers charged with their collection, as the 
same become due and payable and before any fine, penalty, interest, or other charge may be 
added to them for nonpayment, all real estate taxes, general and special, ordinary and 
extraordinary, unforeseen as well as foreseen, of any kind and nature, made, assessed, levied or 
imposed upon, or due and payable in connection with, or which become a lien upon, the Land, 
the Improvements, or any part of the Land or Improvements, or upon this Lease, as well as 
assessments for sidewalks, streets, sewers, water, or any other public improvements and any 
other improvements or benefits which shall, during the Lease Term, be made, assessed, levied, or 
imposed upon or become due and payable in connection with, or a lien upon the Land, the 
Improvements, or any part of the Land or Improvements, or upon this Lease.
(b)
Lessee's Right to Contest.  If Lessee disputes any amount or validity of 
any liens, taxes, assessments, or charges upon the Land or the Improvements, Lessee may contest 
and defend against the same at its cost, and in good faith diligently conduct any necessary 
proceedings in connection therewith to prevent and avoid the same; provided, however, that such 
contest shall be prosecuted to a final conclusion as speedily as possible.  Lessor agrees to render 
to Lessee all reasonable assistance, at no expense to Lessor, in contesting the validity or amount 
of any such liens, taxes, assessments or charges, including joining in the signing of any protests 
152 of 556

--- page 153 ---
13
or pleadings which Lessee may deem advisable to file; provided, however, that to the extent the 
Lessor is a party whose action is being contested, the Lessor's assistance shall be at the discretion 
of the Lessor.  During any such contest, Lessee shall (by the payment or bonding of such liens, 
disputed taxes, assessments or charges, if necessary) prevent any advertisement of tax sale, any 
foreclosure of, or any divesting thereby of Lessor's title, reversion or other interest in or to the 
Land.
Section 2.6
Definitions.
As used in this Article 2, the term "Transfer" means:
(c)
Any total or partial sale, assignment or conveyance, or any trust or power, 
or any transfer in any other mode or form, of or with respect to this Lease or of the Land or 
Improvements or any part thereof or any interest therein or any contract or agreement to do any 
of the same; or
(d)
Any total or partial sale, assignment or conveyance, or any trust or power, 
or any transfer in any other mode or form, of or with respect to any ownership interest in the 
Lessee or any contract or agreement to do any of the same; or
(e)
Any merger, consolidation, sale or lease of all or substantially all of the 
assets of the Lessee; or
(f)
The leasing of part or all of the Land or Improvements; provided, 
however, that leases of the individual units included within the Improvements to Resident 
occupants shall not be deemed a Transfer for purposes of this Article 2.
Section 2.7
Purpose of Restrictions on Transfer.
(a)
This Lease is entered into solely for the purpose of development and 
operation of the Project and its subsequent use in accordance with the terms of this Lease.  The 
Lessee recognizes that the qualifications and identity of the Lessee are of particular concern to 
the Lessor, in view of:
(1)
The importance of the development of the Land and Improvements 
as affordable housing to the general welfare of the community; and
(2)
The leasehold assistance that has been made available by the 
Lessor for the purpose of making such development possible; and
(3)
The reliance by the Lessor upon the unique qualifications and 
ability of the Lessee to serve as the catalyst for development of the Improvements and upon the 
continuing interest which the Lessee will have in the Land and Improvements to assure the 
quality of the use, operation and maintenance deemed critical by the Lessor in the development 
of the Land or Improvements; and
(4)
The fact that a change in ownership or control of the Lessee, or of 
a substantial part thereof, or any other act or transaction involving or resulting in a significant 
153 of 556

--- page 154 ---
14
change in ownership or with respect to the identity of the parties in control of the Lessee or the 
degree thereof is for practical purposes a Transfer or disposition of the Land or Improvements; 
and
(5)
The fact that the Land is not to be acquired or used for speculation, 
but only for development and operation by the Lessee in accordance with this Lease; and
(6)
The importance to the Lessor of the standards of use, operation and 
maintenance of the Land and Improvements.
(b)
The Lessee further recognizes that it is because of such qualifications and 
identity that the Lessor is entering into this Lease with the Lessee and that Transfers are 
permitted only as provided in this Lease.
Section 2.8
Prohibited Transfers.  
The limitations on Transfers set forth in this Article 2 shall apply throughout the Lease 
Term.  Except as expressly permitted in this Lease, the Lessee represents and agrees that the 
Lessee has not made or created, and will not make or create or suffer to be made or created, any 
Transfer, either voluntarily or by operation of law without the prior written approval of the 
Lessor, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
Any Transfer made in contravention of this Article 2 shall be void and shall be deemed to be 
a default under this Lease whether or not the Lessee knew of or participated in such Transfer.
Section 2.9
Permitted Transfers.
Notwithstanding other provisions of Article 2, the following Transfers shall be permitted 
and are hereby approved by the Lessor subject to satisfaction of the requirements of Section 
2.10:
(a)
Any Transfer creating a lien or trust relationship pursuant to an Other 
Loan permitted pursuant to this Lease or the City Loans.
(b)
Any Transfer directly resulting from the foreclosure of an Other Loan 
Document, including the transfer in lieu of foreclosure to nominees of any Lender, or the 
granting of a deed in lieu of foreclosure of an Other Loan Document, including the transfer in 
lieu of foreclosure to the nominees of any Lender and any subsequent transfer, or as otherwise 
permitted under Article 4;
(c)
The leasing of residential units within the Project in accordance with this 
Agreement;
(d)
The granting of easements or permits to facilitate the development of the 
Property;
154 of 556

--- page 155 ---
15
(e)
The City hereby approves a Transfer of a limited partnership interest in the 
Lessee to the Investor, or to an affiliate of the Investor (provided such affiliate provides 
documentation reasonably acceptable to the City that the affiliate has sufficient financial 
capability to provide the capital contributions set forth in the Financing Plan) and future transfers 
of such interest;
(f)
Any Transfer to a nonprofit public benefit corporation recognized by the 
Internal Revenue Service to be an exempt organization pursuant to Section 501(c) (3) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and affiliated with MidPen Housing Corporation ("MidPen"), 
subject to limited review by the Lessor to determine that such entity is a tax exempt organization, 
is affiliated with MidPen, and has adequate assets to carry out its obligations under this Lease, 
and Lessor expressly covenants that such consent shall not be unreasonably or arbitrarily 
refused;
(g)
The Parties agree and acknowledge that MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, 
shall remain the managing general partner of the Lessee throughout the Lease Term.  In the event 
the general partner of the Lessee is removed by the limited partner of the Lessee for cause 
following default under the Lessee's partnership agreement, the City hereby approves the transfer 
of the general partner interest to a 501(c) (3) tax-exempt nonprofit public benefit corporation that 
is selected by the limited partner and approved in advance and in writing by the City, which 
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld;
(h)
Any Transfer to a limited liability company or limited partnership, the 
managing member or partner of which is MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, MidPen, or a 
nonprofit public benefit corporation affiliated with MidPen, subject to limited review by the 
Lessor to determine that such entity is a tax exempt organization, is affiliated with MidPen, and 
has adequate assets to carry out its obligations under this Lease, and Lessor expressly covenants 
that such consent shall not be unreasonably or arbitrarily refused.
(i)
A sublease or subleases of non-residential spaces in the Improvements.  
The Lessee shall not, without first obtaining the written consent of the Lessor, sublet the 
Improvements or any part of such Improvements, and Lessor expressly covenants that such 
consent shall not be unreasonably or arbitrarily refused. 
(j)
A loan to refinance the financing identified in Exhibit B.
(k) 
Any other Transfer approved by the Lessor in writing.
Section 2.10
Effectuation of Certain Permitted Transfers.
No Transfer of this Lease permitted pursuant to Section 2.9 or Section 2.11 (other than a 
Transfer pursuant to Section 2.9 (a), (b) or (e)), shall be effective unless, at the time of the 
Transfer, the person or entity to which such Transfer is made, by an instrument in writing 
reasonably satisfactory to the Lessor and in form recordable among the land records, shall 
expressly assume the obligations of the Lessee under this Lease and agree to be subject to the 
conditions and restrictions to which the Lessee is subject arising during this Lease, and or 
Improvements to the fullest extent that such obligations are applicable to the particular portion of 
or interest in the Land or Improvements conveyed in such Transfer.  Anything to the contrary 
155 of 556

--- page 156 ---
16
notwithstanding, the holder of an Other Loan whose interest shall have been acquired by, 
through or under a Other Loan Document or shall have been derived immediately from any 
holder thereof shall not be required to give to the Lessor such written assumption until such 
holder or other person is in possession of the Land or Improvements or entitled to possession 
thereof pursuant to enforcement of the Other Loan Document.
In the absence of specific written agreement by the Lessor, no such Transfer, assignment or 
approval by the Lessor shall be deemed to relieve the Lessee or any other party from any obligations 
under this Lease.
Section 2.11
Other Transfers with Lessor Consent.
The Lessor may, in its reasonable discretion, approve in writing other Transfers as 
requested by the Lessee.  In connection with such request, there shall be submitted to the Lessor 
for review all instruments and other legal documents proposed to affect any such Transfer.  If a 
requested Transfer is approved by the Lessor such approval shall be indicated to the Lessee in 
writing or denied by the Lessor within ninety (90) days of receipt by the Lessor of Lessee's 
request for approval of a Transfer.  In the event the Lessor does not respond either granting or 
denying the request within ninety (90) days the request shall be deemed approved.
Section 2.12 Assumptions.
Except as allowed under Section 2.9, the Lease shall not be assumable by successor or 
assigns of the Lessee without the prior written consent of the City, which consent shall be 
granted or denied in the City's reasonable discretion.  The Lease shall be assumable by a limited 
partnership, a general partner, or a nonprofit public benefit corporation affiliated with MidPen or 
by any entity pursuant to a permitted or approved transfer as provided in Section 2.10 and 2.11 
above.
ARTICLE 3
MAINTENANCE; USE OF PREMISES
Section 3.1
Title to Improvements.
The Lessor grants to the Lessee without warranty, express or implied, any right, title, or 
interest that the Lessor may have in the Improvements now or later located on the Land.  The 
Improvements on the Land during the Lease Term shall be and remain the property of the Lessee; 
provided, however, that the Lessee shall have no right to destroy, demolish or remove the 
Improvements except as specifically provided for in this Lease and in the performance of 
maintenance obligations set forth in this lease.  When the Lease Term expires or, subject to 
applicable cure rights of any Lenders, when the Lease is otherwise terminated under the terms of 
this Lease, title to the Improvements shall revert to and vest in the Lessor without cost to the Lessor.  
It is the intent of the Parties that this Lease shall create a constructive notice of severance of the 
Improvements from the Land without the necessity of a deed from the Lessor to the Lessee after the 
Improvements have been constructed.  The Lessee agrees to execute, at the request of the Lessor at 
the end of the Lease Term, a confirmatory quitclaim deed of the Improvements to the Lessor to be 
156 of 556

--- page 157 ---
17
recorded at the Lessor's option and expense and any other documents that may be reasonably 
required by the Lessor or the Lessor's title company to provide the Lessor title to the Improvements.  
Lessee agrees that it will ensure all reserve funds other than those that are funded by Lessee or its 
affiliates outside any loan or grant funds will revert to Lessor at the end of the Lease Term.
Section 3.2
Permits, Licenses and Easements.
The Lessor agrees that, within ten (10) days after receipt of written request from the Lessee, 
it shall (at no expense to the Lessor) join in any and all applications for permits, licenses or other 
authorizations required by any governmental or other body claiming jurisdiction in connection with 
any work the Lessee may do pursuant to this Lease, and shall also join in any grants of easements 
for public utilities useful or necessary to the development of the Land or of the Improvements.  In 
the event that the Lessee desires to seek a change of zoning of the Land to permit a greater density 
of the development of the Land, the Lessor agrees to execute all applications or other documents 
which may be necessary or appropriate in connection therewith.
Section 3.3
Use of Project.
(a)
The Lessee shall at all times during the Lease Term use or cause the Project 
to be used as affordable multifamily rental housing in accordance with the terms and provisions of 
the City Regulatory Agreement.
(b)
Lessee shall also use or cause the Project to be used in a manner consistent 
with all applicable zoning and environmental laws of any governmental authority having 
jurisdiction over the Project, and with all requirements of any Lenders.  Subject to the next sentence, 
the Lessee agrees to comply with all applicable and lawful statutes, rules, orders, ordinances, 
requirements and regulations of the United States, the State of California, and of any other 
governmental authority having jurisdiction over the Project.  The Lessee may, in good faith and on 
reasonable grounds, dispute the applicability of, or the validity of any charge, complaint or action 
taken pursuant to or under color of, any statute, rule, order, ordinance, requirement or regulation, 
defend against the same, and in good faith diligently conduct any necessary proceedings to prevent 
and avoid any adverse consequence of the same.  
Section 3.4
Construction of the Improvements.
The Lessee shall commence construction of the Improvements within thirty (30) days after 
the Effective Date and shall diligently prosecute completion of the Improvements in accordance 
with the provisions of the Other Loan Documents and the City Loan Documents.  If the Lessee 
determines that completion of the Improvements is not feasible because Lessee discovers Hazardous 
Materials, as defined in Section 5.5, on the Land during its construction work, Lessee may terminate 
this Lease without fault.  
Section 3.5
Maintenance of the Project.
(a)
The Lessee agrees, for the entire Term of this Agreement, to maintain all 
interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping, of the Project in condition, repair and 
tenantable condition (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in accordance with a 
157 of 556

--- page 158 ---
18
management plan, as the same may be amended from time to time.  The Lessee shall not permit the 
accumulation of waste or refuse matter on the Land or in the Project.  The Lessee shall commit no 
act of waste and shall take good care of the Project and the fixtures and appurtenances therein, and 
shall, in the use and occupancy of the Project, conform to and all applicable laws, rules, ordinances, 
orders, and regulations of all federal, state, municipal, and other governmental agencies and bodies 
having or claiming jurisdiction and all their respective departments, bureaus, and officials. Lessee 
agrees to maintain the sidewalk along the frontage of the Land and assume duties of the property 
owner set forth in Chapter 17.24 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, “Sidewalk Maintenance”. 
(b)
In the event that the Lessee breaches any of the covenants contained in this 
section and such default continues for a period of fifteen (15) days after written notice from the City 
with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance or thirty (30) days after 
written notice from the City with respect to landscaping and building improvements, then the City, 
in addition to whatever other remedy it may have at law or in equity, shall have the right to enter 
upon the Land and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work necessary to cure the 
default.  Pursuant to such right of entry, the City shall be permitted (but is not required) to enter 
upon the Land and perform all acts and work necessary to protect, maintain, and preserve the 
Improvements and landscaped areas on the Land, and to attach a lien on the Land, or to assess the 
Land, in the amount of the expenditures arising from such acts and work of protection, maintenance, 
and preservation by the City and/or costs of such cure, including a ten percent (10%) administrative 
charge, which amount shall be promptly paid by the Lessee to the City upon demand.
(c)
Not later than the last day of the Lease Term, the Lessee shall, at the Lessee's 
expense, remove all of the Lessee's personal property and those improvements made by the Lessee 
that have not become the property of the Lessor; repair all injury done by or in connection with the 
removal of the Lessee's personal property and improvements, and surrender the Project in good 
condition.  Lessor shall agree to accept the Land with any damage not caused by the misuse or 
neglect of the Lessee, the Lessee's agents, the Residents, and the Resident's visitors, including 
damage related to reasonable wear and tear resulting from the elements or any remaining damage 
caused by an event for which insurance coverage was not required under this Lease or the insurance 
coverage did not allow a complete restoration.  The Lessee shall remove all personal property by the 
last day of the Lease Term if this Lease, unless agreed otherwise by the Lessor.  All property of the 
Lessee remaining after the last day of the Lease Term shall be conclusively deemed abandoned and 
may be removed by the Lessor, and the Lessee shall reimburse the Lessor for the cost of such 
removal.  The Lessor shall provide the Lessee with five (5) days prior notice before disposing of 
any such items.
(d)
During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall not, without first obtaining the 
written consent of the Lessor, abandon the Project, or allow the Project to become vacant or 
deserted.
Section 3.6
Outdoor Public Access Area
During the term of the Ground Lease, after completion of construction of the 
Project, Lessee shall, at its own cost, create and maintain an approximately 1,940 square foot 
outdoor concrete plaza area on the corner of South Railroad Avenue and East 4th Avenue that 
shall be made available to the general public on a nonexclusive basis for their ingress, egress and 
158 of 556

--- page 159 ---
19
use, as more particularly depicted on Exhibit C (the “Public Access Area”).  The Public Access 
Area shall include a paved surface, bench, landscaping, lighting and signage describing rules of 
use. Any proposed signage to be used in the Public Access Area shall be reviewed in accordance 
with the City’s Zoning Code and sign ordinance. Lessee at its own cost and expense, shall be 
responsible for the ongoing maintenance and repairs in the Public Access Area.
Section 3.7
Limitations on the Outdoor Public Access Area
(a)
Lessor acknowledges that the use of the Public Access Area by the general 
public is nonexclusive.  Lessee, its successors, assigns, grantees and licensees, shall have the 
right to use and occupy the Public Access Area in any manner that does not unreasonably 
interfere with the use of the Public Access Area by the general public.  Lessor acknowledges and 
agrees that temporary obstruction, blockage, encroachments or limitations in the Public Access 
Area reasonably necessary for development, construction, installation, maintenance, repair, 
replacement, reconstruction or removal of improvements within and outside the Public Access 
Area shall not constitute unreasonable interference with the Public Access Area. Lessee shall 
establish a list of additional limitations, rules and requirements regarding the Public Access Area 
(the “Public Access Area Rules”), which shall be subject to the prior consent of the Lessor, 
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Lessee may modify the Public 
Access Area Rules at its reasonable discretion, provided that any such proposed changes shall 
first be submitted to Lessor for its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or 
delayed.  The Parties acknowledge and agree that regardless of the provisions of this section the 
Public Access Area shall remain private property and that the granting of access to the Public 
Access Area does not convert the Public Access Area into public property.
(b)
Lessor agrees that Lessee is not making any representations or warranties 
regarding the Public Access Area.  Lessor understands, acknowledges and agrees that the general 
public’s access to and use of the Public Access Area shall be at the general public’s own risk. 
Lessor on behalf of itself, its employees, agents, and invitees hereby waives and releases any and 
all claims against Lessee arising from, out of, or in connection with the general public’s access to 
and use of the Public Access Area, except to the extent arising from Lessee's active gross 
negligence or willful misconduct.  Lessee shall not be liable to the Lessor or its employees, 
agents, invitees or any third party, for any injury loss or damage arising out of in connection with 
the access to and use of the Public Access Area, except to the extent arising from Lessee's active 
gross negligence or willful misconduct.
(c)
Lessee retains the right of access to and control over the Public Access 
Area. Nothing contained in this provision shall be construed as precluding the Lessee’s rights to 
grant access to third parties across the Public Access Area. The Parties acknowledge and agree 
that by providing access and use of the of the Public Access Area to the general public, the 
Lessee is not intending to and shall not be construed as providing or transferring any right or 
interest in the Property to the general public or any third party.
159 of 556

--- page 160 ---
20
Section 3.8
Public Sidewalk and Streetlight
The Land includes a public sidewalk and portion of city streetlights along 5th Avenue, which are 
shown in Exhibit D.  In accordance with Section 3.5(a), Lessee is responsible for maintaining the 
sidewalk, provided, however, that Lessor reserves the right to construct, reconstruct, replace, 
remove, access, inspect, and maintain the sidewalk.  Lessor shall maintain the streetlight, the 
streetlight box and the streetlight’s appurtenances (the “Streetlight Improvements”) and, 
accordingly, reserves the right to construct, reconstruct, replace, remove, access, and inspect 
such Streetlight Improvements.  Lessee shall not be liable to the Lessor or its employees, agents, 
invitees or any third party, for any injury loss or damage arising out of in connection with the 
access to and use of the Streetlight Improvements, except to the extent arising from Lessee's 
active negligence or willful misconduct.
Section 3.8Section 3.9    Property Management.
(a)
The Project shall at all times be managed by an experienced Management 
Agent reasonably acceptable to the City, with demonstrated ability to operate residential 
facilities like the Project in a manner that will provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing.  The 
Lessee shall retain a property management agent that is acceptable to the Lessor to manage the 
Project (the "Management Agent").  The Lessor agrees that MidPen Property Management 
Corporation is acceptable to the Lessor as Management Agent.   For any change in the 
Management Agent, the Lessee shall submit for the City's approval the identity of any proposed 
Management Agent.  The Lessee shall also submit such additional information about the 
background, experience and financial condition of any proposed Management Agent as is 
reasonably necessary for the City to determine whether the proposed Management Agent meets 
the standard for a qualified Management Agent set forth above.  If the proposed Management 
Agent meets the standard for a qualified Management Agent set forth above, the City shall 
approve the proposed Management Agent by notifying the Lessee in writing
(b)
Each year during the Term, Lessee shall provide to Lessor a quarterlyan 
annual report which shall include the following information for the previous quarterfiscal year; 
unaudited financial statements, a report on unit vacancies and turnover, copies of material 
indicating significant procedural or policy changes affecting services and admissions, copies of 
significant complaints related to services including marketing and the applicant qualification and 
income certification of the affordable units, and a variance report showing actual versus 
budgeted expenses provided in the approved Annual Operating Expenses.
Section 3.9Section 3.10
Utilities.
The Lessee shall be responsible for the cost of all utilities, including water, heat, gas, 
electricity, waste removal, sewers, and other utilities or services supplied to the Project, and the 
Lessee shall pay or cause same to be paid currently and as due.
Section 3.10Section 3.11
 Inspection.
Lessee shall permit and facilitate, and shall require its contractors to permit and facilitate, 
observation and inspection of the Project and Land by the Lessor and by public authorities with 
160 of 556

--- page 161 ---
21
reasonable notice during reasonable business hours for the purposes of determining compliance 
with this Agreement.
Section 3.11Section 3.12
 Subordination.
(a)
In addition to the Lessee's right to encumber its leasehold estate in the Land 
and its fee in the Improvements, the Lessor agrees to encumber its fee title in the Land with any 
regulatory agreement and any deed of trust from any Lender.  Upon written request by the Lessee, 
the Lessor agrees to provide the subordination provided in this Section, subject to the conditions 
described below, including the following:
(1)
The liability of the Lessor under any documents executed in 
connection with any Other Loan shall be limited by the express terms of the instrument of 
subordination.  The limitations shall include:  the limitation of the Lessor's liability solely to the 
interest or interests subordinated, and the Lessor's right not to execute any instrument which 
would obligate Lessor for the payment of the Other Loan secured by a deed of trust to which the 
fee is subordinated.
(2)
The Lessee shall not be in Material Default under the terms of this 
Lease at the time of a request for subordination.  "Material Default" shall mean any material 
breach by the Lessee under this Lease, including, without limitation, the failure to pay rent then 
due and payable, or, the filing of a bankruptcy petition by or against the Lessee.  The Lessee 
shall not be in Material Default if the Lessee has commenced to cure the Material Default at the 
time in question and diligently pursues such cure to completion.
(b)
Provided the conditions of this Section are satisfied, the Lessor shall, 
within ten (10) days after written request by the Lessee, execute, acknowledge and deliver an 
instrument of subordination, together with other documents as may be reasonably required by a 
Lender from the Lessor to effectuate the provisions of this Section, without any charge by the 
Lessor to the Lessee for execution of such documents, subject to the terms and conditions 
contained in Section 4.10(a).  The Lessor will immediately pay over to the Lessee proceeds 
received by the Lessor, if any, of any Other Loan and the proceeds of any Other Loan received 
by Lessor shall be considered a trust fund to be paid to Lessee.  The agreement of subordination 
contained in this Lease shall be self-operative and no further instrument of subordination shall be 
necessary unless it be required by a Lender, or a title insurance company insuring any interest of 
a Lender.  If any proceeds are made payable to both the Lessor and the Lessee, the Lessor shall 
immediately sign any papers necessary to transfer the proceeds to the Lessee.
Section 3.12Section 3.13
 Non-Discrimination.  
(a)
There shall be no discrimination against or segregation of any person or 
group of persons, on account of any basis listed in subdivision (a) or (d) of Section 12955 of the 
Government Code, as those bases are defined in Sections 12926, 12926.1, subdivision (m) and 
paragraph (1) of subdivision (p) of Section 12955, and Section 12955.2 of the Government Code, in 
the leasing, subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure, or enjoyment of the premises herein 
leased nor shall the Lessee, or any person claiming under or through the Lessee, establish or permit 
any such practice or practices of discrimination or segregation with reference to the selection, 
161 of 556

--- page 162 ---
22
location, number, use, or occupancy, of tenants, lessees, sub lessees, subtenants, or vendees in the 
premises herein leased.
(b)
To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Lessee shall comply with 
the City's adopted Affordable Housing Marketing Policies, as such may apply to the Project.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing in this section shall require that the 
preference be based on a minimum duration for residency or employment.  To the extent the 
preferences required under this Section are in conflict with the requirements of Section 42 of the 
Internal Revenue Code and implementing guidelines, the requirements of Section 42 will 
supersede.
ARTICLE 4
MORTGAGE LOANS
Section 4.1
Loan Obligations.
Nothing contained in this Lease shall relieve the Lessee of its obligations and 
responsibilities under any Other Loans to operate the Project as set forth in the Other Loan 
Documents.  Nothing contained in this Lease shall relieve the Lessee of its obligations and 
responsibilities under the City Loans to operate the Project as set forth in the City Loan Documents.
Section 4.2
Liens and Encumbrances against Lessee's Interest in the Leasehold Estate.
(a)
The Lessee shall have the right to encumber the leasehold estate created 
by this Lease and the Improvements with the deeds of trust or mortgages of the Other Loans.
(b)
For as long as the Project is subject to the Other Loan Documents or there 
is any lien securing any Other Loans:
(1)
The Lessor shall not agree to any mutual termination or accept any 
surrender of this Lease, nor shall the Lessor consent to any amendment or modification of this 
Lease without the consent of any Lenders which have an outstanding Other Loan.  In the event 
that the Lessor receives competing or conflicting offers to cure any default, the Lessor shall 
accept the offers to cure in the following order:  First, the Lessee then each Lender in the same 
relative priority as their respective deeds of trust.
(2)
Notwithstanding any default by the Lessee under this Lease, the 
Lessor shall have no right to terminate this Lease unless the Lessor shall have given any Lenders 
which have an outstanding Other Loan written notice of such default pursuant to Section 
4.2(b)(7) of this Lease, and such Lenders shall have failed to remedy such default or acquire the 
Lessee's leasehold estate created by this Lease or commence foreclosure or other appropriate 
proceedings as set forth in, and within the time specified by, this Section.
(3)
Any Lender which has an outstanding Other Loan shall have the 
right, but not the obligation, at any time to pay any or all of the rental due pursuant to the terms 
of this Lease, and do any other act or thing required of the Lessee by the terms of this Lease, to 
162 of 556

--- page 163 ---
23
prevent termination of this Lease.  Each Lender shall have ninety (90) days after receipt of notice 
from the Lessor describing such default to cure the default.  All payments so made and all things 
so done shall be as effective to prevent a termination of this Lease as the same would have been 
if made and performed by the Lessee instead of by any Lender.
(4)
In addition to the cure period provided in paragraph (3) above, if 
the default is such that possession of the Land may be reasonably necessary to remedy the 
default, or any Lender which has an outstanding Other Loan shall have a reasonable time after 
the expiration of such ninety (90)-day period within which to remedy such default, provided that: 
(i) such Lender shall have fully cured any default in the payment of any monetary obligations of 
the Lessee under this Lease within such ninety (90)-day period and shall continue to pay 
currently such monetary obligations when the same are due; and (ii) such Lender shall have 
acquired the Lessee's leasehold estate under this Lease or commenced foreclosure or other 
appropriate proceedings prior to or within such period, and shall be diligently prosecuting the 
same.
(5)
Any default under this Lease which by its nature cannot be 
remedied by any Lender shall be deemed to be remedied if:  (i) within ninety (90) days after 
receiving written notice from the Lessor describing the default, or prior thereto, any Lender shall 
have acquired the Lessee's leasehold estate or commenced foreclosure or other appropriate 
proceedings; (ii) the Lender shall diligently prosecute any such proceedings to completion; (iii) 
the Lender shall have fully cured any default in the payment of any monetary obligations of the 
Lessee under this Lease which does not require possession of the Land; and (iv) after gaining 
possession of the Land, the Lender shall perform all other obligations of the Lessee under this 
Lease capable of performance by the Lender when the obligations are due.
(6)
If the Lenders are prohibited, stayed or enjoined by any 
bankruptcy, insolvency or other judicial proceedings involving the Lessee from commencing or 
prosecuting foreclosure or other appropriate proceedings, the times specified for commencing or 
prosecuting such foreclosure or other proceedings shall be extended for the period of such 
prohibition; provided that any Lender shall have fully cured any default in the payment of any 
monetary obligations of the Lessee under this Lease and shall continue to pay currently such 
monetary obligations when the same fall due; provided, further, that such Lender shall not 
interfere with the Lessor's efforts to seek compliance by the Lessee with any non-monetary 
obligation under this Lease.
(7)
The Lessor shall mail or deliver to any Lenders which have any 
outstanding Other Loan, whose addresses will be provided to Lessor by Lessee, a duplicate copy 
of all notices which the Lessor may from time to time give to the Lessee pursuant to this Lease, 
including without limitation notices of an Event of Default.  No notice by the Lessor to the 
Lessee under this Lease shall be effective unless and until a copy of the notice shall have been 
mailed or delivered to such Lenders as set forth in this Section.  Absent Lessor's written notice to 
Lenders with delivery confirmation of all defaults by Lessee under this Lease, Lessor may not 
exercise any remedies for such defaults.
(8)
In the event any Lender becomes the Lessee under this Lease by 
means of foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure or pursuant to any new lease obtained under 
163 of 556

--- page 164 ---
24
subsection (9) below, that Lender shall be personally liable under this Lease or such new lease 
only for the period of time that the Lender remains the Lessee under this Lease.  Any such 
Lender shall have the right, without Lessor's consent, to assign the leasehold estate following 
acquisition of the leasehold estate by a foreclosure or granting of a deed in lieu of foreclosure.  
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to obligate any Lender to remedy any default of the 
Lessee, and any failure of any Lender to complete any such cure after commencing the same 
shall not give rise to any liability of any Lender to the Lessor or the Lessee.
(9)
In the event a Lender, its designee or another purchaser in 
foreclosure, bankruptcy or other proceedings becomes the legal owner of the leasehold estate, 
and upon written request by the Lender given within sixty (60) days after becoming the legal 
owner of the leasehold estate, the Lessor shall enter into a new lease of the Land with or the 
Lender, or its nominee, purchaser, assignee or transferee, for the remainder of the Lease Term 
with the same agreements, covenants, reversionary interests and conditions (except for any 
requirements which have been fulfilled by the Lessee prior to termination) as are contained in 
this Lease and with priority equal to this Lease; provided, however, that the Lender shall 
promptly cure any defaults by the Lessee susceptible to cure by the Lender.  In the event Lender, 
or its nominee, purchaser, assignee or transferee becomes the legal owner of the leasehold estate, 
such Lender, nominee, purchaser, assignee or transferee shall only be liable for acts or omissions 
of the tenant under the Lease taking place during the period in which it had record title to the 
leasehold estate and such liability is limited to the value of its interest in the leasehold interest 
and the Lease.
(10)
The Lessor shall cooperate in including in this Lease by suitable 
amendment from time to time any provision which may reasonably be requested by any 
proposed Lender for the purpose of implementing the mortgagee-protection provisions contained 
in this Lease and allowing such proposed Lender reasonable means to protect or preserve the lien 
of the leasehold mortgage and the value of its security.  The Lessor agrees to execute and deliver 
(and to acknowledge, if necessary, for recording purposes) any agreement necessary to effect any 
such amendment; provided, however, that any such amendment shall not in any way affect the 
Lease Term or rent under this Lease;
Section 4.3
 Cost of Other Loans to be Paid by Lessee.
The Lessee shall bear all of the costs and expenses in connection with:  (a) the 
preparation and securing of the Other Loans; (b) the delivery of any instruments and documents 
and their filing and recording, if required; and (c) all taxes and charges payable in connection 
with the Other Loans.
Section 4.4
 Proceeds of Loans.
It is expressly understood and agreed that all Other Loan and City Loan proceeds shall be 
paid to and become the property of the Lessee, and that the Lessor shall have no right to receive any 
such Other Loan or the City Loan proceeds.
164 of 556

--- page 165 ---
25
Section 4.5
 Notice and Right to Cure Defaults Under Loans.
Upon the recording of a Memorandum of Lease or this Lease, the Lessor may record in the 
office of the Recorder of the County in which the land is situated, a request for notice of any default 
under each Other Loan.  In the event of default by the Lessee under an Other Loan, the Lessor shall 
have the right, but not the obligation, to cure the default.  Any payments made by the Lessor to cure 
a default shall be treated as rent due from the Lessee which shall be paid, with interest which shall 
equal the Lessor's Local Agency Investment Fund Rate (established pursuant to Section 16429.1 of 
the California Government Code) within thirty (30) days of the date on which the payment was 
made by the Lessor.  If Lessee is not able to cure a default under the Other Loan, Lessee agrees to 
work cooperatively with Lessor if Lessor seeks to cure the default, pay any amounts due under the 
Other Loan if accelerated, or assume the Other Loan.
ARTICLE 5   
INSURANCE
Section 5.1
Required Insurance Coverage. 
Coverage during the Ground Lease Term shall be at least as broad as:
(a)
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office Form CG 
00 01 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, 
property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than 
$2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit 
shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
(b)
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(c)
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or 
betterments, at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.  
Section 5.2
Additional Insurance Provisions
(a)
Broader Coverage:  If the Developer maintains broader coverage and/or 
higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the 
broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by the developer. Any available insurance 
proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available 
to the City.
(b)
Self-insured retentions:  Self-insured retentions for insurance required 
herein must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the 
developer shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as 
respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents; or the developer shall 
165 of 556

--- page 166 ---
26
provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or 
be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named 
insured or City.
(c)
Endorsements:  The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to 
contain, the following provisions:
(1)
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of 
work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Developer including materials, parts, or 
equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, 
hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Developer. General liability coverage can be provided 
in the form of an endorsement to the Developer’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used).
(2)
For any claims related to this project, the Developer’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as 
respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or 
self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents 
shall be excess of the Developer’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
(3)
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that 
coverage shall not be canceled, except with notice to the City.
(d)
Acceptability of Insurers: Insurance is to be placed with insurers 
authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
(e)
Waiver of Subrogation: Developer hereby agrees to waive rights of 
subrogation which any insurer of Developer may acquire from Developer by virtue of the 
payment of any loss. Developer agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect 
this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of 
subrogation in favor of the City for all work performed by the Developer, its employees, or 
agents.                 
(f)
Verification of Coverage:  Developer shall furnish the City with original 
Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the 
Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City 
before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the Developer’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right 
to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.
166 of 556

--- page 167 ---
27
Section 5.3
Proceeds of Insurance.
(a)
For so long as any Other Loan or the City Loans on the Project is 
outstanding:  All fire and standard risk or extended coverage (casualty) insurance proceeds shall 
be applied to the payment of the costs of repairing or rebuilding that part of the Project damaged 
or destroyed (including replacement of damaged personal property) if:  (1) the Lessee agrees in 
writing within ninety (90) days after payment of the proceeds of insurance that such repair or 
rebuilding is economically feasible; (2) each Lender with an outstanding Other Loan permits or 
requires such repair or rebuilding; provided that the extent of the Lessee's obligation to restore 
the Project shall be limited to the amount of the insurance proceeds.  
If the property is not repaired or rebuilt, all such proceeds shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with the terms of the Other Loans and the City Loans.
(b)
All insurance proceeds received under the policies set forth in this Article 
5 shall be paid to the Lessee, provided that the Lessee shall apply such proceeds, to the extent 
possible, for reconstruction or repair in a manner consistent with the provisions of Section 6.2.
Section 5.4
Indemnification. 
The Lessor will not be liable for any loss, injury, death, or damage to persons or property 
that at any time may be suffered or sustained by the Lessee or by any person who may at any 
time be using, occupying, visiting, or leasing the Project or the Land, or any portion thereof, to 
the extent such loss, injury, death, or damage shall arise out of any act, omission, or negligence 
of the Lessee or of any occupant, tenant, visitor, or use of any portion of the Project or Land, or 
shall result from or be caused by any other matter or thing whether of the same kind as or of a 
different kind than the manners or things set forth.  The Lessee shall indemnify the Lessor 
against all claims, liability, loss, or damage whatsoever on account of any such loss, injury, death 
or damage.  The Lessee waives all claims against the Lessor for damages to the Improvements 
that are not on or hereafter placed or built on the Land and to the property of the Lessee in, on, or 
about the Land, and for injuries to persons or property in or about the Land, from any cause 
arising at any time.  The three preceding sentences will not apply to loss, injury, death, or 
damage arising by reason of: (i) a pre-existing condition; (ii) the negligence or misconduct of the 
Lessor, its agents, or employees; (iii) anything covered by the City’s indemnity in Section 5.6(a) 
below; or (iv) any other activities, actions or omissions for which City has indemnified Lessee 
under the City Disposition and Loan Agreement, including but not limited to the City’s 
operation, use, security, safety, maintenance, repair, replacement, reconstruction, or removal of 
the Garage Improvements as further set forth in Section 7.7(b) thereof.
Section 5.5
 Hazardous Materials Indemnification.
(a)
No Hazardous Materials Activities.  The Lessee hereby represents and 
warrants to the City that, at all times from and after the Closing Date, the Lessee shall not cause 
or permit the Land or the Improvements thereon to be used as a site for the use, generation, 
manufacture, storage, treatment, release, discharge, disposal, transportation or presence of any 
167 of 556

--- page 168 ---
28
Hazardous Materials, except to the extent such Hazardous Materials were present on or about the 
site prior to the Closing Date.
(b)
Definition of Hazardous Material or Hazardous Substances.  As used in 
this Section, "Hazardous Materials" or "Hazardous Substances" shall mean the following:  
hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste, or hazardous material as defined in any 
federal, state or local statute, ordinance, regulation, or rule applicable to the Land, including the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
Section 9601 et seq.) or Sections 25280 et seq., 25310 et seq., 25110 et seq., or 25500 et seq. of 
the California Health and Safety Code at such time; any other waste, substance or material 
designated or regulated in any way as "toxic" or "hazardous" in the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
Section 1251 et seq.), Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq.), Toxic 
Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq.), Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 7401 
et seq.), California Health and Safety Code (Section 25100 et seq.), or California Water Code 
(Section 13000 et seq.) at such time; and any additional wastes, substances or material which at 
such time are classified, considered or regulated as hazardous or toxic under any other present or 
future environmental or other similar laws relating to the Land, including asbestos, asbestos-
containing materials, radon gas, oil or any fraction thereof of petroleum products, but excluding 
any substances or materials used in the construction, development, maintenance or operation of 
the Improvements, so long as the same are used in accordance with all applicable laws. 
(c)
Definition of Hazardous Materials Law:  As used in this Section, 
Hazardous Materials Law shall mean:  All federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, regulations, 
orders and directives pertaining to Hazardous Materials in, on or under the leased premises or 
any portion thereof.
(d)
Indemnity.  Lessee agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend 
(by counsel reasonably satisfactory to Lessor) Lessor, its board members, officers, and 
employees from and against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, fines penalties, 
charges, administrative and judicial proceedings and orders judgments, remediation action 
requirements, enforcement actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses incurred in connection 
therewith (including, but not limited to, attorney's fees and expenses), arising directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, out of:  (1) the failure during the Lease Term of Lessee or any 
employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors of the Lessee, other than any indemnitee, to 
comply with any Hazardous Materials Law relating in any way whatsoever to the handling, 
treatment, presence, removal, storage, decontamination, cleanup, transportation or disposal of 
Hazardous Materials into, on, under or from the Land; (2) any releases or discharges of any 
Hazardous Materials by Lessee or any employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors of the 
Lessee, other than any indemnitee, occurring during the Lease Term into, on, under or from the 
Land, except for Hazardous Materials that existed in , on, or under the Land prior to the 
execution of this Lease; (3) any activity carried on or undertaken on or off the Land during the 
Lease Term by Lessee or any employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors of Lessee, in 
connection with the handling, treatment, removal, storage, decontamination, cleanup, transport or 
disposal of any Hazardous Materials at any time located or present on or under the Land.  The 
provisions of this subsection shall survive expiration of the Lease Term, as set forth in Section 
2.2, or other termination of this Lease, and shall remain in full force and effect.  Notwithstanding 
168 of 556

--- page 169 ---
29
the foregoing, Lessee's duty to indemnify Lessor under the provisions of this Section shall not 
include any claims arising from any acts, omissions or events occurring subsequent to a Transfer 
approved by Lessor pursuant to this Lease.  This indemnity obligation shall not extend to any 
claim arising from Lessor's negligence or willful misconduct or to any claims for which Lessor 
indemnifies Lessee for under this Lease and/or the City Disposition and Loan Agreement.   
Section 5.6
"As Is" Conveyance.  
(a)
Any deed or ground lease to Lessee shall be made "As-Is," with no 
warranties or representations by the Lessor concerning the condition of the Land, including the 
presence or absence of any Hazardous Materials.  Lessee hereby agrees and acknowledges that 
except in the event of any fraud, misrepresentation, or withholding of information by Lessor:  (1) 
neither Lessor, nor anyone acting for or on behalf of Lessor, has made any representation, 
statement, warranty or promise to Lessee concerning the development potential or condition of 
the Land; (2) in entering into this Lease, Lessee has not relied on any representation, statement or 
warranty of Lessor, or anyone acting for or on behalf of Lessor, other than as may expressly be 
contained in writing in this Lease; (3) all matters concerning the Land have been or shall be 
independently verified by Lessee and that Lessee shall purchase or lease the Land on Lessee's 
own prior examination thereof; and (4) THAT LESSEE IS PURCHASING OR LEASING THE 
LAND, AS APPLICABLE, IN AN "AS IS" PHYSICAL CONDITION AND IN AN "AS IS" 
STATE OF REPAIR.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Lease, the Lessor shall 
indemnify Lessee from liability due to any environmental issues not identified in the Phase I 
Environmental Site Assessment for 480 East 4th Avenue dated July 31, 2018, the Phase I 
Environmental Site Assessment for 400 East 5th Avenue dated July 31, 2018, and the Limited 
Phase II Subsurface Investigation for 480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th Avenue dated 
November 29, 2018, all prepared by AEI Consultants, in addition to the Environmental Site 
Characterization for 400 East Fifth Avenue and 480 East Fourth Avenue dated for February 6, 
2020 and Additional Environmental Sampling dated August 2020, both prepared by Langan 
Engineering and Environmental Services, Inc.  Lessor further agrees to indemnify Lessee for any 
liability associated with groundwater contamination at or under the Site that first existed on the 
Site prior to the Closing Date; Lessor further agrees to indemnify Lessee from liability due to 
any environmental issue that arises independent from the purpose of this Lease.
(b)
General Release.  Subject to subsection (a) above and all other indemnities 
provided by the Lessor to Lessee in this Lease and/or in the City Disposition and Loan 
Agreement, Lessee and its owners, employees, agents, assigns and successors agree that upon the 
execution of the Lease, Lessee shall be deemed conclusively to have released and discharged 
Lessor and its agents, employees, trustees, assigns and successors, from any and all damages, 
losses, demands, claims, debts, liabilities, obligations, causes of action and rights, whether 
known or unknown, by Lessee regarding the Land, including, but not limited to, the 
environmental condition of the Land.
(c)
Waiver of Civil Code §1542.  Lessee agrees that, with respect to the 
General Release contained in subsection (b) above, the General Release extends to all matters 
regarding the Land, whether or not claimed or suspected, to and including the date of execution 
hereof, and constitutes a waiver of each and all the provisions of the California Civil Code 
§1542, which reads as follows:
169 of 556

--- page 170 ---
30
    "A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS 
WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT 
TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING 
THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE 
MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE 
DEBTOR"
________ Initial
Lessee acknowledges that the effect and import of the provisions of Civil Code §1542 
have been explained to it by its own counsel.  Lessee understands and acknowledges the 
significance and the consequence of such specific waiver of unknown claims and hereby 
assumes full responsibility for any injuries, damages, losses or liabilities that it may hereinafter 
incur from the waiver of these unknown claims.
(d)
Lessor, in its role as landowner, will fully and completely cooperate with 
Lessee in Lessee’s obligation, consistent with the City Disposition and Loan Agreement, to 
remediate the Property for the Property’s reasonably anticipated use.  Such cooperation on the 
part of the City shall include:  execution of an agency oversight agreement (Oversight 
Agreement) with the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC), providing for the 
DTSC’s jurisdiction over the Property’s environmental remediation; authorizing Lessee to 
submit required remediation related documents to DTSC (e.g., remedial action workplan, 
completion reports); assigning or transferring such Oversight Agreement to Lessee upon 
Lessee’s request conditioned only upon approval by DTSC of such transfer; providing 
notifications to environmental agencies, as landowner, as may be required; executing, to the 
extent necessary, environmental land use covenants, and signing, as landowner, brownfields 
grant applications and reimbursing developer out of any grant funds received for reimbursable 
remediation costs incurred by Lessee. Lessee will be responsible for covering the cost of the 
remediation based on the Condition of the Property as provided to DTSC at the time of City 
Disposition and Loan Agreement and described in Section 6.6 of City Disposition and Loan 
Agreement. Except for obligations elsewhere established under this Agreement, the City shall 
bear only de minimis costs as a result of this provision. 
Except as contemplated in the previous paragraph, without the City's prior written 
consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, the Lessee shall not take any 
remedial action in response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the 
Development (other than in emergency situations or as required by governmental agencies 
having jurisdiction), nor enter into any settlement agreement, consent decree, or other 
compromise in respect to any Hazardous Materials Claims.
170 of 556

--- page 171 ---
31
ARTICLE 6
CONDEMNATION, DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT
Section 6.1
Condemnation.
If the Project or the fee interest in the Land or any part of them shall be taken or condemned, 
for any public or quasi-public purpose or use by any competent entity in appropriate proceedings, or 
by any right of eminent domain, the Lessor and the Lessee shall request that awards and other 
payments on account of a taking of the Project or the fee interest in the Land (less costs, fees and 
expenses incurred by the Lessor and the Lessee in connection with the collection of such awards 
and other payments) shall be divided by the presiding court between loss of value of the fee interest 
in the Land and loss of value of the Project.  In any case, such awards and payments shall be applied 
as follows:
(a)
Net awards and payments received on account of a partial taking of the 
Project, other than a taking for a temporary use not exceeding one (1) year, shall be allocated and 
paid in the following order of priority:
(1)
If the Lessee reasonably believes restoration is economically 
feasible and unless the Lessee is then in default and the opportunity to cure has expired under the 
Other Loan Documents first, to pay the cost of restoration of the Project, provided that the extent 
of the Lessee's obligations to restore the Project shall be limited to the amount of the net award 
and payment received by the Lessee on account of the taking plus any amount contributed by 
Lessor to be used for rebuilding. 
(2)
Second, or first if the Lessee does not reasonably believe 
restoration is economically feasible or the Lessee is in default and the opportunity to cure has 
expired under the Other Loan Documents or City Loan Documents, to any Lenders (in the order 
of their respective lien priority, if there is more than one Lender) or Lessor in an amount equal to 
the decrease (if any) in the value of the security for their respective Other Loans and the City 
Loans as a result of the partial taking (calculated as set forth below in this subsection), less 
amounts payable to or recovered by the Lender or Lessor pursuant to such taking, but not to 
exceed the unpaid balance of their Other Loans and the City Loans, as applicable.  For purposes 
of this subsection, the amount of decrease in the value of the security for an Other Loan or the 
City Loans shall be the amount, if any, necessary to reduce the outstanding principal of said 
Other Loan such that the Loan to Value Ratio (as defined below) of said Loan immediately 
following the taking is equal to the Loan to Value Ratio of said Loan immediately preceding the 
taking.  Loan to Value Ratio shall mean that fraction the numerator of which is the sum of the 
principal amount of the Other Loan or the City Loans (as applicable) plus the principal amounts 
of all Other Loans or the City Loans higher in lien priority to the Other Loan or the City Loans 
(as applicable) and the denominator of which is the appraised value of the Project immediately 
following the taking or immediately preceding the taking, as applicable.  The values of the 
Project immediately preceding the taking and immediately following the taking shall be 
determined by an MAI or SRI appraiser selected by the Lessee. 
(3)
The balance, if any, shall be divided between the Lessor and the 
Lessee in the manner specified in subparagraph (e) below; provided, however, if the taking has 
171 of 556

--- page 172 ---
32
no effect on the value of the Lessor's fee interest in the Land or reversionary interest in the 
Improvements, the balance shall be paid exclusively to the Lessee.
(b)
Net awards and payments received on account of a partial or total taking 
of only the Lessor's fee interest in the Land or the reversionary interest in the Improvements (that 
is, a taking of Lessor's fee interest in the Land or the Lessor's reversionary interest in the 
Improvements that has no effect on the value of the Lessee's leasehold interest in the Land or the 
Lessee's fee interest in the Improvements), including severance damages, shall be paid to the 
Lessor, which amount shall be free and clear of any claims of the Lessee, or any other persons 
claiming rights to the Land through or under the Lessee.
(c)
Net awards and payments received on account of a taking for temporary 
use not exceeding one (1) year and relating to a period during the Lease Term shall be paid to the 
Lessee and first applied to pay the cost of relocation of Residents and restoration of any damage 
to or destruction of the Project if the Lessee determines that restoration is feasible.  If the Lessee 
determines that such restoration is not feasible, the Lessee and the Lessor shall petition the court 
to determine the relative damages to the Lessee and the Lessor, and net awards and payments 
shall be made as the court determines.  Net awards and payments received on account of a taking 
for temporary use not exceeding one (1) year and relating to a period beyond the Lease Term 
shall be paid to the Lessor.
(d)
Net awards and payments received on account of a total taking of the 
Project shall be allocated and paid in the following order of priority:
(1)
First, to any Lenders with then-outstanding Other Loans or the 
Lessor with an outstanding City Loans secured by the Project (in the order of their respective lien 
priority, if there is more than one Lender), an amount equal to the unpaid balance secured by 
their respective Other Loan or City Loans (as applicable) to the extent there are sufficient funds 
to make such payments;
(2)
The balance, if any, shall be divided between the Lessor and the 
Lessee in the manner specified in subparagraph (e) below; provided, however, if the taking has 
no effect on the value of the Lessor's fee interest in the Land or reversionary interest in the 
Improvements, the balance shall be paid exclusively to the Lessee.
(e)
The Lessee shall receive reimbursement for any funds it has reasonably 
expended for repair and/or reconstruction of the Project (other than funds received from Lenders 
or the Lessor) pursuant to Article 6.  The value of the Lessee's and Lessor's interest in the Lease, 
the residual value of the Land, and the Improvements shall be determined by an MAI or SRI 
appraiser selected by the Lessee.
(f)
The Lessee shall receive any award granted for or allocated to trade 
fixtures, moving expenses or loss of business.
(g)
If the Project is taken or condemned during the last five (5) years of the 
Lease Term under circumstances described in subparagraph (a) above, the Lessee may elect to 
terminate the Lease and proceeds of any payment or award shall be distributed in accordance 
with the provisions of subparagraphs (d) and (e) above.
172 of 556

--- page 173 ---
33
Section 6.2
 Administration of Construction Fund in the Event of Condemnation, or 
Damage or Destruction of Project.
In the event that the Other Loans and the City Loans have been paid in full, and if the 
Project or any part of it is to be repaired or reconstructed, after damage or destruction of the Project 
or its condemnation, all proceeds collected under any and all policies of insurance referred to in 
Article V above covering such damage or destruction, or all compensation received by Lessee for 
such taking by the exercise of the power of eminent domain, shall be paid into a special fund to be 
created and held by the Lessee and to be designated as the construction fund, during such repairing 
or reconstructing.  Any surplus of such insurance or condemnation proceeds remaining after the 
completion of all payments for such repairing or reconstructing shall be held or applied by the 
Lessee in a manner consistent with the applicable provision of Article V or this Article.
Section 6.3
 Lessee, Lessor, Lenders to be Made Parties in Legal Proceedings.
(a)
In the event proceedings shall be instituted:  (1) for the exercise of the 
power of eminent domain; or (2) as a result of any damage to or destruction of the Project, the 
Lessee, the Lessor, and any Lender with a then-outstanding Other Loan shall be made parties to 
those proceedings, and if not made parties by the petitioning party, shall be brought into the 
proceedings by appropriate proceedings of other parties so that adjudication may be made of the 
damages, if any, to be paid to the Lessee, the Lessor and the Lenders as compensation for loss of 
their rights in the Improvements or the Land, or for damage to or destruction of the Project.  
Should the Lessor or the Lessee receive notice of institution of any proceedings subject to 
Section 6.1, the Party receiving such notice shall notify the other in accordance with Section 9.2 
of this Lease, not later than thirty (30) days after receiving such notice.
(b)
The Lessor and the Lessee shall cooperate and consult with each other in 
all matters pertaining to the settlement, compromise, arbitration, or adjustment of any and all 
claims and demands for damages on account of damage to or destruction of the Project, or for 
damages on account of the taking or condemnation of the Project, the Improvements or the Land.
ARTICLE 7     
ASSURANCES OF LESSOR
Section 7.1
Lessor to Give Peaceful Possession.
The Lessor covenants that it owns in fee simple, and that it has good and marketable title to 
the Land and that the Land is free of all easements, covenants, conditions and restrictions except for 
thosepermitted exceptions set forth in Exhibit D to this Lease.as reasonably accepted by Lessee as 
of the Effective Date.  The Lessor has the full right and authority to make this Lease.  The Lessor 
covenants and warrants that the Lessee and its Residents shall have, hold and enjoy, during the 
Lease Term, peaceful, quiet and undisputed possession of the Land leased without hindrance or 
molestation by or from anyone so long as the Lessee is not in default under this Lease.
173 of 556

--- page 174 ---
34
Section 7.2
 Lessor to Lease Project with Marketable Title.
The Lessor covenants and warrants that there are no outstanding liens and encumbrances on 
the Land, other than permitted exceptions as shown on the preliminary title report fromreasonably 
accepted by Lessee as of the Effective Date.
 
Title Insurance Company dated
, 20 , and 
any other exceptions or encumbrances reasonably acceptable to the 
Lessee.
Section 7.3
 Release of Lessor.
The Lessor may sell, assign, transfer or convey (but not encumber), with the prior written 
consent of any Lenders, all or any part of Lessor's interest in the Land, reversionary interest in the 
Improvements or this Lease without obtaining the Lessee's consent, provided that the purchaser, 
assignee, or transferee expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Lessor under this Lease by a 
written instrument in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Lessee and recordable in the Official 
Records of the jurisdiction in which the Land is located.  In the event the Lessor intends to sell, 
assign, transfer, or convey all or any part of the Land, the Lessor shall notify the Lessee of such 
intention and the terms of such sale not later than ninety (90) days before anticipated close of 
escrow.  The Lessee shall then have sixty (60) days after the receipt of notice from the Lessor to 
exercise a right of first refusal on the same terms as are included in the Lessor's notice to the Lessee.  
In the event of a sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance by Lessor of the Land or its rights under 
this Lease, the same shall operate to release the Lessor from any future liability upon any of the 
covenants or conditions of this Lease, expressed or implied, in favor of Lessee, and in such event 
the Lessee shall look solely to the successor in interest of the Lessor in and to the Land or this 
Lease.  This Lease shall not be affected by any such sale, and the Lessee agrees to attorn to any such 
purchaser or assignee.
ARTICLE 8     
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
Section 8.1
Events of Default; Remedy of Default by Lessee.
(a)
Any one or more of the following events shall constitute an "Event of 
Default":
(1)
Failure to pay rent, as required pursuant to Section 2.3 of this 
Lease, or any other payment required under this Lease, and continuance of such failure for a 
period of thirty (30) days after receipt by the Lessee of written notice specifying the 
nonpayment;
(2)
Failure of the Lessee to observe and perform any covenant, 
condition or agreement hereunder on its part to be performed, and (i) continuance of such failure 
for a period of sixty (60) days after receipt by the Lessee of written notice specifying the nature 
of such default, or (ii) if by reason of the nature of such default the same cannot be remedied 
174 of 556

--- page 175 ---
35
within said sixty (60) days, the Lessee fails to proceed with reasonable diligence after receipt of 
said notice to cure the same; or
(3)
A general assignment by the Lessee for the benefit of creditors; or
(4)
The filing of a voluntary petition by the Lessee, or the filing of an 
involuntary petition by any of the Lessee's creditors seeking the rehabilitation, liquidation or 
reorganization of the Lessee under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or other relief of 
debtors, provided that in the case of an involuntary petition Lessee shall have sixty (60) days to 
cause such petition to be withdrawn or dismissed; or
(5)
The appointment of a receiver or other custodian to take possession 
of substantially all of the Lessee's assets or of this leasehold which appointment is not withdrawn 
or dismissed within sixty (60) days; or
(6)
The Lessee becomes insolvent or declares it is unwilling to pay its 
debts as they become due; or any court enters a decree or order directing the winding up or 
liquidation of the Lessee or of substantially all of its assets; or the Lessee takes any action toward 
the dissolution or winding up of its affairs or the cessation or suspension of its use of the Project; 
or
(7)
Attachment, execution or other judicial seizure of substantially all 
of the Lessee's assets or this leasehold, which is not dismissed, bonded, or stayed within sixty 
(60) days.; or
(b)
  Whenever any default shall have occurred and be continuing and upon 
expiration of any applicable cure periods provided in this Lease, and subject to the cure rights of 
Lenders of the Lessee set forth in this Lease, the Lessor may take whatever action at law or in 
equity as may appear reasonably necessary to enforce performance or observance of any 
obligations, agreements, or covenants of the Lessee under this Lease, including without 
limitation, termination of this Lease, provided, however, that for so long as an Other Loan 
encumbers this Project, this lease shall not be terminated.  In the event of such default, the 
Lessor's remedies shall be cumulative, and no remedy expressly provided for in this Section shall 
be deemed to exclude any other remedy allowed by law.
Section 8.2
 Cure of Material Breach by Lessee 
If the Lessee defaults under the Lease, the Lessor shall give the Lessee, the tax credit limited 
partner and the Lenders written notice requiring that the default is to be remedied by the Lessee.  If 
the default is not cured within the time set forth by the Lessor (which shall be a reasonable time for 
curing the default and shall in any event be at least ninety (90) days), the Lessor, the tax credit 
limited partner or the Lenders may take any action as may be necessary to protect their respective 
interests.  Such action, in the event that the Lessee shall fail to perform any of its obligations under 
this Lease and such failure shall continue after the expiration of the cure period specified in this 
Section, shall include the right of the Lessor, the tax credit limited partner or the Lenders to cure 
such default and receive any expenditure with interest thereon (at the reference rate then in effect at 
[
Bank of America, N.A.]. or any successor institution) from the Lessee within thirty (30) 
days after sending to the Lessee a statement for such expenditure and interest.
175 of 556

--- page 176 ---
36
Section 8.3
 Termination.
In the event of a total taking or in the event of damage, destruction, or a partial taking, other 
than a temporary taking of the Project, which the Lessee reasonably determines renders continued 
operation of the Project infeasible both as a whole and in substantial part, this Lease shall terminate 
(except if the Lessee is rebuilding the Project in accordance with the terms of this Lease), and in 
such event any proceeds shall be allocated pursuant to Section 5.3 or Article 6, as appropriate.  In 
the event of a partial taking that does not result in termination pursuant to this Section, this Lease 
shall remain in full force and effect as to the portion of the Project remaining.  Notwithstanding the 
preceding sentences, for so long as an Other Loan encumbers this Project, this lease shall not be 
terminated
Section 8.4
 Redelivery of Premises.
At the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, the Lessee will peaceably and quietly 
quit and surrender the premises to the Lessor in good order and condition, subject to the other 
provisions of this Lease.
   
ARTICLE 9
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 9.1
Instrument Is Entire Agreement.
This Lease and the attached Exhibits constitute the entire agreement between the Parties 
with respect to the matters set forth in this Lease.  This Lease shall completely and fully supersede 
all other prior understandings or agreements, both written and oral, between the Lessor and the 
Lessee relating to the lease of the Land by the Lessor to the Lessee. 
Section 9.2
 Notices.
All notices under this Lease shall be in writing signed by Authorized Officer(s) and shall be 
sufficient if sent by United States first class, certified mail, postage prepaid, or reputable private 
delivery service with a receipt showing the date of delivery, addressed:
If to the Lessor:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  99403
Attn:  City Manager
If to the Lessee:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
c/o MidPen Housing
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attn:  President and Chief Executive Officer
With copy to:
176 of 556

--- page 177 ---
37
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
AND:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
AND:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Matter No: B0965-0600
or any other address as either Party may have furnished to the other in writing pursuant to the 
requirements of this Section as a place for service of notice.  Any notice so mailed shall be deemed 
to have been given on the delivery date, the date that delivery is refused by the addressee or the date 
shown on the delivery receipt as the date delivery was attempted if undeliverable, as shown on the 
delivery receipt.
Section 9.3
 Recording.
A Memorandum of Lease shall be executed by the Parties in recordable form and shall be 
recorded in the official records of the jurisdiction in which the Land is located.  In the event this 
Lease is amended or assigned a memorandum of such amendment or assignment shall also be 
executed by the Parties in recordable form and shall be recorded in the official records of the 
jurisdiction in which the Land is located.
Section 9.4
 Non-Waiver of Breach.
Neither the failure of the Lessor or the Lessee to insist upon strict performance of any of the 
covenants and agreements of this Lease nor the failure by the Lessor or the Lessee to exercise any 
rights or remedies granted to such Party under the terms of this Lease shall be deemed a waiver or 
relinquishment:  (a) of any covenant contained in this Lease or of any of the rights or remedies of 
the Lessee or the Lessor under this Lease; or (b) or the right in the future of the Lessor or the Lessee 
to insist upon and to enforce by any appropriate legal remedy a strict compliance with all of the 
covenants and conditions of this Lease.
177 of 556

--- page 178 ---
38
Section 9.5
 Effective Date; Counterparts.
This Lease shall become effective upon the commencement of the Lease Term.  This Lease 
may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute 
the same instrument.
Section 9.6
 Lease Binding on Successors.
This Lease and all of its provisions and attached Exhibits shall inure to the benefit of, and 
shall be binding upon, the Lessor, the Lessee, and their respective permitted successors and 
permitted assigns and, as provided in this Lease, the Lenders.
Section 9.7
 Relationship of Parties.
Nothing contained in this Lease shall be deemed or construed by the Parties or by any third 
party to create the relationship of principal or agent or of partnership, joint venture or association or 
of buyer and seller between the Lessor and the Lessee, it being expressly understood and agreed that 
neither the computation of any payments and other charges under the terms of this Lease nor any 
other provisions contained in this Lease, nor any act or acts of the Parties, shall be deemed to create 
any relationship between the Lessor and the Lessee other than the relationship of landlord and 
tenant.
Section 9.8
 No Merger.
There shall be no merger of this Lease or any interest in this Lease nor of the leasehold 
estate created by this Lease, with the fee estate in the Land, by reason of the fact that this Lease or 
such interest in the Lease, or such leasehold estate may be directly or indirectly held by or for the 
account of any person who shall hold the fee estate in the Land, or any interest in such fee estate, 
nor shall there be such a merger by reason of the fact that all or any part of the leasehold estate 
created by this Lease may be conveyed or mortgaged in a leasehold mortgage to a leasehold 
mortgagee who shall hold the fee estate in the Land or any interest of the Lessor under this Lease.
Section 9.9
 Gender and Number.
Words of any gender used in this Lease shall be held to include any other gender, and any 
words in the singular number shall be held to include the plural (and vice versa), when the sense 
requires.
Section 9.10
 Titles.
The titles and article or paragraph headings are inserted only for convenience, and are in no 
way to be construed as a part of this Lease or as a limitation on the scope of the particular provisions 
to which they refer.
178 of 556

--- page 179 ---
39
Section 9.11
Severability.
If any provision of this Lease or the application of any provision to any person or 
circumstances shall be invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Lease, or the 
application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or 
unenforceable, shall not be affected, and each provision of this Lease shall be valid and be enforced 
to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Section 9.12
 Applicable Law and Venue.
This Lease shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of 
California.  In the event any legal action is commenced to interpret or to enforce the terms of this 
Agreement or to collect damages as a result of any breach thereof, the venue for such action shall be 
the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo, or where otherwise appropriate, exclusively in the 
United District Court, Northern District, San Francisco, California.
Section 9.13
 Costs and Attorney Fees.
Attorney fees in total amount not to exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000), shall be 
recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above dollar limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number 
of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall 
have to pay the other more than Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) for attorney fees arising out of 
an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 9.14
 Mediation.
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation with thirty days (30) days of a 
request, and such mediation shall be limited to one (1) day of mediation.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties.  In the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit 
one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation (other than attorneys' fees of each party) shall be 
borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall 
be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting 
with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties, but not more than sixty 
(60) days from when such process is commenced, unless the maximum time is extended by 
mutual written agreement executed by both parties.
Section 9.15
 Litigation.
Lessee may at the reasonable request testify at City's request, if litigation is brought against City 
in connection with this Agreement, to the extent the Lessee is considered a material witness to 
the action being litigated.  Unless the action is brought by Lessee, or is based upon Lessee's 
179 of 556

--- page 180 ---
40
wrongdoing, City shall compensate Lessee for preparation for all reasonable attorneys' fees, and 
for preparation of testimony and travel at Lessee's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
[Signature Page Follows]
180 of 556

--- page 181 ---
41
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Lease effective as of the day and 
year first above written.
LESSOR:
CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city
 
By: 
______________________________
Name: Drew Corbett
Its:
City Manager
Approved to as form and legality
__________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
LESSEE:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a 
California limited partnership
By: MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, a 
California limited liability company, its 
General Partner
By: Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc., a 
California nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, its sole member/manager
By:
______________________________
Jan M. Lindenthal, 
Assistant Secretary
(Note: All of the Exhibits that follow have been revised to include the latest information.)
181 of 556

--- page 182 ---
42
EXHIBIT A-1
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF 480 EAST 4th AVENUE
The land referred to herein is situated in the State of California, County of San Mateo, City of San 
Mateo and is described as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of San 
Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at Page(s) 52 
and 53.
APN: 034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A 
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
182 of 556

--- page 183 ---
43
EXHIBIT A-2
            LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF AIRSPACE ABOVE ADJACENT PUBLIC STREET
The final height, width, and location of the pedestrian bridge may change by no more than five 
(5) feet when the construction drawings are prepared.
                     
                                                                                                                                                                                             
183 of 556

--- page 184 ---
ima September 27, 2021
-—-_ BKF No. 20181271

FNGINFFR'S © SUPVFYNRS Pl ANMERS Page 1 of 1

PARTI
THREE-DIMENSIONAL PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE OVERCROSSING EASEMENT

Being a portion of East 5* Avenue, a City street 60 feet wide, between Railroad Avenue and South
Claremont Street, as shown on that certam Pareel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded im Book 64
of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County, more particularly described as
follows:

COMMENCING at the Easterly most comer of Block 15 of the Town of San Mateo, as said block is
sideline of South Claremont Street and the Northwesterly sideline of East 5* Avenue;

Thence leaving said Easterly most comer, and along said Northwesterly sideline, South 48°30°30" West,
139.49 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, called Point #1 for the purposes of this descmption;
Thence leaving Pomt # land said Northwesterly sideline, South 41°29°00" East, 60.00 feet to Pomt #2 at
the Southeasterly sideline of East 5* Avenue;

Thence along said Southeasterly sideline, South 48°30°30" West, 14.50 feet, to Point #3;

Thence leaving said sideline, North 41°29°00" West, 60.00 feet to Point #4 on said Northwesterly sideline
of E. 4 Avenue:

Thence along said sidelime, North 48°30°30" East, 14.50 feet to said Point #1 and the TRUE POINT OF

Contaimmg an area of 870 square feet, more or less, and bemg a three dimensional easement 14.4) feet
high, for which the base elevation at Pomt #1 and Pomt #4 is 163.16 feet, and the base elevation at Pomt
#2 and Point #3 is 165.94 feet.

The benchmark used to establish these elevations is San Mateo City Benchmark No. 033-004, a ram set
nail and waster set in the top of curb at the Northeasterly of the intersection of B Street and 5" Avenue,
City of San Mateo: Elevation = 125.28 feet (San Mateo datum + 100 feet).

As shown on PART 01 attached hereto and made a part hereof.

Teq™uirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act.

44
184 of 556


--- page 185 ---
“POINT OF 5, CLAREMONT 8ST,
{ COMMENCEMENT (7O" WIDE)

P&E

— SBE 1535-41-35
° PARCEL 1
(NO APN)
“—FD. RAILROAD RAIL,
CL BEARS BRS,
SAPP "6 O40"

A
ce

ITY GF SAN MATE
S4H30 30° W 139.49"

64 PM 52-53

APH 024-183-060

LANDS. OF
PARCEL 1, 70 PM 3-4

S4a 30 S50"W 44.25"
APN 032-281-140

7 TRUE POINT OF
{BEGINNING

| - Paint #1

a |

LANDS OF CITr OF SAN MATEO

=P

o

nt #2

yA (SEE SECTION A-A BELOW)

S47S'00"E 60.00"

- PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
OVERCROSSING EASEMENT
~__ARFA = 870 SQ.FT

\ N4v2e00°W 60.00"
Paint 4 es PROPOSED BRIDGE

WOTH=17.33°

>
[-
N4630°30°E —

7 S48°30'30"W

Point #3

-Points #1 d&g Points #2 & fo
Bev.=17 7.58 (Top) Bev.=180.56 (Top

BASIS OF BEARING: (DTSM— +
THE BEARING M128'O0°W ALONG THE CENTERUNE OF = Residential} 9+
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET AS SHOWA ON THAT

CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVET MAP RECORDED IN

BOOK 19 OF LIGENSED LAND SURVEYS AT PAGE 82,

SAN MATEO COUNTY REQORDS.

(Garage)

~ pe=4.65%
SUM . Points @2 a& go —

Points gt & gi Bev.=165.94 (Bottom)
Elev=1683,16 (Bottam)

THE BENCHMARK USED FOR THIS SURVEY IS A CITY
OF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK, BW 033-004, 4 RAW
SET NaIL AND WASHER ON THE TOP OF CURB AT

THE EASTERLY EXD OF NORTHEASTERLY RETURN AT
THE INTERSECTION OF 8 STREET AND 5TH AVERUE,
ClTr OF SAN MATEG. __.| o.00' WIDE

|
|
BENCHMARK: |
|
|
|

E. 5TH AVE.

ELEV=125.28 FEET (SAN MATEQ OATUM +100 FEET} |
| cFG @ PL FG @ PL=

434.2 170.6"
PART II —1£ —_

PLAT TO ACCOMPANY a -
LEGAL DESCRIPTION SECTION A-A

HOR. & WERT. SCALE: 1°=20°
Ke 2018181 271_480_F4 7H SUR 0WG EASEMENT BRIDGE ’\PLAT_PEDESTRIANEGRIDGE.OWG

1730 N. FIRST STREET Subject PED. BRIDGE OVERCROSSING ESMT.
SUITE 600 E. 5TH AVE., SAN MATEO, CA

SAN JOSE, CA 95112 Job No, 20157271 DTSMAesideniial
“ees SHEET __1 OF __1_

45
185 of 556


--- page 186 ---
46
EXHIBIT B
FINANCING PLAN
Sources of Funds
CONSTRUCTION
PERMANENT
 
 
State, Local, Federal Assistance:
County of San Mateo
5,185,817
5,185,817
Accrued/Deferred Interest
270,398
270,398
City of San Mateo: Low-Mod Loan
2,850,000 
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
146,667
146,667
City of San Mateo: HOME Loan
650,000
650,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
33,450
33,450
City of San Mateo: Commercial Linkage Loan
2,000,000
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
102,924
102,924
MidPen Sponsor Loan: Parking Funds
5,000,000
5,000,000
HEART AHTF Loan
3,800,000
3,800,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
198,139
198,139
Deferred Developer Fee
2,000,000
2,000,000
Capital Contributions – General Partner
100
100
Capital Contributions – Limited Partner
21,783,250
73,252,978
Bank of America TE Construction Bond
85,000,000
Bank of America Taxable Tail
30,918,515
Costs Deferred Until Permanent Loan Closing
6,610,213
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche A
44,333,000
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche B
27,726,000
CalHFA MIP Loan
2,000,000
Total Sources
166,549,474 
166,549,474 
Total Development Costs
166,549,474
166,549,474
                                                   
186 of 556

--- page 187 ---
47
Uses of Funds
TOTAL COST
LAND COSTS
Acquisition including Closing Costs
1,508,272
TOTAL LAND COSTS
1,508,272
DIRECT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Offsite Improvements (Repl. Parking)
8,194,669
Residential Site Work & Structures
85,658,107
Residential Parking Structure
5,718,833
Commercial Parking Structure
10,077,700
Contactor's Overhead & Profit
3,066,347
General Conditions
5,462,382
Construction Contingency
6,248,012
Contractor's Bond & Insurance
1,645,008
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS
126,071,058
INDIRECT COSTS
Local Permits and Impact Fees
7,336,373
Architectural and Engineering Fees
3,613,876
Consultants and Professional Services
3,915,681
Developers Fee
6,960,000
Indirect Construction Costs Contingency
3,749,309
Relocation
0 
Legal
303,200
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
25,878,439
FINANCING COSTS
Construction Loan Interest
7,167,668
Construction Loan Fees/Expenses
714,593
Permanent Loan Fees/Expenses
1,111,796
Tax Credit Costs
224,032
Capitalized Reserves
2,022,488
Other (Soft Cost Contingency)
1,051,128
TOTAL FINANCING COSTS
12,291,705
RENT-UP COSTS
Marketing /Advertising Expense
400,000
Common Area Furnishings
400,000
TOTAL RENT UP/MARKETING COSTS
800,000
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COSTS
166,549,474
187 of 556

--- page 188 ---
48
EXHIBIT C
DIAGRAM DESCRIPTION OF PUBLIC ACCESS AREA
188 of 556

--- page 189 ---
49
EXHIBIT D   
SIDEWALK AREA
City streetlight, City streetlight box,and their appurtenances along East 5th Avenue, circled in red 
in diagrams below, will be located within Property. 
Area of streetlight and base within Property is approximately 16 square feet.
Area of streetlight box within Property is approximately 14.4 square feet.
189 of 556

--- page 190 ---
50
City sidewalk along East 5th Avenue, shown in red in diagram below, will be located within 
Property. 
Area of sidewalk within Property is approximately 134 square feet.
190 of 556

--- page 191 ---
1
660\11\3150709.5
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
City of San Mateo
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Attention:  Housing Manager
SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR 
RECORDER’S USE
APN: _____________________
This Regulatory Agreement is recorded at the request 
and for the benefit of the City of San Mateo and is 
exempt from the payment of a recording fee pursuant 
to Government Code Sections 27383.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AGREEMENT 
AND DENSITY BONUS AFFORDABILITY 
RESTRICTION
(Rental- Kiku Crossing)
A. This Affordable Housing Agreement and Density Bonus Affordability Restriction 
(“Restriction”) is made by MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited 
partnership (referred to herein as “Developer”) and the City of San Mateo, a California 
charter city (“City”) on the  ___  day of __________, 20__, (the “Effective Date”) with 
respect to the following facts:
B. City is the owner of certain real property located in the City of San Mateo, San Mateo 
County, California, located at 480 E 4th Avenue, City of San Mateo, and more 
particularly described in EXHIBIT A attached hereto and incorporated herein by this 
reference (the “Property”).  Developer is the Lessee of the Property.
C. The City of San Mateo has established a Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program 
(“Inclusionary Program”), which is set forth in Resolution 14 (2020), augmented by the 
City’s Marketing Policies as adopted by City Resolution 22 (2009). State density bonus 
law (California Government Code section 65915) requires that cities provide density 
bonuses and incentives or concessions for projects that provide affordable housing. City 
has density bonus regulations located at San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.15.060 
(“Density Bonus section”). The Density Bonus section complies with the state density 
bonus law and implements the housing element of the San Mateo General Plan by 
191 of 556

--- page 192 ---
2
660\11\3150709.5
providing increased residential densities for projects that guarantee that a portion of the 
housing units will be affordable to very low, low, or moderate-income households, 
provide senior housing, or include childcare facilities. The Density Bonus section 
identifies incentives and concessions deemed not to have an adverse impact, and sets 
forth a density bonus process requiring that the density bonus request and requests for 
incentives and concessions, waiver or modification of development standards be 
submitted with the planning application. 
D. Developer submitted an application for a project, PA 2019-033, as revised (the 
“Project”).  The Project to be developed by Developer at the Property includes, 
without limitation, the development of 225 units of affordable rental housing, of 
which 223 Units are to be rented to Lower Income Households and Moderate Income 
Households, as defined below. The Lower Income Units and Moderate Income Units 
are hereinafter referred to also as the “Affordable Units” (individually, each an 
“Affordable Unit”).  Eighteen (18) of the Affordable Units are being provided to 
satisfy the requirements under the City’s Inclusionary Program (the "Inclusionary 
Units").  Two hundred twenty-three (223) of Affordable Units, including the eighteen 
(18) Inclusionary Units, are being provided to qualify the Project for the state density 
bonus under Government Code 65915(f)(3)(D)(ii) (the “Density Bonus Units”).  
E. The base density for this project is 121 units.  The Project consists of 100% Affordable Units, 
excluding two (2) unrestricted manager units, and is located within ½ mile of a major transit 
stop. On March 30, 2021, the Developer submitted a Request for Concessions and Waivers, 
SPAR Modification which included a density bonus of 104 units, an increase of two additional 
stories in building height and four incentives and concessions in accordance with Government 
Code Section 65915.  The incentives and concessions include:
•
Increase in Floor Area Ratio to 3.93
•
Allowing construction of 164 Residential Parking spaces on a Separate Site.
•
Allowing a universal parking stall size.
•
Waivers of Bulk Dimension and Street Wall Plane standards/
•
Decrease in Open Space Square Footage by approximately 4,606 sq. ft.
F. The San Mateo City Council approved the Project on August 17, 2020 and granted Developer 
the requested density bonus and concessions and incentives May 17, 2021.
NOW, THEREFORE, Developer hereby declares and covenants:
1. DEFINITIONS.
(a) Affordable Unit - a residential living unit restricted pursuant to the terms of this 
Restriction, as defined in Recital D.
(b) Developer – has the definition set forth in the opening paragraph and includes heirs, 
successors, assigns and all subsequent owners. 
192 of 556

--- page 193 ---
3
660\11\3150709.5
(c) Eligible Tenant - Household qualifying within the income restrictions for Lower and 
Moderate Income units.
(d) Excess Rent – rent charged to an Eligible Tenant that exceeds the rent allowed under 
Section 2(c), below. 
(e) Lower Income Households - means households whose income does not exceed that as 
defined in Health and Safety Code section 50079.5 for the County of San Mateo as 
published annually by the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development, as adjusted for household size.
(f) Moderate Income Households-means households whose income does not exceed that 
as defined in Health and Safety Code 50093 for the County of San Mateo as published 
annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development, as 
adjusted for household size. 
(g) Non-Complying Affordable Unit - an Affordable Unit which is occupied and/or leased in 
violation of paragraph 2 of this Restriction 
(h) Vacate - includes, without limitation, departure from an Affordable Unit at the 
termination (whether at the end of a term or upon default) of the lease pursuant to which 
the Affordable Unit was occupied, abandonment of the Affordable Unit, sublease or 
assignment of an Affordable Unit (whether or not such sublease or assignment complied 
with the terms and conditions of the lease).
2. AFFORDABILITY RESTRICTION. 
(a) These restrictions apply to the Property, and the term of this Agreement which 
commences as of the date of this Agreement, shall continue with respect to the Density 
Bonus Units for a term of fifty-seven (57) years from the Effective Date that this 
Agreement is recorded against the Property (but in no event less than fifty-five (55) years 
form the issuance of a certificate of completion for the Development) and for the life of the 
Project with respect to the Inclusionary Units. 
As used herein, the "life of the Project" shall mean until such time as the structures 
constructed and approved as part of the residential development are replaced by a newly 
approved project, subject to such affordability restrictions applicable at the time, or is legally 
converted to nonresidential use.  In the event a portion, but not all of the Project is so used, 
the portion remaining shall be subject to these restrictions in the same proportion as 
originally applicable to the entire Project.
During the Term of this Agreement, the Developer shall not convert any of the Density 
Bonus Units in the Development to condominium or cooperative ownership or sell 
condominium or cooperative conversion rights to the Property
(b) Occupancy Requirements. The Developer shall regulate the use and occupancy of the 
193 of 556

--- page 194 ---
4
660\11\3150709.5
Units in the following manner:
(i)
Lower Income Units.  One hundred seventy eight (178) units shall be rented to and 
occupied by or, if vacant, available for occupancy by Lower Income Households (the 
"Lower Income Units").  So long as the Developer is meeting the requirements of this 
Section 2(b)(i), the Developer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements 
to provide eighteen (18) Inclusionary Units.
(ii)
Moderate Income Units.  Forty five (45) units shall be rented to and occupied by or, if 
vacant, available for occupancy by up to Moderate Income Households (the "Moderate 
Income Units").  
(iii) Manager's Units.  Two (2) unrestricted units shall be available for designation as the 
manager's units.
Developer shall prohibit any person, family or household (“Tenant”) who has not been 
determined to be an Eligible Tenant, defined above, at the time of taking possession of an 
Affordable Unit from renting or occupying any Affordable Unit and shall cause any such 
Tenant to Vacate any Affordable Unit so rented or occupied contrary to this Restriction. 
Developer shall comply with all existing or future laws and regulations applicable to the 
Affordable Units to the extent that any such future laws and regulations do not impose 
greater liability on Developer other than what is set forth in this Restriction. This Restriction 
shall be deemed modified accordingly.
(c) Allowable Rent-
(i)
Lower Income Units.  The monthly rent charged for the Lower Income Units shall 
not exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of eighty percent (80%) of 
Area Median Income, adjusted for Assumed Household Size and shall not exceed 
the maximum rent levels for a housing development that receives an allocation of 
state or federal low-income housing tax credits from the California Tax Credit 
Allocation Committee ("CTCAC").
(ii)
Moderate Income Unit.  The monthly rent charged for the Moderate Income Units 
shall not exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of one hundred ten 
percent (110%) of Median Income, as published by HCD for Moderate Income 
Households, adjusted for Assumed Household Size.
(iii) Managers Units.  The rents for the two (2) Managers units are unrestricted.
(iv)
Assumed Household Size.  In calculating the allowable Rent for the Affordable 
Units, the CTCAC "Assumed Household Sizes" shall be utilized, provided that the 
Development receives an allocation of low income housing tax credits, otherwise 
Assumed Household Size shall be determined pursuant to the terms of Health and 
Safety Code Section 50052.5(h).
194 of 556

--- page 195 ---
5
660\11\3150709.5
(d)  Recertification of Income; Continued Availability at Restricted Level. On an annual 
basis upon written request from the City, Developer shall submit a report (the “Annual 
Report”) to the City which contains with respect to each Affordable Unit, the type of 
Affordable Unit, the rental rate and the income and household size of the Tenant. The 
Annual Report shall be based on information supplied by the Tenant of each Affordable Unit 
in a certified statement executed yearly by the Tenant on a form provided or previously 
approved by the City. When the Affordable Unit is vacated for any reason whatsoever by the 
Tenant, the Affordable Unit, shall then be rented or otherwise made available to a new 
Eligible Tenant.
(e)  Lower Income Household to Moderate Income Household.  If, upon recertification of a 
Tenant's income, the Developer determines that a former Lower Income Household's 
Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the qualifying income for a Lower Income 
Household, but does not exceed the qualifying limit for a Moderate Income Household, then, 
upon expiration of the Tenant's lease:
(i)
Such Tenant's Unit may be considered a Moderate Income Unit;
(ii)
Such Tenant's Rent may be increased to the lesser of (i) the allowable rent for a 
Moderate Income Unit, and (ii) the fair market rent (subject to 24 C.F.R. 
92.252(i)(2) regarding low income housing tax credit requirements) upon sixty 
(60) days written notice to the Tenant; and
(iii)
The Developer shall rent the next available comparable Moderate Income Unit to 
a Lower Income Household at Lower Income Rent to meet the requirements of 
above.
  
(iv)
Any redesignation of income levels must comply with low income housing tax 
credit regulations regarding income averaging. In the event of a conflict between 
Section 2(e) and low income housing tax credit regulations regarding income 
averaging, the tax credit regulations will prevail.
(f) Non-Qualifying Household.  If, upon recertification of the income of a Tenant, the 
Developer determines that a former Lower Income Household or Moderate Income 
Household has an Adjusted Income exceeding the maximum qualifying income for a 
Moderate Income Household, such Tenant shall be permitted to continue occupying the Unit 
and upon expiration of the Tenant's lease and upon sixty (60) days written notice, the Tenant 
may continue to reside in the Unit for 12 months and the Rent may be increased to the lesser 
of one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of actual Adjusted Income of the Tenant, or 
fair market rent (subject to 24 C.F.R. 92.252(i)(2) regarding low income housing tax credit 
requirements) and the Developer shall rent the next available Unit to a Lower Income 
Household or Moderate Income Household to meet the requirements of this section.
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that the AMI 
decreases in any given calendar year, Borrower is permitted to apply the "hold harmless" 
policy (“Policy”) implemented by California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (“CTCAC”) 
pursuant to the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221). The Policy states 
195 of 556

--- page 196 ---
6
660\11\3150709.5
that, as of the date of placed-in-service, (or rent floor election date, available after CTCAC 
award/reservation), rent limits for a given calendar year cannot be lower than the highest 
amount of rent limits for each calendar year since placed-in-service.
3. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES.
(a) Covenants Running with the Land. The Developer hereby subjects the Property and the 
Affordable Units to the covenants and restrictions set forth in this Restriction. Developer 
hereby declares its express intent that the covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall be 
deemed covenants running with the land and shall pass to and be binding upon the 
Developer’s successors in interest; provided, however, that on the termination of this 
Restriction, said covenants and restrictions shall expire. Each and every contract, deed, lease 
or other instrument covering, conveying or otherwise transferring the Property or 
improvements constructed on the Property or any portion thereof or interest therein (a 
“Contract”) shall conclusively be held to have been executed, delivered and accepted subject 
to this Restriction regardless of whether the terms of this Restriction are set forth in such 
Contract and regardless of whether the other party or parties to such Contract have actual 
knowledge of this Restriction. The Developer hereby declares its understanding and intent 
that:
(i)
The parties hereto understand and agree that, notwithstanding any provisions 
contained in this Agreement, or any other instrument or agreement affecting the 
Property, the restrictions and covenants hereunder are not intended by the parties 
hereto to either create a lien upon the Property, or grant any right of foreclosure, 
under the laws of the jurisdiction where the project is located, to any party hereto 
or third party beneficiary hereof upon a default of any provision herein, rather 
they are intended by the parties hereto to constitute a restrictive covenant that is 
filed of record.
(ii) The burden of the covenants and restrictions set forth in this Restriction 
touch and concern the Property in that the Developer’s legal interest in the 
Property and all improvements thereon are rendered less valuable thereby; and
(iii) The benefit of the covenants and restrictions set forth in this Restriction 
touch and concern the land by enhancing and increasing the enjoyment and use of 
the Property and Affordable Units by Lower Income Households and Moderate 
Income Households, the intended beneficiaries of such covenants and restrictions.
All covenants and restrictions contained herein without regard to technical classification or 
designation shall be binding upon the Developer and its successors in interest for the benefit 
of the City, and such covenants and restrictions shall run in favor of the City for the entire 
period during which such covenants and restrictions shall be in force and effect, without 
regard to whether the City is an owner of any land or interest therein to which such covenant 
and restrictions relate.
(b) Excess Rent.  In the event that and to the extent that the Developer receives rents or other 
196 of 556

--- page 197 ---
7
660\11\3150709.5
payments from the operation of the Affordable Units in excess of what Developer is 
permitted to charge and receive pursuant to this Restriction, after thirty (30) days’ notice by 
City to Developer, Developer agrees and covenants to pay to the City the full amount of such 
excess, including statutory interest thereon, for all periods prior to and during the thirty (30) 
day notice period on demand by the City. The Developer agrees and intends that the payment 
of such excess, absent other remedies described in this Restriction to ensure for the term 
hereof that rents or other payments do not exceed those Developer is permitted to charge and 
receive pursuant to this Restriction, shall not alone be an adequate remedy to accomplish the 
purposes of this Restriction.
(c) All Remedies Available and Cumulative. In the event of any breach of any of the 
covenants or restrictions set forth herein (a “Default”), the City shall have the right to 
exercise all its rights and remedies, and to maintain any action at law or suits in equity or 
other real property proceedings, including without limitation, specific performance, to 
enforce the covenants and restrictions and the curing of any breach or violation thereof. No 
delay in enforcing the provisions hereof as to any breach or violation shall impair, damage or 
waive the right of the City to enforce the provisions hereof in the future for any continuing or 
new breach or violation of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in this Restriction. 
All rights and remedies, including without limitation those set forth in paragraphs 3(a) 
through (c) above, of any party legally entitled to enforce this Restriction shall be cumulative 
and the exercise of any such right or remedy shall not impair or prejudice and shall not be a 
waiver of the right to exercise any other such rights and remedies.
4. NOTICE OF EXPIRATION.  
(a) At least six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Term, Developer will provide by 
first-class mail, postage prepaid, a notice to all Tenants containing:  (1) the anticipated date 
of the expiration of the Term; (2) any anticipated increase in Rent upon the expiration of the 
Term; (3) a statement that a copy of such notice will be sent to the City.  
(b) In addition to the notice required above, Developer shall comply with the requirements 
set forth in California Government Code Sections 65863.10 and 65863.11, as such may be 
amended from time to time.  Such notice requirements may include:  (1) the notices to 
existing tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public Agencies (as defined in California 
Government Code Section 65863.10(a), prior to the expiration of the Term; (2) a six (6) 
month notice requirement to existing Tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public 
Agencies prior to the expiration of the Term; (3) a notice of an offer to purchase the 
Development to "qualified entities" (as defined in California Government Code Section 
65863.11(d)), if the Development is to be sold within five (5) years of the end of the Term; 
and (4) a notice of right of first refusal within the one hundred eighty (180) day period that 
qualified entities may purchase the Development.
.
5.
REPORTING. The Developer shall include in the Annual Report all information with 
respect to the number and location of Affordable Units in the Project and the household size 
and income levels of the Tenant occupying the Affordable Units, and any other relevant 
information requested by the City including information useful in determining tenant 
197 of 556

--- page 198 ---
8
660\11\3150709.5
eligibility. In order to verify the information provided, City shall have the right to inspect 
the books and records of Developer and its rental agent or bookkeeper upon reasonable 
notice.
6. SUBORDINATION.  The City has no intent or obligation to subordinate this Agreement to 
any future financing or deeds of trust.
7. SUCCESSORS, ASSIGNS. The provisions contained in this Restriction shall bind the 
Developer, its successors in interest and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the City.
8. LIENOR’S REMEDIES. The provisions of this Restriction do not limit the right of any 
obligee to exercise any of its remedies for the enforcement of any pledge or lien upon the 
Project; provided, however, that in the event of any foreclosure, under any mortgage, deed of 
trust or other lien or encumbrance, or a sale pursuant to any power of sale included in any 
such mortgage or deed of trust, or in the case of a deed in lieu of foreclosure (a “Transfer 
Event”), the purchaser (or other transferee) and their successors in interest and assigns and 
the Project shall be, and shall continue to be, subject to all of the covenants and restrictions 
set forth in this Restriction; provided, further that, as to any violation of this Restriction 
hereby, such Transferees’ obligations hereunder pursuant to a Transfer Event shall be 
limited to the period in which they owned the Property.  The City shall cooperate with 
Developer to amend this Section 8 to comply with the requirements of any obligee in order 
to enable Developer to finance the Property and/or Project.
9. AMENDMENTS. The City and the Developer shall have the right to consent and agree to 
changes in, or to eliminate in whole or in part, any of the covenants or restrictions contained 
in this Restriction without the consent of any tenant, lessee, easement holder, licensee, 
mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary under a deed of trust or any other person or entity having any 
interest less than a fee in the Project. This Restriction shall not be amended, modified or 
terminated except upon the written consent of the City and upon the recordation of an 
amendment hereto duly executed and acknowledged by Developer.
10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Restriction, or the application thereof to any 
person, place, or circumstance, shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be 
invalid, unenforceable, or void, the remainder of this Restriction and such provisions as 
applied to other persons, places, and circumstances shall remain in full force and effect.
11. NO DISCRIMINATION. The Developer covenants and agrees that, unless otherwise 
permitted by law, there shall be no discrimination against or segregation of, any person or 
group of persons on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital 
status, family status (minor children or no minor children), national origin, ancestry or 
disability in the sale, lease, sublease, transfer, use, occupancy, tenure, or enjoyment of the 
Property, nor shall the Developer or any person claiming under or through Developer, 
establish or permit any such practice or practices of discrimination or segregation with 
reference to the selection, location, number, use or occupancy of tenants, lessees, subtenants, 
sublessees, or vendees on the Property.
11. NOTICES. All notices, demand, and other communications required or permitted hereunder 
198 of 556

--- page 199 ---
9
660\11\3150709.5
shall be made in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given and received when 
delivered by hand or, if mailed, three (3) business days after deposit in the mail, postage 
prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to City at:
Housing Manager
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
and to Developer at:
MP Downtown Associates, L.P.
c/o MidPen Housing
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attention: President and Chief Executive Officer
12. GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE. This Restriction shall be governed by and construed in 
accordance with the law of the State of California and in the event of litigation, venue will be 
in the County of San Mateo.
13. ACTION AND APPROVAL.  Whenever action and/or approval by City is required under this 
Agreement, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may act on and/or approve such 
matter unless specifically provided otherwise, or unless the City Manager or the City 
Manager's designee determine in their discretion that such action or approval requires referral 
to City Council for consideration.
14. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES.  Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing 
contained in this Agreement is intended to or shall be deemed to confer upon any person, other 
than the Parties and their respective successors and assigns, any rights or remedies hereunder.
15. ASSIGNMENT BY THE CITY.  The City may assign its rights and obligations under this 
Agreement to any instrumentality of the City or other public entity without the consent of, but 
upon prior written notice to, the Developer.
[Signature page follows.]
199 of 556

--- page 200 ---
S-1
S
660\11\3150709.5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Developer has executed this Restriction as of the date first 
written above.
DEVELOPER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.,
a California limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC
a California limited liability company, its General Partner
By:
Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation,
its sole member/manager
By:
___________________________________
Name: ___________________________________
Its:
___________________________________
[Signature must be notarized.]
200 of 556

--- page 201 ---
S-2
S
660\11\3150709.5
CITY:
City of San Mateo, a California charter city
By:
___________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:
_______________________________________
Gabrielle P. Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
[Signature must be notarized.]
201 of 556

--- page 202 ---
S
660\11\3150709.5
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, personally 
appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory 
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged 
to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, 
executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing 
paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
202 of 556

--- page 203 ---
S
660\11\3150709.5
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, personally 
appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory 
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged 
to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, 
executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing 
paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
203 of 556

--- page 204 ---
A-1
660\11\3150709.5
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described 
as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of 
San Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at 
Page(s) 52 and 53.
APN: 034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A 
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
204 of 556

--- page 205 ---
1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
City of San Mateo
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Attention:  Housing Manager
SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER’S USE
This Regulatory Agreement is recorded at 
the request and for the benefit of the City of 
San Mateo and is exempt from the payment 
of a recording fee pursuant to Government 
Code Sections 27383.
REGULATORY AGREEMENT AND
DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
(Kiku Crossing, San Mateo)
This REGULATORY AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE 
COVENANTS (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of ____________________, 20__, 
by and between the City of San Mateo, a California charter city, acting on its own behalf and in its 
capacity as the housing successor the dissolved Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo 
(“City”), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership 
(“Developer”).
RECITALS
A.
These Recitals refer to and utilize certain capitalized terms which are defined in Article 
1 of this Agreement.  The Parties intend to refer to those definitions in connection with 
the use of capitalized terms in these Recitals.
B.
The City is the owner of the Property, as more particularly described in Exhibit A 
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and the Developer and the 
City have entered into that certain Ground Lease dated as of __________________ __, 
20__, and as such may be further amended from time to time (collectively, the "Ground 
Lease"), pursuant to which the Developer will acquire a leasehold interest in the 
Property from the City for a period of ninety-nine (99) years (the "Leasehold Interest").  
The Developer intends to construct 225 multifamily housing units on the Property for 
rental to extremely low, very low and low income households, including two (2) 
205 of 556

--- page 206 ---
2
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
unrestricted manager units, and attendant site improvements (the "Improvements").  The 
Developer's Leasehold Interest and the Developer's fee interest in the Improvements, are 
collectively herein after referred to as the "Development."
C.
The Development is subject to that certain Affordable Housing Agreement and Density 
Bonus Affordability Restriction (the "Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement") 
implementing: (1) the City's Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program (“Inclusionary 
Program”), which is set forth in Resolution 14 (2020), augmented by the City’s 
Marketing Policies as adopted by City Resolution 22 (2009); and (2) the State density 
bonus law (California Government Code section 65915) which requires that cities 
provide density bonuses and incentives or concessions for projects that provide 
affordable housing.  The restrictions in the Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement are 
unrelated to the affordability restrictions under this Agreement.
D.
The City and the Developer executed that certain Disposition, Development and Loan 
Agreement dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First Amendment to 
Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement, dated as of November __, 2021, 
(collectively, the "DDLA") to partially fund the acquisition, predevelopment, and 
construction costs for the Development. 
E.
Pursuant to the DDLA, the City will provide to Developer the "City Loans" totaling 
Four Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($4,850,000) from the following 
sources:
1.
Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,850,000) from the City’s 
Low Moderated Income Housing Asset Fund (“City LM Loan”)
2.
Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) from the City’s Commercial Linkage Fee fund 
(“City CLF Loan”)
F.
Pursuant to the HOME Loan Agreement, the City will provide the Developer a Loan 
totaling Six Hundred Fifty Thousand ($650,000) from City’s HOME funding program 
income (“City HOME Loan” and together with the City LM Loan and the City CLF 
Loan, the "City Loans") to fund eligible specified activities for the Development as 
allowed under 24 C.F.R. 92.64.  The City has the authority to loan the HOME Funds 
pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.205.
G.
The City HOME Loan is funded with program income from the HOME Investment 
Partnership Act (“HOME”) funds received by the City from the United States Department 
of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) pursuant to the Cranston-Gonzales 
National Housing Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C 12075 et seq).
H.
This Agreement imposes occupancy and affordability restrictions on the Development 
in accordance with the HOME program.
206 of 556

--- page 207 ---
3
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
I.
This Agreement also imposes occupancy and affordability restrictions on the 
Development, in accordance with Health and Safety Code Sections 33334.2 et seq and 
34176.1.
J.
The City is requiring the execution of this Agreement in order to implement the 
requirements of Health and Safety Code Section 33334.3.
K.
In order to ensure that the entire Development will be used and operated in accordance 
with these conditions and restrictions, the City and Developer wish to enter into this 
Agreement. 
THEREFORE, the City and Developer hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.1
Definitions.
When used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings 
assigned to them in this Article 1.
(a)
“Actual Household Size” means the actual number of persons in the 
applicable household.
(b)
"Adjusted Income" means : (1) with regards only to the Extremely Low 
Income Units, the total anticipated annual income of all persons in a household, as calculated in 
accordance with 25 California Code of Regulations Section 6914 or pursuant to a successor 
State housing program that utilizes a reasonably similar method of calculation of adjusted 
income, or (2)with regards only to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, the total anticipated annual 
income of all persons in a household as initially calculated in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 
92.203(a)(1) and, for subsequent calculations, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 92.203(b)(1); or (3) 
with regards to all other units that are neither Extremely Low Income Units nor HOME Loan 
Assisted Units, the total anticipated annual income of all persons in a household, as calculated in 
accordance with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations or 
pursuant to a successor State housing program that utilizes a reasonably similar method of 
calculation of adjusted income.  In the event that no such program exists, the City shall provide 
the Developer with a reasonably similar method of calculation of adjusted income as provided in 
said Section 6914.
(c)
“Assumed Household Size” shall be set by multiplying 1.5 by the number 
of bedrooms in unit. The definition is utilized to calculate affordable rent and is not intended to 
be a limit on the number of persons occupying a Unit.
(d)
"City" means the City of San Mateo, a California charter city, and its 
successors and assigns.
207 of 556

--- page 208 ---
4
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(e)
"City Deed of Trust” means the Leasehold Deed of Trust with Assignment of 
Rents, Security Agreement, and Fixture Filing dated of even date herewith, among Developer, as 
trustor, Old Republic Title Company, as trustee, and the City, as beneficiary, that will encumber 
the Developer's leasehold interest in the Property to secure repayment of the City Loans and 
performance of the covenants of the Loan Documents.
(f)
"City Loans" has the meaning set forth in Recital F, above.
(g)
“Completion Date” means the date that all of the following have occurred:  
(1) a certificate of occupancy, or equivalent document is issued by the City to certify completion 
of the construction of the Improvements; (2) the final disbursement of HOME Funds for the 
Development has been made; (3) the City has verified the Development complies with the 
property standards set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.251; and (4) all project completion information has 
been entered by the City into the Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS).
(h)
"Completion of Construction" means the date the construction of the 
Improvements is completed as evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or notice 
of completion or equivalent document issued by the City, to certify completion of the 
construction of the Improvements.
(i)
"County" means the County of San Mateo.
(j)
"CTCAC" means the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.
(k)
"Dissolved RDA" means the dissolved Redevelopment Agency of the 
City of San Mateo, a public body, corporate and politic.
(l)
“Extremely Low Income Household” means a household with an 
Adjusted Income that does not exceed the qualifying limits for extremely low income 
households, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established and amended from time to time 
pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and as published by HCD.
(m)
"Extremely Low Income Rent" means the rent permitted to be charged for 
an Extremely Low Income Unit.
(n)
"Extremely Low Income Unit" means the Units, which are required to be 
occupied by Extremely Low Income Households.
(o)
"General Public Employees" are defined as those who work for the City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, and eight additional taxing entities that are the successors 
to the former Redevelopment Agency, or the State of California, or the Federal Government of 
the United States.
(p)
"HCD" means the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development. 
208 of 556

--- page 209 ---
5
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(q)
"High HOME Rent" means a monthly Rent amount not exceeding the 
maximum rent published by HUD for a Low Income Household for the applicable bedroom size 
or as otherwise set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.252(a).
(r)
“HOME” means the HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program pursuant 
to the Cranston-Gonzales National Housing Act of 1990, as amended.
(s)
“HOME Loan Agreement” means the City HOME Loan Agreement 
entered into by and between the City and Developer, and dated as of November __, 2021.
(t)
“HOME Loan Assisted Units” means the three (3) "floating" Units 
designated as assisted by the City HOME Loan.
(u)
"HOME Promissory Note" means the promissory note from Developer to 
the City evidencing the HOME Loan.
(v)
"HOME Regulations" means the regulations set forth in 24 C.F.R. Part 92.
(w)
"HOME Term" means the period beginning on the date of this Agreement 
and ending on the fifteenth (15th) anniversary of the Completion Date.  After the expiration of 
the HOME Term, for the purpose of the HOME Regulations, the Development will no longer be 
considered an existing HOME assisted rental project.
(x)
"Housing Fund Proceeds" means any of the funds transferred to the City, 
together with any funds generated from housing assets, maintained in the Low and Moderate 
Income Housing Asset Fund, created in the accounts of the City pursuant to Health and Safety 
Code Section 34176(d). 
(y)
“HUD” means the United States Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.
(z)
"I/DD Household" means a household with one or more persons with 
intellectual or development disabilities, as defined in 17 CCR § 54000, and who are referred to the 
Developer by the Golden Gate Regional Center or its approved successor.
(aa)
"Improvements" means the approximately two hundred twenty-five (225) 
units of affordable rental housing to be constructed on specified portions of the Property, 
including two manager's units, all common areas, amenities, plans, entitlements, appurtenances, 
improvement easements, buildings and fixtures associated with the Property
(bb)
"Investor Limited Partner" means the tax credit limited partner or partners, 
and their respective successors and assigns, admitted to the Developer in connection with the 
allocation of low income housing tax credits to the Development, which admission will occur 
concurrent with closing of construction financing for development of the Development 
Improvements.
209 of 556

--- page 210 ---
6
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(cc)
“Loan Documents” means this Agreement, the Notes that evidence the City 
Loans, the DDLA, City HOME Loan Agreement, the City Deed of Trust, and the Notice of 
Affordability Restrictions.
(dd)
“Low Income Household” with regards to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
a Low Income Household means a Tenant household with an Adjusted Annual Income that does 
not exceed eighty percent (80%) of Median Income, with adjustments for smaller and larger 
families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than eighty percent 
(80%) of Median Income on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary 
because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low 
family incomes, as such definition may be amended pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.2.  An individual 
who is a student that is ineligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 C.F.R. 5.612, and thus 
ineligible to receive any type of HOME assistance, shall not qualify as a Low Income 
Household.  With regards to the Low Income Units, other than the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
Low Income Household means a household with an Adjusted Income that does not exceed the 
qualifying limits for lower income households, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established 
and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, 
and as published by HCD.
(ee)
"Low Income Rent" means the maximum allowable rent for a Low 
Income Unit, other than the HOME Loan Assisted Units.
(ff)
"Low Income Units" means the Units which are allowed to be occupied 
by Low Income Households.
(gg)
"Management Agent" means the management agent retained by Developer 
and approved by the City in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 to manage the 
Development.
(hh)
"Median Income" means: (1) with regards only to the Extremely Low 
Income Units, the median gross yearly income adjusted for Actual Household Size (to qualify 
residents) or Assumed Household Size (to calculate rents), as applicable, in the County of San 
Mateo, California, as published from time to time by HCD; or (2) with regards only to the HOME 
Loan Assisted Units, the median gross yearly income, adjusted for Actual Household Size or 
Assumed Household Size as specified herein, in the San Francisco, Metropolitan Statistical Area, 
as published from time-to-time by HUD; or (3) with regards to all other units that are neither 
Extremely Low Income Units nor HOME Loan Assisted Units, the median income, adjusted for 
Actual Household Size (to qualify residents) or Assumed Household Size (to calculate rents), as 
applicable, in the County of San Mateo, California, as determined by CTCAC.  In the event that 
such income determinations are no longer published, or are not updated for a period of at least 
eighteen (18) months, the City shall provide the Developer with other income determinations 
which are reasonably similar with respect to methods of calculation to those previously published 
by HCD and/or HUD and/or TCAC.
(ii)
“Middle Income Household” means a household with an income that does 
not exceed the 100% of Median Income, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established and 
210 of 556

--- page 211 ---
7
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and as 
published by HCD.
(jj)
"Notice of Affordability Restrictions" means the Notice of Affordability 
Restrictions on Transfer of Property, in a form to be provided by the City, between the City and 
the Developer to be recorded against the Property pursuant to Sections 33334.3 and/or 
33413(c)(5) of the Community Redevelopment Law, or successor provision
(kk)
“Notes” means the promissory notes from Developer to the City evidencing 
the City LM Loan, the City HOME Loan and the City CLF Loan.
(ll)
“Property” means the property that is subject to the terms and provisions of 
this Agreement, as referenced in Recital B, above, and comprises (1) the leasehold estate of 
Developer in the Property and (2) the ownership interests of Developer in the Development 
constructed on the Property.
(mm) “Rent” means the total monthly payments by the Tenant of a Unit (other 
than the manager's Unit) for the following:  (1) use and occupancy of the Unit and land and 
associated facilities, including parking; (2) any reasonable and customary separately charged 
fees or service charges assessed by Developer which are required of all Tenants (with regards to 
the HOME Loan Assisted Units, such charges which meet the requirements under 24 C.F.R. 
92.214(b)(3)); (3) the City-approved utility allowance, (with regards to the HOME Loan 
Assisted Units, the utility allowance shall be calculated pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.252(d) or 
otherwise determined based upon the specific utilities used at the Development as allowed under 
24 C.F.R. 92.252(d)(1)); and (4) any other interest, taxes, fees or charges for use of the land or 
associated facilities and assessed by a public or private entity other than Developer, and paid by 
the Tenant.  In no event shall the Rent of a Unit exceed the amount permitted by the City 
pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
(nn)
"Restricted Units" means the Extremely Low Income Units, the HOME 
Units and the Low Income Units, collectively and each shall be referred to as a "Restricted Unit".
(oo)
“Tenant” means a household occupying a Unit.
(pp)
“Term” means the term of this Agreement which commences as of the 
date of this Agreement, and unless sooner terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, 
expires on the fifty-seventh (57th) anniversary of the date that the City Deed of Trust is recorded.
(qq)
“Unit” means one of the rental units included in the Development.
ARTICLE 2.
AFFORDABILITY AND OCCUPANCY COVENANTS
Section 2.1
Occupancy Requirements.
(a)
Extremely Low-Income Units.  Not less than thirty-five (35) of the Units 
shall be rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for occupancy by Extremely Low 
211 of 556

--- page 212 ---
8
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
Income Households, including twenty-six (26) single room occupancy/ studio Units, seven (7) 
one-bedroom Units, and two (2) two-bedroom Units.
(b)
Low Income Units.  Not less than of the seventy-two (72) Units shall be 
rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for occupancy by for households whose income 
does not exceed Low Income Households, including nineteen (19) one-bedroom Units, thirty-
three (33) two-bedroom Units, and twenty (20) three-bedroom Units.
(c)
HOME Loan Assisted Units.  The three (3) HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
including one (1) one-bedroom Unit, one (1) two-bedroom Unit, and one (1) three-bedroom Unit 
shall be rented to households whose Adjusted Income does not exceed 60% of Median Income, 
adjusted for Actual Household Size, as published by HUD from time to time. These units shall 
be “floating” units in that there shall be no specific HOME-assisted units as long as there are a 
minimum number of HOME Units occupied in compliance with HOME regulations.
(d)
Intermingling of Units.  The HOME Loan Assisted Units are required to 
be intermingled throughout the Development and of comparable quality to all other Units.  All 
Tenants must have equal access to and enjoyment of all common facilities in the Development.
(e)
Middle Income Units.  All of the Units that are not required to be 
Extremely Low or Low Income Units shall be rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for 
occupancy by Middle Income Households (the “Middle Income Units”).
(f)
Managers Units.  Two (2) units shall be designated for managers units 
that are not income restricted. 
(g)
Foreclosure Occupancy Requirements.  In the event of a foreclosure of 
the senior lien, then the City and the entity acquiring the Development at foreclosure shall 
apportion the affordability targeting in a manner consistent with Health and Safety Code Section 
34176.1.  In no event will the occupancy requirements imposed after a foreclosure of the 
Construction Loan or deed in lieu of foreclosure require the Developer's successor in interest to 
provide more than thirty five (35) Extremely Low Income Units (which the City has determined 
are the number of units necessary to satisfy the requirement that at least thirty percent of the 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Funds are dedicated to Extremely Low Income 
Households, in the proportions specified in Section 2.1(a)) above).  The terms of this Section 
2.1(g) shall survive termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.2
Allowable Rent.
(a)
Extremely Low Income Rent.  Per California Health and Safety Code 
50053, the maximum Rent charged to residents of the Extremely Low Income Units shall not 
exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of thirty percent (30%) of Median Income, 
adjusted for Assumed Household Size.
(b)
Low Income Rent.  The maximum Rent charged to Tenants of Low 
Income Units shall not exceed the rent permitted to be charged as published annually by CTCAC 
212 of 556

--- page 213 ---
9
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
for Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Programs for Low Income Households for San Mateo 
County, adjusted for Assumed Household Size.
(c)
Home Rent.  Rent charged to Tenants of the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
shall not exceed the High HOME Rent in accordance with 24 CFR Part 92.252(a) and published 
by HUD from time to time.
(d)
Middle Income Rent.  The Rent charged to Tenants of the Middle Income 
Units shall not exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of one hundred percent 
(100%) of Median Income, adjusted for Assumed Household Size. None of the Moderate 
Income Units shall be counted toward meeting the requirement to provide the Restricted Units.
(e)
In calculating the allowable Rent for the Restricted Units, the CTCAC 
"Assumed Household Sizes" shall be utilized, provided that the Development receives an 
allocation of low income housing tax credits, otherwise Assumed Household Size shall be 
determined pursuant to the terms of Health and Safety Code Section 50052.5(h).
(f)
Approval of Rents.  Initial Rents for all Restricted Units (including the 
HOME Loan Assisted Units) shall be approved by the City prior to occupancy.  All proposed 
Rent increases Restricted Units (including the HOME Loan Assisted Units) shall be submitted 
to City for review and approval at least thirty (30) days prior to Developer providing written 
notice to Tenants.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, City’s review and approval of Rents and Rent 
increases shall be limited to determining that such Rents and Rent increases comply with the 
requirements of this Regulatory Agreement.  No later than thirty (30) days after HUD publishes 
Median Income for the County of San Mateo for each calendar year, the City shall provide the 
Developer with a schedule of permissible maximum Extremely Low Income Rents and Low 
Income Rents, as applicable, for the succeeding year (the "Rent Schedule").  The Rent Schedule 
for each calendar year shall reflect an increase or decrease in maximum permissible rents which 
corresponds directly to any increase or decrease in Median Income for the County of San Mateo 
from the Median Income for the County of San Mateo published for the previous calendar year.  
Under no circumstance may the Developer raise rents above the permissible maximum rents as 
allowed under the annual rent schedule provided by the City.
(g)
Rent Increases.  Rent for the Restricted Units shall be increased no more 
than once annually based upon income recertifications described in Article 3.  Tenants shall be 
given at least sixty (60) days’ written notice prior to any Rent increase.
(h)
No Additional Fees.  Developer shall not charge any fee, other than Rent, 
to any resident of the Restricted Units for any housing or other services provided by Developer 
pursuant to the Loan Documents.  Nothing herein shall prevent Developer from establishing 
charges for tenant defaults, so long as such fees are not prohibited under 24 CFR 92.214.
(i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that 
Median Incomes decrease in any given calendar year, Developer is permitted to apply the "hold 
harmless" policy (“Policy”) implemented by CTCAC pursuant to the Housing and Economic 
Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221). The Policy states that, as of the date of placed-in-service, (or 
213 of 556

--- page 214 ---
10
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
rent floor election date, available after CTCAC award/reservation), rent limits for a given 
calendar year cannot be lower than the highest amount of rent limits for each calendar year since 
placed-in-service.
Section 2.3
Increased Income of Tenants.
(a)
Extremely Low Income Household to Low Income Household.  If, upon 
recertification of the income of a Tenant, Developer determines that a former Extremely Low 
Income Household's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the qualifying income for an 
Extremely Low Income Household, but does not exceed the qualifying limit for a Low Income 
Household, such Tenant shall be permitted to continue occupying the Unit and shall continue to 
be charged Extremely Low Income Rent.  Upon expiration of the Tenant's lease for such year 
and upon sixty (60) days' written notice, the Rent may be increased to the Low Income Rent, 
and such Tenant's Unit may be considered a Low Income Unit.
(b)
Low Income Household.  If, upon recertification of a Tenant's income the 
Developer determines that a former Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income 
Household 's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the qualifying income for Low Income 
Households (above eighty percent (80%) of area median income), the Tenant may continue to 
occupy the Unit and shall continue to be charged Low Income Rent.  Upon expiration of the 
Tenant's Lease for such year, and upon sixty (60) days' written notice, the Rent may be 
increased to the Moderate Income Rent, and such Tenant's Unit may be considered a Moderate 
Income Unit.
(c)
Non-Qualifying Household.  If, upon recertification of the income of a 
Tenant, the Developer determines that a former Extremely Low Income Household or Low 
Income Household's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the maximum qualifying 
income for a Low Income Household, such Tenant shall be permitted to continue occupying the 
Unit and upon expiration of the Tenant's lease for such year and upon sixty (60) days written 
notice, the Tenant may continue to reside in the Unit and the Rent may be increased to the lesser 
of one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of actual Adjusted Income of the Tenant, or fair 
market rent (subject to 24 C.F.R. 92.252(i)(2) regarding low income housing tax credit 
requirements) and the Developer shall rent the next available Unit to an Extremely Low Income 
Household or Low Income Household, as applicable, to meet the requirements of Section 2.1 
above.
Section 2.4
Termination of Occupancy.  Upon termination of occupancy of a HOME 
Loan Assisted Unit by a Tenant, such Unit will be deemed to be continuously occupied by a 
household of the same income level as the initial income level of the vacating Tenant, until such 
Unit is reoccupied or another Unit is re-designated as a HOME Loan Assisted Unit, at which 
time categorization of the Unit will be established based on the occupancy requirements of 
Section 2.1.  Any termination of a lease or refusal to renew a lease for a HOME Loan Assisted 
Unit within the Development must be in conformance with 24 C.F.R. 92.253(c) and the 
requirements of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-4, 127 
Stat. 54) applicable to HUD-funded programs, and must be preceded by not less than thirty (30) 
days written notice to the Tenant by Developer specifying the grounds for the termination.
214 of 556

--- page 215 ---
11
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
Section 2.5
Tenant Protections.  For the entire Term the Restricted Units shall be 
subject to Just Cause for Eviction rules and regulations. For a termination to qualify as "For 
Cause," the Developer shall demonstrate any of the following circumstances with respect to a 
termination of tenancy. Nothing in this section shall abrogate the protections afforded to 
survivors of violence consistent with the California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1161.3, as 
amended, and the Violence Against Women Act, Public Law 102-322, as amended, to the extent 
applicable.
(a)
Failure to Pay Rent. Tenant failed to pay Rent within three days of 
receiving written notice from the Developer demanding payment as provided in subsection 2 of 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1161.
(b)
Breach of Rental Contract. Tenant violated a material term of the rental 
agreement as provided in subsection 3 of California Code of Civil Procedure section 1161.
(c)
Tenant Illegal Activities. Tenant has been convicted of using the HOME 
Loan Assisted Unit for an illegal purpose as provided in subsection 4 of California Code of Civil 
Procedure section 1161, including but not limited to the unlawful distribution of a controlled 
substance as contemplated by California Civil Code section 3486, the unlawful use, 
manufacture, or possession of weapons and ammunition as contemplated by California Civil 
Code section 3485, or for of a serious crime or violent felony as defined by applicable law, 
which occurred during the tenancy and within 1,000 feet of the Dwelling Unit. For purposes of 
this subsection, Tenant Household, after receiving a written notice, may cure the violation by 
removing, and demonstrating such removal, of the offending Tenant.
(d)
Threat of Violent Crime. Any statement made by a Tenant, or at his or her 
request, by his or her agent to any person who is on the property that includes the unit or to the 
Developer, or Developer's agents, threatening the commission of a crime which will result in 
death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement is to be 
taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, when on its face and under 
the circumstances in which it is made, it is so unequivocal, immediate and specific as to convey 
to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the 
threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety 
or for his or her immediate family's safety.
(e)
Nuisance Behavior. The Tenant, after written notice to cease and the 
passage of a reasonable period of time to abate or cure, continues to be so disorderly or to cause 
such a nuisance as to destroy the peace, quiet, comfort, or safety of the Developer or other 
Tenants of the structure or rental complex containing the Restricted Units. Such nuisance or 
disorderly conduct includes violations of state and federal criminal law that destroy the peace, 
quiet, comfort, or safety of the Developer or other Tenants of the structure or rental complex 
containing the Restricted Units, or the creation or maintenance of a dangerous or unsanitary 
condition in violation of applicable local, state, and Federal law, and may be further defined in 
the regulations adopted by the Community Development Director.
215 of 556

--- page 216 ---
12
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(f)
Notwithstanding the limitations of California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 1161.3, as amended, act or acts constituting domestic violence or sexual assault or 
stalking against the Tenant or a member of Tenant's household cannot form the substantial basis 
of a For Cause reason to terminate the tenancy of the victim of such acts. A member of a Tenant 
household may raise such facts as an affirmative defense to an action terminating the tenancy.
Section 2.6
Lease Provisions.  The Developer shall include in leases for all Restricted 
Units provisions which authorize the Developer to immediately terminate the tenancy of any 
household one or more of whose members misrepresented any fact material to the household's 
qualification as an Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income Household, as applicable.  
Each lease or rental agreement shall also provide that the household is subject to annual 
certification in accordance with Section 3.1 below, and that, if the household's income increases 
above the applicable limits for an Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income 
Household, as applicable, such household's Rent may be subject to increase.
Section 2.7
Condominium Conversion.  The Developer shall not convert the 
Development units to condominium or cooperative ownership or sell condominium or 
cooperative conversion rights to the Property during the Term of this Agreement. 
Section 2.8
Units Available to the Disabled.
Developer shall construct the Development in compliance with all applicable federal and 
state disabled persons accessibility requirements including but not limited to the Federal Fair 
Housing Act; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Title II and/or Title III of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794 et seq,); and Title 24 of the California 
Code of Regulations.  In compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
U.S.C. 794, et. seq.), a minimum of twelve (12) Units, shall be constructed to be readily 
accessible and usable by households with a mobility impaired member and a minimum of five 
(5) Units shall be constructed to be readily accessible and usable by households with a hearing 
and/or visually impaired member.  Not less than thirty (30) days from the Completion Date, the 
Developer shall deliver to the City the certification from the architect or the Certified Access 
Specialist certifying that the HOME Loan Assisted Units have been designed in compliance 
with this Section or has provided the City with other evidence that the Development has been 
designed to comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794, et seq.) 
and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
ARTICLE 3.
INCOME CERTIFICATION AND REPORTING
Section 3.1
Income Certification.
(a)
Developer shall obtain, complete, and maintain on file, immediately prior 
to initial occupancy and annually thereafter, income certifications from each Tenant renting any 
of the Restricted Units.  Developer shall make a good faith effort to verify the accuracy of the 
income provided by all applicants or all members of the occupying household (for all adults age 
eighteen (18) or older), as the case may be, in the income certification.  To verify the 
216 of 556

--- page 217 ---
13
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
information, Developer shall take one or more of the following steps as part of the verification 
process:  (1) obtain a minimum of the three most current pay stubs for all adults age eighteen 
(18) or older; (2) obtain an income tax return for the most recent tax year; (3) conduct a credit 
agency or similar search; (4) obtain an income verification form from the applicant's current 
employer verifying employment for the last two months; (5) obtain the three (3) most current 
savings and checking account bank statements; (6) obtain an income verification form from the 
Social Security Administration and/or the California Department of Social Services if the 
applicant receives assistance from either of such agencies, verifying assistance for the last two 
months (as available from those agencies); or (7) if the applicant is unemployed and does not 
have a tax return, obtain another form of independent verification.  Copies of Tenants' income 
certifications shall be available to the City upon reasonable written request.
(b)
In addition, during the HOME Term, Developer shall cause each Tenant 
in a HOME Loan Assisted Unit to execute a Certification of Tenant Eligibility in the form 
attached as Exhibit C, or some other alternative tenant certification reasonably approved in 
writing by the City.  Developer shall fill out the "Development Owner" portion of the 
Certification of Tenant Eligibility and provide it to the City along with supporting 
documentation collected by Developer.  Copies of the Certifications of Tenant Eligibility and 
accompanying documentation must be maintained by Developer and available to the City upon 
request. The City hereby pre-approves the CTCAC tenant income certification form as an 
acceptable alternative to the form attached as Exhibit C.
Section 3.2
Tenant Selection.
(a)
No later than six (6) months prior to the date of construction is to be 
completed, the Developer must provide the City for its review and approval its plan for 
marketing the Development to income-eligible households as required pursuant to this 
Agreement, including information on affirmative marketing efforts and compliance with fair 
housing laws (the "Marketing Plan") that at a minimum meets the requirements for tenant 
selection set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.253(d) and any modification thereto as required under Section 
4.12 of the HOME Loan Agreement. 
(b)
Except as otherwise permitted in the City Loan Documents, the 
Developer shall not discriminate against any applicants for tenancy on the basis of source of 
income or rent payment (for example, without limitation, Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families (TANF) or Section 8), and the Developer shall consider a prospective Tenant's 
previous rent history of at least one (1) year, or such other time period the Developer deems 
reasonable, as evidence of the prospective Tenant's ability to pay the applicable Rent.  The 
ability to pay shall be demonstrated if the prospective Tenant can document that the prospective 
Tenant's gross income is at least two (2) times the prospective rent at the prospective Tenant's 
income level.  The Developer, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, may waive the 
requirement that the prospective Tenant's gross income equal at least two (2) times the 
prospective rent at the prospective Tenant's income level, and admit prospective Tenants with 
lower gross incomes
Section 3.3
Annual Report to City.
217 of 556

--- page 218 ---
14
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(a)
Developer shall submit to City: (1) not later than the forty-fifth (45th) day 
after the close of each calendar year, or such other date as may be requested by City, a statistical 
report, in a form acceptable to the City, including income and rent data for all Restricted Units, 
an assessment of compliance with the approved Management Plan, and an evaluation of the 
Management Agent.  The Annual Report shall, at a minimum, include the following most recent 
information for each dwelling unit in the Project, but is not limited to:  (i) unit number; (ii) 
number of bedrooms; (iii) current rent and other charges; (iv) dates of any vacancies during the 
previous year; (v) number of people residing in the unit; (vi) total gross household income of 
residents; (vii) documentation of source of household income; (viii) lease commencement and 
termination dates, (ix) initial move-in date, and (x) the information required by Section 3.1, any 
other information or completed forms reasonably requested by the City, and (2) within fifteen 
(15) days after receipt of a written request, any other information or completed forms requested by 
City in order to comply with reporting requirements of HUD, the State of California, or the City.
Section 3.4
Additional Information.
Developer shall provide any additional information reasonably requested by City.  City 
shall have the right to examine and make copies of all books, records or other documents of 
Developer which pertain to the Development.
Section 3.5
Records.
(a)
Developer shall maintain complete, accurate and current records pertaining 
to the Development, and shall permit any duly authorized representative of City to inspect records, 
including records pertaining to income and household size of Tenants.  All Tenant lists, 
applications and waiting lists relating to the Development shall at all times be kept separate and 
identifiable from any other business of Developer and shall be maintained as required by City, in a 
reasonable condition for proper audit and subject to examination during business hours by 
representatives of City.  Developer shall retain copies of all materials obtained or produced with 
respect to occupancy of the Restricted Units for a period of at least five (5) years.  Developer is 
subject to the audit requirements set forth in 24 C.F.R. 505.
(b)
All records maintained by Developer pursuant to Sections 3.3 and 3.4 
above are to be:  (1) maintained in compliance with all applicable HUD records and accounting 
requirements; and (2) open to and available for inspection and copying by HUD and its 
authorized representatives at reasonable intervals during normal business hours; provided 
however, records pertaining to Tenant income verifications, Rents, and Development physical 
inspections must be kept for the most recent five (5) year period and are subject to HUD 
inspection for five (5) years after expiration of the  HOME Term.  Developer is subject to the 
audit requirements set forth in 24 CFR 92.506 during the HOME Term.
Section 3.6
Annual Operating Budget.  The Developer, at least sixty (60) days prior to 
the end of each of the Developer's fiscal year, shall furnish the City an Annual Operating 
Budget.  Upon receipt by the City of the proposed Annual Operating Budget, the City shall 
promptly review the same and approve or disapprove it within ten (10) business days.  If the 
Annual Operating Budget is not approved by the City, the City shall set forth in writing and 
218 of 556

--- page 219 ---
15
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
notify the Developer of the City's reasons for withholding such approval.  The Developer shall 
thereafter submit a revised Annual Operating Budget for City approval, which approval shall be 
granted or denied within ten (10) business days in accordance with the procedures set forth 
above.  If no written comments from the City are received within ten (10) business days, the 
Annual Operating Budget will be deemed approved.
Section 3.7
On-Site Inspection.
(a)
The City may perform, or cause to be performed, during normal business 
hours, an on-site inspection of the Development (including Restricted Units, subject to the rights 
of Tenants) at least one (1) time per year upon no less than three (3) business days' prior written 
notice to Developer to monitor compliance with this Agreement.  Developer shall cooperate in 
making the Development available for such inspection.  Developer agrees and acknowledges 
that during the HOME Term the City must conduct on-site inspections, consistent with the 
requirements of 24 C.F.R. 92.504(d), to determine compliance with the property standards set 
forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.251, at least once every three (3) years after the Completion of 
Construction of the Improvements or as otherwise required under 24 CFR 200.285.  Such right 
to annually inspect the Development shall be in addition to the City's right to inspect the 
Development in accordance with the City's code as may be amended from time to time.
(b)
After the completion of an inspection the City shall deliver a copy of the 
Uniform Physical Conditions Standards inspection report and the Multifamily Unit Inspection 
(Form 9602), as applicable, to the Developer.  If the City determines as a result of such 
inspection that there are any life-threatening health and safety related deficiencies, Developer 
has the obligation to correct such deficiencies immediately, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 
92.251.  If the City determines as a result of the inspection that there are any deficiencies for any 
of the inspectable items in the Development (other than those identified in the preceding 
sentence), the Developer shall correct such deficiencies within thirty (30) days from the delivery 
of the inspection report or if a period longer than thirty (30) days is reasonably necessary to 
correct the deficiency, then Developer must begin to correct the deficiency within thirty (30) 
days and correct the deficiency as soon as reasonably possible.  In addition, the Developer 
acknowledges that the City may re-inspect the Development to verify all deficiencies have been 
corrected or rely on third party documentation submitted by the Developer for non-hazardous 
deficiencies in conformance with 24 C.F.R 92.504(d).
(c)
Upon expiration of the HOME Term but prior to the expiration of the 
Term of this Agreement, the City may perform on-site inspections on the same terms as Section 
3.8(a) above.
ARTICLE 4.
OPERATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT
Section 4.1
Residential Use.
The Development shall be operated only for residential use.  No part of the Development 
shall be operated as transient housing.  No part of the Development shall be operated as transient 
219 of 556

--- page 220 ---
16
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
housing in which the term of Tenant occupancy is less than thirty (30) days. No part of the 
Development may be operated as an emergency shelter (including shelter for disaster victims) or 
facilities such as nursing homes, convalescent homes, hospitals, residential treatment facilities, 
correctional facilities, halfway houses, housing for students, or dormitories (including 
farmworker dormitories).
Section 4.2
Compliance with Loan Documents.
Developer shall comply shall at all times be in full conformity with: (a) all requirements 
imposed on projects assisted with HOME Funds as contained in 42 U.S.C. Section 12701, et 
seq., 24 C.F.R. Part 92, and other implementing rules and regulations, as such may be amended 
or supplemented from time to time; (b) all requirements imposed on projects assisted with 
Housing Asset Fund monies under California Health and Safety Code Section 33334.2 et seq.; 
and (c) any other regulatory requirements imposed on the Development.
Section 4.3
Taxes and Assessments.
Developer shall pay all real and personal property taxes, assessments and charges and all 
franchise, income, employment, old age benefit, withholding, sales, and other taxes assessed 
against it, or payable by it, at such times and in such manner as to prevent any penalty from 
accruing, or any lien or charge from attaching to the Property or Developer’s interest therein; 
provided, however, that Developer shall have the right to contest in good faith, any such taxes, 
assessments, or charges.  In the event Developer exercises its right to contest any tax, assessment, 
or charge against it, Developer, on final determination of the proceeding or contest, shall 
immediately pay or discharge any decision or judgment rendered against it, together with all 
costs, charges and interest.
Section 4.4
Property Tax Exemption.  
Developer shall be allowed to apply to the State Board of Equalization for or obtain a 
welfare exemption from property taxes under any provision of law, including California 
Revenue and Taxation Section 214(g).
Section 4.5
Allowable Preferences.
(a)
To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations 
of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Developer shall 
grant the a preference in rental of seventy-three (73) of the units to otherwise qualified 
households that live, work or have been offered work (and who subsequently accept such offer) 
in the City. The Developer shall grant an additional preference in rental of units to otherwise 
qualified households that have been displaced by activity of the City, the City's code 
enforcement activities, or as provided in Health and Safety Code Section 33411.3.
(b)
To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations 
220 of 556

--- page 221 ---
17
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, fifty-seven (57) units 
will have a preference for General Public Employees.  For the avoidance of doubt, such units 
shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the units that have the live/work preference set forth in 
subsection (a) above.  First priority, for these units shall be for General Public Employees who 
live or work in the City of San Mateo.  In the event that there are an insufficient number of 
General Public Employees who live or work in the City of San Mateo to occupy all 57 units, the 
remaining available units will be rented to General Public Employees regardless of the location 
of their employment or residence.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, to the extent 
the preferences required under this Section are in conflict with the requirements of Section 42 of 
the Internal Revenue Code and implementing guidelines, the requirements of Section 42 will 
supersede.
(d)
In addition, the City acknowledges that, to the extent permitted by other 
Project funding sources and to the extent permitted by applicable law including fair housing 
laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, the Developer may also give preference for the occupancy and restrict 
eight (8) studio units, to qualified persons or households with intellectual/developmental 
disabilities (I/DD), as defined the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act (Welfare 
and Institutions Code Section 4400 et. seq. and Title 17, Section 54000 of the California Code of 
Regulations, and who are receiving services from the Golden Gate Regional Center or another 
regional center.  The preference in this subsection (d) is not being imposed by the City and shall 
have no bearing on compliance with the requirements under this Agreement.  For the avoidance 
of doubt, such units shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the units that have the live/work 
and General Public Employee preferences set forth in subsections (a) and (b) above.
Section 4.6
Nondiscrimination.  
(a)
Except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement, all of the Restricted 
Units shall be available for occupancy on a continuous basis to members of the general public 
who are income eligible.  Developer shall not give preference to any particular class or group of 
persons in renting the Restricted Units, except to the extent that the Units are required to be 
leased to Extremely Low Income Households or Low Income Households.  All deeds, leases or 
contracts made or entered into by Developer, its successors or assigns, as to any portion of the 
Property or the Improvements shall contain the following language:
(1)
"There shall be no discrimination against or segregation of any 
person or group of persons, on account of any basis listed in subdivision (a) or (d) of Section 
12955 of the Government Code, as those bases are defined in Sections 12926, 12926.1, 
subdivision (m) and paragraph (1) of subdivision (p) of Section 12955, and Section 12955.2 of 
the Government Code, in the leasing, subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure, or 
enjoyment of the premises herein leased nor shall the lessee himself or herself, or any person 
claiming under or through him or her, establish or permit any such practice or practices of 
discrimination or segregation with reference to the selection, location, number, use, or 
221 of 556

--- page 222 ---
18
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
occupancy, of tenants, lessees, sublessees, subtenants, or vendees in the premises herein leased.  
The foregoing covenant shall run with the land.
(2)
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, with respect to familial 
status, the preceding paragraph shall not be construed to apply to housing for older persons, as 
defined in Section 12955.9 of the Government Code. With respect to familial status, nothing in 
the preceding paragraph shall be construed to affect Sections 51.2, 51.3, 51.4, 51.10, 51.11, and 
799.5 of the Civil Code, relating to housing for senior citizens.  Subdivision (d) of Section 51 
and Section 1360 of the Civil Code and subdivisions (n), (o), and (p) of Section 12955 of the 
Government Code shall apply to the preceding paragraph."
(b)
The provisions of this Section shall run with the land and survive 
termination of this Agreement.  
Section 4.7
Section 8 Certificate Holders.  The Developer will accept as residents, on 
the same basis as all other prospective residents, persons who are recipients of federal 
certificates or vouchers for rent subsidies pursuant to the existing housing program under 
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act, or its successor.  The Developer shall not apply 
selection criteria to Section 8 certificate or voucher holders that are more burdensome than 
criteria applied to all other prospective residents, nor shall the Developer apply or permit the 
application of management policies or lease provisions with respect to the Development which 
have the effect of precluding occupancy of units by such prospective Tenants.  In determining a 
Section 8 certificate or voucher holders ability to pay rent, the Developer shall determine the 
prospective Tenants ability to make only the prospective Tenant's portion of the rent.
Section 4.8
Notice of Litigation. Developer shall promptly notify the City in writing 
of any litigation materially affecting Developer or the Development and of any claims or 
disputes that involve a material risk of such litigation.
Section 4.9
Lease Termination. Any termination of a lease of a Restricted Unit (other 
than for a default by the Tenant) or refusal to renew must be preceded by not less than sixty (60) 
days written notice to the Tenant by Developer specifying the grounds for the action.  Any 
termination of a lease for a default of the Tenant shall be in accordance with applicable law.
ARTICLE 5.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
Section 5.1
Management Responsibilities.
Developer is responsible for all management functions with respect to the Development, 
including without limitation the selection of tenants, certification and recertification of household 
size and income, evictions, collection of rents and deposits, maintenance, landscaping, routine and 
extraordinary repairs, replacement of capital items, and security.  City shall have no responsibility 
over management of the Development.  Developer shall retain a professional property 
222 of 556

--- page 223 ---
19
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
management company approved by City in its reasonable discretion to perform its management 
duties hereunder.
Section 5.2
Management Agent.
The Development shall at all times be managed by an experienced management agent 
reasonably acceptable to City, with demonstrated ability to operate residential facilities like the 
Development in a manner that will provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing (as approved, the 
“Management Agent”).  Developer shall submit for City’s approval the identity of any proposed 
Management Agent.  Developer shall also submit such additional information about the 
background, experience, policies, and financial condition of any proposed management agent as is 
reasonably necessary for City to determine whether the proposed management agent meets the 
standard for an experienced management agent set forth above.  If the proposed management 
agent meets the standard for an experienced management agent set forth above, City shall 
approve the proposed management agent by notifying Developer in writing.  Unless the proposed 
management agent is disapproved by City within thirty (30) days, which disapproval shall state 
with reasonable specificity the basis for disapproval, it shall be deemed approved.  The City 
hereby pre-approves MidPen Property Management Corporation, as the initial property 
management company.
Section 5.3
Performance Review.
City reserves the right to conduct an annual (or more frequently, if deemed necessary by 
City) review of the management practices and financial status of the Development.  The purpose 
of each periodic review will be to enable City to determine if the Development is being operated 
and managed in accordance with the requirements and standards of this Agreement.  Developer 
shall cooperate with City in such reviews.
Section 5.4
Replacement of Management Agent.
(a)
If, as a result of a periodic review, City determines in its reasonable 
judgment that the Development is not being operated and managed in accordance with any of 
the material requirements and standards of this Agreement, City shall deliver notice to 
Developer of its intention to cause replacement of the Management Agent, including the reasons 
therefor.  Within fifteen (15) days after receipt by Developer of such written notice, City staff 
and Developer shall meet in good faith to consider methods for improving the financial and 
operating status of the Development, including, without limitation, replacement of the 
Management Agent.
(b)
If, after such meeting, City staff recommends in writing the replacement of 
the Management Agent, Developer shall promptly dismiss the current Management Agent, and 
shall appoint as the Management Agent a person or entity meeting the standards for a management 
agent set forth in Section 5.2 above and approved by City pursuant to Section 5.2 above.
(c)
Any contract for the operation or management of the Development entered 
into by Developer shall provide that the contract can be terminated as set forth above.  Failure to 
223 of 556

--- page 224 ---
20
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
remove the Management Agent in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall constitute a 
default under this Agreement, and City may enforce this provision through legal proceedings as 
specified in Section 6.8 below.
Section 5.5
Marketing.
Developer and the Management Agent shall be responsible for the promotion and other 
marketing efforts for rental of the Restricted Units.  Prior to the initial lease up of the Restricted 
Units, Developer and the Management Agent shall develop a marketing plan in order to 
affirmatively market the Restricted Units with the goal of attracting all qualified persons without 
regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, national origin, 
source of income (e.g. SSI), ancestry, or disability, except as otherwise permitted in the City Loan 
Documents.  The marketing plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City prior to marketing 
the Restricted Units.  Developer and the Management Agent shall comply with the provisions of 
Exhibit B, attached hereto, entitled “Affirmative Marketing Strategy.”
Developer and the Management Agent shall select tenants on a non-discriminatory basis, 
consistent with the provisions of Section 6.3 of this Agreement and the “Marketing Policies 
Regulating Leasing and Sales of Subsidized Affordable Housing Units” adopted by the City in 
March 2009 and as amended from time to time.
Section 5.6
Property Maintenance.
(a)
Developer agrees, for the entire Term of this Agreement, to maintain all 
interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping, comprising the Development in good 
condition and repair (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in accordance with all 
applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations of all federal, state, City, municipal, and 
other governmental agencies and bodies having or claiming jurisdiction and all their respective 
departments, bureaus, and officials and in a decent, safe, sanitary condition and in good repair 
pursuant to the Uniform Physical Conditions Standards established by HUD pursuant to 24 
C.F.R. 5.703 and as required under 24 C.F.R. 92.251.
(b)
City places prime importance on quality maintenance to protect its 
investment and to ensure that all City and City-assisted affordable housing projects within City are 
not allowed to deteriorate due to below-average maintenance.  Normal wear and tear of the 
Development will be acceptable to City assuming Developer agrees to provide all necessary 
improvements to assure the Development is maintained in good condition.  Developer shall make 
all repairs and replacements necessary to keep the improvements in good condition and repair.
(c)
In the event that Developer breaches any of the covenants contained in this 
section and such default continues for a period of fifteen (15) days after written notice from City 
with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance or thirty (30) days after 
written notice from City with respect to landscaping and building improvements, then City, in 
addition to whatever other remedy it may have at law or in equity, shall have the right to enter 
upon the Property and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work necessary to cure 
the default.  Pursuant to such right of entry, City shall be permitted (but is not required) to enter 
224 of 556

--- page 225 ---
21
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
upon the Development and perform all acts and work necessary to protect, maintain, and preserve 
the improvements and landscaped areas comprising the Development, and to attach a lien thereon, 
or to assess the Development, in the amount of the expenditures arising from such acts and work 
of protection, maintenance, and preservation by City and/or costs of such cure, which amount 
shall be promptly paid by Developer to City upon demand.
ARTICLE 6.
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 6.1
Term.
The provisions of this Agreement apply to the Development for the entire Term even if 
the City Loans are paid in full prior to the end of the Term.  This Agreement binds any 
successor, heir or assign of Developer, whether a change in interest occurs voluntarily or 
involuntarily, by operation of law or otherwise, except as expressly released by City.  City is 
making the City Loans on the condition, and in consideration of, this provision, and would not 
do so otherwise.  For the purposes of the HOME Regulations, the Development shall only be 
considered a HOME assisted project for the duration of the HOME Term, and nothing in this 
Agreement may be read to imply otherwise.  
Section 6.2
Lease Provisions.
(a)
In leasing the Units, Developer shall use a form of Tenant lease approved 
by the City. The lease shall not contain any provision which is prohibited by 24 CFR Section 
92.253(b) and any amendments thereto.  The form of Tenant lease shall also comply with all 
requirements of this Agreement and the Loan Documents, and shall, among other matters:
(b)
Provide for termination of the lease and consent by the Tenant to 
immediate eviction for failure:  (1) to provide any information required under this Agreement or 
reasonably requested by Developer to establish or recertify the Tenant’s qualification, or the 
qualification of the Tenant’s household for occupancy in the Development in accordance with 
the standards set forth in this Agreement, or (2) to qualify as a Very Low Income Household or 
Low Income Household, as applicable, as a result of any material misrepresentation made by 
such Tenant with respect to the income computation or certification;
(c)
Require the Tenant to occupy the Unit as the Tenant’s principal residence 
and prohibit the subleasing of the Unit;
(d)
Require the Tenant to maintain the Unit in good repair and in a neat, clean 
and sanitary condition;
(e)
Prohibit the Unit from being utilized contrary to any law;
(f)
Provide for an increase in the Tenant’s Rent should the Tenant’s annual 
income exceed the income limit allowed for the Unit, pursuant to the terms outlined in Section 
2.3;
225 of 556

--- page 226 ---
22
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(g)
Be for an initial term of not less than one (1) year, unless by mutual 
agreement between the Tenant and Developer; and
(h)
Provide for no increase in Rent during such year.  After the initial year of 
tenancy, the lease may be month to month by mutual agreement of Developer and the Tenant, 
however Rent may not be raised more often than once a year.  Developer will provide each Tenant 
with at least sixty (60) days’ written notice of any increase in Rent applicable to such Tenant, and 
with such further notice as may be required by Section 2.3 above.
(i)
The lease must not contain any provision which is prohibited by 24 
C.F.R. Section 92.253(b) and any amendments thereto.
Section 6.3
Lease Termination.
With regards to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, any termination of a lease or refusal to 
renew must be in conformance with 24 CFR 92.253(c) and with California Civil Code Section 
1946.1(b) and must be preceded by not less than sixty (60) days written notice to the Tenant by 
Developer specifying the grounds for the action.  Any termination of a lease for a default of the 
Tenant shall be in accordance with all applicable laws.
Section 6.4
Compliance with Loan Documents and Program Requirements.
Developer’s actions with respect to the Development shall at all times be in full conformity 
with:  (a) all requirements of the Loan Documents; and (b) all requirements imposed on projects 
assisted under the HOME Investment Partnership Program as contained in 42 U.S.C. 12701 et 
seq., 24 CFR Part 92, and other implementing rules and regulations; and (c) all requirements of 
the City Deed of Trust; and (c) all requirements imposed on projects assisted with Housing Fund 
Proceeds under California Health and Safety Code Section 33334.2 et seq.
Section 6.5
Notice of Expiration of Term.
(a)
Prior to the termination of the Term, the Developer shall comply with the 
requirements set forth in California Government Code Sections 65863.10 and 65863.11, as such 
may be amended from time to time.  Such notice requirements may include:  (1) a twelve (12) 
month notice to existing tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public Agencies (as defined 
in California Government Code Section 65863.10(a), which would include the City's 
Community Development and Housing Director, prior to the expiration of the Term; (2) a six (6) 
month notice requirement to existing Tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public Agencies 
prior to the expiration of the Term; (3) a notice of an offer to purchase the Development to 
"qualified entities" (as defined in California Government Code Section 65863.11(d)), if the 
Development is to be sold within five (5) years of the end of the Term; and (4) a notice of right 
of first refusal within the one hundred eighty (180) day period that qualified entities may 
purchase the Development.
Section 6.6
Covenants to Run With the Land.
226 of 556

--- page 227 ---
23
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
City and Developer hereby declare their express intent that the covenants and restrictions 
set forth in this Agreement shall run with the land, and shall bind all successors in title to the 
Development, provided, however, that on the expiration of the Term of this Agreement 
said covenants and restrictions shall expire.  Each and every contract, deed or other instrument 
hereafter executed covering or conveying the Development or any portion thereof, shall be held 
conclusively to have been executed, delivered and accepted subject to such covenants and 
restrictions, regardless of whether such covenants or restrictions are set forth in such contract, 
deed or other instrument, unless City expressly releases such conveyed portion of the 
Development from the requirements of this Agreement.
Section 6.7
Enforcement by City.
If Developer fails to perform any obligation under this Agreement, and fails to cure the 
default within thirty (30) days after City has notified Developer in writing of the default or, if the 
default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, failed to commence to cure within thirty (30) days 
and thereafter diligently pursue such cure and complete such cure within ninety (90) days, City 
shall have the right to enforce this Agreement by any or all of the following actions, or any other 
remedy provided by law:
(a)
Calling the City Loans.  City may declare a default on the Notes of any of 
the City Loans, accelerate the indebtedness evidenced by the Notes, and proceed with foreclosure 
under the City Deed of Trust.
(b)
Action to Compel Performance or for Damages.  City may bring an action 
at law or in equity to compel Developer’s performance of its obligations under this Agreement, 
and/or for damages.
(c)
Remedies Provided Under Loan Documents.  City may exercise any other 
remedy provided under the Loan Documents.
(d)
Cure by Investor Limited Partner.  City hereby agrees to accept a cure of 
any default made or tendered hereunder by Investor Limited Partner on the same terms and 
conditions as if such cure was made or tendered by Developer.
Section 6.8
Rights of Third Parties to Enforce Covenants.  Notwithstanding any other 
provisions of law, all covenants and restrictions contained herein which implement Health and 
Safety Code Sections 33334.3 and/or 33413(b)(4), or successor provisions, shall run with the 
land and shall be enforceable by the City, the City, and any of the parties listed in Health and 
Safety Code Section 33334.3(f)(7), so long as such provision or successor provision remains in 
effect.
Section 6.9
Listing of Development in Database.  The Developer hereby 
acknowledges and agrees that Health and Safety Code Section 33418(c) requires that the 
Development be listed in a database that shall be made available to the public on the internet and 
which will include the street address, assessor's parcel number, and other information about the 
Development.  
227 of 556

--- page 228 ---
24
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
Section 6.10
Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.
In any action brought to enforce this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to 
all costs and expenses of suit, including attorneys’ fees.  This section shall be interpreted in 
accordance with California Civil Code Section 1717 and judicial decisions interpreting that 
statute. 
Section 6.11
Recording and Filing.
City and Developer shall cause this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to it, 
to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of San Mateo.
Section 6.12
Governing Law.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.  Any action 
brought by either of the Parties for the purpose of enforcing a right or rights provided for by this 
Agreement will be tried in a court of competent jurisdiction in the County of San Mateo, State of 
California.  The Parties waive all provisions of law providing for a change of venue in any 
proceeding to any other county
Section 6.13
Waiver of Requirements.
Any of the requirements of this Agreement may be expressly waived by City in writing, 
but no waiver by City of any requirement of this Agreement shall, or shall be deemed to, extend to 
or affect any other provision of this Agreement.
Section 6.14
Amendments.
This Agreement may be amended only by a written instrument executed by all the parties 
hereto or their successors in title, and duly recorded in the real property records of County of San 
Mateo.
Section 6.15
Notices.
Any notice requirement set forth herein shall be deemed to be satisfied three (3) days after 
mailing of the notice first-class United States certified mail, postage prepaid addressed to the 
appropriate party as follows:
Developer:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA  94404
Attention:  President and Chief Executive Officer
City:
228 of 556

--- page 229 ---
25
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attention:  Housing Manager
Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other party given in the same manner as 
provided above.  Receipt will be deemed to have occurred on the date shown on a written receipt 
as the date of delivery or refusal of delivery (or attempted delivery if undeliverable).
Section 6.16
Severability.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, 
legality and enforceability of the remaining portions of this Agreement shall not in any way be 
affected or impaired thereby.
Section 6.17
Waiver of Requirements.  No waiver of the requirements of this 
Agreement shall occur unless expressly waived by the City in writing.  No waiver will be 
implied from any delay or failure by the City to take action on any breach or default of the 
Developer or to pursue any remedy permitted under this Agreement or applicable law.  Any 
extension of time granted to the Developer to perform any obligation under this Agreement shall 
not operate as a waiver or release from any of its obligations under this Agreement.  Consent by 
the City to any act or omission by the Developer shall not be construed to be a consent to any 
other or subsequent act or omission or to waive the requirement for the City's written consent to 
future waivers.
Section 6.18
Multiple Originals; Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an 
original, and may be signed in counterparts.
Section 6.19
Hold Harmless.  Developer will indemnify and hold harmless (without 
limit as to amount) City, its council members, officers, employees and agents in their official 
capacity (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Indemnitees"), and any of them, from and 
against all loss, all risk of loss and all damage (including expense) sustained or incurred because 
of or by reason of any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, judgments and executions for 
damages of any and every kind and by whomever and whenever made or obtained, allegedly 
caused by, arising out of or relating in any manner to the Development, the Restricted Unit, or 
the Developer's performance or non-performance under this Agreement, and shall protect and 
defend Indemnitees, and any of them with respect thereto, except to the extent caused by the 
gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnitees, as applicable.  The provisions of this 
Section shall survive expiration or other termination of this Agreement or any release of part or 
all of the Property from the burdens of this Agreement, and the provisions of this section shall 
remain in full force and effect.
Section 6.20
Revival of Agreement after Foreclosure. This Agreement shall be revived 
according to its original terms if, during the original Term, the owner of record before the 
foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those 
229 of 556

--- page 230 ---
26
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in 
the Development or the Property.
Section 6.21
Action and Approval.  Whenever action and/or approval by City is 
required under this Agreement, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may act on 
and/or approve such matter unless specifically provided otherwise, or unless the City Manager 
or the City Manager's designee determine in their discretion that such action or approval requires 
referral to City Council for consideration.
Section 6.22
No Third Party Beneficiaries.  Except as expressly set forth herein, 
nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to or shall be deemed to confer upon any 
person, other than the Parties and their respective successors and assigns, any rights or remedies 
hereunder.
Section 6.23
Tax Credit Program.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the 
contrary, for as long as the Property is subject to the requirements of the California and/or 
Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Program under the provisions of Section 42 of the 
Code and Section 23610.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, as applicable 
(collectively, the "Tax Credit Program") and there is a conflict between the requirements of the 
Tax Credit Program and either the affordability provisions set forth in 2.3 above or the 
preferences set forth in Section 4.5 above, inclusive, then the provisions of the Tax Credit 
Program shall prevail.  That notwithstanding, the fact that this Agreement and the Tax Credit 
Program provide for greater, lesser or different obligations or requirements shall not be deemed 
a conflict unless the applicable provisions are inconsistent and could not be simultaneously 
enforced or performed.
Section 6.24
Subordination.  This Agreement shall not be subordinated with respect to 
the Extremely Low Income Households in accordance with Section 2.1(g).
Section 6.25
No Claims.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create or justify 
any claim against the City by any person that the Developer may have employed or with whom 
the Developer may have contracted relative to the purchase of materials, supplies or equipment, 
or the furnishing or the performance of any work or services with respect to the Property or the 
construction or operation of the Improvements. 
Section 6.26
Titles of Parts and Sections.  Any titles of the sections or subsections of 
this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be disregarded in 
interpreting any part of the Agreement's provisions.
Section 6.27
Assignment by the City.  The City may assign its rights and obligations 
under this Agreement to any instrumentality of the City or other public entity without the 
consent of, but upon prior written notice to, the Developer.
[Signature Pages Follow.]
230 of 556

--- page 231 ---
27
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
231 of 556

--- page 232 ---
S-1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
WHEREAS, this Agreement has been entered into by the undersigned as of the date first 
above written.
DEVELOPER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.,
a California limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC
a California limited liability company, its General Partner
By:
Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation,
its sole member/manager
By:
___________________________________
Name: ___________________________________
Its:
___________________________________
[Signature must be notarized.]
232 of 556

--- page 233 ---
S-1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
CITY:
City of San Mateo, a California charter city
By:
___________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:
_______________________________________
Gabrielle P. Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
[Signature must be notarized.]
233 of 556

--- page 234 ---
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
234 of 556

--- page 235 ---
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
235 of 556

--- page 236 ---
A-1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
EXHIBIT A
Legal Description of the Low-Income Housing Parcel
The Property referred to is situated in the State of California, City of San Mateo and described as 
follows:
The land referred to herein is situated in the State of California, County of San Mateo, City of 
San Mateo and is described as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of 
San Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at 
Page(s) 52 and 53.
APN: 034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A 
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
236 of 556

--- page 237 ---
B-1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
EXHIBIT B
Affirmative Marketing Strategy
A.
Affirmative Marketing Practices and Requirements for Project Sponsors
1.
All agreements and subcontracts for HOME projects shall include specific 
language about the affirmative marketing, hiring, fair housing, and reporting 
requirements, as applicable.
2.
The property manager of HOME-assisted housing shall advertise vacancies 
through one, or a combination, of the following outlets:
a.
PHA approved tenant listings
b.
All advertising for tenants in newspapers and other printed notices must 
include Fair Housing and non-Discrimination statements.  Where 
necessary, ads for vacancies shall be in two languages, or a statement in 
the second language that a translation of this ad is available.
B.
Marketing Strategy for Those Least Likely to Apply for Housing Without Special 
Outreach
1.
The racial/ethnic make-up of the census tract in which a HOME project is located 
will be reviewed by the City's HOME administrator.  Those groups who are not 
significantly represented in that census tract will be specifically targeted for 
outreach.  The goal is to have racial representation in each complex that reflects 
the racial makeup of the low income population of the City of San Mateo as a 
whole.  Project specific outreach will be done by the property manager using one 
or a combination of several methods, as appropriate to the specific project:
a.
Advertise through the local newspapers, the San Mateo Times and the San 
Mateo Weekly, and/or a local radio stations in the language found to be 
predominant in the project area.
b.
Target mailings to neighborhood organizations and community groups, in 
appropriate languages, detailing the proposed project or program.
c.
Hold neighborhood information meetings in a local community center.  
Provide language translation when needed.
d.
Where appropriate, and possible, include CHDO representatives and 
neighborhood representatives in preparing targeted marketing.
e.
Post notices in neighborhood centers, churches and other appropriate 
public locations.
237 of 556

--- page 238 ---
B-2
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
C.
Record Keeping/Assessment of Affirmative Marketing
1.
The City will work closely with owners in developing and implanting marketing 
strategies.  A central file will contain all copies of advertisements, presentations,  
mailings, surveys, and data keeping as required for all projects.
2.
Owners will also be required to keep files on all their efforts.  An annual report 
will be submitted to the City which documents marketing efforts and actual 
tenant information.  The City shall perform periodic audits of their internal files, 
and will act as a resource where they need help in outreach or record keeping.
3.
Assessment of the efforts will be made on an annual basis by the City's HOME 
administrator and will take into consideration the following:
a.
Proper recordation of marketing efforts.
b.
Review of types of outreach used to ensure success.  Check initial goals 
against results.
c.
Where there seems to be failure or lack of response, the City will work 
with the Project Sponsor to upgrade their efforts and re-design the 
outreach so that the targeted persons can be reached.
d. Verification with Project Sponsor that there have been no major complaints 
and that complaints have been settled and that funded contractors are making 
good faith efforts to practice non-discrimination in their marketing and rental 
policies.
238 of 556

--- page 239 ---
C-1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
EXHIBIT C
Form of Certification of Tenant Eligibility
Rental Unit
Street Address
Unit No.
City
Zip Code
I/We, the undersigned, being first duly sworn, state that I/we have read and answered fully and 
truthfully each of the following questions for all persons who are to occupy the unit in the above 
Development for which application is made, all of whom are listed below:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Name of Members 
in the Household
Relationship to 
Head of Household
Age
Ethnicity
Place of 
Employment
Ethnicity:  ❑ White   ❑ Black or African American   ❑ Asian   ❑ Asian & White   
❑ American Indian or Alaska Native
❑ Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander   ❑ American Indian or Alaska Native & White   
❑ Black or African American & White   
❑ American Indian or Alaska Native & Black or African American 
❑ Other Multi Race   ❑ Hispanic
Date of Occupancy of Rental Unit by Tenant:
Date of Lease Signed for Rental Unit by Tenant:
Amount of Rent Paid Per Month:
Certification Date (Earlier of Date of Occupancy or Date Lease signed):  
6. 
Anticipated Annual Income.  The anticipated total annual income from all sources of 
each person listed in Section 1 for the twelve (12) month period beginning on the 
Certification Date listed above, including income described in (a) below, but excluding 
all income described in (b) below, is $ 
.
239 of 556

--- page 240 ---
C-2
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
(a)
The amount set forth above includes all of the following income (unless such 
income is described in (b) below): all wages and salaries, overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips 
and bonuses before payroll deductions; net income from the operation of a business or 
profession or from the rental of real or personal property (without deducting expenditures for 
business expansion or amortization of capital indebtedness or any allowance for depreciation of 
capital assets); interest and dividends (including income from assets as set forth in item 7(b) 
below); full amount of periodic payments received from Social security, annuities, insurance 
policies, retirement funds, pensions, disability or death benefits and other similar types of 
periodic receipts; payments in lieu of earnings, such as unemployment and disability 
compensation, worker's compensation and severance pay; the maximum amount of public 
assistance available to the above persons; periodic and determinable allowances, such as 
alimony and child support payments and regular contributions and gifts received from persons 
not residing in the dwelling; all regular pay, special pay and allowances of a member of the 
Armed Forces (whether or not living in the dwelling) who is the head of the household or 
spouse; and any earned income tax credit to the extent it exceeds income tax liability.
(b)
The following income is excluded from the amount set forth above: casual, 
sporadic or irregular gifts; amounts that are specifically for or in reimbursement of medical 
expenses; lump sum additions to family assets, such as inheritances, insurance payment 
(including payments under health and accident insurance and worker's compensation), capital 
gains and settlement for personal or property losses; amounts of educational scholarships paid 
directly to student or educational institution, and amounts paid by the government to a veteran 
for use in meeting the costs of tuition, fees, books and equipment, but in either case only to the 
extent used for such purposes; hazardous duty pay to a member of the household in the armed 
forces who is away from home and exposed to hostile fire; relocation payments under Title II of 
the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970; income 
from employment of children (including foster children) under the age of eighteen (18) years; 
foster child care payments; the value of coupon allotments under the Food Stamp Act of 1977; 
payments to volunteers under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973; payments received 
under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act; income derived from certain submarginal land 
of the United States that is held in trust for certain Indian tribes; payments on allowances made 
under the Department of Health and Human Services' Low-Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program; and payments received from the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
7.
Net Family Assets.  If any of the persons described in item 1 above (or any person 
whose income or contributions were included in item 6) has any savings, stocks, bonds, 
equity in real property or other form of capital investment (excluding interests in Indian 
trust lands), provide:
(a)
the total value of all such assets owned by all such persons: $
, and
(b)
the amount of income expected to be derived from such assets in the twelve (12) 
month period commencing this date:
$
.
240 of 556

--- page 241 ---
C-3
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
8.
Students
(a)
Will any of the persons listed in item 1 above be or have they been full-time 
students during five (5) calendar months of this calendar year at an educational institution (other 
than a correspondence school) with regular faculty and students?
Yes
No
(b)
(Complete only if the answer to Question 8(a) is "Yes").  Is any such person 
(other than nonresident aliens) married and eligible to file a joint federal income tax return, a 
veteran of the U.S. military?
Yes
No
The above information is full, true, and complete to the best of my knowledge.  I have no 
objections to inquiries being made for the purpose of verifying the statements made herein.
Signature:
Date
(Signature Must be Notarized)
241 of 556

--- page 242 ---
C-4
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
242 of 556

--- page 243 ---
C-5
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.4
FOR COMPLETION BY DEVELOPMENT OWNER ONLY:
A.
Calculation of eligible income:
(1)
Enter amount entered for entire household in 6 above:
$
(2)
If the amount entered in 7(a) above is greater than $5,000, enter$
(i)
the product of the amount entered in 7(a) above 
multiplied by the current passbook savings rate as determined by HUD:
$
(ii)
the amount entered in 7(b) above:
$
(iii)
enter the greater of line (i) or line (ii):
$
(3)
TOTAL ELIGIBLE INCOME (Line A(1) plus line A(2)(iii)):
$
B.
Enter number of family members listed in item 1 above:
C.
The amount entered in A(3) (Total Eligible Income) is:
$
           Less than $__________ of median income for the area in which the Development is 
located, which is the maximum income at which a household may be determined to be 
a qualifying tenant as that term is defined in the Agreement.
           More than the above-mentioned amount.
D.
Number of units assigned:
E.
Monthly rent: $
F.
This unit (was/was not) last occupied for a period of thirty-one (31) consecutive days by a person 
or persons whose Adjusted Annual Income, as certified in the above manner, was equal to or 
less than the amount at which a person would have qualified as a qualifying tenant under the 
terms of the Agreement.
G.
Applicant:
           Qualifies as a qualifying tenant.
           Does not qualify as a qualifying tenant.
 
243 of 556

--- page 244 ---
1
660\11\3153475.2
660\11\3153475.6
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
City of San Mateo
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Attention:  Housing Manager
SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER’S USE
This Regulatory Agreement is recorded at 
the request and for the benefit of the City of 
San Mateo and is exempt from the payment 
of a recording fee pursuant to Government 
Code Sections 27383.
REGULATORY AGREEMENT AND
DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
(Kiku Crossing, San Mateo)
This REGULATORY AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE 
COVENANTS (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of ____________________, 20__, 
by and between the City of San Mateo, a California charter city, acting on its own behalf and in its 
capacity as the housing successor the dissolved Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo 
(“City”), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership 
(“Developer”).
RECITALS
A.
These Recitals refer to and utilize certain capitalized terms which are defined in Article 
1 of this Agreement.  The Parties intend to refer to those definitions in connection with 
the use of capitalized terms in these Recitals.
B.
The City is the owner of the Property, as more particularly described in Exhibit A 
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and the Developer and the 
City have entered into that certain Ground Lease dated as of __________________ __, 
20__, and as such may be further amended from time to time (collectively, the "Ground 
Lease"), pursuant to which the Developer will acquire a leasehold interest in the 
Property from the City for a period of ninety-nine (99) years (the "Leasehold Interest").  
The Developer intends to construct 225 multifamily housing units on the Property for 
rental to extremely low, very low and low income households, including two (2) 
244 of 556

--- page 245 ---
2
660\11\3153475.6
unrestricted manager units, and attendant site improvements (the "Improvements").  The 
Developer's Leasehold Interest and the Developer's fee interest in the Improvements, are 
collectively herein after referred to as the "Development."
C.
The Development is subject to that certain Affordable Housing Agreement and Density 
Bonus Affordability Restriction (the "Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement") 
implementing: (1) the City's Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program (“Inclusionary 
Program”), which is set forth in Resolution 14 (2020), augmented by the City’s 
Marketing Policies as adopted by City Resolution 22 (2009); and (2) the State density 
bonus law (California Government Code section 65915) which requires that cities 
provide density bonuses and incentives or concessions for projects that provide 
affordable housing.  The restrictions in the Density Bonus Regulatory Agreement are 
unrelated to the affordability restrictions under this Agreement.
D.
The City and the Developer executed that certain Disposition, Development and Loan 
Agreement dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First Amendment to 
Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement, dated as of November __, 2021, 
(collectively, the "DDLA") to partially fund the acquisition, predevelopment, and 
construction costs for the Development. 
E.
Pursuant to the DDLA, the City will provide to Developer the "City Loans" totaling 
Four Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($4,850,000) from the following 
sources:
1.
Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,850,000) from the City’s 
Low Moderated Income Housing Asset Fund (“City LM Loan”)
2.
Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) from the City’s Commercial Linkage Fee fund 
(“City CLF Loan”)
F.
Pursuant to the HOME Loan Agreement, the City will provide the Developer a Loan 
totaling Six Hundred Fifty Thousand ($650,000) from City’s HOME funding program 
income (“City HOME Loan” and together with the City LM Loan and the City CLF 
Loan, the "City Loans") to fund eligible specified activities for the Development as 
allowed under 24 C.F.R. 92.64.  The City has the authority to loan the HOME Funds 
pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.205.
G.
The City HOME Loan is funded with program income from the HOME Investment 
Partnership Act (“HOME”) funds received by the City from the United States Department 
of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) pursuant to the Cranston-Gonzales 
National Housing Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C 12075 et seq).
H.
This Agreement imposes occupancy and affordability restrictions on the Development 
in accordance with the HOME program.
245 of 556

--- page 246 ---
3
660\11\3153475.6
I.
This Agreement also imposes occupancy and affordability restrictions on the 
Development, in accordance with Health and Safety Code Sections 33334.2 et seq and 
34176.1.
J.
The City is requiring the execution of this Agreement in order to implement the 
requirements of Health and Safety Code Section 33334.3.
K.
In order to ensure that the entire Development will be used and operated in accordance 
with these conditions and restrictions, the City and Developer wish to enter into this 
Agreement. 
THEREFORE, the City and Developer hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.1
Definitions.
When used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings 
assigned to them in this Article 1.
(a)
“Actual Household Size” means the actual number of persons in the 
applicable household.
(b)
"Adjusted Income" means : (1) with regards only to the Extremely Low 
Income Units, the total anticipated annual income of all persons in a household, as calculated in 
accordance with 25 California Code of Regulations Section 6914 or pursuant to a successor 
State housing program that utilizes a reasonably similar method of calculation of adjusted 
income, or (2)with regards only to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, the total anticipated annual 
income of all persons in a household as initially calculated in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 
92.203(a)(1) and, for subsequent calculations, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 92.203(b)(1); or (3) 
with regards to all other units that are neither Extremely Low Income Units nor HOME Loan 
Assisted Units, the total anticipated annual income of all persons in a household, as calculated in 
accordance with the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee rules and regulations or 
pursuant to a successor State housing program that utilizes a reasonably similar method of 
calculation of adjusted income.  In the event that no such program exists, the City shall provide 
the Developer with a reasonably similar method of calculation of adjusted income as provided in 
said Section 6914.
(c)
“Assumed Household Size” shall be set by multiplying 1.5 by the number 
of bedrooms in unit. The definition is utilized to calculate affordable rent and is not intended to 
be a limit on the number of persons occupying a Unit.
(d)
"City" means the City of San Mateo, a California charter city, and its 
successors and assigns.
246 of 556

--- page 247 ---
4
660\11\3153475.6
(e)
"City Deed of Trust” means the Leasehold Deed of Trust with Assignment of 
Rents, Security Agreement, and Fixture Filing dated of even date herewith, among Developer, as 
trustor, Old Republic Title Company, as trustee, and the City, as beneficiary, that will encumber 
the Developer's leasehold interest in the Property to secure repayment of the City Loans and 
performance of the covenants of the Loan Documents.
(f)
"City Loans" has the meaning set forth in Recital F, above.
(g)
“Completion Date” means the date that all of the following have occurred:  
(1) a certificate of occupancy, or equivalent document is issued by the City to certify completion 
of the construction of the Improvements; (2) the final disbursement of HOME Funds for the 
Development has been made; (3) the City has verified the Development complies with the 
property standards set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.251; and (4) all project completion information has 
been entered by the City into the Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS).
(h)
"Completion of Construction" means the date the construction of the 
Improvements is completed as evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or notice 
of completion or equivalent document issued by the City, to certify completion of the 
construction of the Improvements.
(i)
"County" means the County of San Mateo.
(j)
"CTCAC" means the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.
(k)
"Dissolved RDA" means the dissolved Redevelopment Agency of the 
City of San Mateo, a public body, corporate and politic.
(l)
“Extremely Low Income Household” means a household with an 
Adjusted Income that does not exceed the qualifying limits for extremely low income 
households, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established and amended from time to time 
pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and as published by HCD.
(m)
"Extremely Low Income Rent" means the rent permitted to be charged for 
an Extremely Low Income Unit.
(n)
"Extremely Low Income Unit" means the Units, which are required to be 
occupied by Extremely Low Income Households.
(o)
"General Public Employees" are defined as those who work for the City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, and eight additional taxing entities that are the successors 
to the former Redevelopment Agency, or the State of California, or the Federal Government of 
the United States.
(p)
"HCD" means the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development. 
247 of 556

--- page 248 ---
5
660\11\3153475.6
(q)
"High HOME Rent" means a monthly Rent amount not exceeding the 
maximum rent published by HUD for a Low Income Household for the applicable bedroom size 
or as otherwise set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.252(a).
(r)
“HOME” means the HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program pursuant 
to the Cranston-Gonzales National Housing Act of 1990, as amended.
(s)
“HOME Loan Agreement” means the City HOME Loan Agreement 
entered into by and between the City and Developer, and dated as of November __, 2021.
(t)
“HOME Loan Assisted Units” means the three (3) "floating" Units 
designated as assisted by the City HOME Loan.
(u)
"HOME Promissory Note" means the promissory note from Developer to 
the City evidencing the HOME Loan.
(v)
"HOME Regulations" means the regulations set forth in 24 C.F.R. Part 92.
(w)
"HOME Term" means the period beginning on the date of this Agreement 
and ending on the fifteenth (15th) anniversary of the Completion Date.  After the expiration of 
the HOME Term, for the purpose of the HOME Regulations, the Development will no longer be 
considered an existing HOME assisted rental project.
(x)
"Housing Fund Proceeds" means any of the funds transferred to the City, 
together with any funds generated from housing assets, maintained in the Low and Moderate 
Income Housing Asset Fund, created in the accounts of the City pursuant to Health and Safety 
Code Section 34176(d). 
(y)
“HUD” means the United States Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.
(z)
"I/DD Household" means a household with one or more persons with 
intellectual or development disabilities, as defined in 17 CCR § 54000, and who are referred to the 
Developer by the Golden Gate Regional Center or its approved successor.
(aa)
"Improvements" means the approximately two hundred twenty-five (225) 
units of affordable rental housing to be constructed on specified portions of the Property, 
including two manager's units, all common areas, amenities, plans, entitlements, appurtenances, 
improvement easements, buildings and fixtures associated with the Property
(bb)
"Investor Limited Partner" means the tax credit limited partner or partners, 
and their respective successors and assigns, admitted to the Developer in connection with the 
allocation of low income housing tax credits to the Development, which admission will occur 
concurrent with closing of construction financing for development of the Development 
Improvements.
248 of 556

--- page 249 ---
6
660\11\3153475.6
(cc)
“Loan Documents” means this Agreement, the Notes that evidence the City 
Loans, the DDLA, City HOME Loan Agreement, the City Deed of Trust, and the Notice of 
Affordability Restrictions.
(dd)
“Low Income Household” with regards to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
a Low Income Household means a Tenant household with an Adjusted Annual Income that does 
not exceed eighty percent (80%) of Median Income, with adjustments for smaller and larger 
families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than eighty percent 
(80%) of Median Income on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary 
because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low 
family incomes, as such definition may be amended pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.2.  An individual 
who is a student that is ineligible to receive Section 8 assistance under 24 C.F.R. 5.612, and thus 
ineligible to receive any type of HOME assistance, shall not qualify as a Low Income 
Household.  With regards to the Low Income Units, other than the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
Low Income Household means a household with an Adjusted Income that does not exceed the 
qualifying limits for lower income households, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established 
and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, 
and as published by HCD.
(ee)
"Low Income Rent" means the maximum allowable rent for a Low 
Income Unit, other than the HOME Loan Assisted Units.
(ff)
"Low Income Units" means the Units which are allowed to be occupied 
by Low Income Households.
(gg)
"Management Agent" means the management agent retained by Developer 
and approved by the City in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 to manage the 
Development.
(hh)
"Median Income" means: (1) with regards only to the Extremely Low 
Income Units, the median gross yearly income adjusted for Actual Household Size (to qualify 
residents) or Assumed Household Size (to calculate rents), as applicable, in the County of San 
Mateo, California, as published from time to time by HCD; or (2) with regards only to the HOME 
Loan Assisted Units, the median gross yearly income, adjusted for Actual Household Size or 
Assumed Household Size as specified herein, in the San Francisco, Metropolitan Statistical Area, 
as published from time-to-time by HUD; or (3) with regards to all other units that are neither 
Extremely Low Income Units nor HOME Loan Assisted Units, the median income, adjusted for 
Actual Household Size (to qualify residents) or Assumed Household Size (to calculate rents), as 
applicable, in the County of San Mateo, California, as determined by CTCAC.  In the event that 
such income determinations are no longer published, or are not updated for a period of at least 
eighteen (18) months, the City shall provide the Developer with other income determinations 
which are reasonably similar with respect to methods of calculation to those previously published 
by HCD and/or HUD and/or TCAC.
(ii)
“Middle Income Household” means a household with an income that does 
not exceed the 100% of Median Income, adjusted for Actual Household Size, as established and 
249 of 556

--- page 250 ---
7
660\11\3153475.6
amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and as 
published by HCD.
(jj)
"Notice of Affordability Restrictions" means the Notice of Affordability 
Restrictions on Transfer of Property, in a form to be provided by the City, between the City and 
the Developer to be recorded against the Property pursuant to Sections 33334.3 and/or 
33413(c)(5) of the Community Redevelopment Law, or successor provision
(kk)
“Notes” means the promissory notes from Developer to the City evidencing 
the City LM Loan, the City HOME Loan and the City CLF Loan.
(ll)
“Property” means the property that is subject to the terms and provisions of 
this Agreement, as referenced in Recital B, above, and comprises (1) the leasehold estate of 
Developer in the Property and (2) the ownership interests of Developer in the Development 
constructed on the Property.
(mm) “Rent” means the total monthly payments by the Tenant of a Unit (other 
than the manager's Unit) for the following:  (1) use and occupancy of the Unit and land and 
associated facilities, including parking; (2) any reasonable and customary separately charged 
fees or service charges assessed by Developer which are required of all Tenants (with regards to 
the HOME Loan Assisted Units, such charges which meet the requirements under 24 C.F.R. 
92.214(b)(3)); (3) the City-approved utility allowance, (with regards to the HOME Loan 
Assisted Units, the utility allowance shall be calculated pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.252(d) or 
otherwise determined based upon the specific utilities used at the Development as allowed under 
24 C.F.R. 92.252(d)(1)); and (4) any other interest, taxes, fees or charges for use of the land or 
associated facilities and assessed by a public or private entity other than Developer, and paid by 
the Tenant.  In no event shall the Rent of a Unit exceed the amount permitted by the City 
pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
(nn)
"Restricted Units" means the Extremely Low Income Units, the HOME 
Units and the Low Income Units, collectively and each shall be referred to as a "Restricted Unit".
(oo)
“Tenant” means a household occupying a Unit.
(pp)
“Term” means the term of this Agreement which commences as of the 
date of this Agreement, and unless sooner terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, 
expires on the fifty-seventh (57th) anniversary of the date that the City Deed of Trust is recorded.
(qq)
“Unit” means one of the rental units included in the Development.
ARTICLE 2.
AFFORDABILITY AND OCCUPANCY COVENANTS
Section 2.1
Occupancy Requirements.
(a)
Extremely Low-Income Units.  Not less than thirty-five (35) of the Units 
shall be rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for occupancy by Extremely Low 
250 of 556

--- page 251 ---
8
660\11\3153475.6
Income Households, including twenty-six (26) single room occupancy/ studio Units, seven (7) 
one-bedroom Units, and two (2) two-bedroom Units.
(b)
Low Income Units.  Not less than of the seventy-two (72) Units shall be 
rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for occupancy by for households whose income 
does not exceed Low Income Households, including nineteen (19) one-bedroom Units, thirty-
three (33) two-bedroom Units, and twenty (20) three-bedroom Units.
(c)
HOME Loan Assisted Units.  The three (3) HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
including one (1) one-bedroom Unit, one (1) two-bedroom Unit, and one (1) three-bedroom Unit 
shall be rented to households whose Adjusted Income does not exceed 60% of Median Income, 
adjusted for Actual Household Size, as published by HUD from time to time. These units shall 
be “floating” units in that there shall be no specific HOME-assisted units as long as there are a 
minimum number of HOME Units occupied in compliance with HOME regulations.
(d)
Intermingling of Units.  The HOME Loan Assisted Units are required to 
be intermingled throughout the Development and of comparable quality to all other Units.  All 
Tenants must have equal access to and enjoyment of all common facilities in the Development.
(e)
Middle Income Units.  All of the Units that are not required to be 
Extremely Low or Low Income Units shall be rented to and occupied by or, if vacant, available for 
occupancy by Middle Income Households (the “Middle Income Units”).
(f)
Managers Units.  Two (2) units shall be designated for managers units 
that are not income restricted. 
(g)
Foreclosure or Loss of Subsidy Occupancy Requirements.  In the event of 
a foreclosure of the senior lien or the loss of subsidy described in Section 2.2(j) below, then the 
City and the entity acquiring the Development at foreclosure, or after the loss of subsidy, shall 
apportion the affordability targeting in a manner consistent with Health and Safety Code Section 
34176.1.  In no event will the occupancy requirements imposed after a foreclosure of the 
Construction Loan or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or a loss of subsidy described in Section 2.2(j) 
below, require the Developer's successor in interest to provide more than thirty five (35) Very 
Low Income Units, which the City has determined is the maximum affordability feasible post 
foreclosure or loss of subsidy described in Section 2.2(j).  The terms of this Section 2.1(g) shall 
survive termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.2
Allowable Rent.
(a)
Extremely Low Income Rent.  Per California Health and Safety Code 
50053, the maximum Rent charged to residents of the Extremely Low Income Units shall not 
exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of thirty percent (30%) of Median Income, 
adjusted for Assumed Household Size.
(b)
Low Income Rent.  The maximum Rent charged to Tenants of Low 
Income Units shall not exceed the rent permitted to be charged as published annually by CTCAC 
251 of 556

--- page 252 ---
9
660\11\3153475.6
for Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Programs for Low Income Households for San Mateo 
County, adjusted for Assumed Household Size.
(c)
Home Rent.  Rent charged to Tenants of the HOME Loan Assisted Units, 
shall not exceed the High HOME Rent in accordance with 24 CFR Part 92.252(a) and published 
by HUD from time to time.
(d)
Middle Income Rent.  The Rent charged to Tenants of the Middle Income 
Units shall not exceed one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of one hundred percent 
(100%) of Median Income, adjusted for Assumed Household Size. None of the Moderate 
Income Units shall be counted toward meeting the requirement to provide the Restricted Units.
(e)
In calculating the allowable Rent for the Restricted Units, the CTCAC 
"Assumed Household Sizes" shall be utilized, provided that the Development receives an 
allocation of low income housing tax credits, otherwise Assumed Household Size shall be 
determined pursuant to the terms of Health and Safety Code Section 50052.5(h).
(f)
Approval of Rents.  Initial Rents for all Restricted Units (including the 
HOME Loan Assisted Units) shall be approved by the City prior to occupancy.  All proposed 
Rent increases Restricted Units (including the HOME Loan Assisted Units) shall be submitted 
to City for review and approval at least thirty (30) days prior to Developer providing written 
notice to Tenants.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, City’s review and approval of Rents and Rent 
increases shall be limited to determining that such Rents and Rent increases comply with the 
requirements of this Regulatory Agreement.  No later than thirty (30) days after HUD publishes 
Median Income for the County of San Mateo for each calendar year, the City shall provide the 
Developer with a schedule of permissible maximum Extremely Low Income Rents and Low 
Income Rents, as applicable, for the succeeding year (the "Rent Schedule").  The Rent Schedule 
for each calendar year shall reflect an increase or decrease in maximum permissible rents which 
corresponds directly to any increase or decrease in Median Income for the County of San Mateo 
from the Median Income for the County of San Mateo published for the previous calendar year.  
Under no circumstance may the Developer raise rents above the permissible maximum rents as 
allowed under the annual rent schedule provided by the City.
(g)
Rent Increases.  Rent for the Restricted Units shall be increased no more 
than once annually based upon income recertifications described in Article 3.  Tenants shall be 
given at least sixty (60) days’ written notice prior to any Rent increase.
(h)
No Additional Fees.  Developer shall not charge any fee, other than Rent, 
to any resident of the Restricted Units for any housing or other services provided by Developer 
pursuant to the Loan Documents.  Nothing herein shall prevent Developer from establishing 
charges for tenant defaults, so long as such fees are not prohibited under 24 CFR 92.214.
(i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in the event that 
Median Incomes decrease in any given calendar year, Developer is permitted to apply the "hold 
harmless" policy (“Policy”) implemented by CTCAC pursuant to the Housing and Economic 
Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221). The Policy states that, as of the date of placed-in-service, (or 
252 of 556

--- page 253 ---
10
660\11\3153475.6
rent floor election date, available after CTCAC award/reservation), rent limits for a given 
calendar year cannot be lower than the highest amount of rent limits for each calendar year since 
placed-in-service.
(j)
Subject to Section 2.1(g) above, If the project is receiving any rental 
subsidies (“PBVs”) and such PBVs are terminated, rents for any rent-restricted units (other than 
the HOME  Loan Assisted Units) losing PBVs may be increased to the federally permitted 
maximums in accordance with current California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (“CTCAC”) 
Regulations.
Section 2.3
Increased Income of Tenants.
(a)
Extremely Low Income Household to Low Income Household.  If, upon 
recertification of the income of a Tenant, Developer determines that a former Extremely Low 
Income Household's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the qualifying income for an 
Extremely Low Income Household, but does not exceed the qualifying limit for a Low Income 
Household, such Tenant shall be permitted to continue occupying the Unit and shall continue to 
be charged Extremely Low Income Rent.  Upon expiration of the Tenant's lease for such year 
and upon sixty (60) days' written notice, the Rent may be increased to the Low Income Rent, 
and such Tenant's Unit may be considered a Low Income Unit.
(b)
Low Income Household.  If, upon recertification of a Tenant's income the 
Developer determines that a former Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income 
Household 's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the qualifying income for Low Income 
Households (above eighty percent (80%) of area median income), the Tenant may continue to 
occupy the Unit and shall continue to be charged Low Income Rent.  Upon expiration of the 
Tenant's Lease for such year, and upon sixty (60) days' written notice, the Rent may be 
increased to the Moderate Income Rent, and such Tenant's Unit may be considered a Moderate 
Income Unit.
(c)
Non-Qualifying Household.  If, upon recertification of the income of a 
Tenant, the Developer determines that a former Extremely Low Income Household or Low 
Income Household's Adjusted Income has increased and exceeds the maximum qualifying 
income for a Low Income Household, such Tenant shall be permitted to continue occupying the 
Unit and upon expiration of the Tenant's lease for such year and upon sixty (60) days written 
notice, the Tenant may continue to reside in the Unit and the Rent may be increased to the lesser 
of one-twelfth (1/12th) of thirty percent (30%) of actual Adjusted Income of the Tenant, or fair 
market rent (subject to 24 C.F.R. 92.252(i)(2) regarding low income housing tax credit 
requirements) and the Developer shall rent the next available Unit to an Extremely Low Income 
Household or Low Income Household, as applicable, to meet the requirements of Section 2.1 
above.
Section 2.4
Termination of Occupancy.  Upon termination of occupancy of a HOME 
Loan Assisted Unit by a Tenant, such Unit will be deemed to be continuously occupied by a 
household of the same income level as the initial income level of the vacating Tenant, until such 
Unit is reoccupied or another Unit is re-designated as a HOME Loan Assisted Unit, at which 
253 of 556

--- page 254 ---
11
660\11\3153475.6
time categorization of the Unit will be established based on the occupancy requirements of 
Section 2.1.  Any termination of a lease or refusal to renew a lease for a HOME Loan Assisted 
Unit within the Development must be in conformance with 24 C.F.R. 92.253(c) and the 
requirements of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-4, 127 
Stat. 54) applicable to HUD-funded programs, and must be preceded by not less than thirty (30) 
days written notice to the Tenant by Developer specifying the grounds for the termination.
Section 2.5
Tenant Protections.  For the entire Term the Restricted Units shall be 
subject to Just Cause for Eviction rules and regulations. For a termination to qualify as "For 
Cause," the Developer shall demonstrate any of the following circumstances with respect to a 
termination of tenancy. Nothing in this section shall abrogate the protections afforded to 
survivors of violence consistent with the California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1161.3, as 
amended, and the Violence Against Women Act, Public Law 102-322, as amended, to the extent 
applicable.
(a)
Failure to Pay Rent. Tenant failed to pay Rent within three days of 
receiving written notice from the Developer demanding payment as provided in subsection 2 of 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1161.
(b)
Breach of Rental Contract. Tenant violated a material term of the rental 
agreement as provided in subsection 3 of California Code of Civil Procedure section 1161.
(c)
Tenant Illegal Activities. Tenant has been convicted of using the HOME 
Loan Assisted Unit for an illegal purpose as provided in subsection 4 of California Code of Civil 
Procedure section 1161, including but not limited to the unlawful distribution of a controlled 
substance as contemplated by California Civil Code section 3486, the unlawful use, 
manufacture, or possession of weapons and ammunition as contemplated by California Civil 
Code section 3485, or for of a serious crime or violent felony as defined by applicable law, 
which occurred during the tenancy and within 1,000 feet of the Dwelling Unit. For purposes of 
this subsection, Tenant Household, after receiving a written notice, may cure the violation by 
removing, and demonstrating such removal, of the offending Tenant.
(d)
Threat of Violent Crime. Any statement made by a Tenant, or at his or her 
request, by his or her agent to any person who is on the property that includes the unit or to the 
Developer, or Developer's agents, threatening the commission of a crime which will result in 
death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement is to be 
taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, when on its face and under 
the circumstances in which it is made, it is so unequivocal, immediate and specific as to convey 
to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the 
threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety 
or for his or her immediate family's safety.
(e)
Nuisance Behavior. The Tenant, after written notice to cease and the 
passage of a reasonable period of time to abate or cure, continues to be so disorderly or to cause 
such a nuisance as to destroy the peace, quiet, comfort, or safety of the Developer or other 
Tenants of the structure or rental complex containing the Restricted Units. Such nuisance or 
254 of 556

--- page 255 ---
12
660\11\3153475.6
disorderly conduct includes violations of state and federal criminal law that destroy the peace, 
quiet, comfort, or safety of the Developer or other Tenants of the structure or rental complex 
containing the Restricted Units, or the creation or maintenance of a dangerous or unsanitary 
condition in violation of applicable local, state, and Federal law, and may be further defined in 
the regulations adopted by the Community Development Director.
(f)
Notwithstanding the limitations of California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 1161.3, as amended, act or acts constituting domestic violence or sexual assault or 
stalking against the Tenant or a member of Tenant's household cannot form the substantial basis 
of a For Cause reason to terminate the tenancy of the victim of such acts. A member of a Tenant 
household may raise such facts as an affirmative defense to an action terminating the tenancy.
Section 2.6
Lease Provisions.  The Developer shall include in leases for all Restricted 
Units provisions which authorize the Developer to immediately terminate the tenancy of any 
household one or more of whose members misrepresented any fact material to the household's 
qualification as an Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income Household, as applicable.  
Each lease or rental agreement shall also provide that the household is subject to annual 
certification in accordance with Section 3.1 below, and that, if the household's income increases 
above the applicable limits for an Extremely Low Income Household or Low Income 
Household, as applicable, such household's Rent may be subject to increase.
Section 2.7
Condominium Conversion.  The Developer shall not convert the 
Development units to condominium or cooperative ownership or sell condominium or 
cooperative conversion rights to the Property during the Term of this Agreement. 
Section 2.8
Units Available to the Disabled.
Developer shall construct the Development in compliance with all applicable federal and 
state disabled persons accessibility requirements including but not limited to the Federal Fair 
Housing Act; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Title II and/or Title III of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794 et seq,); and Title 24 of the California 
Code of Regulations.  In compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
U.S.C. 794, et. seq.), a minimum of twelve (12) Units, shall be constructed to be readily 
accessible and usable by households with a mobility impaired member and a minimum of five 
(5) Units shall be constructed to be readily accessible and usable by households with a hearing 
and/or visually impaired member.  Not less than thirty (30) days from the Completion Date, the 
Developer shall deliver to the City the certification from the architect or the Certified Access 
Specialist certifying that the HOME Loan Assisted Units have been designed in compliance 
with this Section or has provided the City with other evidence that the Development has been 
designed to comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794, et seq.) 
and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
ARTICLE 3.
INCOME CERTIFICATION AND REPORTING
Section 3.1
Income Certification.
255 of 556

--- page 256 ---
13
660\11\3153475.6
(a)
Developer shall obtain, complete, and maintain on file, immediately prior 
to initial occupancy and annually thereafter, income certifications from each Tenant renting any 
of the Restricted Units.  Developer shall make a good faith effort to verify the accuracy of the 
income provided by all applicants or all members of the occupying household (for all adults age 
eighteen (18) or older), as the case may be, in the income certification.  To verify the 
information, Developer shall take one or more of the following steps as part of the verification 
process:  (1) obtain a minimum of the three most current pay stubs for all adults age eighteen 
(18) or older; (2) obtain an income tax return for the most recent tax year; (3) conduct a credit 
agency or similar search; (4) obtain an income verification form from the applicant's current 
employer verifying employment for the last two months; (5) obtain the three (3) most current 
savings and checking account bank statements; (6) obtain an income verification form from the 
Social Security Administration and/or the California Department of Social Services if the 
applicant receives assistance from either of such agencies, verifying assistance for the last two 
months (as available from those agencies); or (7) if the applicant is unemployed and does not 
have a tax return, obtain another form of independent verification.  Copies of Tenants' income 
certifications shall be available to the City upon reasonable written request.
(b)
In addition, during the HOME Term, Developer shall cause each Tenant 
in a HOME Loan Assisted Unit to execute a Certification of Tenant Eligibility in the form 
attached as Exhibit C, or some other alternative tenant certification reasonably approved in 
writing by the City.  Developer shall fill out the "Development Owner" portion of the 
Certification of Tenant Eligibility and provide it to the City along with supporting 
documentation collected by Developer.  Copies of the Certifications of Tenant Eligibility and 
accompanying documentation must be maintained by Developer and available to the City upon 
request. The City hereby pre-approves the CTCAC tenant income certification form as an 
acceptable alternative to the form attached as Exhibit C.
Section 3.2
Tenant Selection.
(a)
No later than six (6) months prior to the date of construction is to be 
completed, the Developer must provide the City for its review and approval its plan for 
marketing the Development to income-eligible households as required pursuant to this 
Agreement, including information on affirmative marketing efforts and compliance with fair 
housing laws (the "Marketing Plan") that at a minimum meets the requirements for tenant 
selection set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.253(d) and any modification thereto as required under Section 
4.12 of the HOME Loan Agreement. 
(b)
Except as otherwise permitted in the City Loan Documents, the 
Developer shall not discriminate against any applicants for tenancy on the basis of source of 
income or rent payment (for example, without limitation, Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families (TANF) or Section 8), and the Developer shall consider a prospective Tenant's 
previous rent history of at least one (1) year, or such other time period the Developer deems 
reasonable, as evidence of the prospective Tenant's ability to pay the applicable Rent.  The 
ability to pay shall be demonstrated if the prospective Tenant can document that the prospective 
Tenant's gross income is at least two (2) times the prospective rent at the prospective Tenant's 
income level.  The Developer, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, may waive the 
256 of 556

--- page 257 ---
14
660\11\3153475.6
requirement that the prospective Tenant's gross income equal at least two (2) times the 
prospective rent at the prospective Tenant's income level, and admit prospective Tenants with 
lower gross incomes
Section 3.3
Annual Report to City.
(a)
Developer shall submit to City: (1) not later than the forty-fifth (45th) day 
after the close of each calendar year, or such other date as may be requested by City, a statistical 
report, in a form acceptable to the City, including income and rent data for all Restricted Units, 
an assessment of compliance with the approved Management Plan, and an evaluation of the 
Management Agent.  The Annual Report shall, at a minimum, include the following most recent 
information for each dwelling unit in the Project, but is not limited to:  (i) unit number; (ii) 
number of bedrooms; (iii) current rent and other charges; (iv) dates of any vacancies during the 
previous year; (v) number of people residing in the unit; (vi) total gross household income of 
residents; (vii) documentation of source of household income; (viii) lease commencement and 
termination dates, (ix) initial move-in date, and (x) the information required by Section 3.1, any 
other information or completed forms reasonably requested by the City, and (2) within fifteen 
(15) days after receipt of a written request, any other information or completed forms requested by 
City in order to comply with reporting requirements of HUD, the State of California, or the City.
Section 3.4
Additional Information.
Developer shall provide any additional information reasonably requested by City.  City 
shall have the right to examine and make copies of all books, records or other documents of 
Developer which pertain to the Development.
Section 3.5
Records.
(a)
Developer shall maintain complete, accurate and current records pertaining 
to the Development, and shall permit any duly authorized representative of City to inspect records, 
including records pertaining to income and household size of Tenants.  All Tenant lists, 
applications and waiting lists relating to the Development shall at all times be kept separate and 
identifiable from any other business of Developer and shall be maintained as required by City, in a 
reasonable condition for proper audit and subject to examination during business hours by 
representatives of City.  Developer shall retain copies of all materials obtained or produced with 
respect to occupancy of the Restricted Units for a period of at least five (5) years.  Developer is 
subject to the audit requirements set forth in 24 C.F.R. 505.
(b)
All records maintained by Developer pursuant to Sections 3.3 and 3.4 
above are to be:  (1) maintained in compliance with all applicable HUD records and accounting 
requirements; and (2) open to and available for inspection and copying by HUD and its 
authorized representatives at reasonable intervals during normal business hours; provided 
however, records pertaining to Tenant income verifications, Rents, and Development physical 
inspections must be kept for the most recent five (5) year period and are subject to HUD 
inspection for five (5) years after expiration of the  HOME Term.  Developer is subject to the 
audit requirements set forth in 24 CFR 92.506 during the HOME Term.
257 of 556

--- page 258 ---
15
660\11\3153475.6
Section 3.6
Annual Operating Budget.  The Developer, at least sixty (60) days prior to 
the end of each of the Developer's fiscal year, shall furnish the City an Annual Operating 
Budget.  Upon receipt by the City of the proposed Annual Operating Budget, the City shall 
promptly review the same and approve or disapprove it within ten (10) business days.  If the 
Annual Operating Budget is not approved by the City, the City shall set forth in writing and 
notify the Developer of the City's reasons for withholding such approval.  The Developer shall 
thereafter submit a revised Annual Operating Budget for City approval, which approval shall be 
granted or denied within ten (10) business days in accordance with the procedures set forth 
above.  If no written comments from the City are received within ten (10) business days, the 
Annual Operating Budget will be deemed approved.
Section 3.7
On-Site Inspection.
(a)
The City may perform, or cause to be performed, during normal business 
hours, an on-site inspection of the Development (including Restricted Units, subject to the rights 
of Tenants) at least one (1) time per year upon no less than three (3) business days' prior written 
notice to Developer to monitor compliance with this Agreement.  Developer shall cooperate in 
making the Development available for such inspection.  Developer agrees and acknowledges 
that during the HOME Term the City must conduct on-site inspections, consistent with the 
requirements of 24 C.F.R. 92.504(d), to determine compliance with the property standards set 
forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.251, at least once every three (3) years after the Completion of 
Construction of the Improvements or as otherwise required under 24 CFR 200.285.  Such right 
to annually inspect the Development shall be in addition to the City's right to inspect the 
Development in accordance with the City's code as may be amended from time to time.
(b)
After the completion of an inspection the City shall deliver a copy of the 
Uniform Physical Conditions Standards inspection report and the Multifamily Unit Inspection 
(Form 9602), as applicable, to the Developer.  If the City determines as a result of such 
inspection that there are any life-threatening health and safety related deficiencies, Developer 
has the obligation to correct such deficiencies immediately, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 
92.251.  If the City determines as a result of the inspection that there are any deficiencies for any 
of the inspectable items in the Development (other than those identified in the preceding 
sentence), the Developer shall correct such deficiencies within thirty (30) days from the delivery 
of the inspection report or if a period longer than thirty (30) days is reasonably necessary to 
correct the deficiency, then Developer must begin to correct the deficiency within thirty (30) 
days and correct the deficiency as soon as reasonably possible.  In addition, the Developer 
acknowledges that the City may re-inspect the Development to verify all deficiencies have been 
corrected or rely on third party documentation submitted by the Developer for non-hazardous 
deficiencies in conformance with 24 C.F.R 92.504(d).
(c)
Upon expiration of the HOME Term but prior to the expiration of the 
Term of this Agreement, the City may perform on-site inspections on the same terms as Section 
3.8(a) above.
258 of 556

--- page 259 ---
16
660\11\3153475.6
ARTICLE 4.
OPERATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT
Section 4.1
Residential Use.
The Development shall be operated only for residential use.  No part of the Development 
shall be operated as transient housing.  No part of the Development shall be operated as transient 
housing in which the term of Tenant occupancy is less than thirty (30) days. No part of the 
Development may be operated as an emergency shelter (including shelter for disaster victims) or 
facilities such as nursing homes, convalescent homes, hospitals, residential treatment facilities, 
correctional facilities, halfway houses, housing for students, or dormitories (including 
farmworker dormitories).
Section 4.2
Compliance with Loan Documents.
Developer shall comply shall at all times be in full conformity with: (a) all requirements 
imposed on projects assisted with HOME Funds as contained in 42 U.S.C. Section 12701, et 
seq., 24 C.F.R. Part 92, and other implementing rules and regulations, as such may be amended 
or supplemented from time to time; (b) all requirements imposed on projects assisted with 
Housing Asset Fund monies under California Health and Safety Code Section 33334.2 et seq.; 
and (c) any other regulatory requirements imposed on the Development.
Section 4.3
Taxes and Assessments.
Developer shall pay all real and personal property taxes, assessments and charges and all 
franchise, income, employment, old age benefit, withholding, sales, and other taxes assessed 
against it, or payable by it, at such times and in such manner as to prevent any penalty from 
accruing, or any lien or charge from attaching to the Property or Developer’s interest therein; 
provided, however, that Developer shall have the right to contest in good faith, any such taxes, 
assessments, or charges.  In the event Developer exercises its right to contest any tax, assessment, 
or charge against it, Developer, on final determination of the proceeding or contest, shall 
immediately pay or discharge any decision or judgment rendered against it, together with all 
costs, charges and interest.
Section 4.4
Property Tax Exemption.  
Developer shall be allowed to apply to the State Board of Equalization for or obtain a 
welfare exemption from property taxes under any provision of law, including California 
Revenue and Taxation Section 214(g).
Section 4.5
Allowable Preferences.
(a)
To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations 
of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Developer shall 
grant the a preference in rental of seventy (70) of the units to otherwise qualified households that 
live, work or have been offered work (and who subsequently accept such offer) in the City. The 
259 of 556

--- page 260 ---
17
660\11\3153475.6
Developer shall grant an additional preference in rental of units to otherwise qualified 
households that have been displaced by activity of the City, the City's code enforcement 
activities, or as provided in Health and Safety Code Section 33411.3
(b)
To the extent permitted by other Project funding sources and to the extent 
permitted by applicable law including fair housing laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations 
of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, fifty-seven (57) units 
will have a preference for General Public Employees.  For the avoidance of doubt, such units 
shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the units that have the live/work preference set forth in 
subsection (a) above.  First priority, for these units shall be for General Public Employees who 
live or work in the City of San Mateo.  In the event that there are an insufficient number of 
General Public Employees who live or work in the City of San Mateo to occupy all 57 units, the 
remaining available units will be rented to General Public Employees regardless of the location 
of their employment or residence.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, to the extent 
the preferences required under this Section are in conflict with the requirements of Section 42 of 
the Internal Revenue Code and implementing guidelines, the requirements of Section 42 will 
supersede.
(d)
In addition, the City acknowledges that, to the extent permitted by other 
Project funding sources and to the extent permitted by applicable law including fair housing 
laws, and unless prohibited by the regulations of the HCD or the US Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, the Developer may also give preference for the occupancy and restrict 
eight (8) studio units, to qualified persons or households with intellectual/developmental 
disabilities (I/DD), as defined the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act (Welfare 
and Institutions Code Section 4400 et. seq. and Title 17, Section 54000 of the California Code of 
Regulations, and who are receiving services from the Golden Gate Regional Center or another 
regional center.  The preference in this subsection (d) is not being imposed by the City and shall 
have no bearing on compliance with the requirements under this Agreement.  For the avoidance 
of doubt, such units shall be in addition to, and distinct from, the units that have the live/work 
and General Public Employee preferences set forth in subsections (a) and (b) above.
Section 4.6
Nondiscrimination.  
(a)
Except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement, all of the Restricted 
Units shall be available for occupancy on a continuous basis to members of the general public 
who are income eligible.  Developer shall not give preference to any particular class or group of 
persons in renting the Restricted Units, except to the extent that the Units are required to be 
leased to Extremely Low Income Households or Low Income Households.  All deeds, leases or 
contracts made or entered into by Developer, its successors or assigns, as to any portion of the 
Property or the Improvements shall contain the following language:
(1)
"There shall be no discrimination against or segregation of any 
person or group of persons, on account of any basis listed in subdivision (a) or (d) of Section 
12955 of the Government Code, as those bases are defined in Sections 12926, 12926.1, 
260 of 556

--- page 261 ---
18
660\11\3153475.6
subdivision (m) and paragraph (1) of subdivision (p) of Section 12955, and Section 12955.2 of 
the Government Code, in the leasing, subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure, or 
enjoyment of the premises herein leased nor shall the lessee himself or herself, or any person 
claiming under or through him or her, establish or permit any such practice or practices of 
discrimination or segregation with reference to the selection, location, number, use, or 
occupancy, of tenants, lessees, sublessees, subtenants, or vendees in the premises herein leased.  
The foregoing covenant shall run with the land.
(2)
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, with respect to familial 
status, the preceding paragraph shall not be construed to apply to housing for older persons, as 
defined in Section 12955.9 of the Government Code. With respect to familial status, nothing in 
the preceding paragraph shall be construed to affect Sections 51.2, 51.3, 51.4, 51.10, 51.11, and 
799.5 of the Civil Code, relating to housing for senior citizens.  Subdivision (d) of Section 51 
and Section 1360 of the Civil Code and subdivisions (n), (o), and (p) of Section 12955 of the 
Government Code shall apply to the preceding paragraph."
(b)
The provisions of this Section shall run with the land and survive 
termination of this Agreement.  
Section 4.7
Section 8 Certificate Holders.  The Developer will accept as residents, on 
the same basis as all other prospective residents, persons who are recipients of federal 
certificates or vouchers for rent subsidies pursuant to the existing housing program under 
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act, or its successor.  The Developer shall not apply 
selection criteria to Section 8 certificate or voucher holders that are more burdensome than 
criteria applied to all other prospective residents, nor shall the Developer apply or permit the 
application of management policies or lease provisions with respect to the Development which 
have the effect of precluding occupancy of units by such prospective Tenants.  In determining a 
Section 8 certificate or voucher holders ability to pay rent, the Developer shall determine the 
prospective Tenants ability to make only the prospective Tenant's portion of the rent.
Section 4.8
Notice of Litigation. Developer shall promptly notify the City in writing 
of any litigation materially affecting Developer or the Development and of any claims or 
disputes that involve a material risk of such litigation.
Section 4.9
Lease Termination. Any termination of a lease of a Restricted Unit (other 
than for a default by the Tenant) or refusal to renew must be preceded by not less than sixty (60) 
days written notice to the Tenant by Developer specifying the grounds for the action.  Any 
termination of a lease for a default of the Tenant shall be in accordance with applicable law.
ARTICLE 5.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
Section 5.1
Management Responsibilities.
Developer is responsible for all management functions with respect to the Development, 
including without limitation the selection of tenants, certification and recertification of household 
261 of 556

--- page 262 ---
19
660\11\3153475.6
size and income, evictions, collection of rents and deposits, maintenance, landscaping, routine and 
extraordinary repairs, replacement of capital items, and security.  City shall have no responsibility 
over management of the Development.  Developer shall retain a professional property 
management company approved by City in its reasonable discretion to perform its management 
duties hereunder.
Section 5.2
Management Agent.
The Development shall at all times be managed by an experienced management agent 
reasonably acceptable to City, with demonstrated ability to operate residential facilities like the 
Development in a manner that will provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing (as approved, the 
“Management Agent”).  Developer shall submit for City’s approval the identity of any proposed 
Management Agent.  Developer shall also submit such additional information about the 
background, experience, policies, and financial condition of any proposed management agent as is 
reasonably necessary for City to determine whether the proposed management agent meets the 
standard for an experienced management agent set forth above.  If the proposed management 
agent meets the standard for an experienced management agent set forth above, City shall 
approve the proposed management agent by notifying Developer in writing.  Unless the proposed 
management agent is disapproved by City within thirty (30) days, which disapproval shall state 
with reasonable specificity the basis for disapproval, it shall be deemed approved.  The City 
hereby pre-approves MidPen Property Management Corporation, as the initial property 
management company.
Section 5.3
Performance Review.
City reserves the right to conduct an annual (or more frequently, if deemed necessary by 
City) review of the management practices and financial status of the Development.  The purpose 
of each periodic review will be to enable City to determine if the Development is being operated 
and managed in accordance with the requirements and standards of this Agreement.  Developer 
shall cooperate with City in such reviews.
Section 5.4
Replacement of Management Agent.
(a)
If, as a result of a periodic review, City determines in its reasonable 
judgment that the Development is not being operated and managed in accordance with any of 
the material requirements and standards of this Agreement, City shall deliver notice to 
Developer of its intention to cause replacement of the Management Agent, including the reasons 
therefor.  Within fifteen (15) days after receipt by Developer of such written notice, City staff 
and Developer shall meet in good faith to consider methods for improving the financial and 
operating status of the Development, including, without limitation, replacement of the 
Management Agent.
(b)
If, after such meeting, City staff recommends in writing the replacement of 
the Management Agent, Developer shall promptly dismiss the current Management Agent, and 
shall appoint as the Management Agent a person or entity meeting the standards for a management 
agent set forth in Section 5.2 above and approved by City pursuant to Section 5.2 above.
262 of 556

--- page 263 ---
20
660\11\3153475.6
(c)
Any contract for the operation or management of the Development entered 
into by Developer shall provide that the contract can be terminated as set forth above.  Failure to 
remove the Management Agent in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall constitute a 
default under this Agreement, and City may enforce this provision through legal proceedings as 
specified in Section 6.8 below.
Section 5.5
Marketing.
Developer and the Management Agent shall be responsible for the promotion and other 
marketing efforts for rental of the Restricted Units.  Prior to the initial lease up of the Restricted 
Units, Developer and the Management Agent shall develop a marketing plan in order to 
affirmatively market the Restricted Units with the goal of attracting all qualified persons without 
regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, national origin, 
source of income (e.g. SSI), ancestry, or disability, except as otherwise permitted in the City Loan 
Documents.  The marketing plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City prior to marketing 
the Restricted Units.  Developer and the Management Agent shall comply with the provisions of 
Exhibit B, attached hereto, entitled “Affirmative Marketing Strategy.”
Developer and the Management Agent shall select tenants on a non-discriminatory basis, 
consistent with the provisions of Section 6.3 of this Agreement and the “Marketing Policies 
Regulating Leasing and Sales of Subsidized Affordable Housing Units” adopted by the City in 
March 2009 and as amended from time to time.
Section 5.6
Property Maintenance.
(a)
Developer agrees, for the entire Term of this Agreement, to maintain all 
interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping, comprising the Development in good 
condition and repair (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in accordance with all 
applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders and regulations of all federal, state, City, municipal, and 
other governmental agencies and bodies having or claiming jurisdiction and all their respective 
departments, bureaus, and officials and in a decent, safe, sanitary condition and in good repair 
pursuant to the Uniform Physical Conditions Standards established by HUD pursuant to 24 
C.F.R. 5.703 and as required under 24 C.F.R. 92.251.
(b)
City places prime importance on quality maintenance to protect its 
investment and to ensure that all City and City-assisted affordable housing projects within City are 
not allowed to deteriorate due to below-average maintenance.  Normal wear and tear of the 
Development will be acceptable to City assuming Developer agrees to provide all necessary 
improvements to assure the Development is maintained in good condition.  Developer shall make 
all repairs and replacements necessary to keep the improvements in good condition and repair.
(c)
In the event that Developer breaches any of the covenants contained in this 
section and such default continues for a period of fifteen (15) days after written notice from City 
with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance or thirty (30) days after 
written notice from City with respect to landscaping and building improvements, then City, in 
addition to whatever other remedy it may have at law or in equity, shall have the right to enter 
263 of 556

--- page 264 ---
21
660\11\3153475.6
upon the Property and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work necessary to cure 
the default.  Pursuant to such right of entry, City shall be permitted (but is not required) to enter 
upon the Development and perform all acts and work necessary to protect, maintain, and preserve 
the improvements and landscaped areas comprising the Development, and to attach a lien thereon, 
or to assess the Development, in the amount of the expenditures arising from such acts and work 
of protection, maintenance, and preservation by City and/or costs of such cure, which amount 
shall be promptly paid by Developer to City upon demand.
ARTICLE 6.
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 6.1
Term.
The provisions of this Agreement apply to the Development for the entire Term even if 
the City Loans are paid in full prior to the end of the Term.  This Agreement binds any 
successor, heir or assign of Developer, whether a change in interest occurs voluntarily or 
involuntarily, by operation of law or otherwise, except as expressly released by City.  City is 
making the City Loans on the condition, and in consideration of, this provision, and would not 
do so otherwise.  For the purposes of the HOME Regulations, the Development shall only be 
considered a HOME assisted project for the duration of the HOME Term, and nothing in this 
Agreement may be read to imply otherwise.  
Section 6.2
Lease Provisions.
(a)
In leasing the Units, Developer shall use a form of Tenant lease approved 
by the City. The lease shall not contain any provision which is prohibited by 24 CFR Section 
92.253(b) and any amendments thereto.  The form of Tenant lease shall also comply with all 
requirements of this Agreement and the Loan Documents, and shall, among other matters:
(b)
Provide for termination of the lease and consent by the Tenant to 
immediate eviction for failure:  (1) to provide any information required under this Agreement or 
reasonably requested by Developer to establish or recertify the Tenant’s qualification, or the 
qualification of the Tenant’s household for occupancy in the Development in accordance with 
the standards set forth in this Agreement, or (2) to qualify as a Very Low Income Household or 
Low Income Household, as applicable, as a result of any material misrepresentation made by 
such Tenant with respect to the income computation or certification;
(c)
Require the Tenant to occupy the Unit as the Tenant’s principal residence 
and prohibit the subleasing of the Unit;
(d)
Require the Tenant to maintain the Unit in good repair and in a neat, clean 
and sanitary condition;
(e)
Prohibit the Unit from being utilized contrary to any law;
264 of 556

--- page 265 ---
22
660\11\3153475.6
(f)
Provide for an increase in the Tenant’s Rent should the Tenant’s annual 
income exceed the income limit allowed for the Unit, pursuant to the terms outlined in Section 
2.3;
(g)
Be for an initial term of not less than one (1) year, unless by mutual 
agreement between the Tenant and Developer; and
(h)
Provide for no increase in Rent during such year.  After the initial year of 
tenancy, the lease may be month to month by mutual agreement of Developer and the Tenant, 
however Rent may not be raised more often than once a year.  Developer will provide each Tenant 
with at least sixty (60) days’ written notice of any increase in Rent applicable to such Tenant, and 
with such further notice as may be required by Section 2.3 above.
(i)
The lease must not contain any provision which is prohibited by 24 
C.F.R. Section 92.253(b) and any amendments thereto.
Section 6.3
Lease Termination.
With regards to the HOME Loan Assisted Units, any termination of a lease or refusal to 
renew must be in conformance with 24 CFR 92.253(c) and with California Civil Code Section 
1946.1(b) and must be preceded by not less than sixty (60) days written notice to the Tenant by 
Developer specifying the grounds for the action.  Any termination of a lease for a default of the 
Tenant shall be in accordance with all applicable laws.
Section 6.4
Compliance with Loan Documents and Program Requirements.
Developer’s actions with respect to the Development shall at all times be in full conformity 
with:  (a) all requirements of the Loan Documents; and (b) all requirements imposed on projects 
assisted under the HOME Investment Partnership Program as contained in 42 U.S.C. 12701 et 
seq., 24 CFR Part 92, and other implementing rules and regulations; and (c) all requirements of 
the City Deed of Trust; and (c) all requirements imposed on projects assisted with Housing Fund 
Proceeds under California Health and Safety Code Section 33334.2 et seq.
Section 6.5
Notice of Expiration of Term.
(a)
Prior to the termination of the Term, the Developer shall comply with the 
requirements set forth in California Government Code Sections 65863.10 and 65863.11, as such 
may be amended from time to time.  Such notice requirements may include:  (1) a twelve (12) 
month notice to existing tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public Agencies (as defined 
in California Government Code Section 65863.10(a), which would include the City's 
Community Development and Housing Director, prior to the expiration of the Term; (2) a six (6) 
month notice requirement to existing Tenants, prospective tenants and Affected Public Agencies 
prior to the expiration of the Term; (3) a notice of an offer to purchase the Development to 
"qualified entities" (as defined in California Government Code Section 65863.11(d)), if the 
Development is to be sold within five (5) years of the end of the Term; and (4) a notice of right 
of first refusal within the one hundred eighty (180) day period that qualified entities may 
purchase the Development.
265 of 556

--- page 266 ---
23
660\11\3153475.6
Section 6.6
Covenants to Run With the Land.
City and Developer hereby declare their express intent that the covenants and restrictions 
set forth in this Agreement shall run with the land, and shall bind all successors in title to the 
Development, provided, however, that on the expiration of the Term of this Agreement 
said covenants and restrictions shall expire.  Each and every contract, deed or other instrument 
hereafter executed covering or conveying the Development or any portion thereof, shall be held 
conclusively to have been executed, delivered and accepted subject to such covenants and 
restrictions, regardless of whether such covenants or restrictions are set forth in such contract, 
deed or other instrument, unless City expressly releases such conveyed portion of the 
Development from the requirements of this Agreement.
Section 6.7
Enforcement by City.
If Developer fails to perform any obligation under this Agreement, and fails to cure the 
default within thirty (30) days after City has notified Developer in writing of the default or, if the 
default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, failed to commence to cure within thirty (30) days 
and thereafter diligently pursue such cure and complete such cure within ninety (90) days, City 
shall have the right to enforce this Agreement by any or all of the following actions, or any other 
remedy provided by law:
(a)
Calling the City Loans.  City may declare a default on the Notes of any of 
the City Loans, accelerate the indebtedness evidenced by the Notes, and proceed with foreclosure 
under the City Deed of Trust.
(b)
Action to Compel Performance or for Damages.  City may bring an action 
at law or in equity to compel Developer’s performance of its obligations under this Agreement, 
and/or for damages.
(c)
Remedies Provided Under Loan Documents.  City may exercise any other 
remedy provided under the Loan Documents.
(d)
Cure by Investor Limited Partner.  City hereby agrees to accept a cure of 
any default made or tendered hereunder by Investor Limited Partner on the same terms and 
conditions as if such cure was made or tendered by Developer.
Section 6.8
Rights of Third Parties to Enforce Covenants.  Notwithstanding any other 
provisions of law, all covenants and restrictions contained herein which implement Health and 
Safety Code Sections 33334.3 and/or 33413(b)(4), or successor provisions, shall run with the 
land and shall be enforceable by the City, the City, and any of the parties listed in Health and 
Safety Code Section 33334.3(f)(7), so long as such provision or successor provision remains in 
effect.
Section 6.9
Listing of Development in Database.  The Developer hereby 
acknowledges and agrees that Health and Safety Code Section 33418(c) requires that the 
Development be listed in a database that shall be made available to the public on the internet and 
266 of 556

--- page 267 ---
24
660\11\3153475.6
which will include the street address, assessor's parcel number, and other information about the 
Development.  
Section 6.10
Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.
In any action brought to enforce this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to 
all costs and expenses of suit, including attorneys’ fees.  This section shall be interpreted in 
accordance with California Civil Code Section 1717 and judicial decisions interpreting that 
statute. 
Section 6.11
Recording and Filing.
City and Developer shall cause this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to it, 
to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of San Mateo.
Section 6.12
Governing Law.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.  Any action 
brought by either of the Parties for the purpose of enforcing a right or rights provided for by this 
Agreement will be tried in a court of competent jurisdiction in the County of San Mateo, State of 
California.  The Parties waive all provisions of law providing for a change of venue in any 
proceeding to any other county
Section 6.13
Waiver of Requirements.
Any of the requirements of this Agreement may be expressly waived by City in writing, 
but no waiver by City of any requirement of this Agreement shall, or shall be deemed to, extend to 
or affect any other provision of this Agreement.
Section 6.14
Amendments.
This Agreement may be amended only by a written instrument executed by all the parties 
hereto or their successors in title, and duly recorded in the real property records of County of San 
Mateo.
Section 6.15
Notices.
Any notice requirement set forth herein shall be deemed to be satisfied three (3) days after 
mailing of the notice first-class United States certified mail, postage prepaid addressed to the 
appropriate party as follows:
Developer:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA  94404
Attention:  President and Chief Executive Officer
267 of 556

--- page 268 ---
25
660\11\3153475.6
With copy to:
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Facsimile:  (213) 630-5799
Matter No: B0965-0600
City:
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attention:  Housing Manager
Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other party given in the same manner as 
provided above.  Receipt will be deemed to have occurred on the date shown on a written receipt 
as the date of delivery or refusal of delivery (or attempted delivery if undeliverable).
Section 6.16
Severability.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, 
legality and enforceability of the remaining portions of this Agreement shall not in any way be 
affected or impaired thereby.
Section 6.17
Waiver of Requirements.  No waiver of the requirements of this 
Agreement shall occur unless expressly waived by the City in writing.  No waiver will be 
implied from any delay or failure by the City to take action on any breach or default of the 
Developer or to pursue any remedy permitted under this Agreement or applicable law.  Any 
extension of time granted to the Developer to perform any obligation under this Agreement shall 
268 of 556

--- page 269 ---
26
660\11\3153475.6
not operate as a waiver or release from any of its obligations under this Agreement.  Consent by 
the City to any act or omission by the Developer shall not be construed to be a consent to any 
other or subsequent act or omission or to waive the requirement for the City's written consent to 
future waivers.
Section 6.18
Multiple Originals; Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an 
original, and may be signed in counterparts.
Section 6.19
Hold Harmless.  Developer will indemnify and hold harmless (without 
limit as to amount) City, its council members, officers, employees and agents in their official 
capacity (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Indemnitees"), and any of them, from and 
against all loss, all risk of loss and all damage (including expense) sustained or incurred because 
of or by reason of any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, judgments and executions for 
damages of any and every kind and by whomever and whenever made or obtained, allegedly 
caused by, arising out of or relating in any manner to the Development, the Restricted Unit, or 
the Developer's performance or non-performance under this Agreement, and shall protect and 
defend Indemnitees, and any of them with respect thereto, except to the extent caused by the 
gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Indemnitees, as applicable.  The provisions of this 
Section shall survive expiration or other termination of this Agreement or any release of part or 
all of the Property from the burdens of this Agreement, and the provisions of this section shall 
remain in full force and effect.
Section 6.20
Revival of Agreement after Foreclosure. This Agreement shall be revived 
according to its original terms if, during the original Term, the owner of record before the 
foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those 
with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in 
the Development or the Property.
Section 6.21
Action and Approval.  Whenever action and/or approval by City is 
required under this Agreement, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may act on 
and/or approve such matter unless specifically provided otherwise, or unless the City Manager 
or the City Manager's designee determine in their discretion that such action or approval requires 
referral to City Council for consideration.
Section 6.22
No Third Party Beneficiaries.  Except as expressly set forth herein, 
nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to or shall be deemed to confer upon any 
person, other than the Parties and their respective successors and assigns, any rights or remedies 
hereunder.
Section 6.23
Tax Credit Program.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the 
contrary, for as long as the Property is subject to the requirements of the California and/or 
Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Program under the provisions of Section 42 of the 
Code and Section 23610.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, as applicable 
(collectively, the "Tax Credit Program") and there is a conflict between the requirements of the 
269 of 556

--- page 270 ---
27
660\11\3153475.6
Tax Credit Program and either the affordability provisions set forth in 2.3 above or the 
preferences set forth in Section 4.5 above, inclusive, then the provisions of the Tax Credit 
Program shall prevail.  That notwithstanding, the fact that this Agreement and the Tax Credit 
Program provide for greater, lesser or different obligations or requirements shall not be deemed 
a conflict unless the applicable provisions are inconsistent and could not be simultaneously 
enforced or performed.
Section 6.24
Subordination.  This Agreement shall not be subordinated with respect to 
the Extremely Low Income Households in accordance with Section 2.1(g).
Section 6.25
No Claims.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create or justify 
any claim against the City by any person that the Developer may have employed or with whom 
the Developer may have contracted relative to the purchase of materials, supplies or equipment, 
or the furnishing or the performance of any work or services with respect to the Property or the 
construction or operation of the Improvements. 
Section 6.26
Titles of Parts and Sections.  Any titles of the sections or subsections of 
this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall be disregarded in 
interpreting any part of the Agreement's provisions.
Section 6.27
Assignment by the City.  The City may assign its rights and obligations 
under this Agreement to any instrumentality of the City or other public entity without the 
consent of, but upon prior written notice to, the Developer.
[Signature Pages Follow.]
270 of 556

--- page 271 ---
S-1
660\11\3153475.6
WHEREAS, this Agreement has been entered into by the undersigned as of the date first 
above written.
DEVELOPER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.,
a California limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC
a California limited liability company, its General Partner
By:
Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation,
its sole member/manager
By:
___________________________________
Name: ___________________________________
Its:
___________________________________
[Signature must be notarized.]
271 of 556

--- page 272 ---
S-1
660\11\3153475.6
CITY:
City of San Mateo, a California charter city
By:
___________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:
_______________________________________
Gabrielle P. Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
[Signature must be notarized.]
272 of 556

--- page 273 ---
660\11\3153475.6
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
273 of 556

--- page 274 ---
660\11\3153475.6
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
274 of 556

--- page 275 ---
A-1
660\11\3153475.6
EXHIBIT A
Legal Description of the Low-Income Housing Parcel
The Property referred to is situated in the State of California, City of San Mateo and described as 
follows:
275 of 556

--- page 276 ---
B-1
660\11\3153475.6
EXHIBIT B
Affirmative Marketing Strategy
A.
Affirmative Marketing Practices and Requirements for Project Sponsors
1.
All agreements and subcontracts for HOME projects shall include specific 
language about the affirmative marketing, hiring, fair housing, and reporting 
requirements, as applicable.
2.
The property manager of HOME-assisted housing shall advertise vacancies 
through one, or a combination, of the following outlets:
a.
PHA approved tenant listings
b.
All advertising for tenants in newspapers and other printed notices must 
include Fair Housing and non-Discrimination statements.  Where 
necessary, ads for vacancies shall be in two languages, or a statement in 
the second language that a translation of this ad is available.
B.
Marketing Strategy for Those Least Likely to Apply for Housing Without Special 
Outreach
1.
The racial/ethnic make-up of the census tract in which a HOME project is located 
will be reviewed by the City's HOME administrator.  Those groups who are not 
significantly represented in that census tract will be specifically targeted for 
outreach.  The goal is to have racial representation in each complex that reflects 
the racial makeup of the low income population of the City of San Mateo as a 
whole.  Project specific outreach will be done by the property manager using one 
or a combination of several methods, as appropriate to the specific project:
a.
Advertise through the local newspapers, the San Mateo Times and the San 
Mateo Weekly, and/or a local radio stations in the language found to be 
predominant in the project area.
b.
Target mailings to neighborhood organizations and community groups, in 
appropriate languages, detailing the proposed project or program.
c.
Hold neighborhood information meetings in a local community center.  
Provide language translation when needed.
d.
Where appropriate, and possible, include CHDO representatives and 
neighborhood representatives in preparing targeted marketing.
e.
Post notices in neighborhood centers, churches and other appropriate 
public locations.
276 of 556

--- page 277 ---
B-2
660\11\3153475.6
C.
Record Keeping/Assessment of Affirmative Marketing
1.
The City will work closely with owners in developing and implanting marketing 
strategies.  A central file will contain all copies of advertisements, presentations,  
mailings, surveys, and data keeping as required for all projects.
2.
Owners will also be required to keep files on all their efforts.  An annual report 
will be submitted to the City which documents marketing efforts and actual 
tenant information.  The City shall perform periodic audits of their internal files, 
and will act as a resource where they need help in outreach or record keeping.
3.
Assessment of the efforts will be made on an annual basis by the City's HOME 
administrator and will take into consideration the following:
a.
Proper recordation of marketing efforts.
b.
Review of types of outreach used to ensure success.  Check initial goals 
against results.
c.
Where there seems to be failure or lack of response, the City will work 
with the Project Sponsor to upgrade their efforts and re-design the 
outreach so that the targeted persons can be reached.
d. Verification with Project Sponsor that there have been no major complaints 
and that complaints have been settled and that funded contractors are making 
good faith efforts to practice non-discrimination in their marketing and rental 
policies.
277 of 556

--- page 278 ---
C-1
660\11\3153475.6
EXHIBIT C
Form of Certification of Tenant Eligibility
Rental Unit
Street Address
Unit No.
City
Zip Code
I/We, the undersigned, being first duly sworn, state that I/we have read and answered fully and 
truthfully each of the following questions for all persons who are to occupy the unit in the above 
Development for which application is made, all of whom are listed below:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Name of Members 
in the Household
Relationship to 
Head of Household
Age
Ethnicity
Place of 
Employment
Ethnicity:  ❑ White   ❑ Black or African American   ❑ Asian   ❑ Asian & White   
❑ American Indian or Alaska Native
❑ Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander   ❑ American Indian or Alaska Native & White   
❑ Black or African American & White   
❑ American Indian or Alaska Native & Black or African American 
❑ Other Multi Race   ❑ Hispanic
Date of Occupancy of Rental Unit by Tenant:
Date of Lease Signed for Rental Unit by Tenant:
Amount of Rent Paid Per Month:
Certification Date (Earlier of Date of Occupancy or Date Lease signed):  
6. 
Anticipated Annual Income.  The anticipated total annual income from all sources of 
each person listed in Section 1 for the twelve (12) month period beginning on the 
Certification Date listed above, including income described in (a) below, but excluding 
all income described in (b) below, is $ 
.
278 of 556

--- page 279 ---
C-2
660\11\3153475.6
(a)
The amount set forth above includes all of the following income (unless such 
income is described in (b) below): all wages and salaries, overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips 
and bonuses before payroll deductions; net income from the operation of a business or 
profession or from the rental of real or personal property (without deducting expenditures for 
business expansion or amortization of capital indebtedness or any allowance for depreciation of 
capital assets); interest and dividends (including income from assets as set forth in item 7(b) 
below); full amount of periodic payments received from Social security, annuities, insurance 
policies, retirement funds, pensions, disability or death benefits and other similar types of 
periodic receipts; payments in lieu of earnings, such as unemployment and disability 
compensation, worker's compensation and severance pay; the maximum amount of public 
assistance available to the above persons; periodic and determinable allowances, such as 
alimony and child support payments and regular contributions and gifts received from persons 
not residing in the dwelling; all regular pay, special pay and allowances of a member of the 
Armed Forces (whether or not living in the dwelling) who is the head of the household or 
spouse; and any earned income tax credit to the extent it exceeds income tax liability.
(b)
The following income is excluded from the amount set forth above: casual, 
sporadic or irregular gifts; amounts that are specifically for or in reimbursement of medical 
expenses; lump sum additions to family assets, such as inheritances, insurance payment 
(including payments under health and accident insurance and worker's compensation), capital 
gains and settlement for personal or property losses; amounts of educational scholarships paid 
directly to student or educational institution, and amounts paid by the government to a veteran 
for use in meeting the costs of tuition, fees, books and equipment, but in either case only to the 
extent used for such purposes; hazardous duty pay to a member of the household in the armed 
forces who is away from home and exposed to hostile fire; relocation payments under Title II of 
the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970; income 
from employment of children (including foster children) under the age of eighteen (18) years; 
foster child care payments; the value of coupon allotments under the Food Stamp Act of 1977; 
payments to volunteers under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973; payments received 
under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act; income derived from certain submarginal land 
of the United States that is held in trust for certain Indian tribes; payments on allowances made 
under the Department of Health and Human Services' Low-Income Home Energy Assistance 
Program; and payments received from the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
7.
Net Family Assets.  If any of the persons described in item 1 above (or any person 
whose income or contributions were included in item 6) has any savings, stocks, bonds, 
equity in real property or other form of capital investment (excluding interests in Indian 
trust lands), provide:
(a)
the total value of all such assets owned by all such persons: $
, and
(b)
the amount of income expected to be derived from such assets in the twelve (12) 
month period commencing this date:
$
.
279 of 556

--- page 280 ---
C-3
660\11\3153475.6
8.
Students
(a)
Will any of the persons listed in item 1 above be or have they been full-time 
students during five (5) calendar months of this calendar year at an educational institution (other 
than a correspondence school) with regular faculty and students?
Yes
No
(b)
(Complete only if the answer to Question 8(a) is "Yes").  Is any such person 
(other than nonresident aliens) married and eligible to file a joint federal income tax return, a 
veteran of the U.S. military?
Yes
No
The above information is full, true, and complete to the best of my knowledge.  I have no 
objections to inquiries being made for the purpose of verifying the statements made herein.
Signature:
Date
(Signature Must be Notarized)
280 of 556

--- page 281 ---
C-4
660\11\3153475.6
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
)
)
COUNTY OF __________________
)
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or 
the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
______________________________________
  Name:  ______________________________
  Name:    Notary Public
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document.
281 of 556

--- page 282 ---
C-5
660\11\3153475.6
FOR COMPLETION BY DEVELOPMENT OWNER ONLY:
A.
Calculation of eligible income:
(1)
Enter amount entered for entire household in 6 above:
$
(2)
If the amount entered in 7(a) above is greater than $5,000, enter$
(i)
the product of the amount entered in 7(a) above 
multiplied by the current passbook savings rate as determined by HUD:
$
(ii)
the amount entered in 7(b) above:
$
(iii)
enter the greater of line (i) or line (ii):
$
(3)
TOTAL ELIGIBLE INCOME (Line A(1) plus line A(2)(iii)):
$
B.
Enter number of family members listed in item 1 above:
C.
The amount entered in A(3) (Total Eligible Income) is:
$
           Less than $__________ of median income for the area in which the Development is 
located, which is the maximum income at which a household may be determined to be 
a qualifying tenant as that term is defined in the Agreement.
           More than the above-mentioned amount.
D.
Number of units assigned:
E.
Monthly rent: $
F.
This unit (was/was not) last occupied for a period of thirty-one (31) consecutive days by a person 
or persons whose Adjusted Annual Income, as certified in the above manner, was equal to or 
less than the amount at which a person would have qualified as a qualifying tenant under the 
terms of the Agreement.
G.
Applicant:
           Qualifies as a qualifying tenant.
           Does not qualify as a qualifying tenant.
 
282 of 556

--- page 283 ---
1
PROMISSORY NOTE
Kiku Crossing
HOME Funds
$650,000
San Mateo, California
Date
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership (the "Borrower"), promises to pay to the City of San Mateo, a California 
charter City (the "City"), the principal sum of up to Six Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars 
($650,000) (the “City Loan”), or so much as is disbursed to Borrower, plus interest thereon 
pursuant to Section 2 below. 
1.
Borrower's Obligation.  This promissory note (the "Note") evidences the 
Borrower's obligation to pay the City the principal amount of up to Six Hundred Fifty Dollars 
($650,000), for the funds loaned to the Borrower by the City to finance the construction of the 
Development pursuant to that certain Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement between 
the Borrower and the City, dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First 
Amendment to Disposition, Development and Disposition and Loan Agreement dated as of 
__________________, as such may be further amended from time to time (collectively, the 
"Disposition and Loan Agreement").  In connection with the Disposition and Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower and City are entering into that certain Ground Lease dated concurrently herewith 
(the “Ground Lease”), pursuant to which the City is leasing the Property to Borrower for 
construction and operation of the Development.  All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in 
this Note shall have the meanings set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement or the Ground 
Lease, as applicable.
2.
Interest.
(a)
Interest Rate.  Subject to the provisions of Section (b) below, the 
outstanding principal balance of the City Loan shall accrue interest at the rate of three percent (3 
%) simple interest.
(b)
Default Rate.  In the event of a Default, interest on the City Loan 
shall begin to accrue, as of the date of Default and continuing until such time as the City Loan 
funds are repaid in full or the Default is cured, at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent 
(10%), compounded annually, or the highest rate permitted by law.
3.
Term and Repayment Requirements.  
(a)
The term of the City Loan shall commence on the date of this Note 
and shall expire fifty-seven (57) years from the date of recordation of the Leasehold Deed of 
Trust.
283 of 556

--- page 284 ---
2
(b)
This Note shall be due and payable as set forth in Article 2 of the 
the Intercreditor Agreement by and between the Borrower the City, the County of San Mateo and 
the Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County dated ____________.  
4.
No Assumption.  This Note shall not be assumable by the successors and 
assigns of Borrower without the prior written consent of the City, except as otherwise permitted 
in accordance with Article 2 of the Ground Lease.
5.
Security.  This Note is secured by the Leasehold Deed of Trust recorded 
against the Borrower's leasehold interest in the Property concurrently herewith.
6.
Terms of Payment.  
(a)
All payments due under this Note shall be paid in currency of the 
United States of America, which at the time of payment is lawful for the payment of public and 
private debts.
(b)
All payments on this Note shall be paid to the City of San Mateo, 
320 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  99403 Attention: Housing Manager or to such other place 
as the City may from time to time designate in writing.
(c)
All payments on this Note shall be without expense to the City, 
and the Borrower agrees to pay all costs and expenses, including re-conveyance fees and 
reasonable attorney's fees of the City, incurred in connection with the payment of this Note and 
the release of any security hereof.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Note, or any 
instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note, if, for any reason 
whatsoever, the payment of any sums by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Note would 
result in the payment of interest which would exceed the amount that the City may legally charge 
under the laws of the State of California, then the amount by which payments exceed the lawful 
interest rate shall automatically be deducted from the principal balance owing on this Note, so 
that in no event shall the Borrower be obligated under the terms of this Note to pay any interest 
which would exceed the lawful rate.
7.
Default.
(a)
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default under 
this Note:
(1)
Any failure to pay, in full, any payment required under this 
Note when due following written notice by the City of such failure and fifteen (15) days 
opportunity to cure;
(2)
Any failure in the performance by the Borrower of any 
term, condition, provision or covenant set forth in this Note provided that, upon the happening of 
284 of 556

--- page 285 ---
3
any of the above-described events, the City shall first notify Borrower in writing of its purported 
breach, failure or act above described, giving Borrower in writing sixty (60) days from receipt of 
such notice to cure, or, if cure cannot be accomplished within said sixty (60) days, to commence 
to cure such breach, failure, or act.  In the event the Borrower fails to cure within said sixty (60) 
days, or if such breach is of a nature that it cannot be cured within sixty (60) days, Borrower fails 
to commence to cure within said sixty (60) days and diligently complete such cure within a 
reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) days;
(3)
The occurrence of any Event of Default under the 
Disposition and Loan Agreement, the Leasehold Deed of Trust, or the Regulatory Agreement, or 
other instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note or under any other 
promissory notes hereafter issued by the Borrower to the City pursuant to the Disposition and 
Loan Agreement or the Leasehold Deed of Trust, subject to notice and cure periods, if any, set 
forth therein; and 
(b)
Upon the occurrence of such an Event of Default, the entire unpaid 
principal balance, together with all interest thereon, and together with all other sums then 
payable under this Note and the Leasehold Deed of Trust shall at the option of the City become 
immediately due and payable upon written notice by the City to the Borrower without further 
demand.
(c)
The failure to exercise the remedy set forth in Subsection 7(b) 
above or any other remedy provided by law upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing 
events of default shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any remedy at any 
subsequent time in respect to the same or any other default.  The acceptance by City hereof of 
any payment which is less than the total of all amounts due and payable at the time of such 
payment shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any of the foregoing remedies or 
options at that time or at any subsequent time, or nullify any prior exercise of any such remedy 
or option, without the express consent of the City, except as and to the extent otherwise provided 
by law.
8.
Waivers.
(a)
The Borrower hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and 
demand, and notice of protest, notice of demand, and notice of dishonor of this Note.  The 
Borrower expressly agrees that this Note or any payment hereunder may be extended from time 
to time, and that the City may accept further security or release any security for this Note, all 
without in any way affecting the liability of the Borrower.
(b)
No extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment 
hereof made by agreement by the City with any person now or hereafter liable for payment of 
this Note shall operate to release, discharge, modify, change or affect the original liability of the 
Borrower under this Note, either in whole or in part.
285 of 556

--- page 286 ---
4
(c)
The obligations of the Borrower under this Note shall be absolute 
and the Borrower waives any and all rights to offset, deduct or withhold any payments or charges 
due under this Note for any reason whatsoever.
9.
Non-recourse Obligation.  As specified in Section 4.11 of the Disposition 
and Loan Agreement, upon the recordation of the Leasehold Deed of Trust, the City Loan is a 
non-recourse obligation of the Borrower.  Neither the Borrower nor any of its general or limited 
partners, nor any other party shall have any personal liability for repayment of the Loan.  The 
sole recourse of the City with respect to the principal of, or interest on, the Promissory Note and 
defaults by the Developer in the performance of its covenants under the Leasehold Deed of Trust 
shall be to the property described in the Leasehold Deed of Trust; provided, however, that 
nothing contained in the foregoing limitation of liability shall: (a) limit or impair the enforcement 
against all such security for the Promissory Note of all the rights and remedies of the City 
thereunder; or (b) be deemed in any way to impair the right of the City to assert the unpaid 
principal amount of the Promissory Note as demand for money within the meaning and 
intendment of Section 431.70 of the California Code of Civil Procedure or any successor 
provision thereto.
10.
Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a)
All notices to the City or the Borrower shall be given in the 
manner and at the addresses set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement, or to such 
addresses as the City and the Borrower may hereinafter designate.
(b)
The Borrower promises to pay all costs and expenses, including 
reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the City in the enforcement of the provision of this Note, 
regardless of whether suit is filed to seek enforcement.
(c)
This Note may not be changed orally, but only by an agreement in 
writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification or 
discharge is sought.
(d)
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of California.
(e)
The times for the performance of any obligations hereunder shall 
be strictly construed, time being of the essence.
(f)
This document, together with the City Loan Documents (as defined 
in the Disposition and Loan Agreement), contains the entire agreement between the parties as to 
the City Loan.  It may not be modified except upon written consent of the parties.
[Signature Page Follows]
286 of 556

--- page 287 ---
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date.
BORROWER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited 
partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC.
a California limited liability company
By:  Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, 
its sole member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
287 of 556

--- page 288 ---
6
PROMISSORY NOTE
Kiku Crossing
Low Mod Income Housing Asset Funds
$2,850,000
San Mateo, California
Date
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership (the "Borrower"), promises to pay to the City of San Mateo, a California 
charter City (the "City"), the principal sum of up to Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand 
Dollars ($2,850,000) (the “City Loan”), or so much as is disbursed to Borrower, plus interest 
thereon pursuant to Section 2 below. 
11.
Borrower's Obligation.  This promissory note (the "Note") evidences the 
Borrower's obligation to pay the City the principal amount of up to Six Hundred Fifty Dollars 
($650,000), for the funds loaned to the Borrower by the City to finance the construction of the 
Development pursuant to that certain Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement between 
the Borrower and the City, dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First 
Amendment to Disposition, Development and Disposition and Loan Agreement dated as of 
__________________, as such may be further amended from time to time (collectively, the 
"Disposition and Loan Agreement").  In connection with the Disposition and Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower and City are entering into that certain Ground Lease dated concurrently herewith 
(the “Ground Lease”), pursuant to which the City is leasing the Property to Borrower for 
construction and operation of the Development.  All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in 
this Note shall have the meanings set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement or the Ground 
Lease, as applicable.
12.
Interest.
(a)
Interest Rate.  Subject to the provisions of Section (b) below, the 
outstanding principal balance of the City Loan shall accrue interest at the rate of three percent (3 
%) simple interest.
(b)
Default Rate.  In the event of a Default, interest on the City Loan 
shall begin to accrue, as of the date of Default and continuing until such time as the City Loan 
funds are repaid in full or the Default is cured, at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent 
(10%), compounded annually, or the highest rate permitted by law.
13.
Term and Repayment Requirements.  
(a)
The term of the City Loan shall commence on the date of this Note 
and shall expire fifty-seven (57) years from the date of recordation of the Leasehold Deed of 
Trust.
288 of 556

--- page 289 ---
7
(b)
This Note shall be due and payable as set forth in Article 2 of the 
Intercreditor Agreement by and between the Borrower the City, the County of San Mateo and the 
Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County dated ____________.  
14.
No Assumption.  This Note shall not be assumable by the successors and 
assigns of Borrower without the prior written consent of the City, except as otherwise permitted 
in accordance with Article 2 of the Ground Lease.
15.
Security.  This Note is secured by the Leasehold Deed of Trust recorded 
against the Borrower's leasehold interest in the Property concurrently herewith.
16.
Terms of Payment.  
(a)
All payments due under this Note shall be paid in currency of the 
United States of America, which at the time of payment is lawful for the payment of public and 
private debts.
(b)
All payments on this Note shall be paid to the City of San Mateo, 
320 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  99403 Attention: Housing Manager or to such other place 
as the City may from time to time designate in writing.
(c)
All payments on this Note shall be without expense to the City, 
and the Borrower agrees to pay all costs and expenses, including re-conveyance fees and 
reasonable attorney's fees of the City, incurred in connection with the payment of this Note and 
the release of any security hereof.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Note, or any 
instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note, if, for any reason 
whatsoever, the payment of any sums by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Note would 
result in the payment of interest which would exceed the amount that the City may legally charge 
under the laws of the State of California, then the amount by which payments exceed the lawful 
interest rate shall automatically be deducted from the principal balance owing on this Note, so 
that in no event shall the Borrower be obligated under the terms of this Note to pay any interest 
which would exceed the lawful rate.
17.
Default.
(a)
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default under 
this Note:
(1)
Any failure to pay, in full, any payment required under this 
Note when due following written notice by the City of such failure and fifteen (15) days 
opportunity to cure;
(2)
Any failure in the performance by the Borrower of any 
term, condition, provision or covenant set forth in this Note provided that, upon the happening of 
289 of 556

--- page 290 ---
8
any of the above-described events, the City shall first notify Borrower in writing of its purported 
breach, failure or act above described, giving Borrower in writing sixty (60) days from receipt of 
such notice to cure, or, if cure cannot be accomplished within said sixty (60) days, to commence 
to cure such breach, failure, or act.  In the event the Borrower fails to cure within said sixty (60) 
days, or if such breach is of a nature that it cannot be cured within sixty (60) days, Borrower fails 
to commence to cure within said sixty (60) days and diligently complete such cure within a 
reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) days;
(3)
The occurrence of any Event of Default under the 
Disposition and Loan Agreement, the Leasehold Deed of Trust, or the Regulatory Agreement, or 
other instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note or under any other 
promissory notes hereafter issued by the Borrower to the City pursuant to the Disposition and 
Loan Agreement or the Leasehold Deed of Trust, subject to notice and cure periods, if any, set 
forth therein; and 
(b)
Upon the occurrence of such an Event of Default, the entire unpaid 
principal balance, together with all interest thereon, and together with all other sums then 
payable under this Note and the Leasehold Deed of Trust shall at the option of the City become 
immediately due and payable upon written notice by the City to the Borrower without further 
demand.
(c)
The failure to exercise the remedy set forth in Subsection 7(b) 
above or any other remedy provided by law upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing 
events of default shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any remedy at any 
subsequent time in respect to the same or any other default.  The acceptance by City hereof of 
any payment which is less than the total of all amounts due and payable at the time of such 
payment shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any of the foregoing remedies or 
options at that time or at any subsequent time, or nullify any prior exercise of any such remedy 
or option, without the express consent of the City, except as and to the extent otherwise provided 
by law.
18.
Waivers.
(a)
The Borrower hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and 
demand, and notice of protest, notice of demand, and notice of dishonor of this Note.  The 
Borrower expressly agrees that this Note or any payment hereunder may be extended from time 
to time, and that the City may accept further security or release any security for this Note, all 
without in any way affecting the liability of the Borrower.
(b)
No extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment 
hereof made by agreement by the City with any person now or hereafter liable for payment of 
this Note shall operate to release, discharge, modify, change or affect the original liability of the 
Borrower under this Note, either in whole or in part.
290 of 556

--- page 291 ---
9
(c)
The obligations of the Borrower under this Note shall be absolute 
and the Borrower waives any and all rights to offset, deduct or withhold any payments or charges 
due under this Note for any reason whatsoever.
19.
Non-recourse Obligation.  As specified in Section 4.11 of the Disposition 
and Loan Agreement, upon the recordation of the Leasehold Deed of Trust, the City Loan is a 
non-recourse obligation of the Borrower.  Neither the Borrower nor any of its general or limited 
partners, nor any other party shall have any personal liability for repayment of the Loan.  The 
sole recourse of the City with respect to the principal of, or interest on, the Promissory Note and 
defaults by the Developer in the performance of its covenants under the Leasehold Deed of Trust 
shall be to the property described in the Leasehold Deed of Trust; provided, however, that 
nothing contained in the foregoing limitation of liability shall: (a) limit or impair the enforcement 
against all such security for the Promissory Note of all the rights and remedies of the City 
thereunder; or (b) be deemed in any way to impair the right of the City to assert the unpaid 
principal amount of the Promissory Note as demand for money within the meaning and 
intendment of Section 431.70 of the California Code of Civil Procedure or any successor 
provision thereto.
20.
Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a)
All notices to the City or the Borrower shall be given in the 
manner and at the addresses set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement, or to such 
addresses as the City and the Borrower may hereinafter designate.
(b)
The Borrower promises to pay all costs and expenses, including 
reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the City in the enforcement of the provision of this Note, 
regardless of whether suit is filed to seek enforcement.
(c)
This Note may not be changed orally, but only by an agreement in 
writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification or 
discharge is sought.
(d)
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of California.
(e)
The times for the performance of any obligations hereunder shall 
be strictly construed, time being of the essence.
(f)
This document, together with the City Loan Documents (as defined 
in the Disposition and Loan Agreement), contains the entire agreement between the parties as to 
the City Loan.  It may not be modified except upon written consent of the parties.
[Signature Page Follows]
291 of 556

--- page 292 ---
10
 WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date.
BORROWER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited 
partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC.
a California limited liability company
By:  Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, 
its sole member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
292 of 556

--- page 293 ---
11
PROMISSORY NOTE
Kiku Crossing
Commercial Linkage Fee Funds
$2,000,000
San Mateo, California
Date
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership (the "Borrower"), promises to pay to the City of San Mateo, a California 
charter City (the "City"), the principal sum of up to Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (the “City 
Loan”), or so much as is disbursed to Borrower, plus interest thereon pursuant to Section 2 
below. 
21.
Borrower's Obligation.  This promissory note (the "Note") evidences the 
Borrower's obligation to pay the City the principal amount of up to Two Million Dollars 
($2,000,000), for the funds loaned to the Borrower by the City to finance the construction of the 
Development pursuant to that certain Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement between 
the Borrower and the City, dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First 
Amendment to Disposition, Development and Disposition and Loan Agreement dated as of 
__________________, as such may be further amended from time to time (collectively, the 
"Disposition and Loan Agreement").  In connection with the Disposition and Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower and City are entering into that certain Ground Lease dated concurrently herewith 
(the “Ground Lease”), pursuant to which the City is leasing the Property to Borrower for 
construction and operation of the Development.  All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in 
this Note shall have the meanings set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement or the Ground 
Lease, as applicable.
22.
Interest.
(a)
Interest Rate.  Subject to the provisions of Section (b) below, the 
outstanding principal balance of the City Loan shall accrue interest at the rate of three percent (3 
%) simple interest.
(b)
Default Rate.  In the event of a Default, interest on the City Loan 
shall begin to accrue, as of the date of Default and continuing until such time as the City Loan 
funds are repaid in full or the Default is cured, at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent 
(10%), compounded annually, or the highest rate permitted by law.
23.
Term and Repayment Requirements.  
293 of 556

--- page 294 ---
12
(a)
The term of the City Loan shall commence on the date of this Note 
and shall expire fifty-seven (57) years from the date of recordation of the Leasehold Deed of 
Trust.
(b)
This Note shall be due and payable as set forth in Article 2 of the 
Intercreditor Agreement by and between the Borrower the City, the County of San Mateo and the 
Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County dated ____________.  
24.
No Assumption.  This Note shall not be assumable by the successors and 
assigns of Borrower without the prior written consent of the City, except as otherwise permitted 
in accordance with Article 2 of the Ground Lease.
25.
Security.  This Note is secured by the Leasehold Deed of Trust recorded 
against the Borrower's leasehold interest in the Property concurrently herewith.
26.
Terms of Payment.  
(a)
All payments due under this Note shall be paid in currency of the 
United States of America, which at the time of payment is lawful for the payment of public and 
private debts.
(b)
All payments on this Note shall be paid to the City of San Mateo, 
320 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  99403 Attention: Housing Manager or to such other place 
as the City may from time to time designate in writing.
(c)
All payments on this Note shall be without expense to the City, 
and the Borrower agrees to pay all costs and expenses, including re-conveyance fees and 
reasonable attorney's fees of the City, incurred in connection with the payment of this Note and 
the release of any security hereof.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Note, or any 
instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note, if, for any reason 
whatsoever, the payment of any sums by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Note would 
result in the payment of interest which would exceed the amount that the City may legally charge 
under the laws of the State of California, then the amount by which payments exceed the lawful 
interest rate shall automatically be deducted from the principal balance owing on this Note, so 
that in no event shall the Borrower be obligated under the terms of this Note to pay any interest 
which would exceed the lawful rate.
27.
Default.
(a)
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default under 
this Note:
294 of 556

--- page 295 ---
13
(1)
Any failure to pay, in full, any payment required under this 
Note when due following written notice by the City of such failure and fifteen (15) days 
opportunity to cure;
(2)
Any failure in the performance by the Borrower of any 
term, condition, provision or covenant set forth in this Note, provided that, upon the happening 
of any of the above-described events, the City shall first notify Borrower in writing of its 
purported breach, failure or act above described, giving Borrower in writing sixty (60) days from 
receipt of such notice to cure, or, if cure cannot be accomplished within said sixty (60) days, to 
commence to cure such breach, failure, or act.  In the event the Borrower fails to cure within said 
sixty (60) days, or if such breach is of a nature that it cannot be cured within sixty (60) days, 
Borrower fails to commence to cure within said sixty (60) days and diligently complete such 
cure within a reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) 
days;
(3)
The occurrence of any Event of Default under the 
Disposition and Loan Agreement, the Leasehold Deed of Trust, or the Regulatory Agreement, or 
other instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note or under any other 
promissory notes hereafter issued by the Borrower to the City pursuant to the Disposition and 
Loan Agreement or the Leasehold Deed of Trust, subject to notice and cure periods, if any, set 
forth therein; and 
(b)
Upon the occurrence of such an Event of Default, the entire unpaid 
principal balance, together with all interest thereon, and together with all other sums then 
payable under this Note and the Leasehold Deed of Trust shall at the option of the City become 
immediately due and payable upon written notice by the City to the Borrower without further 
demand.
(c)
The failure to exercise the remedy set forth in Subsection 7(b) 
above or any other remedy provided by law upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing 
events of default shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any remedy at any 
subsequent time in respect to the same or any other default.  The acceptance by City hereof of 
any payment which is less than the total of all amounts due and payable at the time of such 
payment shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise any of the foregoing remedies or 
options at that time or at any subsequent time, or nullify any prior exercise of any such remedy 
or option, without the express consent of the City, except as and to the extent otherwise provided 
by law.
28.
Waivers.
(a)
The Borrower hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and 
demand, and notice of protest, notice of demand, and notice of dishonor of this Note.  The 
Borrower expressly agrees that this Note or any payment hereunder may be extended from time 
to time, and that the City may accept further security or release any security for this Note, all 
without in any way affecting the liability of the Borrower.
295 of 556

--- page 296 ---
14
(b)
No extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment 
hereof made by agreement by the City with any person now or hereafter liable for payment of 
this Note shall operate to release, discharge, modify, change or affect the original liability of the 
Borrower under this Note, either in whole or in part.
(c)
The obligations of the Borrower under this Note shall be absolute 
and the Borrower waives any and all rights to offset, deduct or withhold any payments or charges 
due under this Note for any reason whatsoever.
29.
Non-recourse Obligation.  As specified in Section 4.11 of the Disposition 
and Loan Agreement, upon the recordation of the Leasehold Deed of Trust, the City Loan is a 
non-recourse obligation of the Borrower.  Neither the Borrower nor any of its general or limited 
partners, nor any other party shall have any personal liability for repayment of the Loan.  The 
sole recourse of the City with respect to the principal of, or interest on, the Promissory Note and 
defaults by the Developer in the performance of its covenants under the Leasehold Deed of Trust 
shall be to the property described in the Leasehold Deed of Trust; provided, however, that 
nothing contained in the foregoing limitation of liability shall: (a) limit or impair the enforcement 
against all such security for the Promissory Note of all the rights and remedies of the City 
thereunder; or (b) be deemed in any way to impair the right of the City to assert the unpaid 
principal amount of the Promissory Note as demand for money within the meaning and 
intendment of Section 431.70 of the California Code of Civil Procedure or any successor 
provision thereto.
30.
Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a)
All notices to the City or the Borrower shall be given in the 
manner and at the addresses set forth in the Disposition and Loan Agreement, or to such 
addresses as the City and the Borrower may hereinafter designate.
(b)
The Borrower promises to pay all costs and expenses, including 
reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the City in the enforcement of the provision of this Note, 
regardless of whether suit is filed to seek enforcement.
(c)
This Note may not be changed orally, but only by an agreement in 
writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification or 
discharge is sought.
(d)
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of California.
(e)
The times for the performance of any obligations hereunder shall 
be strictly construed, time being of the essence.
296 of 556

--- page 297 ---
15
(f)
This document, together with the City Loan Documents (as defined 
in the Disposition and Loan Agreement), contains the entire agreement between the parties as to 
the City Loan.  It may not be modified except upon written consent of the parties.
[Signature Page Follows]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date.
BORROWER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited 
partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC.
a California limited liability company
By:  Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, 
its sole member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
297 of 556

--- page 298 ---
1
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
City of San Mateo
320 W. Avenue
San Mateo, CA 99403
Attention:  City Manager
NO FEE FOR RECORDING PURSUANT TO 
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 27383
LEASEHOLD DEED OF TRUST
 WITH ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
(Kiku Crossing)
THIS LEASEHOLD DEED OF TRUST WITH ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS AND 
SECURITY AGREEMENT ("Leasehold Deed of Trust") is made as of __________________, 
by MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership ("Trustor"), Old 
Republic Title Company, a California corporation ("Trustee"), for the benefit of the City of San 
Mateo, a California municipality ("Beneficiary").
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, including the indebtedness herein 
recited and the trust herein created, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Trustor hereby 
irrevocably grants, transfers, conveys and assigns to Trustee, IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF 
SALE, for the benefit and security of Beneficiary, under and subject to the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth, Trustor's fee interest in the property located in the City of San Mateo, 
County of San Mateo, State of California, that is described in the attached Exhibit A, 
incorporated herein by this reference under and in connection with that certain Ground Lease 
dated as of ______________________, between Beneficiary, as landlord, and Trustor, as tenant 
(as modified from time to time, the "Ground Lease"), a memorandum of which shall record in 
the Official Records of the County of San Mateo, State of California ("Official Records"), 
substantially concurrently herewith, pursuant to which Beneficiary ground leases the Land to the 
Trustor (the "Property"). 
TOGETHER WITH all interest, estates or other claims, both in law and in equity which 
Trustor now has or may hereafter acquire in the Property and the rents; 
TOGETHER WITH all easements, rights-of-way and rights used in connection therewith 
or as a means of access thereto, including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing) all 
tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereof and thereto; 
TOGETHER WITH any and all buildings and improvements of every kind and 
description now or hereafter erected thereon, and all property of Trustor now or hereafter affixed 
to or placed upon the Property; 
298 of 556

--- page 299 ---
2
TOGETHER WITH all building materials and equipment now or hereafter delivered to 
said property and intended to be installed therein; 
TOGETHER WITH all right, title and interest of Trustor, now owned or hereafter 
acquired, in and to any land lying within the right-of-way of any street, open or proposed, 
adjoining the Property, and any and all sidewalks, alleys and strips and areas of land adjacent to 
or used in connection with the Property; 
TOGETHER WITH all estate, interest, right, title, other claim or demand, of every 
nature, in and to such property, including the Property, both in law and in equity, including, but 
not limited to, all deposits made with or other security given by Trustor to utility companies, the 
proceeds from any or all of such property, including the Property, claims or demands with 
respect to the proceeds of insurance in effect with respect thereto, which Trustor now has or may 
hereafter acquire, any and all awards made for the taking by eminent domain or by any 
proceeding or purchase in lieu thereof of the whole or any part of such property, including 
without limitation, any awards resulting from a change of grade of streets and awards for 
severance damages to the extent Beneficiary has an interest in such awards for taking as 
provided in Paragraph 4.1 herein; 
TOGETHER WITH all of Trustor's interest in all articles of personal property or fixtures 
now or hereafter attached to or used in and about the building or buildings now erected or 
hereafter to be erected on the Property which are necessary to the complete and comfortable use 
and occupancy of such building or buildings for the purposes for which they were or are to be 
erected, including all other goods and chattels and personal property as are ever used or 
furnished in operating a building, or the activities conducted therein, similar to the one herein 
described and referred to, and all renewals or replacements thereof or articles in substitution 
therefor, whether or not the same are, or shall be attached to said building or buildings in any 
manner; and
TOGETHER WITH all of Trustor's interest in all building materials, fixtures, equipment, 
work in process and other personal property to be incorporated into the Property; all goods, 
materials, supplies, fixtures, equipment, machinery, furniture and furnishings, signs and other 
personal property now or hereafter appropriated for use on the Property, whether stored on the 
Property or elsewhere, and used or to be used in connection with the Property; all rents, issues 
and profits, and all inventory, accounts, accounts receivable, contract rights, general intangibles, 
chattel paper, instruments, documents, notes drafts, letters of credit, insurance policies, insurance 
and condemnation awards and proceeds, trade names, trademarks and service marks arising from 
or related to the Property and any business conducted thereon by Trustor; all replacements, 
additions, accessions and proceeds; and all books, records and files relating to any of the 
foregoing.
All of the foregoing, together with the Property, is herein referred to as the "Security."  
To have and to hold the Security together with acquittances to the Trustee, its successors and 
assigns forever. 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF SECURING THE FOLLOWING OBLIGATIONS (the 
"Secured Obligations"): 
299 of 556

--- page 300 ---
3
(a)
Payment of just indebtedness of Trustor to Beneficiary as set forth in the City 
Notes of all sums at any time owing under or in connection with amounts disbursed by the 
beneficiary to Trustor pursuant to the Disposition and Loan Agreement (defined in Article 1 
below) until paid or cancelled and any other amounts owing under the City Loan Documents.  
Said principal and other payments shall be due and payable as provided in the City Notes or 
other City Loan Documents, as applicable.  The City Notes and all its terms are incorporated 
herein by reference, and this conveyance shall secure any and all extensions thereof, however 
evidenced; and
(b)
Payment of any sums advanced by Beneficiary to protect the Security pursuant to 
the terms and provisions of this Leasehold Deed of Trust following a breach of Trustor's 
obligation to advance said sums and the expiration of any applicable cure period, with interest 
thereon as provided herein; and
(c)
Performance of every obligation, covenant or agreement of Trustor contained 
herein and in the City Loan Documents (defined in Article 1 below).
AND TO PROTECT THE SECURITY OF THIS LEASEHOLD DEED OF TRUST, 
TRUSTOR COVENANTS AND AGREES: 
ARTICLE 1. 
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.1
In addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this Leasehold Deed of Trust, 
the following terms shall have the following meanings in this Leasehold Deed of Trust:
(a)
"City Loan Documents" means this Leasehold Deed of Trust, the City 
Notes, the Disposition and Loan Agreement, the Regulatory Agreement, the Intercreditor 
Agreement, the City Home Loan Agreement, the Ground Lease and any other debt, loan 
or security instruments between Trustor and the Beneficiary relating to the Property. 
(b)
"City Notes" means the promissory notes that secure the City LM Loan, 
the City CLF Loan and the City HOME Loan executed by Trustor, the payment of which 
is secured by this Leasehold Deed of Trust.  A copy of the City Notes are on file with the 
Beneficiary and terms and provisions of the City Notes are incorporated herein by 
reference. 
(c)
"Disposition and Loan Agreement" means that certain Disposition, 
Development and Loan Agreement, by and between Trustor and Beneficiary dated as of 
August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Disposition, 
Development and Loan Agreement dated as of __________________, as such may be 
further amended from time to time, providing for the Beneficiary to loan to Trustor up to 
Five Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($5,500,000) from the following sources:
i.Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,850,000) from the 
City’s Low Moderated Income Housing Asset Fund (“City LM Loan”)
ii.Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) from the City’s Commercial Linkage 
Fee fund (“City CLF Loan”)
300 of 556

--- page 301 ---
4
iii.Six Hundred Fifty Thousand ($650,000) from City’s HOME funding 
program income (“City HOME Loan”)
 
(d)
Intercreditor Agreement” means that certain Intercreditor Agreement by 
and between the Trustor, Beneficiary, the County of San Mateo, and the Housing 
Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County dated concurrently herewith.
(e)
"Principal" means the amount required to be paid under the City Notes.
(f)
“Regulatory Agreement" means the Regulatory Agreement and 
Declaration of Restrictive Covenants by and between the Beneficiary and Trustor.
(g)
"Senior Lender" means lenders making loans under the approved 
Financing Plan as defined in the Ground Lease.
ARTICLE 2. 
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATION OF THE PROPERTY AND SECURITY
Section 2.1
Maintenance and Modification of the Property by Trustor.
(a)
Trustor agrees that at all times prior to full payment and performance of 
the Secured Obligations, Trustor will, at Trustor's own expense, maintain, preserve and keep the 
Security or cause the Security to be maintained and preserved in good condition, reasonable wear 
and tear excepted.  Trustor will from time to time make or cause to be made all repairs, 
replacements and renewals deemed proper and necessary by it.  The Beneficiary shall have no 
responsibility in any of these matters or for the making of improvements or additions to the 
Security.
(b)
Trustor agrees to pay fully and discharge (or cause to be paid fully and 
discharged) all claims for labor done and for material and services furnished in connection with 
the Security, diligently to file or procure the filing of a valid notice of cessation upon the event of 
a cessation of labor on the work or construction on the Security for a continuous period of thirty 
(30) days or more, and to take all other reasonable steps to forestall the assertion of claims of lien 
against the Security of any part thereof.  Trustor irrevocably appoints, designates and authorizes 
Beneficiary as its agent (said agency being coupled with an interest) with the authority, but 
without any obligation, to file or record any notices of completion or cessation of labor or any 
other notice that Beneficiary deems necessary or desirable to protect its interest in and to the 
Security or the City Loan Documents; provided, however, that Beneficiary shall exercise its 
rights as agent of Trustor only in the event that Trustor shall fail to take, or shall fail to diligently 
continue to take, those actions as hereinbefore provided. 
(c)
Upon demand by Beneficiary, Trustor shall make or cause to be made 
such demands or claims as Beneficiary shall specify upon laborers, materialmen, subcontractors 
or other persons who have furnished or claim to have furnished labor, services or materials in 
connection with the Security.  Nothing herein contained shall require Trustor to pay any claims 
301 of 556

--- page 302 ---
5
for labor, materials or services which Trustor in good faith disputes and is diligently contesting 
provided that Trustor shall, within thirty (30) days after the filing of any claim of lien, record in 
the Office of the Recorder of San Mateo County, a surety bond in an amount 100% of the 
amount of such claim item to protect against a claim of lien.
Section 2.2
Granting of Easements.  Trustor may not grant easements, licenses, rights-
of-way or other rights or privileges in the nature of easements with respect to any property or 
rights included in the Security except those required or desirable for installation and maintenance 
of public utilities including, without limitation, water, gas, electricity, sewer, telephone and 
telegraph, or those otherwise required by law, or as approved, in writing, by Beneficiary, such 
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.
Section 2.3
Assignment of Rents.
(a)
As part of the consideration for the indebtedness evidenced by the City 
Notes, Trustor hereby absolutely and unconditionally assigns and transfers to Beneficiary all the 
rents and revenues of the Property including those now due, past due, or to become due by virtue 
of any lease or other agreement for the occupancy or use of all or any part of the Property, 
regardless of to whom the rents and revenues of the Property are payable.  Trustor hereby 
authorizes Beneficiary or Beneficiary's agents to collect the aforesaid rents and revenues and 
hereby directs each resident of the Property to pay such rents to Beneficiary or Beneficiary's 
agents; provided, however, that prior to written notice given by Beneficiary to Trustor of the 
breach by Trustor of any covenant or agreement of Trustor in the City Loan Documents, Trustor 
shall collect and receive all rents and revenues of the Property as trustee for the benefit of 
Beneficiary and Trustor to apply the rents and revenues so collected to the Secured Obligations 
with the balance, so long as no such breach has occurred, to the account of Trustor, it being 
intended by Trustor and Beneficiary that this assignment of rents constitutes an absolute 
assignment and not an assignment for additional security only.  Upon delivery of written notice 
by Beneficiary to Trustor of the breach by Trustor of any covenant or agreement of Trustor in the 
City Loan Documents (subject to applicable notice and cure periods), and without the necessity 
of Beneficiary entering upon and taking and maintaining full control of the Property in person, 
by agent or by a court-appointed receiver, Beneficiary shall immediately be entitled to 
possession of all rents and revenues of the Property as specified in this Section as the same 
becomes due and payable, including but not limited to rents then due and unpaid, and all such 
rents shall immediately upon delivery of such notice be held by Trustor as trustee for the benefit 
of Beneficiary only; provided, however, that the written notice by Beneficiary to Trustor of the 
breach by Trustor shall contain a statement that Beneficiary exercises its rights to such rents.  
Trustor agrees that commencing upon delivery of such written notice and during the continuance 
of Trustor's breach by Beneficiary to Trustor, each resident of the Property shall make such rents 
payable to and pay such rents to Beneficiary or Beneficiary's agents on Beneficiary's written 
demand to each resident therefor, delivered to each resident personally, by mail or by delivering 
such demand to each rental unit, without any liability on the part of said resident to inquire 
further as to the existence of a default by Trustor.
(b)
Trustor hereby covenants that Trustor has not executed any prior 
assignment of said rents, that Trustor has not performed, and will not perform, any acts or has 
302 of 556

--- page 303 ---
6
not executed and will not execute, any instrument which would prevent Beneficiary from 
exercising its rights under this Section, and that at the time of execution of this Leasehold Deed 
of Trust, there has been no anticipation or prepayment of any of the rents of the Property for 
more than two (2) months prior to the due dates of such rents.  Trustor covenants that Trustor 
will not hereafter collect or accept payment of any rents of the Property more than two (2) 
months prior to the due dates of such rents.  Trustor further covenants that Trustor will execute 
and deliver to Beneficiary such further assignments of rents and revenues of the Property as 
Beneficiary may from time to time request.
(c)
Upon Trustor's breach of any covenant or agreement of Trustor in the City 
Loan Documents (subject to applicable notice and cure periods), Beneficiary may in person, by 
agent or by a court-appointed receiver, regardless of the adequacy of Beneficiary's security, enter 
upon and take and maintain full control of the Property in order to perform all acts necessary and 
appropriate for the operation and maintenance thereof including, but not limited to, the 
execution, cancellation or modification of leases, the collection of all rents and revenues of the 
Property, the making of repairs to the Property and the execution or termination of contracts 
providing for the management or maintenance of the Property, all on such terms as are deemed 
best to protect the security of this Leasehold Deed of Trust.  In the event Beneficiary elects to 
seek the appointment of a receiver for the Property upon Trustor's breach of any covenant or 
agreement of Trustor in this Leasehold Deed of Trust, Trustor hereby expressly consents to the 
appointment of such receiver.  Beneficiary or the receiver shall be entitled to receive a 
reasonable fee for so managing the Property.
(d)
All rents and revenues collected subsequent to delivery of written notice 
by Beneficiary to Trustor of the breach by Trustor of any covenant or agreement of Trustor in the 
City Loan Documents shall be applied first to the costs, if any, of taking control of and managing 
the Property and collecting the rents, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, receiver's fees, 
premiums on receiver's bonds, costs of repairs to the Property, premiums on insurance policies, 
taxes, assessments and other charges on the Property, and the costs of discharging any obligation 
or liability of Trustor as lessor or landlord of the Property and then to the sums secured by this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust.  Beneficiary or the receiver shall have access to the books and records 
used in the operation and maintenance of the Property and shall be liable to account only for 
those rents actually received.  Beneficiary shall not be liable to Trustor, anyone claiming under 
or through Trustor or anyone having an interest in the Property by reason of anything done or left 
undone by Beneficiary under this Section.
(e)
If the rents of the Property are not sufficient to meet the costs, if any, of 
taking control of and managing the Property and collecting the rents, any funds expended by 
Beneficiary for such purposes shall become part of the Secured Obligations secured by this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust pursuant to Section 3.3 hereof.  Unless Beneficiary and Trustor agree in 
writing to other terms of payment, such amounts shall be payable upon notice from Beneficiary 
to Trustor requesting payment thereof and shall bear interest from the date of disbursement at the 
rate stated in Section 3.3 hereof.
(f)
Any entering upon and taking and maintaining of control of the Property 
by Beneficiary or the receiver and any application of rents as provided herein shall not cure or 
303 of 556

--- page 304 ---
7
waive any default hereunder or invalidate any other right or remedy of Beneficiary under 
applicable law or provided herein.  This assignment of rents of the Property shall terminate at 
such time as this Leasehold Deed of Trust ceases to secure the Secured Obligations.  The rights 
of the Beneficiary under this Section are subject to the rights of any approved Senior Lender as 
defined in the Ground Lease.
ARTICLE 3. 
TAXES AND INSURANCE; ADVANCES
Section 3.1
Taxes, Other Governmental Charges and Utility Charges.
(a)
Trustor shall pay, or cause to be paid, prior to the date of delinquency, all 
taxes, assessments, charges and levies imposed by any public authority or utility company which 
are or may become a lien affecting the Security or any part thereof; provided, however, that 
Trustor shall not be required to pay and discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or levy so 
long as: (1) the legality thereof shall be promptly and actively contested in good faith and by 
appropriate proceedings; and (2) Trustor maintains reserves adequate to pay any liabilities 
contested pursuant to this Section.  With respect to taxes, special assessments or other similar 
governmental charges, Trustor shall pay such amount in full prior to the attachment of any lien 
therefor on any part of the Security; provided, however, if such taxes, assessments or charges 
may be paid in installments, Trustor may pay in such installments.  Except as provided in clause 
(2) of the first sentence of this paragraph, the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to 
require that Trustor maintain a reserve account, escrow account, impound account or other 
similar account for the payment of future taxes, assessments, charges and levies.
(b)
In the event that Trustor shall fail to pay any of the foregoing items 
required by this Section to be paid by Trustor, Beneficiary may (but shall be under no obligation 
to) pay the same, after the Beneficiary has notified Trustor of such failure to pay and Trustor 
fails to fully pay such items within seven (7) business days after receipt of such notice.  Any 
amount so advanced therefor by Beneficiary, together with interest thereon from the date of such 
advance at the maximum rate permitted by law, shall become part of the Secured Obligations 
secured hereby, and Trustor agrees to pay all such amounts.
Section 3.2
Provisions Respecting Insurance.
(a)
Trustor agrees to provide insurance conforming in all respects to that 
required under the City Loan Documents during the course of construction and following 
completion, and at all times until all amounts secured by this Leasehold Deed of Trust have been 
paid and all Secured Obligations secured hereunder are fulfilled, and this Leasehold Deed of 
Trust reconveyed.
304 of 556

--- page 305 ---
8
(b)
All such insurance policies and coverages shall be maintained at Trustor's 
sole cost and expense.  Certificates of insurance for all of the above insurance policies, showing 
the same to be in full force and effect, shall be delivered to the Beneficiary upon demand therefor 
at any time prior to Trustor's satisfaction of the Secured Obligations.
Section 3.3
Advances.  In the event Trustor shall fail to maintain the full insurance 
coverage required by this Leasehold Deed of Trust or shall fail to keep the Security in 
accordance with the City Loan Documents, the Beneficiary, after at least seven (7) days prior 
notice to Beneficiary, may (but shall be under no obligation to) take out the required policies of 
insurance and pay the premiums on the same or may make such repairs or replacements as are 
necessary and provide for payment thereof; and all amounts so advanced therefor by the 
Beneficiary shall become part of the Secured Obligations (together with interest as set forth 
below) and shall be secured hereby, which amounts Trustor agrees to pay on the demand of the 
Beneficiary, and if not so paid, shall bear interest from the date of the advance at the lesser of ten 
percent (10%) per annum or the maximum rate permitted by law.
ARTICLE 4. 
DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION OR CONDEMNATION
Section 4.1
Awards and Damages.  Subject to the rights of Senior Lenders, all 
judgments, awards of damages, settlements and compensation made in connection with or in lieu 
of: (a) taking of all or any part of or any interest in the Property by or under assertion of the 
power of eminent domain; (b) any damage to or destruction of the Property or in any part thereof 
by insured casualty; and (c) any other injury or damage to all or any part of the Property 
("Funds") shall be used to repair or restore the Property, but if the property cannot be repaired or 
restored such Funds are hereby assigned to and shall be paid to the Beneficiary by a check made 
payable to the Beneficiary.  The Beneficiary is authorized and empowered (but not required) to 
collect and receive any Funds and, if such funds are not used to restore the Property as aforesaid, 
is authorized to apply them in whole or in part upon any indebtedness or obligation secured 
hereby, in such order and manner as the Beneficiary shall determine at its sole option.  Subject to 
the rights of Senior Lenders, the Beneficiary shall be entitled to settle and adjust all claims under 
insurance policies provided under this Leasehold Deed of Trust and may deduct and retain from 
the proceeds of such insurance the amount of all expenses incurred by it in connection with any 
such settlement or adjustment.  All or any part of the amounts so collected and recovered by the 
Beneficiary may be released to Trustor upon such reasonable and customary conditions as the 
Beneficiary may impose for its disposition including repair or restoration in accordance with the 
Disposition and Loan Agreement.  Application of all or any part of the Funds collected and 
received by the Beneficiary or the release thereof shall not cure or waive any default under this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust.  The Beneficiary shall release the Funds to Trustor to be used to 
reconstruct the improvements on the Property provided that Beneficiary reasonably determines 
that Trustor (taking into account the Funds) has sufficient funds to rebuild the improvements in 
substantially the form they existed prior to the casualty or condemnation. The rights of the 
Beneficiary under this Section are subject to the rights of any Senior Lender and the terms of the 
Ground Lease. 
305 of 556

--- page 306 ---
9
ARTICLE 5. 
AGREEMENTS AFFECTING THE PROPERTY; FURTHER ASSURANCES; 
PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
Section 5.1
Other Agreements Affecting Property.  Trustor shall duly and punctually 
perform all terms, covenants, conditions and agreements binding upon it under the City Loan 
Documents and any other agreement of any nature whatsoever now or hereafter involving or 
affecting the Security or any part thereof.
Section 5.2
Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses.  In the event of any 
Event of Default (as defined below) hereunder, and if the Beneficiary should employ attorneys or 
incur other expenses for the collection of amounts due or the enforcement of performance or 
observance of an obligation or agreement on the part of Trustor in this Leasehold Deed of Trust, 
Trustor agrees that it will, on demand therefor, pay to the Beneficiary the reasonable fees of such 
attorneys and such other reasonable expenses so incurred by the Beneficiary; and any such 
amounts paid by the Beneficiary shall be added to the Secured Obligations, and shall bear 
interest from the date such expenses are incurred at the lesser of ten percent (10%) per annum or 
the maximum rate permitted by law.
Section 5.3
Payment of the Principal.  Trustor shall pay to the Beneficiary the 
Principal and any other payments as set forth in the City Notes in the amounts and by the times 
set out therein.
Section 5.4
Personal Property.  To the maximum extent permitted by law, the personal 
property subject to this Leasehold Deed of Trust shall be deemed to be fixtures and part of the 
real property and this Leasehold Deed of Trust shall constitute a fixtures filing under the 
California Commercial Code.  As to any personal property not deemed or permitted to be 
fixtures, this Leasehold Deed of Trust shall constitute a security agreement under the California 
Commercial Code.
Section 5.5
Financing Statement.  Trustor shall execute and deliver to the Beneficiary 
such financing statements pursuant to the appropriate statutes, and any other documents or 
instruments as are required to convey to the Beneficiary a valid perfected security interest in the 
Security.  Trustor agrees to perform all acts which the Beneficiary may reasonably request so as 
to enable the Beneficiary to maintain such valid perfected security interest in the Security in 
order to secure the payment of the City Notes in accordance with its terms.  The Beneficiary is 
authorized to file a copy of any such financing statement in any jurisdiction(s) as it shall deem 
appropriate from time to time in order to protect the security interest established pursuant to this 
instrument.
Section 5.6
Operation of the Security.  Trustor shall operate the Security (and, in case 
of a transfer of a portion of the Security subject to this Leasehold Deed of Trust, the transferee 
shall operate such portion of the Security) in full compliance with the City Loan Documents. 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, leases to tenants in accordance with the Regulatory 
Agreement shall not be considered a transfer of the any portion of the Security.
306 of 556

--- page 307 ---
10
Section 5.7
Inspection of the Security.  At any and all reasonable times upon 3 days’ 
notice and subject to the rights of tenants under their respective leases, the Beneficiary and its 
duly authorized agents, attorneys, experts, engineers, accountants and representatives, shall have 
the right, without payment of charges or fees, to inspect the Security, provided, however, that 
any such inspection shall not unreasonably disturb any tenants or other occupants of the 
Property.
Section 5.8
Nondiscrimination.  Except as otherwise permitted by the City Loan 
Documents, in satisfaction of Sections 33435 and 33436 of the Community Redevelopment Law, 
Trustor shall prohibit, during the construction and operation of the Development, all 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, 
source of income, national origin or ancestry in the hiring, firing, promoting or demoting of any 
person engaged in the Construction Work, nor shall Trustor or any person claiming under or 
through Trustor establish or permit any such practice or practices of discrimination or 
segregation with reference to the selection, location, number, use or occupancy of tenants, 
lessees, subtenants, sublessees or vendees in the Development.
ARTICLE 6. 
HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section 6.1
Hazardous Waste.
(a)
Trustor shall keep and maintain the Property in compliance with, and shall 
not cause or permit the Property to be in violation of any federal, state or local laws, ordinances 
or regulations relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under or about 
the Property including, but not limited to, soil and ground water conditions.  Trustor shall not 
use, generate, manufacture, store or dispose of on, under, or about the Property or transport to or 
from the Property any flammable explosives, radioactive materials, hazardous wastes, toxic 
substances or related materials, including without limitation, any substances defined as or 
included in the definition of "hazardous substances," "hazardous wastes," "hazardous materials," 
or "toxic substances" under any applicable federal or state laws or regulations (collectively 
referred to hereinafter as "Hazardous Materials") except such of the foregoing as may be 
customarily kept and used in and about multifamily residential property or construction site and 
except such of the foregoing as was present on the Property prior to commencement of the 
Ground Lease.
(b)
Trustor shall immediately advise Beneficiary in writing if at any time it 
receives written notice of: (1) any and all enforcement, cleanup, removal or other governmental 
or regulatory actions instituted, completed or threatened against Trustor or the Property pursuant 
to any applicable federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or regulations relating to any Hazardous 
Materials, ("Hazardous Materials Law"); (2) all claims made or threatened by any third party 
against Trustor or the Property relating to damage, contribution, cost recovery compensation, 
loss or injury resulting from any Hazardous Materials (the matters set forth in clauses (1) and (2) 
above hereinafter referred to a "Hazardous Materials Claims"); and (3) Trustor's discovery of any 
307 of 556

--- page 308 ---
11
occurrence or condition on any real property adjoining or in the vicinity of the Property that 
could cause the Property or any part thereof to be classified as "border-zone property" under the 
provision of California Health and Safety Code, Sections 25220 et seq., or any regulation 
adopted in accordance therewith, or to be otherwise subject to any restrictions on the ownership, 
occupancy, transferability or use of the Property under any Hazardous Materials Law.
(c)
Beneficiary shall have the right to join and participate in, as a party if it so 
elects, any legal proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any Hazardous Materials 
Claims and to have its reasonable attorneys' fees in connection therewith paid by Trustor.  
Trustor shall indemnify and hold harmless Beneficiary and its board members, supervisors, 
directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any loss, damage, 
cost, expense or liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the use, generation, 
storage, release, threatened release, discharge, disposal, or presence of Hazardous Materials on, 
under, or about the Property occurring from and after the date of recordation of this Leasehold 
Deed of Trust including without limitation: (1) all foreseeable consequential damages; (2) the 
costs of any required or necessary repair, cleanup or detoxification of the Property and the 
preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans; and (3) all 
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Beneficiary in connection with clauses (1) and (2), 
including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees. This indemnity obligation shall not extend 
to any claim arising from Beneficiary's negligence or willful misconduct or to any claims for 
which Beneficiary indemnifies Trustor for under the City Loan Documents.   
(d)
Without Beneficiary's prior written consent, which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.  Trustor shall not take any remedial action in 
response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials on, under or about the Property, nor enter 
into any settlement agreement, consent decree, or other compromise in respect to any Hazardous 
Material Claims, which remedial action, settlement, consent decree or compromise might, in 
Beneficiary's reasonable judgment, impair the value of the Beneficiary's security hereunder; 
provided, however, that Beneficiary's prior consent shall not be necessary in the event that the 
presence of Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the Property either poses an immediate 
threat to the health, safety or welfare of any individual or is of such a nature that an immediate 
remedial response is necessary and it is not reasonably possible to obtain Beneficiary's consent 
before taking such action, provided that in such event Trustor shall notify Beneficiary as soon as 
practicable of any action so taken
(e)
Beneficiary agrees not to withhold, condition, or delay its consent, where 
such consent is required hereunder, if either: (1) a particular remedial action is ordered by a court 
of competent jurisdiction; (2) Trustor will or may be subjected to civil or criminal sanctions or 
penalties if it fails to take a required action; (3) Trustor establishes to the reasonable satisfaction 
of Beneficiary that there is no reasonable alternative to such remedial action which would result 
in less impairment of Beneficiary's security hereunder; or (4) the action has been agreed to by 
Beneficiary.
(f)
Trustor hereby acknowledges and agrees that: (1) this Article is intended 
as the Beneficiary's written request for information (and Trustor's response) concerning the 
environmental condition of the Property as required by California Code of Civil Procedure 
308 of 556

--- page 309 ---
12
Section 726.5; and (2) each representation and warranty in this Leasehold Deed of Trust or any 
of the other City Loan Documents (together with any indemnity applicable to a breach of any 
such representation and warranty) with respect to the environmental condition of the property is 
intended by the Beneficiary and Trustor to be an "environmental provision" for purposes of 
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 736.
(g)
In the event that any portion of the Property is determined to be 
"environmentally impaired" (as that term is defined in California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 726.5(e)(3)) or to be an "affected parcel" (as that term is defined in California Code of 
Civil Procedure Section 726.5(e)(1)), then, without otherwise limiting or in any way affecting the 
Beneficiary's or the Trustee's rights and remedies under this Leasehold Deed of Trust, the 
Beneficiary may elect to exercise its rights under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 
726.5(a) to: (1) waive its lien on such environmentally impaired or affected portion of the 
Property; and (2) exercise: (i) the rights and remedies of an unsecured creditor, including 
reduction of its claim against Trustor to judgment, and (ii) any other rights and remedies 
permitted by law.  For purposes of determining the Beneficiary's right to proceed as an 
unsecured creditor under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(a), Trustor shall be 
deemed to have willfully permitted or acquiesced in a release or threatened release of hazardous 
materials, within the meaning of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(d)(1), if the 
release or threatened release of hazardous materials was knowingly or negligently caused or 
contributed to by any lessee, occupant, or user of any portion of the Property and Trustor knew 
or should have known of the activity by such lessee, occupant, or user which caused or 
contributed to the release or threatened release.  All costs and expenses, including (but not 
limited to) attorneys' fees, incurred by the Beneficiary in connection with any action commenced 
under this paragraph, including any action required by California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 726.5(b) to determine the degree to which the Property is environmentally impaired, plus 
interest thereon at the rate specified in the City Notes until paid, shall be added to the 
indebtedness secured by this Leasehold  Deed of Trust and shall be due and payable to the 
Beneficiary upon its demand made at any time following the conclusion of such action.
(h)
Trustor is aware that California Civil Code Section 2955.5(a) provides as 
follows:  "No lender shall require a borrower, as a condition of receiving or maintaining a loan 
secured by real property, to provide hazard insurance coverage against risks to the improvements 
on that real property in an amount exceeding the replacement value of the improvements on the 
property."
(i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event of any 
conflict between this Article 6 and the City Loan Documents, the City Loan Documents 
shall prevail.
ARTICLE 7. 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
Section 7.1
Events of Default.  The following shall constitute events of default 
("Events of Default") following the expiration of any applicable notice and cure periods:  (1) 
309 of 556

--- page 310 ---
13
failure to make any payment to be paid by Trustor under the City Loan Documents; (2) failure to 
observe or perform any of Trustor's other covenants, agreements or obligations under the City 
Loan Documents, including, without limitation, the provisions concerning discrimination, unless 
such default is reasonably susceptible to cure, in which event no Event of Default shall occur if 
Trustor commences to cure such default within thirty (30) days (or such shorter period expressly 
provided herein) and thereafter diligently pursues the cure to completion, not to exceed one 
hundred twenty (120) days; (3) failure to make any payment or perform any of Trustor's other 
covenants, agreements, or obligations under any other debt instruments or regulatory agreement 
secured by the Property, which default shall not be cured within the times and in the manner 
provided therein.
Section 7.2
Acceleration of Maturity.  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and 
be continuing, then at the option of the Beneficiary, the amount of any payment related to the 
Event of Default and the unpaid Secured Obligation shall immediately become due and payable, 
upon written notice by the Beneficiary to Trustor (or automatically where so specified in the City 
Loan Documents), and no omission on the part of the Beneficiary to exercise such option when 
entitled to do so shall be construed as a waiver of such right. 
Section 7.3
The Beneficiary's Right to Enter and Take Possession.  If an Event of 
Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Beneficiary may: 
(a)
Either in person or by agent, with or without bringing any action or 
proceeding, or by a receiver appointed by a court, and without regard to the adequacy of its 
security, enter upon the Security and take possession thereof (or any part thereof) and of any of 
the Security, in its own name or in the name of Trustee, and do any acts which it deems 
necessary or desirable to preserve the value or marketability of the Property, or part thereof or 
interest therein, increase the income therefrom or protect the security thereof.  The entering upon 
and taking possession of the Security shall not cure or waive any Event of Default or Notice of 
Sale (as defined below) hereunder or invalidate any act done in response to such Default or 
pursuant to such Notice of Sale and, notwithstanding the continuance in possession of the 
Security, Beneficiary shall be entitled to exercise every right provided for in this Leasehold Deed 
of Trust, or by law upon occurrence of any Event of Default, including the right to exercise the 
power of sale;
(b)
Commence an action to foreclose this Leasehold Deed of Trust as a 
mortgage, appoint a receiver, or specifically enforce any of the covenants hereof;
(c)
Deliver to Trustee a written declaration of default, and a written notice of 
election to cause Trustor's interest in the Security to be sold ("Notice of Sale"), which notice 
Trustee or Beneficiary shall cause to be duly filed for record in the Official Records of San 
Mateo County; or 
(d)
Exercise all other rights and remedies provided herein, in the instruments 
by which Trustor acquires title to any Security, or in any other document or agreement now or 
hereafter evidencing, creating or securing all or any portion of the Secured Obligations.
310 of 556

--- page 311 ---
14
Section 7.4
Foreclosure By Power of Sale.  
(a)
Should the Beneficiary elect to foreclose by exercise of the power of sale 
herein contained, the Beneficiary shall give the Notice of Sale to the Trustee and shall deposit 
with Trustee this Leasehold Deed of Trust which is secured hereby (and the deposit of which 
shall be deemed to constitute evidence that the Secured Obligations are immediately due and 
payable), and such receipts and evidence of any expenditures made that are additionally secured 
hereby as Trustee may require.
(b)
Upon receipt of such Notice of Sale from the Beneficiary, Trustee shall 
cause to be recorded, published and delivered to Trustor such Notice of Sale as then required by 
law and by this Leasehold Deed of Trust.  Trustee shall, without demand on Trustor, after lapse 
of such time as may then be required by law and after recordation of such Notice of Sale having 
been given as required by law, sell the Security, at the time and place of sale fixed by it in said 
Notice of Sale, whether as a whole or in separate lots or parcels or items as Trustee shall deem 
expedient and in such order as it may determine unless specified otherwise by Trustor according 
to California Civil Code Section 2924g(b), at public auction to the highest bidder, for cash in 
lawful money of the United States payable at the time of sale.  Trustee shall deliver to such 
purchaser or purchasers thereof its good and sufficient deed or deeds conveying the property so 
sold, but without any covenant or warranty, express or implied.  The recitals in such deed or any 
matters of facts shall be conclusive proof of the truthfulness thereof.  Any person, including, 
without limitation, Trustor, Trustee or Beneficiary, may purchase at such sale, and Trustor 
hereby covenants to warrant and defend the title of such purchaser or purchasers.
(c)
After deducting all reasonable costs, fees and expenses of Trustee, 
including costs of evidence of title in connection with such sale, Trustee shall apply the proceeds 
of sale to payment of: (1) the unpaid Principal amount of the City Notes; (2) all other Secured 
Obligations owed to Beneficiary under the City Loan Documents; (3) all other sums then secured 
hereby; and (4) the remainder, if any, to Trustor.
(d)
Trustee may postpone sale of all or any portion of the Property by public 
announcement at such time and place of sale, and from time to time thereafter, and without 
further notice make such sale at the time fixed by the last postponement, or may, in its discretion, 
give a new Notice of Sale.
Section 7.5
Receiver.  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, 
Beneficiary, as a matter of right and without further notice to Trustor or anyone claiming under 
the Security, and without regard to the then value of the Security or the interest of Trustor 
therein, shall have the right to apply to any court having jurisdiction to appoint a receiver or 
receivers of the Security (or a part thereof), and Trustor hereby irrevocably consents to such 
appointment and waives further notice of any application therefor.  Any such receiver or 
receivers shall have all the usual powers and duties of receivers in like or similar cases, and all 
the powers and duties of Beneficiary in case of entry as provided herein, and shall continue as 
such and exercise all such powers until the date of confirmation of sale of the Security, unless 
such receivership is sooner terminated.
311 of 556

--- page 312 ---
15
Section 7.6
Remedies Cumulative.  No right, power or remedy conferred upon or 
reserved to the Beneficiary by this Leasehold Deed of Trust is intended to be exclusive of any 
other right, power or remedy, but each and every such right, power and remedy shall be 
cumulative and concurrent and shall be in addition to any other right, power and remedy given 
hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity.
Section 7.7
No Waiver.
(a)
No delay or omission of the Beneficiary to exercise any right, power or 
remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall exhaust or impair any such right, power or 
remedy, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such Event of Default or acquiescence 
therein; and every right, power and remedy given by this Leasehold Deed of Trust to the 
Beneficiary may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expeditious by 
the Beneficiary.  Beneficiary's express or implied consent to a breach by Trustor, or a waiver of 
any obligation of Trustor hereunder shall not be deemed or construed to be a consent to any 
subsequent breach, or further waiver, of such obligation or of any other obligations of Trustor 
hereunder.  Failure on the part of the Beneficiary to complain of any act or failure to act or to 
declare an Event of Default, irrespective of how long such failure continues, shall not constitute 
a waiver by the Beneficiary of its right hereunder or impair any rights, power or remedies 
consequent on any Event of Default by Trustor.
(b)
If the Beneficiary: (1) grants forbearance or an extension of time for the 
payment or performance of any Secured Obligation; (2) takes other or additional security or the 
payment of any sums secured hereby; (3) waives or does not exercise any right granted in the 
City Loan Documents; (4) releases any part of the Security from the lien of this Leasehold Deed 
of Trust, or otherwise changes any of the terms, covenants, conditions or agreements in the City 
Loan Documents; (5) consents to the granting of any easement or other right affecting the 
Security; or (6) makes or consents to any agreement subordinating the lien hereof, any such act 
or omission shall not release, discharge, modify, change or affect the original liability under this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust, or any other obligation of Trustor or any subsequent purchaser of the 
Security or any part thereof, or any maker, co-signer, endorser, surety or guarantor (unless 
expressly released); nor shall any such act or omission preclude the Beneficiary from exercising 
any right, power or privilege herein granted or intended to be granted in any Event of Default 
then made or of any subsequent Event of Default, nor, except as otherwise expressly provided in 
an instrument or instruments executed by the Beneficiary shall the lien of this Leasehold Deed of 
Trust be altered thereby.
Section 7.8
Suits to Protect the Security.  The Beneficiary shall have power to: (a) 
institute and maintain such suits and proceedings as it may deem expedient to prevent any 
impairment of the Security and the rights of the Beneficiary as may be unlawful or any violation 
of this Leasehold Deed of Trust; (b) preserve or protect its interest (as described in this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust) in the Security; and (c) restrain the enforcement of or compliance with 
any legislation or other governmental enactment, rule or order that may be unconstitutional or 
otherwise invalid, if the enforcement for compliance with such enactment, rule or order would 
impair the Security thereunder or be prejudicial to the interest of the Beneficiary. 
312 of 556

--- page 313 ---
16
Section 7.9
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.  In the case of any receivership, 
insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other 
proceedings affecting Trustor, its creditors or its Property, the Beneficiary, to the extent 
permitted by law, shall be entitled to file such proofs of claim and other documents as may be 
necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Beneficiary allowed in such proceedings 
and for any additional amount which may become due and payable by Trustor hereunder after 
such date. 
Section 7.10
Waiver.  Trustor waives presentment, demand for payment, notice of 
dishonor, notice of protest and nonpayment, protest, notice of interest on interest and late 
charges, and diligence in taking any action to collect any Secured Obligations or in proceedings 
against the Security, in connection with the delivery, acceptance, performance, default, 
endorsement or guaranty of this Leasehold Deed of Trust.
ARTICLE 8. 
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 8.1
Amendments.  This Deed of Trust cannot be waived, changed, discharged 
or terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed by Beneficiary and Trustor.
Section 8.2
Reconveyance by Trustee.  Upon written request of Beneficiary stating 
that all Secured Obligations have been paid or forgiven, and all obligations under the City Loan 
Documents have been performed in full upon expiration of the term of the Regulatory 
Agreement, and upon surrender of this Leasehold Deed of Trust to Trustee for cancellation and 
retention, and upon payment by Trustor of Trustee's reasonable fees, Trustee shall reconvey the 
Security to Trustor, or to the person or persons legally entitled thereto.
Section 8.3
Notices.
(a)
If at any time after the execution of this Leasehold Deed of Trust it shall 
become necessary or convenient for one of the parties hereto to serve any notice, demand or 
communication upon the other party, such notice, demand or communication shall be in writing 
and shall be served personally or by depositing the same in the registered United States mail, 
return receipt requested, postage prepaid and (1) if intended for Beneficiary shall be addressed 
to:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 
Attention:  City Manager
and (2) if intended for Trustor shall be addressed to:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., 
c/o MidPen Housing Corporation
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
313 of 556

--- page 314 ---
17
Foster City, CA  94404
Attention:  
President and Chief Executive Officer
With copy to: 
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Facsimile:  (213) 630-5799
Matter No: B0965-0600
Copies of notices to Trustor from the Beneficiary shall also be provided by the 
Beneficiary to any limited partner of Trustor who requests such notice in writing and provides 
the Beneficiary with written notice of its address in accordance with this Section.
(b)
Any notice, demand or communication shall be deemed given, received, 
made or communicated on the date personal delivery is effected or, if mailed in the manner 
herein specified, on the delivery date or date delivery is refused by the addressee, as shown on 
the return receipt.  Either party may change its address at any time by giving written notice of 
such change to Beneficiary or Trustor as the case may be, in the manner provided herein, at least 
ten (10) days prior to the date such change is desired to be effective.
Section 8.4
Successors and Joint Trustors.  Where an obligation created herein is 
binding upon Trustor, the obligation shall also apply to and bind any transferee or successors in 
interest.  Where the terms of the Deed of Trust have the effect of creating an obligation of 
Trustor and a transferee, such obligation shall be deemed to be a joint and several obligation of 
314 of 556

--- page 315 ---
18
Trustor and such transferee.  Where Trustor is more than one entity or person, all obligations of 
Trustor shall be deemed to be a joint and several obligations of each and every entity and person 
comprising Trustor.
Section 8.5
Captions.  The captions or headings at the beginning of each Section 
hereof are for the convenience of the parties and are not a part of this Leasehold Deed of Trust.
Section 8.6
Invalidity of Certain Provisions.  Every provision of this Leasehold Deed 
of Trust is intended to be severable.  In the event any term or provision hereof is declared to be 
illegal or invalid for any reason whatsoever by a court or other body of competent jurisdiction, 
such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the balance of the terms and provisions hereof, which 
terms and provisions shall remain binding and enforceable.  If the lien of this Leasehold Deed of 
Trust is invalid or unenforceable as to any part of the debt, or if the lien is invalid or 
unenforceable as to any part of the Security, the unsecured or partially secured portion of the 
debt, and all payments made on the debt, whether voluntary or under foreclosure or other 
enforcement action or procedure, shall be considered to have been first paid or applied to the full 
payment of that portion of the debt which is not secured or partially secured by the lien of this 
Leasehold Deed of Trust.
Section 8.7
Governing Law.  This Deed of Trust shall be governed by and construed 
in accordance with the laws of the State of California.
Section 8.8
Gender and Number.  In this Leasehold Deed of Trust the singular shall 
include the plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter and vice versa, if the 
context so requires.
Section 8.9
Deed of Trust, Mortgage.  Any reference in this Leasehold Deed of Trust 
to a mortgage shall also refer to a deed of trust and any reference to a deed of trust shall also 
refer to a mortgage.
Section 8.10
Actions.  Trustor agrees to appear in and defend any action or proceeding 
purporting to affect the Security.
Section 8.11
Substitution of Trustee.  Beneficiary may from time to time substitute a 
successor or successors to any Trustee named herein or acting hereunder to execute this Trust.  
Upon such appointment, and without conveyance to the successor trustee, the latter shall be 
vested with all title, powers, and duties conferred upon any Trustee herein named or acting 
hereunder.  Each such appointment and substitution shall be made by written instrument 
executed by Beneficiary, containing reference to this Leasehold Deed of Trust and its place of 
record, which, when duly recorded in the proper office of the county or counties in which the 
Property is situated, shall be conclusive proof of proper appointment of the successor trustee.
Section 8.12
Statute of Limitations.  The pleading of any statute of limitations as a 
defense to any and all obligations secured by this Leasehold Deed of Trust is hereby waived to 
the full extent permissible by law.
315 of 556

--- page 316 ---
19
Section 8.13
Acceptance by Trustee.  Trustee accepts this Trust when this Leasehold 
Deed of Trust, duly executed and acknowledged, is made public record as provided by law.  
Except as otherwise provided by law the Trustee is not obligated to notify any party hereto of 
pending sale under this Leasehold Deed of Trust or of any action of proceeding in which Trustor, 
Beneficiary, or Trustee shall be a party unless brought by Trustee.
Section 8.14
Tax Credit Provisions.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
contained herein or in any documents secured by this Leasehold Deed of Trust or contained in 
any subordination agreement, the Beneficiary acknowledges and agrees that in the event of a 
foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure (collectively, "Foreclosure") with respect to the 
Property encumbered by this Leasehold Deed of Trust, the following rule contained in 26 U.S.C. 
Section 42(h)(6)(E)(ii), as amended, shall apply:
For a period of three (3) years from the date of Foreclosure, with respect to any unit that 
had been regulated by the Regulatory Agreement with the California Tax Credit Allocation 
Committee: (1) none of the tenants occupying those units at the time of Foreclosure may be 
evicted or their tenancy terminated (other than for good cause); (2) nor may any rent be increased 
except as otherwise permitted under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Section 8.15   Venue.  In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
[Signature Page Follows]
316 of 556

--- page 317 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Trustor has executed this Leasehold Deed of Trust on 
the date first written above.
BENEFICIARY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:   ___________________________
Gabrielle P. Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
317 of 556

--- page 318 ---
TRUSTOR:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC.
a California limited liability company
By:  Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, 
its sole member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
318 of 556

--- page 319 ---
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
The land referred to is situated in the County of San Mateo, City of San Mateo, State of 
California, and is described as follows:
319 of 556

--- page 320 ---
1
660\11\3170072.2
CITY HOME LOAN AGREEMENT
(Kiku Crossing, San Mateo)
This HOME LOAN AGREEMENT is entered into as of ____________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city (the “City”), and MP Downtown 
San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership (“Developer”).
RECITALS
A.
The City has received Home Investment Partnership Act funds from the United 
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) pursuant to the Cranston-
Gonzales National Housing Act of 1990 (“HOME Funds”).  The HOME Funds must be used by the 
City in accordance with 24 C.F.R. Part 92.
B.
The City  and the Developer executed that certain Disposition, Development and 
Loan Agreement  dated as of August 17, 2020, as amended by that certain First Amendment to 
Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement, dated as of November __, 2021, (collectively, 
the "DDLA") for the development of property located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th 
Avenue in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, as more particularly 
described in Exhibit A (the "Property"). to partially fund the acquisition, predevelopment, and 
construction costs for the Development. 
C.
The City is the owner of the Property, and the Developer and the City have 
entered into that certain Ground Lease dated as of ________________ (the "Ground Lease"), 
pursuant to which the Developer will acquire a leasehold interest in the Property from the City 
for a period of ninety-nine (99) years (the "Leasehold Interest").  The Developer intends to 
construct 225 multifamily housing units on the Property for rental to extremely low, very low 
and low income households, including two (2) unrestricted manager's units, and attendant site 
improvements (the "Improvements").  The Developer 's Leasehold Interest and the Developer's 
fee interest in the Improvements, are collectively herein after referred to as the "Development."
D.
In furtherance of the Development, Developer desires to borrow from the City and 
the City desires to loan to Developer the sum of Six Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($650,000) of 
HOME Funds to be used for development costs associated with the Development (the 
“City HOME Loan”).
E.
The City HOME Loan is being made to finance construction costs associated with 
the Development in order to help achieve financial feasibility for the Development and to increase 
the supply of affordable rental housing in the City of San Mateo.
F.
In consideration of receipt of the City HOME Loan, Developer has agreed to observe 
the terms and conditions of a Regulatory Agreement and Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, dated 
of even date herewith, between the City and Developer, to be recorded against the Property, which 
Regulatory Agreement places certain restrictions on the two hundred twenty three (223) affordable 
units that are part of the Development, and particularly designates three (3) units as City HOME 
Loan-Assisted Units.
320 of 556

--- page 321 ---
2
660\11\3170072.2
G.
On _______________, the City adopted Resolution No. __ (2020), approving the 
DDLA and approving a mitigated negative declaration for the improvement of the Property 
pursuant to the DDLA.  
H.
On _______________, the City published a combined Finding of No Significant 
Impact (pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969) and Notice of Intent to 
Request Release of Funds related to the development of the Property.  The finding of no significant 
impact was based on an environmental assessment for the development of Property completed 
and approved by the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1.  DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS
Section 1.1.
Definitions.
The following capitalized terms have the meanings set forth in this Section 1.1 wherever 
used in this Agreement, unless otherwise provided:
(a)
“Agreement” shall mean this City HOME Loan Agreement.
(b)
“Approved Development Budget” shall mean the pro forma development budget, 
including sources and uses of funds, as approved by the City, and attached hereto and incorporated 
herein as Exhibit B.
(c)
“Approved Financing” shall mean all of the following loans or equity funds acquired 
by Developer and approved by the City for the purpose of financing the Development, in addition 
to the City HOME Loan:
(1)  A Low Moderate Housing Asset Fund loan from the City in the 
amount of Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,850,000) (the "City LM 
Loan");
(2)  A HOME loan from the City in the amount of Six Hundred Fifty 
Thousand Dollars ($650,000) (the "City HOME Loan");
(3) A Commercial Linkage Fee Fund loan from the City in the amount of 
Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (the “City CLF Loan”)
(4)   A San Mateo County loan of Five Million Dollars One Hundred 
Eighty-Five Thousand Eight Hundred Seventeen ($5,185,817) of Affordable Housing Funds (the 
"County AHF Loan");
(5) A loan from Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo 
County in the amount of Three Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($3,800,000) (the 
“HEART loan”)
(6) A loan from MidPen Housing Corporation in the amount of Five 
Million Dollars ($5,000,000) (the “Sponsor Loan”)
321 of 556

--- page 322 ---
3
660\11\3170072.2
(7) A loan from California Housing Finance Agency Mixed Income 
Program Funds in the amount of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (the “CalHFA MIP Loan”)
(8) A construction loan from ________ Bank (the "Bank") in the 
approximate amount of _________ Dollars ($XX) (the "Bank Loan");
(9) Tax credit investor limited partner capital in the approximate amount 
of ____________ Dollars ($XX) (the "Tax Credit Investor Equity") provided by the Investor 
Limited Partner; 
(10)
A permanent loan in the approximate amount _____________ 
Dollars ($XX) (the "Permanent Loan").
(d)
“Certificate of Occupancy” shall mean the final certificate of occupancy issued by 
the City for the Development.
(e)
“City” shall mean the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation.
(f)
“City HOME Loan-Assisted Units” shall mean the three (3) floating Units 
designated as assisted by the City HOME Loan.
(g)
“Completion Date” shall mean the date of issuance by the City of a final certificate 
of occupancy for the Development.
(h)
“Deed of Trust” shall mean the Leasehold Deed of Trust with Assignment of Rents, 
Security Agreement, and Fixture Filing dated of even date herewith, among Developer, as trustor, 
Old Republic Title Company, as trustee, and the City, as beneficiary, that will encumber the Property 
to secure repayment of the City HOME Loan and performance of the covenants of the Loan 
Documents.  
(i)
“Default” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 below.
(j)
“Hazardous Materials” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.8 below.
(k)
“Hazardous Materials Claim” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.8 below.
(l)
“Hazardous Materials Law” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.9 below.
(m)
“HOME” shall mean the HOME Investment Partnership Act Program pursuant to the 
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12705 et seq.), as 
amended.
(n)
“HOME Reporting Term” shall mean the first fifteen (15) years of the Term.
(o)
“HUD” shall mean the United States Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.
(p)
“Intercreditor Agreement” shall mean the Intercreditor Agreement, dated of even 
date herewith, among the City, the County of San Mateo, Housing Endowment and Regional Trust 
322 of 556

--- page 323 ---
4
660\11\3170072.2
of San Mateo County (HEART), and Developer concerning repayment of the City LM Loan, the 
City HOME Loan, the City CLF Loan, the County AHF Loan and the HEART Loan.
(q)
“Loan Documents” shall mean this Agreement, the Note, the Intercreditor 
Agreement, the Regulatory Agreement, and the Deed of Trust.
(r)
“NEPA” shall mean the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended 
(42 U.S.C. 4321-4347).
(s)
“Note” shall mean the Promissory Note dated of even date herewith evidencing 
Developer’s obligation to repay the City HOME Loan.  
(t)
“Parties” shall mean the City and Developer.
(u)
“Regulatory Agreement” shall mean the Regulatory Agreement and Declaration of 
Restrictive Covenants dated of even date herewith between the City and Developer associated with 
the City HOME Loan, the City LM Loan and the City CLF Loan to be recorded against Developer’s 
Leasehold Interest in Property and secured by the Deed of Trust.
(v)
“Term” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.7(a) below.
(w)
“Transfer” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.14 below.
(x)
“Unit” shall mean one of the rental units included in the Development.
Section 1.2
Exhibits
The following exhibits are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this Agreement 
by this reference:
EXHIBIT A:  Legal Description of the Low-Income Housing Parcel
EXHIBIT B:  Approved Development Budget
ARTICLE 2.  LOAN PROVISIONS
Section 2.1.
Loan.
The City shall loan to Developer the City HOME Loan for the purposes set forth in Section 
2.3 of this Agreement.  The obligation to repay the City HOME Loan shall be evidenced by the 
Note.
Section 2.2.
Interest.
(a)
Interest Rate.  Subject to the provisions of Section 2.2 (b) below, the outstanding 
principal balance of the City Loan shall accrue three percent (3%) simple interest annually.
(b)
Default Rate.  In the event of a Default, interest on the City Loan shall begin to accrue, 
as of the date of Default and continuing until such time as the City Loan funds are repaid in full or 
323 of 556

--- page 324 ---
5
660\11\3170072.2
the Default is cured, at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent (10%), compounded annually, or 
the highest rate permitted by law.
Section 2.3.
Use of Loan Funds.
(a)
Developer shall use the City HOME Loan to fund the construction of the 
Development (including permits, fees, and financing costs) consistent with the Approved 
Development Budget and consistent with 24 C.F.R. Section 301(b).
(b)
Developer shall not use the City HOME Loan for any other purposes without the prior 
written consent of the City.
Section 2.4.
Security.
Developer shall secure its obligation to repay the City HOME Loan, as evidenced by the 
Note, by executing the Deed of Trust, and recording it as a lien against the Property.  Developer 
shall also cause or permit the Intercreditor Agreement and Regulatory Agreement to be recorded 
against the Property.  
Section 2.5.
Subordination.
(a)
The Deed of Trust and/or Regulatory Agreement shall be senior in lien priority to 
the deeds of trust securing the Sponsor Loan and equal in lien priority (pursuant to the Intercreditor 
Agreement) to the City LM Loan, the City CLF Loan, the County AFH Loan, and the HEART 
Loan.
(b)
The Deed of Trust and/or Regulatory Agreement may be subordinated to the lien 
of a deed of trust securing the other Approved Financing (in each case, a “Senior Loan”), but only 
on condition that all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1)
All of the proceeds of the Senior Loan, less any transaction costs, must be 
used to provide construction and/or permanent financing for the Development.
(2)
The lender making the Senior Loan (in each case, a “Senior Lender”) must 
be a state or federally chartered financial institution, a nonprofit corporation, or a public entity 
that is not affiliated with Developer or any of Developer’s affiliates, other than as a depositor or 
a lender.
(3)
Developer must demonstrate to the City’s reasonable satisfaction that 
subordination of the Deed of Trust and/or Regulatory Agreement is necessary to secure adequate 
construction and/or permanent financing to ensure the viability of the Development, including the 
operation of the Development as affordable housing, as required by the Loan Documents with 
City hereby agreeing that subordination to any Approved Financing (or refinancing of any 
Approved Financing so long as the term of the refinancing loan does not exceed the then 
outstanding principal balance of the existing Senior Loan plus any commercially reasonable 
closing costs associated with such refinancing plus any reserves or holdbacks reasonably required 
by such refinancing lender) is hereby deemed necessary.  Except as set forth above, to satisfy this 
requirement, Developer must provide to the City, in addition to any other information reasonably 
required by the City, evidence demonstrating that the proposed amount of the refinanced Senior 
Loan is necessary to provide adequate construction and/or permanent financing to ensure the 
viability of the Development, and adequate financing for the Development would not be available 
without the proposed subordination.
324 of 556

--- page 325 ---
6
660\11\3170072.2
(4)
The subordination agreement must be structured to minimize the risk that the 
Deed of Trust and/or Regulatory Agreement would be extinguished as a result of a foreclosure by 
the Senior Lender.  To satisfy this requirement, the subordination agreement must provide the City 
with adequate rights to cure any defaults by Developer, including:  (a) providing the City or its 
successor with copies of any notices of default at the same time and in the same manner as provided 
to Developer; and (b) providing the City the right to cure any default by Developer within ninety 
(90) days after a notice of default.
(5)
The subordination described in this section may be effective only during the 
original term of the Senior Loan and any extension of its term approved in writing by the City.
(6)
No subordination may limit the effect of the Deed of Trust and/or Regulatory 
Agreement before a foreclosure, nor require consent of the holder of the Senior Loan to the exercise 
of any remedies by the City under the Loan Documents.
(7)
Upon a determination by the City Attorney that the conditions in this Section 
2.5 have been satisfied, the City Manager or his/her designee will be authorized to execute the 
approved subordination agreement without the necessity of any further action or approval.
(8)
In the event there is a foreclosure of a senior loan, the Regulatory Agreement 
shall be revived according to its original terms if, during the original Regulatory Agreement term, 
the owner of record before the foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes 
the former owner or those with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains 
an ownership interest in the Property.
Section 2.6.
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Loan Funds.
The maximum amount of funds to be disbursed pursuant to this Section 2.6 shall not exceed 
the amount of the City HOME Loan. The City shall not be obligated to make any disbursements of 
the City HOME Loan for construction of the Development or take any other action under the Loan 
Documents unless the following conditions precedent are satisfied prior to each such disbursement 
of the City HOME Loan:
(a)
There exists no Default nor any act, failure, omission or condition that would 
constitute an event of Default under this Agreement.
(b)
Developer has furnished the City with evidence of the insurance coverage meeting 
the requirements of Section 4.15 below.
(c)
Developer has caused to be executed and delivered to the City all Loan Documents 
and any other instruments and policies required under the Loan Documents.
(d)
The Deed of Trust, the Regulatory Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement have 
been recorded against the Property in the Office of the Recorder of the County of San Mateo.
(e)
A title insurer reasonably acceptable to the City is unconditionally and irrevocably 
committed to issuing an LP-10 ALTA Lender’s Policy of title insurance insuring the priority of the 
Deed of Trust in the amount of the City HOME Loan, subject only to such exceptions and exclusions 
as may be reasonably acceptable to the City, and containing such endorsements as the City may 
reasonably require.
325 of 556

--- page 326 ---
7
660\11\3170072.2
(f)
The City has determined that the undisbursed proceeds of the City HOME Loan, 
together with other funds or firm commitments for funds that Developer has obtained in connection 
with the Development, are not less than the amount that is necessary to pay for development of the 
Development and to satisfy all of the covenants contained in this Agreement and the Regulatory 
Agreement.
(g)
Developer has obtained all permits and approvals necessary for the construction of the 
Development, as required by Section 3.1.
(h)
The City has received and approved the general contractor’s construction contract 
that Developer has entered or proposed to enter for construction of the Development as required 
pursuant to Section 3.2 below.
(i)
The City has received copies of labor and material (payment) bonds and 
performance bonds as required pursuant to Section 3.3 below.
(j)
Developer has closed all Approved Financing described in Section 1.1(c)(1) through 
(6) and (c)(8) and is eligible to receive the proceeds thereof, subject to the terms and conditions of 
each Approved Financing.
(k)
The City has received a written draw request from Developer, including certification 
that the condition set forth in Section 2.6(a) continues to be satisfied, and setting forth the proposed 
uses of funds consistent with the Approved Development Budget, the amount of funds needed, and, 
where applicable, a copy of the bill or invoice covering a cost incurred or to be incurred.
Section 2.7.
Repayment Schedule.
The City HOME Loan shall be repaid as follows:
(a)
Term.  The City HOME Loan and this Agreement shall have a term that commences 
on the date of this Agreement and expires on the date fifty-seven (57) years after the recordation 
date of the Deed of Trust (the “Term”).
(b)
Repayment.  No later than May 1 of each calendar year, commencing on May 1 of 
the year following the full calendar year in which the Development has received a final certificate 
of occupancy certifying that the Development may be legally occupied, for the Term of the City 
HOME Loan, Developer shall make repayments of the City HOME Loan equal to the City’s Pro 
Rata Percentage of the Lenders’ Share of Residual Receipts (all as defined in the Intercreditor 
Agreement).  Payments made shall be credited first against accrued interest and then against 
outstanding principal.
(c)
Surplus Construction Funds.  The Developer shall prepare a certification of the 
“Total Development Costs of the Development,” a copy of which shall be provided to the City 
within twelve (12) months after the Completion Date.  If, after construction is completed and all 
obligations to contractors, subcontractors, lenders and investors are satisfied, there are Net 
Proceeds of Financing (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) for the Development, a payment 
shall be made by Developer and distributed between the City and any other public agency 
requiring such reimbursement as contributors of funds to the Development according to the Pro 
Rata Percentage (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) of the City and such other public 
agency, all as further set forth in Section 2.3 of the Intercreditor Agreement.
326 of 556

--- page 327 ---
8
660\11\3170072.2
(d)
Special Repayment for Un-leased Units.  As required under 24 C.F.R. 92.252, if 
Developer fails to lease any one of the HOME-Assisted Units within eighteen (18) months of the 
Completion of Construction of the Development, the Developer shall repay to the City a 
proportionate share of the indebtedness of Developer to the City under this Agreement and the 
Note attributable to each of the HOME-Assisted Units that has remained un-leased for the entire 
eighteen (18) month period, which amount shall be immediately due and payable.
(c)
Payment in Full.  All principal and accrued interest on the City HOME Loan shall 
be due in full on the earlier to occur of (1) the date of any Transfer not authorized by the City, (2) 
the date of any Default, and (3) the expiration of the Term.
(d)
Prepayment.  Developer shall have the right to prepay the City HOME Loan at 
any time without penalty.  Notwithstanding the prepayment of the City HOME Loan, the 
Regulatory Agreement shall remain in effect for the entire term of the Regulatory Agreement.
Section 2.8.
Non-Recourse.
Except as provided below, neither Developer, nor any general or limited partner of 
Developer, shall have any direct or indirect personal liability for payment of the principal of, and 
interest on, the City HOME Loan or the performance of the covenants of Developer under the Deed 
of Trust.  Following recordation of the Deed of Trust, the sole recourse of the City with respect 
to the principal of, and interest on, the Note and defaults by Developer in the performance of its 
covenants under the Deed of Trust shall be to the property described in the Deed of Trust; provided, 
however, that nothing contained in the foregoing limitation of liability shall (a) limit or impair the 
enforcement against all such security for the Note of all the rights and remedies of the City 
thereunder, or (b) be deemed in any way to impair the right of the City to assert the unpaid principal 
amount of the Note as a demand for money within the meaning and intendment of Section 431.70 
of the California Code of Civil Procedure or any successor provision thereto.  The foregoing 
limitation of liability is intended to apply only to the obligation for the repayment of the principal 
of, and payment of interest on, the Note and the performance of Developer’s obligations under the 
Deed of Trust, except as hereafter set forth; nothing contained herein is intended to relieve 
Developer of its obligation to indemnify the City under Sections 3.6, 4.7, 4.8 and 7.4 of this 
Agreement, or liability for (a) fraud or willful misrepresentation, (b) the failure to pay taxes, 
assessments or other charges which may create liens on the Property that are payable or applicable 
prior to any foreclosure under the Deed of Trust (to the full extent of such taxes, assessments or 
other charges), (c) the fair market value of any personal property or fixtures removed or disposed of 
by Developer other than in accordance with the Deed of Trust, and (d) the misappropriation of any 
proceeds under any insurance policies or awards resulting from condemnation or the exercise of the 
power of eminent domain or by reason of damage, loss or destruction to any portion of the Property.
ARTICLE 3.  CONSTRUCTION OF THE DEVELOPMENT
Section 3.1.
Permits and Approvals.
All permits and approvals necessary for the construction of the Development on the Property 
must be received no later than _February 16, 2022, or such later date that the City may approve, or 
the City, at its option, and with thirty (30) days written notice and opportunity to cure, may declare 
Developer in default hereunder.
Section 3.2.
Construction Contract.
327 of 556

--- page 328 ---
9
660\11\3170072.2
(a)
Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed commencement of construction 
of the Development, Developer shall submit to the City for its approval the proposed construction 
contract for the Development.  All construction work and professional services shall be performed 
by persons or entities licensed or otherwise authorized to perform the applicable construction work 
or service in the State of California.  Each contract that Developer enters for construction of the 
Development shall provide that at least ten percent (10%) of the costs incurred shall be payable only 
upon completion of construction, subject to early release of retention for specified subcontractors 
upon approval by the City.  The construction contract shall include all applicable HOME 
requirements set forth in Section 4.7 below.  The City’s approval of the construction contract shall 
in no way be deemed to constitute approval of or concurrence with any term or condition of the 
construction contract except as such term or condition may be required by this Agreement.
(b)
Upon receipt by the City of the proposed construction contract, the City shall 
promptly review same and approve or disapprove it within ten (10) working days.  If the construction 
contract is not approved by the City, the City shall set forth in writing and notify Developer of the 
City’s reasons for withholding such approval.  Developer shall thereafter submit a revised 
construction contract for City approval, which approval shall be granted or denied in five (5) 
working days in accordance with the procedures set forth above.  Any construction contract 
executed by Developer for the Development shall be in the form approved by the City. If the City 
fails to approve or disapprove the forms of construction contract within the above review periods, 
the form of construction contract shall be deemed approved by the City. The City hereby 
acknowledges that as of the date of this Agreement, the City has approved the construction 
contract.
Section 3.3.
Construction Bonds.
Prior to commencement of construction of the Development, Developer shall deliver to the 
City copies of labor and material bonds and performance bonds for the construction of the 
Development in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the scheduled cost of the 
Development.  Such bonds shall name the City as a co-obligee.
Section 3.4.
Commencement of Construction.
Developer shall cause the commencement of construction of the Development no later than 
February 21, 2022, or such later date that the City may approve, which in no event shall be any 
later than twelve (12) months from the Effective Date.
Section 3.5.
Completion of Construction.
Developer shall diligently prosecute construction of the Development to completion, and 
shall cause the completion of the construction of the Development no later than February 20, 2025, 
or such later date that the City may approve.
Section 3.6.
Construction Pursuant to Plans and Laws
(a)
Developer shall construct the Development in conformance with the plans and 
specifications approved by the City.  Any changes in the work required to be performed under this 
Agreement, including any additions, changes, or deletions to the plans and specifications approved 
by the City, shall be governed by Section 7.6 of the DDLA.
(b)
Developer shall cause all work performed in connection with the Development to be 
performed in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, state, 
328 of 556

--- page 329 ---
10
660\11\3170072.2
county or municipal governments or agencies now in force or that may be enacted hereafter, 
including without limitation and to the extent applicable and state prevailing wages pursuant 
to Labor Code Section 1770 et seq., and the regulations pursuant thereto, as further set forth in 
subsection (d) below; (2) the property standards set out in 24 C.F.R. 5.701 et seq. and 24 C.F.R. 
92.251 or adopted by the City in conformance therewith; and (3)  all directions, rules and regulations 
of any fire marshal, health officer, building inspector, or other officer of every governmental agency 
now having or hereafter acquiring jurisdiction.  The work shall proceed only after procurement of 
each permit, license, or other authorization that may be required by any governmental agency 
having jurisdiction, and Developer shall be responsible to the City for the procurement and 
maintenance thereof, as may be required of Developer and all entities engaged in work on the 
Development.
(c)
To the extent required by applicable law, Developer shall pay, and shall cause the 
contractor and subcontractors to pay, prevailing wages in the construction of the Development as 
those wages are determined pursuant to Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., to employ apprentices as 
required by Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq., and the implementing regulations of the 
Department of Industrial Relations (the “DIR”).  Developer shall comply, and shall cause the 
contractor and subcontractors to comply, with the other applicable provisions of Labor Code Section 
1720 et seq., 1777.5 et seq., and implementing regulations of the DIR.  Developer shall keep and 
retain, and shall cause the contractor and subcontractors to keep and retain, such records as are 
necessary to determine if such prevailing wages have been paid as required pursuant to Labor Code 
Section 1720 et seq., and apprentices have been employed as required by Labor Code Section 
1777.5 et seq.  Copies of the applicable current per diem prevailing wages are available from DIR.  
During the construction of the Development, Developer shall post, or shall cause the contractor to 
post, at the Property the applicable prevailing rates of per diem wages.  Developer shall indemnify, 
hold harmless and defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable to the City) the City against any 
claim for damages, compensation, fines, penalties or other amounts arising out of the failure or 
alleged failure of any person or entity (including Developer, its contractor and subcontractors) to 
pay prevailing wages as determined pursuant to Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., to employ 
apprentices pursuant to Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq., and implementing regulations of the 
DIR or to comply with the other applicable provisions of Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., 1777.5 
et seq., and the implementing regulations of the DIR in connection with the construction of the 
Development or any other work undertaken or in connection with the Low-Income Housing Parcel.  
The requirements in this subsection shall survive the repayment of the City HOME Loan, and the 
reconveyance of the Deed of Trust.
(d) 
To the extent required by law: (i) Developer is required to provide the City all 
information required by Labor Code Section 1773.3 as set forth in the DIR's online form PWC-
100 within two (2) days of the award of the contract (https://www.dir.ca.gov/pwc100ext/); (ii) 
Developer shall cause its respective contractors to post job site notices, as prescribed by applicable 
DIR regulations; and (iii) Developer shall cause its respective contractors to furnish payroll 
records required by Labor Code Section 1776 directly to the Labor Commissioner, at least 
monthly in the electronic format prescribed by the Labor Commissioner.
(e)
In compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794, et 
seq.), a minimum of twelve (12) Units shall be constructed to be fully accessible to households 
with a mobility impaired member and five (5) Units shall be fully accessible to hearing and/or 
visually impaired persons.
Section 3.7.
Marketing Plan.
329 of 556

--- page 330 ---
11
660\11\3170072.2
(a)
Developer shall submit to the City for approval its plan for marketing the 
Development to income-eligible households as required pursuant to the Regulatory Agreement 
Section 5.5, including information on affirmative marketing efforts and compliance with fair 
housing laws, including, but not limited to the information required under 24 C.F.R. Section 
92.351(a) (the “Marketing Plan”).
(b)
Upon receipt of the Marketing Plan, the City shall promptly review the Marketing 
Plan and shall approve or disapprove it within fifteen (15) days after submission.  If the Marketing 
Plan is not approved, the City shall set forth in writing and notify Developer of the City’s reasons 
for withholding such approval and Developer shall submit a revised Marketing Plan within fifteen 
(15) days of receipt of the City’s reasons, and the City shall approve or disapprove the revised plan 
within fifteen (15) days after submission.    If the City does not approve the revised Marketing Plan, 
Developer shall be in Default hereunder. If the City fails to approve or disapprove the Marketing 
Plan within the above review periods, the Marketing Plan shall be deemed approved by the City.
(c)
If after five (5) months after the Completion of Construction any HOME-Assisted 
Unit remains unoccupied, the Developer shall submit a detail report of the ongoing marketing 
efforts, and if deemed appropriate by the City, any necessary amendments or updates to the 
Marketing Plan aimed at ensuring any unoccupied HOME-Assisted Unit is promptly leased.  If 
any of the HOME-Assisted Units remain unoccupied eleven (11) months after the Completion of 
Construction, the Developer shall submit a detailed report of the ongoing marketing efforts and 
submit to the City an update to the Marketing Plan.  Failure to lease all of the HOME-Assisted 
Units to an eligible tenant within eighteen (18) months of Completion of Construction shall trigger 
the special repayment pursuant to Section 2.7(d).
Section 3.8.
Equal Opportunity.
During the construction of the Development, there shall be no discrimination on the basis of 
race, color, creed, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, source of 
income, ancestry, or disability in the hiring, firing, promoting, or demoting of any person engaged 
in the construction work.
In providing services supported in whole or in part with federal financial assistance, and 
in their outreach activities related to such services, program participants shall not discriminate 
against current or prospective program beneficiaries on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a 
refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.  A 
faith-based organization that is a recipient or subrecipient of HOME funds is eligible to use such 
funds as provided under the regulations of this part without impairing its independence, autonomy, 
expression of religious beliefs, or religious character. Such organization will retain its 
independence from federal, state, and local government, and may continue to carry out its mission, 
including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs, provided 
that it does not use direct program funds to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities, 
including activities that involve overt religious content, such as worship, religious instruction, or 
proselytization, or any manner prohibited by law. Among other things, faith-based organizations 
may use space in their facilities to provide program-funded services, without removing or altering 
religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, a HOME program-funded 
religious organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious 
terms in its organization's name, select its board members on a religious basis, and include 
religious references in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.
330 of 556

--- page 331 ---
12
660\11\3170072.2
Nothing in this Section prohibits the Developer from requiring Units in the Development 
to be available to and occupied by income eligible households in accordance with the Regulatory 
Agreements.
Section 3.10. Construction Responsibilities.
(a)
It shall be the responsibility of Developer to coordinate and schedule the work to be 
performed so that commencement and completion of the construction will take place in accordance 
with this Agreement.
(b)
Developer shall be solely responsible for all aspects of Developer’s conduct in 
connection with the Development, including (but not limited to) the quality and suitability of the 
plans and specifications, the supervision of construction work, and the qualifications, financial 
condition, and performance of all architects, engineers, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, 
consultants, and property managers.  Any review or inspection undertaken by the City with reference 
to the Development is solely for the purpose of determining whether Developer is properly 
discharging its obligations to the City, and should not be relied upon by Developer or by any third 
parties as a warranty or representation by the City as to the quality of the design or construction of 
the Development.
Section 3.11. Mechanics Liens, Stop Notices, and Notices of Completion.
(a)
If any claim of lien is filed against the Property or a stop notice affecting the City 
HOME Loan is served on the City or any other lender or other third party in connection with the 
Development, then Developer shall, within thirty (30) days after such filing or service, either pay 
and fully discharge the lien or stop notice, effect the release of such lien or stop notice by delivering 
to the City a surety bond in sufficient form and amount, or provide the City with other assurance 
satisfactory to the City that the claim of lien or stop notice will be paid or discharged.
(b)
If Developer fails to discharge any lien, encumbrance, charge, or claim in the manner 
required in this Section, then in addition to any other right or remedy, the City may (but shall be 
under no obligation to) discharge such lien, encumbrance, charge, or claim at Developer’s expense.  
Alternately, the City may require Developer to immediately deposit with the City the amount 
necessary to satisfy such lien or claim and any costs, pending resolution thereof.  The City may use 
such deposit to satisfy any claim or lien that is adversely determined against Developer.
(c)
Developer shall file a valid notice of cessation or notice of completion upon 
cessation of construction on the Development for a continuous period of thirty (30) days or more, 
and take all other reasonable steps to forestall the assertion of claims of lien against the Low-Income 
Housing Parcel.  Developer authorizes the City, but without any obligation, to record any notices 
of completion or cessation of labor, or any other notice that the City deems necessary or desirable 
to protect its interest in the Development and Low-Income Housing Parcel.
Section 3.12. Inspections.
Developer shall permit and facilitate, and shall require its contractors to permit and facilitate, 
observation and inspection at the Development by the City and by public authorities during 
reasonable business hours upon forty-eight (48) hours’ written notice for the purposes of 
determining compliance with this Agreement.
After the completion of an inspection the City shall deliver a copy of the inspection report 
to the Developer.  If the City determines as a result of such inspection that there are any life-
threatening health and safety related deficiencies, Developer has the obligation to correct such 
331 of 556

--- page 332 ---
13
660\11\3170072.2
deficiencies immediately, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. 92.251.  If the City determines as a result 
of the inspection that there are any deficiencies for any of the inspectable items in the Development, 
the Developer shall correct such deficiencies within fifteen (15) days from the delivery of the 
inspection report or if a period longer than fifteen (15) days is reasonably necessary to correct the 
deficiency, then Developer must begin to correct the deficiency within fifteen (15) days and correct 
the deficiency as soon as reasonably possible.  In addition, the Developer acknowledges that the 
City may re-inspect the Development to verify all deficiencies have been corrected or rely on third 
party documentation submitted by the Developer for non-hazardous deficiencies in conformance 
with 24 C.F.R. 92.504(d).
Section 3.13. Approved Development Budget; Revisions to Budget.
As of the date of this Agreement, the City has approved the Approved Development Budget.  
Developer shall submit any required amendments to the Approved Development Budget to the City 
for approval within five (5) days of the date Developer receives information indicating that actual 
costs of the Development vary or will vary from the costs shown on the Approved Development 
Budget.  Written consent of the City shall be required to amend the Approved Development Budget 
where the total budget or any line item varies by more than ten percent (10%).
Section 3.14. Developer Fee.
The maximum cumulative developer fee that may be paid to any entity or entities providing 
development services to the Development, whether paid up-front or on a deferred basis, shall not 
exceed the amount allowed by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee and as approved by 
the City in the Approved Development Budget.  For the purposes of this Agreement the term 
Developer Fee has the meaning set forth in California Code of Regulations, Title 4, Section 10302.
ARTICLE 4.  LOAN REQUIREMENTS
Section 4.1.
Match Requirement.
The City HOME Loan is matched with a minimum Of One Hundred Sixty Two Thousand 
Five Hundred Dollars ($162,500.00) in other, non-federal sources, pursuant to and eligible under 
applicable HOME regulations.
The total amount of the Loan may not exceed the maximum per unit subsidy for HOME-
Assisted Units amount established under 24 C.F.R. §92.250.  The City has determined that the 
applicable maximum per unit subsidy applicable to the Development at the time of this Agreement 
is: (1) One Hundred Seventy Five Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Two Dollars ($ 175,752.00) for 
a one- bedroom unit, and (2) Two Hundred Thirteen Thousand Seven Hundred Eighteen Dollars 
($213,718.00) for a two bedroom unit, and 3) Two Hundred Seventy Six Thousand Four Hundred 
Eighty Two Dollars ($276,482.00) for a three bedroom unit.
Section 4.2.
Financial Accountings and Post-Completion Audits.
No later than ninety (90) days following the Completion Date, Developer shall provide to 
City a financial accounting of all sources and uses of funds for the Development.  No later than one 
hundred eighty (180) days following the Completion Date, Developer shall submit an audited 
financial report showing the sources and uses of all funds utilized for the Development.
Section 4.3.
Annual Operating Budget.
332 of 556

--- page 333 ---
14
660\11\3170072.2
The Developer, at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of each of the Developer's fiscal year, 
Developer shall provide to the City an annual budget for the operation of the Development.  Unless 
rejected by the City in writing within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the budget, said budget shall 
be deemed accepted.  If rejected by the City in whole or in part, Developer shall submit a new or 
corrected budget within thirty (30) calendar days of notification of the City’s rejection and the 
reasons therefor.  The provisions of this. Section 4.3 relating to time periods for resubmission of 
new or corrected budgets shall continue to apply until such budget has been approved by the City.
Section 4.4.
Information.
Developer shall provide any information reasonably requested by the City in connection 
with the Development, including (but not limited to) any information required by HUD in 
connection with Developer’s use of the City HOME Loan funds.
Section 4.5.
Records.
(a)
Developer shall keep and maintain at the Development, or elsewhere with the City’s 
written consent, full, complete and appropriate books, record and accounts relating to the 
Development, including all such books, records and accounts necessary or prudent to evidence and 
substantiate in full detail Developer’s compliance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.  
Books, records and accounts relating to Developer’s compliance with the terms, provisions, 
covenants and conditions of this Agreement shall be kept and maintained in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, and shall be consistent with 
requirements of this Agreement.  All such books, records, and accounts shall be open to and 
available for inspection and copying by HUD, the City, its auditors or other authorized 
representatives at reasonable intervals during normal business hours.  Copies of all tax returns and 
other reports that Developer may be required to furnish to any governmental agency shall at all 
reasonable times be open for inspection by the City at the place that the books, records and accounts 
of Developer are kept.  Developer shall preserve such records for a period of not less than five (5) 
years after the creation of such records in compliance with all HUD records and accounting 
requirements including but not limited to those set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.508.  If any litigation, claim, 
negotiation, audit exception, monitoring, inspection or other action relating to the use of the City 
HOME Loan is pending at the end of the record retention period stated herein, then Developer shall 
retain such records until such action and all related issues are resolved.  Such records shall include 
all invoices, receipts, and other documents related to expenditures from the City HOME Loan 
funds.  Records must be kept accurate and current and in such a form as to allow the City to comply 
with the recordkeeping requirements contained in 24 C.F.R. 92.508.  Such records shall include 
but not be limited to:
(1)
Records providing a full description of the activities undertaken with the use 
of the City HOME Loan funds;
(2)
Records demonstrating compliance with the HUD property standards and 
lead-based paint requirements, including, as applicable, the Uniform Physical Conditions Standards 
established by HUD pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 5.703;
(3)
Records demonstrating compliance with the affordability and income 
requirements for tenants;
(4)
Records documenting compliance with the fair housing, equal opportunity, 
and affirmative fair marketing requirements, as applicable;
333 of 556

--- page 334 ---
15
660\11\3170072.2
(5)
Financial records as required by Uniform Grant Guidance (2 C.F.R. Part 200);
(6)
Records demonstrating compliance with the Tenant Selection Plan 
requirements pursuant to 24 C.F.R. 92.253(d), that tenant leases comply with the HOME 
Requirements set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92 et seq.; and
(7)
Records demonstrating compliance with 24 C.F.R. Part 75 which implements 
Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 and other applicable labor 
requirements listed in Section 3.6 above, including certified payrolls from Developer’s general 
contractor evidencing that applicable prevailing wages have been paid.
(8)
Records demonstrating compliance with 24 C.F.R. 8.20.
(b)
The City shall notify Developer of any records it deems insufficient.  Developer shall 
have thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of such a notice to correct any deficiency in the 
records specified by the City in such notice, or if a period longer than thirty (30) days is reasonably 
necessary to correct the deficiency, then Developer shall begin to correct the deficiency within thirty 
(30) days and correct the deficiency as soon as reasonably possible.
Section 4.6.
City Audits.
Each year, Developer shall provide the City with a copy of Developer’s annual audit, which 
shall include information on all of Developer’s activities (if any) and not just those pertaining to the 
Development.  In addition, the City or any designated agent or employee of the City at any time 
shall be entitled to audit all of Developer’s books, records, and accounts pertaining thereto and the 
Developer and the Developer's general partners shall submit all other financial information 
pertaining to the Development as is reasonably requested by the City determined by the City as 
necessary for compliance with the requirements of 24 C.F.R. 504(d).  Developer shall also follow 
audit requirements of the Single Audit Act and Uniform Grant Guidance (UGG) 2 C.F.R. Part 200.  
Such audit shall be conducted during normal business hours at the principal place of business of 
Developer and other places where records are kept.  Immediately after the completion of an audit, 
the City shall deliver a copy of the results of such audit to Developer.  
Section 4.7.
HOME Requirements.
(a)
Developer shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing the use 
of the City HOME Loan funds as set forth in 24 C.F.R. Part 92, including but not limited to the 
requirements of the Regulatory Agreement.  In the event of any conflict between this Agreement 
and applicable laws and regulations governing the use of the City HOME Loan funds, the applicable 
laws and regulations shall govern.  During the HOME Reporting Term, these requirements shall 
be federal requirements, implemented by the City.
(b)
The laws and regulations governing the use of the City HOME Loan funds include 
(but are not limited to) the following, each to the extent applicable:
(1)
Eligible Project Costs.  Restrictions on funding only eligible project costs as 
defined under 24 C.F.R. 92.206.
(2)
Environmental and Historic Preservation.  24 C.F.R. Part 50, 24 C.F.R. Part 
58 et seq., which prescribes procedures for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act 
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321-4361), and the additional laws and authorities listed at 24 C.F.R. 58.5.
334 of 556

--- page 335 ---
16
660\11\3170072.2
(3)
Debarred, Suspended or Ineligible Contractors.  The prohibition on the use 
of debarred, suspended, or ineligible contractors set forth in 2 C.F.R. Part 2424.
(4)
Civil Rights, Housing and Community Development, and Age  
Discrimination Acts.  The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) and implementing regulations 
at 24 C.F.R. 100 et seq.; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended; Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968 as amended; Section 104(b) and Section 109 of Title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 as amended; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
(29 U.S.C. 794 et seq.); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.); Executive 
Order 11063 as amended by Executive Order 12259 and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. 107 
et seq.; Executive Order 11246 as amended by Executive Orders 11375, 12086, 11478, 12107; 
Executive Order 11625 as amended by Executive Order 12007; Executive Order 12432; and 
Executive Order 12138 as amended by Executive Order 12608, Executive Order 13672, 
concerning gender identity.
(5)
Lead-Based Paint.  The requirement of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning 
Prevention Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4821 et seq.), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
Reduction Act (42 U.S.C. 4851 et seq.), and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. 35 et seq and 
24 C.F.R. 92.355.
(6)
Relocation.  The requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and 
Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.) and implementing 
regulations at 49 C.F.R. 24 et seq.; 24 C.F.R. 570.606, Section 104(d) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. 42 et seq.; 24 
C.F.R. 92.353; and California Government Code 7260 et seq. and implementing regulations at 25 
California Code of Regulations 6000 et seq.  If and to the extent that development of the 
Development results in the permanent or temporary displacement of residential tenants, 
homeowners, or businesses, then Developer shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal 
statutes and regulations with respect to relocation planning, advisory assistance, and payment of 
monetary benefits.  Developer shall prepare and submit a relocation plan to the City for approval.  
Developer shall be solely responsible for payment of any relocation benefits to any displaced 
persons and any other obligations associated with complying with such relocation laws.  Developer 
shall indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably chosen by the City), and hold harmless the City 
against all claims which arise out of relocation obligations to residential tenants, homeowners, or 
businesses permanently or temporarily displaced by the Development.
(7)
Discrimination against the Disabled.  The requirements of the Fair Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) and implementing regulations, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (24 C.F.R. 8.20, et seq. 8.51) and 
federal regulations issued pursuant thereto, which prohibit discrimination against the disabled in any 
federally assisted program, the requirements of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4151-4157) and the applicable requirements of Title II and/or Title III of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.), and federal regulations issued pursuant thereto.
(8)
Clean Air and Water Acts.  The Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401 
et seq., the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., and the 
regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency with respect thereto, at 40 C.F.R. 1500 et seq., 
as amended from time to time.
(9)
Uniform Administrative Requirements.  The provisions of 2 C.F.R. 200 
regarding Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, And Audit Requirements for 
Federal Awards.
335 of 556

--- page 336 ---
17
660\11\3170072.2
(10)
Training Opportunities.  The requirements of Section 3 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1968 (“Section 3”), as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1701u requiring that to the 
greatest extent feasible opportunities for training and employment be given to lower income 
residents of the project area and agreements for work in connection with the project be awarded to 
business concerns which are located in, or owned in substantial part by persons residing in, the 
areas of the project.  Developer agrees to include the following language in all subcontracts executed 
under this Agreement:
(A)
The work to be performed under this contract is subject to the requirements of 
Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, 12 U.S.C. Section 
1701u.  The purpose of Section 3 is to ensure that employment and other economic opportunities 
generated by HUD assistance or HUD-assisted projects covered by Section 3, shall, to the greatest 
extent feasible, be directed to low- and very low-income persons, particularly persons who are 
recipients of HUD assistance for housing.
(B)
The parties to this contract agree to comply with HUD’s regulations in 24 
C.F.R. 135 et seq., which implement Section 3.  As evidenced by their execution of this contract, 
the parties to this contract certify that they are under no contractual or other impediment that would 
prevent them from complying with the Part 135 regulations.
(C)
Pursuant to Section 3, to the greatest extent feasible, and consistent with 
existing Federal, state, and local laws and regulations Developer shall ensure:
(1)
that employment and training opportunities arising in connection 
with the Development are provided to Section 3 workers within the metropolitan area (or 
nonmetropolitan county) in which the Development is located.  Where feasible, priority for 
opportunities and training described above should be given to: (i) Section 3 workers residing 
within the service area or the neighborhood of the project, and (ii) participants in YouthBuild 
programs; and
(2)
that contracts for work awarded in connection with the 
Development are provided to business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 3 
workers residing within the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the 
Development is located.  Where feasible, priority for opportunities and training described above 
should be given to: (i) Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 
3 workers residing within the service area or the neighborhood of the Development, and (ii) 
participants in YouthBuild programs.
(D)
The contractor agrees to send to each labor organization or representative of 
workers with which the contractor has a collective bargaining agreement or other understanding, if 
any, a notice advising the labor organization or workers’ representative of the contractor’s 
commitments under this Section 3 clause; and will post copies of the notice in conspicuous places 
at the work site where both employees and applicants for training and employment positions can 
see the notice.  The notice shall describe the Section 3 preference; shall set forth minimum number 
and job titles subject to hire; availability of apprenticeship and training positions; the qualifications 
for each; the name and location of the person(s) taking applications for each of the positions; and 
the anticipated date the work shall begin.
(E)
The contractor agrees to include this Section 3 clause in every subcontract 
subject to compliance with regulations in 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq., and agrees to take appropriate 
action, as provided in an applicable provision of the subcontract or in this Section 3 clause, upon a 
336 of 556

--- page 337 ---
18
660\11\3170072.2
finding that the subcontractor is in violation of the regulations in 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq.  The 
contractor will not subcontract with any subcontractor where the contractor has notice or knowledge 
that the subcontractor has been found in violation of the regulations in 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq.
(F)
The contractor will certify that any vacant employment positions, including 
training positions, that are filled (i) after the contractor is selected but before the contract is executed, 
and (ii) with persons other than those to whom the regulations of 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq. require 
employment opportunities to be directed, were not filled to circumvent the contractor’s obligations 
under 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq.
(G)
Developer will be considered to have complied with the Section 3 
requirements, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, if it certifies that it has followed the 
prioritization of effort set forth in subsection (1) above, and meets or exceeds the applicable 
Section 3 benchmark as described in 24 C.F.R. 75.23(b).
(H)
Developer shall maintain records of its Section 3 activities and cause such 
records to be accurate and current and in a form that allows the City to comply with the reporting 
requirements of 24 C.F.R. 75.25.
(I)
Noncompliance with HUD’s regulations in 24 C.F.R. 135 et seq. may result 
in sanctions, termination of this contract for default, and debarment or suspension from future HUD 
assisted contracts.
(J)
With respect to work performed in connection with Section 3 covered Indian 
housing assistance, Section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
U.S.C. 450e) also applies to the work to be performed under this contract.  Section 7(b) requires 
that to the greatest extent feasible (i) preference and opportunities for training and employment shall 
be given to Indians, and (ii) preference in the award of contracts and subcontracts shall be given to 
Indian organizations and Indian-owned Economic Enterprises.  Parties to this contract that are 
subject to the provisions of Section 3 and Section 7(b) agree to comply with Section 3 to the 
maximum extent feasible, but not in derogation of compliance with Section 7(b).
(11)
Labor Standards.  If applicable, the contractor will comply with the labor 
requirements set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.354.  The prevailing wage requirements of the Davis-Bacon 
Act (as referred to in Section 3.6(c) above) and implementing rules and regulations (40 U.S.C. 3141-
3148); the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (40 U.S.C. 276(c)) which requires that workers be paid 
at least once a week without any deductions or rebates except permissible deductions; the Contract 
Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701-3708) which requires that workers receive 
“overtime” compensation at a rate of 1.5 times their regular hourly wage after they have worked 
forty (40) hours in one (1) week; and Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Subtitle A, Parts 1, 3 
and 5 are the regulations and procedures issued by the Secretary of Labor for the administration and 
enforcement of the Davis-Bacon Act, as amended.
(12)
Drug Free Workplace.  The requirements of the Drug Free Workplace Act of 
1988 (P.L. 100-690) and implementing regulations at 2 C.F.R. Part 2424.
(13)
Anti-Lobbying; Disclosure Requirements.  The disclosure requirements and 
prohibitions of 31 U.S.C. 1352 et seq. and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. 87 et seq.
(14)
Historic Preservation.  The historic preservation requirements set forth in the 
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) and the procedures 
set forth in 36 C.F.R. 800 et seq.  If archeological, cultural, or historic period resources are 
337 of 556

--- page 338 ---
19
660\11\3170072.2
discovered during construction, all construction work must come to a halt and Developer shall 
immediately notify the City.  Developer shall not alter or move the discovered material(s) until all 
appropriate procedures for "post-review discoveries" set forth in Section 106 of the National 
Historic Preservation Act have taken place, which include, but are not limited to, consultation with 
the California State Historic Preservation Officer and evaluation of the discovered material(s) by a 
qualified professional archeologist.
(15)
HUD Regulations.  Any other HUD regulations present or as may be 
amended, added, or waived in the future pertaining to the City HOME Loan funds, including but 
not limited to HUD regulations as may be promulgated regarding subrecipients.
(16)
Flood Disaster Protection.  The requirements of the Flood Disaster Protection 
Act of 1973 (P.L. 93-234) (the "Flood Act").  No portion of the assistance provided under this 
Agreement is approved for acquisition or construction purposes as defined under Section 3(a) of the 
Flood Act, for use in an area identified by HUD as having special flood hazards which is not then in 
compliance with the requirements for participation in the national flood insurance program pursuant 
to Section 201(d) of the Flood Act.  The use of any assistance provided under this Agreement for 
such acquisition or construction in such identified areas in communities then participating in the 
National Flood Insurance Program is subject to the mandatory purchase of flood insurance 
requirements of Section 102(a) of the Flood Act.  If the Property is located in an area identified by 
HUD as having special flood hazards and in which the sale of flood insurance has been made 
available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq., the 
property owner and its successors or assigns must obtain and maintain, during the ownership of the 
Property, such flood insurance as required with respect to financial assistance for acquisition or 
construction purposes under -Section 102(s) of the Flood Act.  Such provisions are required 
notwithstanding the fact that the construction on the Property is not itself funded with assistance 
provided under this Agreement.
(17)
Religious Organizations.  If the Developer is a religious organization, as 
defined by the HOME requirements, the Developer shall comply with all conditions prescribed by 
HUD for the use of HOME funds by religious organizations, including the First Amendment of the 
United States Constitution regarding church/state principles and the applicable constitutional 
prohibitions set forth in 24 C.F.R. 92.257. 
(18) 
Physical Needs Assessment.  The Developer shall conduct, or caused to be 
conducted, a physical needs assessment on the Development once every five (5) years form the date 
that the Construction of the Development is completed.  The Developer shall comply with all HUD 
requirements for conducting and documenting the physical needs assessment and, upon request of 
the City, Developer shall provide the City with a copy of all documentation related to each physical 
needs assessment conducted, or caused to be conducted, by the Developer.
(20)
VAWA Requirements.  The requirements of the Violence Against Women 
Act at 24 C.F.R. part 5, subpart L.  The owner of HOME-assisted rental housing must provide the 
notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the applicant for a HOME-assisted 
unit at the time the applicant is admitted to a HOME-assisted unit, or denied admission to a HOME-
assisted unit based on the owner's tenant selection policies and criteria. The owner of HOME-assisted 
rental housing must also provide the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005 with 
any notification of eviction from a HOME-assisted unit.
Section 4.8.
Hazardous Materials.
338 of 556

--- page 339 ---
20
660\11\3170072.2
(a)
Developer shall keep and maintain the Property in compliance with, and shall not 
cause or permit the Property to be in violation of any federal, state or local laws, ordinances or 
regulations relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under or about the 
Property including, but not limited to, soil and ground water conditions.  Developer shall not use, 
generate, manufacture, store or dispose of on, under, or about the Property or transport to or from 
the Property any flammable explosives, radioactive materials, hazardous wastes, toxic substances 
or related materials, including without limitation, any substances defined as or included in the 
definition of “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,” “hazardous materials,” or “toxic 
substances” under any applicable federal or state laws or regulations (collectively referred to 
hereinafter as “Hazardous Materials”) except such of the foregoing as may be customarily used in 
construction of projects like the Development or kept and used in and about residential property of 
this type and except such of the foregoing was present on the Property prior to commencement of 
the Ground Lease.
(b)
Developer shall immediately advise the City in writing if at any time it receives 
written notice of (1) any and all enforcement, cleanup, removal or other governmental or regulatory 
actions instituted, completed or threatened against Developer or the Property pursuant to any 
applicable federal, state or local laws, ordinances, or regulations relating to any Hazardous 
Materials, (“Hazardous Materials Law”); (2) all claims made or threatened by any third party against 
Developer or the Property relating to damage, contribution, cost recovery compensation, loss or 
injury resulting from any Hazardous Materials (the matters set forth in clauses (1) and (2) above are 
hereinafter referred to as “Hazardous Materials Claims”); and (3) Developer’s discovery of any 
occurrence or condition on any real property adjoining or in the vicinity of the Property that could 
cause the Property or any part thereof to be classified as “border-zone property” (as defined in 
California Health and Safety Code Section 25117.4) under the provisions of California Health and 
Safety Code Section 25220 et seq. or any regulation adopted in accordance therewith, or to be 
otherwise subject to any restrictions on the ownership, occupancy, transferability or use of the 
Property under any Hazardous Materials Law.
(c)
City shall have the right to join and participate in, as a party if it so elects, any legal 
proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any Hazardous Materials Claims and to have 
its reasonable attorneys' fees in connection therewith paid by Developer.  Developer shall 
indemnify and hold harmless City and its board members, supervisors, directors, officers, 
employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any loss, damage, cost, expense or 
liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the use, generation, storage, release, 
threatened release, discharge, disposal, or presence of Hazardous Materials on, under, or about 
the Property occurring from and after the date of recordation of the Deed of Trust including 
without limitation: (1) all foreseeable consequential damages; (2) the costs of any required or 
necessary repair, cleanup or detoxification of the Property and the preparation and implementation 
of any closure, remedial or other required plans; and (3) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred 
by City in connection with clauses (1) and (2), including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' 
fees. This indemnity obligation shall not extend to any claim arising from City's negligence or 
willful misconduct or to any claims for which City indemnifies Developer for under the City Loan 
Documents.
(d)
Without the City’s prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
Developer shall not take any remedial action in response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials 
on, under or about the Low-Income Housing Parcel, nor enter into any settlement agreement, 
consent decree, or other compromise in respect to any Hazardous Material Claims, which remedial 
action, settlement, consent decree or compromise might, in the City’s reasonable judgment, impair 
the value of the City’s security hereunder; provided, however, that the City’s prior consent shall not 
be necessary in the event that the presence of Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the Property 
339 of 556

--- page 340 ---
21
660\11\3170072.2
either poses an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of any individual or is of such a 
nature that an immediate remedial response is necessary and it is not reasonably possible to obtain 
the City’s consent before taking such action, provided that in such event Developer shall notify the 
City as soon as practicable of any action so taken.
  
(e)
The City agrees not to withhold its consent, where such consent is required 
hereunder, if (1) a particular remedial action is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) 
Developer will or may be, subjected to civil or criminal sanctions or penalties if it fails to take a 
required action; (3) Developer establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the City that there is no 
reasonable alternative to such remedial action which would result in less impairment of the City’s 
security hereunder; or (4) the action has been agreed to by the City.
(f)
Developer hereby acknowledges and agrees that (1) this Section is intended as the 
City’s written request for information (and Developer’s response) concerning the environmental 
condition of the Property as required by California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5, and (2) 
each representation and warranty in this Agreement (together with any indemnity obligation 
applicable to a breach of any such representation and warranty) with respect to the 
environmental condition of the Property is intended by the Parties to be an “environmental 
provision” for purposes of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 736.
(g)
In the event that any portion of the Property is determined to be “environmentally 
impaired” (as that term is defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(e)(3)) 
or to be an “affected parcel” (as that term is defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 
726.5(e)(1)), then, without otherwise limiting or in any way affecting the City’s or the trustee’s 
rights and remedies under the Deed of Trust, the City may elect to exercise its rights under California 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(a) to (1) waive its lien on such environmentally impaired or 
affected portion of the Property and (2) exercise (A) the rights and remedies of an unsecured 
creditor, including reduction of its claim against Developer to judgment, and (B) any other rights 
and remedies permitted by law.  For purposes of determining the City’s right to proceed as an 
unsecured creditor under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(a), Developer shall 
be deemed to have willfully permitted or acquiesced in a release or threatened release of Hazardous 
Materials, within the meaning of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(d)(1), if the 
release or threatened release of Hazardous Materials was knowingly or negligently caused or 
contributed to by any lessee, occupant, or user of any portion of the Property and Developer knew 
or should have known of the activity by such lessee, occupant, or user which caused or contributed 
to the release or threatened release.  All costs and expenses, including (but not limited to) attorneys’ 
fees, incurred by the City in connection with any action commenced under this paragraph, including 
any action required by California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(b) to determine the 
degree to which the Property is environmentally impaired, plus interest thereon at the rate specified 
in the Note until paid, shall be added to the indebtedness secured by the Deed of Trust and shall be 
due and payable to the City upon its demand made at any time following the conclusion of such 
action.
(i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event of any
conflict between this Section 4.8 and the DDLA and Ground Lease, the DDLA and 
Ground Lease shall prevail.
Section 4.9.
Maintenance and Damage.
(a)
During the course of both construction and operation of the Development, Developer 
shall maintain the Development and the Property in good repair and in a neat, clean and orderly 
condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.  If there arises a condition in contravention of this 
340 of 556

--- page 341 ---
22
660\11\3170072.2
requirement, and if Developer has not cured such condition within thirty (30) days after receiving a 
City notice of such a condition, then in addition to any other rights available to the City, the City 
shall have the right to perform all acts necessary to cure such condition, and to establish or enforce 
a lien or other encumbrance against the Property.
(b)
Subject to the requirements of senior lenders, and if economically feasible in the 
City’s reasonable judgment after consultation with Developer, if any improvement now or in the 
future on the Property is damaged or destroyed, then Developer shall, at its cost and expense, 
diligently undertake to repair or restore such improvement consistent with the plans and 
specifications approved by the City with such changes as have been approved by the City.  Such 
work or repair shall be commenced no later than the later of one hundred twenty (120) days, 
or such longer period approved by the City in writing, after the damage or loss occurs and thirty 
(30) days following receipt of the insurance proceeds, and shall be complete within two (2) years 
thereafter.  Any insurance proceeds collected for such damage or destruction shall be applied to 
the cost of such repairs or restoration and, if such insurance proceeds shall be insufficient for such 
purpose, then Developer shall make up the deficiency.  If Developer does not make repairs, then 
any insurance proceeds collected for such damage or destruction shall be distributed as if such 
proceeds were Residual Receipts (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement), subject to the rights 
of the senior lenders.
Section 4.10. Fees and Taxes.
Developer shall be solely responsible for payment of all fees, assessments, taxes, charges, 
and levies imposed by any public authority or utility company with respect to the Property or the 
Development to the extent owned by Developer, and shall pay such charges prior to delinquency.  
However, Developer shall not be required to pay and discharge any such charge so long as (a) the 
legality thereof is being contested diligently and in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, 
and (b) if requested by the City, Developer deposits with the City any funds or other forms of 
assurance that the City in good faith from time to time determines appropriate to protect the City 
from the consequences of the contest being unsuccessful.
Section 4.11. Notice of Litigation.
Developer shall promptly notify the City in writing of any litigation which has the potential 
to materially affect Developer, the Development or the Property and of any claims or disputes that 
involve a material risk of such litigation.
Section 4.12. Operation of Development as Affordable Housing.
(a)
Promptly after completion of construction, Developer shall operate the Development 
as an affordable housing development consistent with (1) HUD’s requirements for use of the City 
HOME Loan funds, and (2) the Regulatory Agreement; and (3) any other regulatory requirements 
imposed on Developer including but not limited to regulatory agreements associated with the 
Loan, and Low Income Housing Tax Credits provided by TCAC.
(b)
Before leasing any Unit in the Development, Developer shall submit its proposed form 
of lease agreement for the City’s review and approval in accordance with the Regulatory 
Agreement.
(c)
Before leasing any HOME-Assisted Unit in the Development, Developer shall submit 
its proposed form of lease agreement for the City's review and approval.  The Lease must not contain 
any provision which is prohibited by 24 C.F.R. 92.253(b) and any modifications thereto.  The initial 
341 of 556

--- page 342 ---
23
660\11\3170072.2
term of the lease for any Unit in the Development is to be for no less than one (1) year, except by 
mutual agreement between Developer and the Tenant.  Any Developer termination of a lease 
agreement for any unit in the Development or refusal to renew must be in conformance with 24 C.F.R. 
92.253(c), and must be preceded by not less than sixty (60) days written notice to the Tenant by 
Developer specifying the grounds for the action.
(c)
Before leasing the Development, Developer must provide the City, for its review and 
approval, with Developer’s written tenant selection plan.  Developer’s tenant selection plan must, 
at a minimum, meet the requirements for tenant selection set out in 24 C.F.R. 92.253(d), and any 
modifications thereto.
(d)
Developer must determine the income eligibility of each tenant household in a Unit 
pursuant to the City’s approved tenant certification procedures within one hundred twenty (120) 
days before the household’s expected occupancy of one of the Development’s Units. Developer 
shall certify each tenant household’s income on an annual basis.
(e)
The maximum household income of a household occupying a Unit in the 
Development, and the total charges for rent, utilities, and related services to each household 
occupying a Unit, shall be maintained as provided in the Regulatory Agreement.
Section 4.13. Nondiscrimination.
Except as otherwise permitted under the Regulatory Agreement, DDLA or Ground Lease, 
Developer covenants by and for itself and its successors and assigns that there shall be no 
discrimination against or segregation of a person or of a group of persons on account of race, color, 
creed, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, source of income, 
ancestry, or disability  in the sale, lease, sublease, transfer, use, occupancy, tenure or enjoyment of 
the Low-Income Housing Parcel, nor shall Developer or any person claiming under or through 
Developer establish or permit any such practice or practices of discrimination or segregation with 
reference to the selection, location, number, use or occupancy of tenants, lessees, subtenants, 
sublessees or vendees in the Low-Income Housing Parcel. The foregoing covenant shall run with 
the land.
Section 4.14. Transfer.
(a)
For purposes of this Agreement, “Transfer” shall mean any sale, assignment, or 
transfer, whether voluntary or involuntary, of (1) any rights and/or duties under this Agreement, 
and/or (2) any interest in the Property, including (but not limited to) a fee simple interest, a joint 
tenancy interest, a life estate, a partnership interest, a leasehold interest, a security interest, or an 
interest evidenced by a land contract by which possession of the Development is transferred and 
Developer retains title.  “Transfer” shall exclude the leasing of any single Unit in the Property to 
an occupant in compliance with the Regulatory Agreement.  The City Manager is authorized to 
execute assignment and assumption agreements on behalf of the City to implement any approved 
Transfer.
(b)
Except for those Transfers approved hereunder or as otherwise approved under the 
Ground Lease, no Transfer shall be permitted without the prior written consent of the City, which 
the City may withhold in its sole discretion. The City HOME Loan shall automatically accelerate 
and be due in full upon any Transfer made without the prior written consent of the City.
(c)
The City approves the grant of the security interests in the Property for Approved 
Financing.
342 of 556

--- page 343 ---
24
660\11\3170072.2
Section 4.15. Insurance Requirements.
Developer shall maintain the following insurance coverage throughout the Term of the City 
HOME Loan:
ARTICLE 5.  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF DEVELOPER
Section 5.1.
Representations and Warranties.
Developer hereby represents and warrants to the City as follows and acknowledges, 
understands, and agrees that the representations and warranties set forth in this Article 5 are 
deemed to be continuing during all times when any or all of the Loan remains outstanding.  The 
Developer shall immediately advise the City in writing if there is any material change relating to 
any matters set forth or referenced in the items set forth below:
(a)
Organization.  Developer is a duly organized California limited partnership, validly 
existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of California and has the power and 
authority to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted.  Copies of the 
documents evidencing the organization of the Developer delivered to the City are true and correct 
copies of the originals
(b)
Authority of Developer.  Developer has full power and authority to execute and 
deliver this Agreement and to make and accept the borrowings contemplated hereunder, to execute 
and deliver the Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or 
to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, and to perform and observe the terms and 
provisions of all of the above.
(c)
Authority of Persons Executing Documents.  This Agreement and the Loan 
Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be executed and 
delivered, pursuant to this Agreement have been executed and delivered by persons who are duly 
authorized to execute and deliver the same for and on behalf of Developer, and all actions required 
under Developer’s organizational documents and applicable governing law for the authorization, 
execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Loan Documents and all other 
documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this 
Agreement, have been duly taken.
(d)
Valid Binding Agreements.  This Agreement and the Loan Documents and all other 
documents or instruments which have been executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with 
this Agreement constitute or, if not yet executed or delivered, will when so executed and delivered 
constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of Developer enforceable against it in accordance 
with their respective terms.
(e)
No Breach of Law or Agreement.  Neither the execution nor delivery of this 
Agreement and the Loan Documents or of any other documents or instruments executed and 
delivered, or to be executed or delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, nor the performance of any 
provision, condition, covenant or other term hereof or thereof, will conflict with or result in a breach 
of any statute, rule or regulation, or any judgment, decree or order of any court, board, commission 
or agency whatsoever binding on Developer, or any provision of the organizational documents of 
Developer, or will conflict with or constitute a breach of or a default under any agreement to which 
343 of 556

--- page 344 ---
25
660\11\3170072.2
Developer is a party, or will result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any assets or 
property of Developer, other than liens established pursuant hereto.
(f)
Compliance With Laws; Consents and Approvals.  The construction of the 
Development will comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, state 
and local governments and agencies and with all applicable directions, rules and regulations of the 
fire marshal, health officer, building inspector and other officers of any such government or agency.
(g)
Pending Proceedings.  Developer is not in default under any law or regulation or 
under any order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever, and there are no claims, 
actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of Developer, threatened against or 
affecting Developer or the Development, at law or in equity, before or by any court, board, 
commission or agency whatsoever which might, if determined adversely to Developer, materially 
affect Developer’s ability to repay the Loan or impair the security to be given to the City pursuant 
hereto.
(h)
Ground Lease.  At the time of recordation of the Deed of Trust, Developer will have 
leasehold title to the Property and there will exist on the Property or with respect thereto no 
mortgage, lien, pledge or other encumbrance of any character whatsoever other than for the 
Approved Financing.
(i)
Financial Statements.  The financial statements of Developer and other financial 
data and information furnished by Developer to the City fairly and accurately present the 
information contained therein. As of the date of this Agreement, there has not been any adverse, 
material change in the financial condition of Developer from that shown by such financial 
statements and other data and information.
(j)
Sufficient Funds.  Developer holds sufficient funds and/or binding commitments 
for sufficient funds to complete the construction of the Development in accordance with the 
plans and specifications approved by the City.
(k)
Taxes.  Developer and its subsidiaries have filed all federal and other material tax 
returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all federal and other material taxes, 
assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their income or 
their interest in the Property otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in 
good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  There is no proposed tax assessment 
against Developer or any of its subsidiaries that could, if made, be reasonably expected to have a 
material adverse effect upon the Development, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations, 
condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Developer and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, 
which would be expected to result in a material impairment of the ability of Developer to perform 
under any Loan Document to which it is a party, or a material adverse effect upon the legality, 
validity, binding effect or enforceability against Developer of any Loan Document.
ARTICLE 6.  DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
Section 6.1.
Events of Default.
Each of the following shall constitute a “Default” by Developer under this Agreement:
(a)
Failure to Construct.  Failure of Developer to commence and complete construction 
of the Development within the times set forth in Article 3 above;
344 of 556

--- page 345 ---
26
660\11\3170072.2
(b)
Failure to Make Payment.  Failure to pay any amount due under the City HOME Loan 
within fifteen (15) days of its due date.
(c)
Breach of Covenants.  Failure by Developer to duly perform, comply with, or observe 
any of the conditions, terms, or covenants of any of the Loan Documents, and such failure having 
continued uncured for thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice thereof from the City to 
Developer or, if the breach cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, Developer shall not be in breach 
so long as Developer is diligently undertaking to cure such breach and such breach is cured within 
ninety (90) days; provided, however, that if a different period or notice requirement is specified 
under any other section of this Article 6, the specific provisions shall control.
(d)
Default Under Other Loans.  A default is declared under any other financing for the 
Development by the lender of such financing and any applicable notice and cure period has expired.
(e)
Insolvency.  A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered any decree or 
order (1) adjudging Developer or Developer’s general partner, to be bankrupt or insolvent, (2) 
approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of Developer or Developer’s general 
partner, or seeking any arrangement for Developer or Developer’s general partner, under the 
bankruptcy law or any other applicable debtor’s relief law or statute of the United States or any 
state or other jurisdiction, (3) appointing a receiver, trustee, liquidator, or assignee of Developer or 
Developer’s general partner, in bankruptcy or insolvency or for any of their properties, (4) directing 
the winding up or liquidation of Developer or Developer’s general partner, if any such decree 
or order described in clauses (1) to (4), inclusive, shall have continued unstayed or undischarged for 
a period of ninety (90) calendar days; or (5) Developer or Developer’s general partner, shall have 
admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as they fall due or shall have voluntarily submitted 
to or filed a petition seeking any decree or order of the nature described in clauses (1) to (4), 
inclusive.  The occurrence of any of the events of Default in this paragraph shall act to accelerate 
automatically, without the need for any action by the City, the indebtedness evidenced by the Note.
(f)
Assignment; Attachment.  Developer or Developer’s general partner shall have 
assigned its assets for the benefit of its creditors or suffered a sequestration or attachment of or 
execution on any substantial part of its property, unless the property so assigned, sequestered, 
attached or executed upon shall have been returned or released within ninety (90) calendar days 
after such event or, if sooner, prior to sale pursuant to such sequestration, attachment, or execution.  
The occurrence of any of the events of default in this paragraph shall act to accelerate automatically, 
without the need for any action by the City, the indebtedness evidenced by the Note.
(g)
Suspension; Termination.  Developer or Developer’s general partner shall have 
voluntarily suspended its business or the partnership shall have been dissolved or terminated, other 
than a technical termination of the partnership for tax purposes.
(h)
Liens on Property and the Development. There shall be filed any claim of lien (other 
than liens approved in writing by the City) against the Development or any part thereof, or any 
interest or right made appurtenant thereto, or the service of any notice to withhold proceeds of the 
City HOME Loan and the continued maintenance of said claim of lien or notice to withhold for a 
period of thirty (30) days, without discharge or satisfaction thereof or provision therefor (including, 
without limitation, the posting of bonds) satisfactory to the City.
(i)
Condemnation.  The condemnation, seizure, or appropriation of all or the substantial 
part of the Property and the Development.
345 of 556

--- page 346 ---
27
660\11\3170072.2
(j)
Unauthorized Transfer.  Any Transfer other than as permitted by Section 4.14.
(k)
Representation or Warranty Incorrect. Any Developer representation or warranty 
contained in this Agreement, or in any application, financial statement, certificate, or report 
submitted to the City in connection with any of the Loan Documents, proving to have been incorrect 
in any material respect when made. After issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the 
Development, Default may be declared under this subsection only if the failure of representation 
or warranty also has a material adverse effect on the operation of the Development.
Section 6.2.
Remedies.
The occurrence of any Default hereunder following the expiration of all applicable notice 
and cure periods will, either at the option of the City or automatically where so specified, relieve the 
City of any obligation to make or continue the City HOME Loan and shall give the City the right to 
proceed with any and all remedies set forth in this Agreement and the Loan Documents, including 
but not limited to the following:
(a)
Acceleration of Note.  The City shall have the right to cause all indebtedness of 
Developer to the City under this Agreement and the Note, together with any accrued interest thereon, 
to become immediately due and payable.  Developer waives all right to presentment, demand, 
protest or notice of protest or dishonor.  The City may proceed to enforce payment of the 
indebtedness and to exercise any or all rights afforded to the City as a creditor and secured party 
under the law including the Uniform Commercial Code, including foreclosure under the Deed of 
Trust.  Developer shall be liable to pay the City on demand all reasonable expenses, costs and fees 
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses) paid or incurred by the City 
in connection with the collection of the Loan and the preservation, maintenance, protection, sale, or 
other disposition of the security given for the Loan.
(b)
Specific Performance.  The City shall have the right to mandamus or other suit, 
action or proceeding at law or in equity to require Developer to perform its obligations and covenants 
under the Loan Documents or to enjoin acts on things which may be unlawful or in violation of the 
provisions of the Loan Documents.
(c)
Right to Cure at Developer’s Expense.  The City shall have the right (but not the 
obligation) to cure any monetary default by Developer under a loan other than the City HOME Loan.  
Developer agrees to reimburse the City for any funds advanced by the City to cure a monetary 
default by Developer upon demand therefor, together with interest thereon at the lower of the 
highest rate then allowed by law or five percent (5%) over the prime interest rate announced by 
Bank of America N.T.&S.A., as of the date of the default.  If Bank of America N.T.&S.A. no 
longer exists or fails to announce a prime interest rate, the prime interest rate announced by the 
largest bank, in terms of total assets, of the member banks of the Eleventh District Federal Reserve 
Bank that announce a prime interest rate, shall be applicable for purposes of this paragraph
Section 6.3.
Right of Contest.
Developer shall have the right to contest in good faith any claim, demand, levy, or 
assessment the assertion of which would constitute a Default hereunder.  Any such contest shall be 
prosecuted diligently and in a manner unprejudicial to the City or the rights of the City hereunder.
Section 6.4.
Remedies Cumulative.
346 of 556

--- page 347 ---
28
660\11\3170072.2
No right, power, or remedy given to the City by the terms of this Agreement or the Loan 
Documents is intended to be exclusive of any other right, power, or remedy; and each and every 
such right, power, or remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or 
remedy given to the City by the terms of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise against 
Developer and any other person.  Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of the City to exercise 
any such rights and remedies shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise 
by the City of any such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or 
remedy, or any other right or remedy.
Section 6.4.
Limited Partner Cure Rights.
In addition to the provisions of Section 7.20 below, the City agrees to provide any limited 
partner of Developer who has requested written notice from the City, a duplicate copy of all 
notices of default that the City may give to or serve in writing upon Developer pursuant to the 
terms of the Loan Documents, at the address provided to the City, provided, the City shall have 
no liability to the Investor Limited Partner for its failure to do so.  The Investor Limited Partner 
shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure any Default of Developer set forth in such 
notice, during any applicable cure period described in the Loan Documents, and the City will 
accept tender of such cure as if delivered by Developer. If the Investor Limited Partner is unable 
to cure a default because Developer’s general partner is in bankruptcy and/or because the cure 
requires removal of the general partner of Developer and the Investor Limited Partner is 
proceeding diligently to remove the general partner of Developer in order to effect a cure of the 
Default, the cure period will be extended for such reasonable time as is necessary for the Investor 
Limited Partner to effect a cure of the Default, but in no event longer than 60 days after the date 
of receipt by the Investor Limited Partner of written notice of the default.
ARTICLE 7.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 7.1.
Relationship of Parties.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be interpreted or understood by any of the Parties, 
or by any third persons, as creating the relationship of employer and employee, principal and agent, 
limited or general partnership, or joint venture between the City and Developer or its agents, 
employees or contractors, and Developer shall at all times be deemed an independent contractor and 
shall be wholly responsible for the manner in which it or its agents, or both, perform the services 
required of it by the terms of this Agreement.  Developer has and retains the right to exercise full 
control of employment, direction, compensation, and discharge of all persons assisting in the 
performance of services under the Agreement. In regards to the construction and operation of the 
Development, Developer shall be solely responsible for all matters relating to payment of its 
employees, including compliance with Social Security, withholding, and all other laws and 
regulations governing such matters, and shall include requirements in each contract that contractors 
shall be solely responsible for similar matters relating to their employees. Developer shall be solely 
responsible for its own acts and those of its agents and employees.
Section 7.2.
No Claims.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create or justify any claim against the City by any 
person that Developer may have employed or with whom Developer may have contracted relative 
to the purchase of materials, supplies or equipment, or the furnishing or the performance of any 
work or services with respect to the purchase of the Low-Income Housing Parcel, the construction 
or operation of the Development, and Developer shall include similar requirements in any contracts 
entered into for the construction or operation of the Development.
347 of 556

--- page 348 ---
29
660\11\3170072.2
Section 7.3.
Amendments.
No alteration or variation of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless made in 
writing by the Parties. The City Manager is authorized to execute on behalf of the City amendments 
to the Loan Documents or amended and restated Loan Documents as long as any material change 
in the amount or terms of this Agreement is approved by the City Council, or in the event the 
amounts or terms of financing provided by other parties for the Development is revised, requiring 
conforming amendments to the Loan Documents.
Section 7.4.
Indemnification.
Developer shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless against any and all claims, 
suits, actions, losses and liability of every kind, nature and description made against it and expenses 
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) which arise out of or in connection with this Agreement, 
including but not limited to the leasing of the Low-Income Housing Parcel, development, 
construction, marketing and operation of the Development, except to the extent such claim arises 
from the grossly negligent or willful misconduct of the City, its agents, and its employees. The 
provisions of this Section shall survive the expiration of the Term and the reconveyance of the Deed 
of Trust.
Section 7.5.
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents.
No member, official, employee or agent of the City shall be personally liable to Developer 
in the event of any default or breach by the City or for any amount that may become due to 
Developer or its successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
Section 7.6.
No Third Party Beneficiaries.
There shall be no third party beneficiaries to this Agreement.
Section 7.7.
Discretion Retained By City.
The City’s execution of this Agreement in no way limits the discretion of the City in the 
permit and approval process in connection with development of the Development.
Section 7.8.
Conflict of Interest.
(a)
Except for approved eligible administrative or personnel costs, no person described 
in Section 7.8(b) below who exercises or has exercised any functions or responsibilities 
with respect to the activities funded pursuant to this Agreement or who is in a position to participate 
in a decision-making process or gain inside information with regard to such activities, may obtain a 
personal or financial interest or benefit from the activity, or have an interest in any contract, 
subcontract or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for themselves or 
those with whom they have family or business ties, during, or at any time after, such person’s tenure.  
Developer shall exercise due diligence to ensure that the prohibition in this Section 7.8(a) is 
followed.
(b)
The conflict of interest provisions of Section 7.8(a) above apply to any person who 
is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or any immediate family member of such person, or any 
elected or appointed official of the City, or any person related within the third (3rd) degree of such 
person.
348 of 556

--- page 349 ---
30
660\11\3170072.2
(c)
In accordance with Government Code Section 1090 and the Political Reform Act 
(Government Code Section 87100 et seq.), no person who is a director, officer, partner, trustee or 
employee or consultant of Developer, or immediate family member of any of the preceding, shall 
make or participate in a decision, made by the City or a City board, commission or committee, if it 
is reasonably foreseeable that the decision will have a material effect on any source of income, 
investment or interest in real property of that person or Developer. Interpretation of this section 
shall be governed by the definitions and provisions used in the Political Reform Act (Government 
Code Section 87100 et seq.), its implementing regulations, and Government Code Section 1090.
(d)
Developer shall comply with the conflict of interest provisions set forth in 24 C.F.R. 
Section 92.356.
Section 7.9.
Notices, Demands and Communications.
Formal notices, demands, and communications between the Parties shall be sufficiently 
given if and shall not be deemed given unless dispatched by registered or certified mail, postage 
prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered by express delivery service, return receipt requested, 
or delivered personally, to the principal office of the Parties as follows:
City:
City of San Mateo
Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
Attention:  City Manager
Developer:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
c/o MidPen Housing Corporation
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA  94404
Attention: President and Chief Executive Officer
With copy to: 
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
349 of 556

--- page 350 ---
31
660\11\3170072.2
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Facsimile:  (213) 630-5799
Matter No: B0965-0600
Such written notices, demands and communications may be sent in the same manner to such 
other addresses as the affected Party may from time to time designate by mail as provided in this 
Section. Receipt shall be deemed to have occurred on the date shown on a written receipt as the date 
of delivery or refusal of delivery (or attempted delivery if undeliverable).
Section 7.10. Applicable Law.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with California law. 
Section 7.11. Parties Bound.
Except as otherwise limited herein, the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon 
and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, 
successors, and assigns.  This Agreement is intended to run with the land and shall bind Developer 
and its successors and assigns in the Development for the entire Term, and the benefit hereof shall 
inure to the benefit of the City and its successors and assigns.
Section 7.12. Attorneys’ Fees.
If any lawsuit is commenced to enforce any of the terms of this Agreement, the prevailing 
Party will have the right to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of suit from the other 
Party.
Section 7.13. Severability.
If any term of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void 
or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions shall continue in full force and effect unless the 
rights and obligations of the Parties have been materially altered or abridged by such invalidation, 
voiding or unenforceability.
Section 7.14. Force Majeure.
In addition to specific provisions of this Agreement, performance by either Party shall not 
be deemed to be in Default where delays or defaults are due to war, insurrection, strikes, lockouts, 
riots, floods, earthquakes, fires, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, lack of transportation, or 
court order.  An extension of time for any cause will be deemed granted if notice by the Party 
claiming such extension is sent to the other within ten (10) days from the commencement of the 
cause and such extension of time is not rejected in writing by the other Party within ten (10) days 
of receipt of the notice.  In no event shall the City be required to agree to cumulative delays in 
excess of one hundred eighty (180) days.
350 of 556

--- page 351 ---
32
660\11\3170072.2
Section 7.15. City Approval.
The City has authorized the City Manager to execute the Loan Documents and deliver such 
approvals or consents as are required by this Agreement, and to execute estoppel certificates 
concerning the status of the City HOME Loan and the existence of Developer defaults under the 
Loan Documents.  Any consents or approvals required under this Agreement shall not be 
unreasonably withheld or made, except where it is specifically provided that a sole discretion 
standard applies.  The City shall not unreasonably delay in reviewing and approving or 
disapproving any proposal by Developer made in connection with this Agreement.
Section 7.16. Waivers.
Any waiver by the City of any obligation or condition in this Agreement must be in writing.  
No waiver will be implied from any delay or failure by the City to take action on any breach or 
default of Developer or to pursue any remedy allowed under this Agreement or applicable law.  Any 
extension of time granted to Developer to perform any obligation under this Agreement shall not 
operate as a waiver or release from any of its obligations under this Agreement.  Consent by the 
City to any act or omission by Developer shall not be construed to be a consent to any other or 
subsequent act or omission or to waive the requirement for the City’s written consent to future 
waivers.
Section 7.17. Title of Parts and Sections.
Any titles of the sections or subsections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of 
reference only and shall be disregarded in interpreting any part of the Agreement’s provisions.
Section 7.18. Entire Understanding of the Parties.
This Agreement, the Note, the Deed of Trsust and REgulatory Agreement constitutes the 
entire understanding and agreement of the Parties with respect to the City HOME Loan.
Section 7.19. Multiple Originals; Counterpart.
This Agreement may be executed in multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an 
original, and may be signed in counterparts.
Section 7.20
Limited Partner Rights.
The City agrees to the following provisions for the benefit of the Developer's Investor 
Limited Partner:
(a)
The City will give the Investor Limited Partner a copy of any written 
notice that the City gives to Developer under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents;
(b)
The City will give the Investor Limited Partner ten (10) days after their 
receipt of such notice to cure a non-payment of any sum due under the Loan Documents;
351 of 556

--- page 352 ---
33
660\11\3170072.2
(c)
The City will give the Investor Limited Partner thirty (30) days after the 
Investor Limited Partner's receipt of such notice to cure any other default under this Agreement 
and other Loan Documents;
(d)
If a default is incapable of being cured within thirty days, the City will 
give the Investor Limited Partner sixty (60) days to cure such default provided the Investor 
Limited Partner has commenced to cure such default and is diligently proceeding to cure such 
default through the end of such period; 
(e)
If the Investor Limited Partner makes any such payment or otherwise 
cures such default, the City will accept such action as curing such Default as if such payment or 
cure were made by Developer; 
(f)
The City will permit insurance and condemnation proceeds to be used to 
rebuild the Development provided that: (1) sufficient funds are provided from other sources to 
effectively rebuild the Development to a lawful multifamily housing complex, and (2) subject to 
the rights of any senior lenders, the City shall hold all such proceeds and disburse them based on 
the progress of construction, subject to such additional reasonable conditions as the City may 
impose.
WHEREAS, this Agreement has been entered into by the undersigned as of the date first 
above written.
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation
By: 
 
Its:
Date: 
DEVELOPER:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a 
California limited partnership
By:
MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC.
a California limited liability company
352 of 556

--- page 353 ---
34
660\11\3170072.2
By:  Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc.,
a California nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, 
its sole member/manager
By:
Name:
Its:
Date: 
353 of 556

--- page 354 ---
SMT/CityHOMELoanAgmt
EXHIBIT A
4/11/12
660\11\3170072.2
EXHIBIT A
Legal Description of the Low-Income Housing Parcel
The land referred to herein is situated in the State of California, County of San Mateo, City of San 
Mateo and is described as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of 
San Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at Page(s) 
52 and 53.
APN: 034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A 
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
354 of 556

--- page 355 ---
SMT/CityHOMELoanAgmt
EXHIBIT D
4/11/12
660\11\3170072.2
EXHIBIT B
FINANCING PLAN
Sources of Funds
CONSTRUCTION
PERMANENT
 
 
State, Local, Federal Assistance:
County of San Mateo
5,185,817
5,185,817
Accrued/Deferred Interest
270,398
270,398
City of San Mateo: Low-Mod Loan
2,850,000 
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
146,667
146,667
City of San Mateo: HOME Loan
650,000
650,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
33,450
33,450
City of San Mateo: Commercial Linkage Loan
2,000,000
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
102,924
102,924
MidPen Sponsor Loan: Parking Funds
5,000,000
5,000,000
HEART AHTF Loan
3,800,000
3,800,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
198,139
198,139
Deferred Developer Fee
2,000,000
2,000,000
Capital Contributions – General Partner
100
100
Capital Contributions – Limited Partner
21,783,250
73,252,978
Bank of America TE Construction Bond
85,000,000
Bank of America Taxable Tail
30,918,515
Costs Deferred Until Permanent Loan Closing
6,610,213
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche A
44,333,000
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche B
27,726,000
CalHFA MIP Loan
2,000,000
Total Sources
166,549,474 
166,549,474 
Total Development Costs
166,549,474
166,549,474
355 of 556

--- page 356 ---
37
660\11\3170072.2
Uses of Funds
TOTAL COST
LAND COSTS
TOTAL LAND COSTS
1,508,272
DIRECT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS
126,071,058
INDIRECT COSTS
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
26,678,439
FINANCING COSTS
TOTAL FINANCING COSTS
12,291,705
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COSTS
166,549,474
356 of 556

--- page 357 ---
1
RECORDING REQUESTED PURSUANT
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
XXXX
XXXX
XXXX
XXX
No fee for recording pursuant to
Government Code Section 27383
Mail Tax Statements as Directed Above
APN NO. xxx-xxx-xxx
__________________________________________________________________________
INTERCREDITOR AGREEMENT
(Kiku Crossing)
This Intercreditor Agreement (the "Agreement") is dated as of ______________, and is 
among the City of San Mateo, a California charter city (the "City"), the County of San Mateo, a 
political subdivision of the State of California (the "County"), Housing Endowment and 
Regional Trust of San Mateo County, a Joint Powers Authority (“JPA”) formed and existing 
under the laws of the State of California (“HEART”), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, 
L.P., a California limited partnership (the "Borrower"), with reference to the following facts:
RECITALS
A. Defined terms used but not defined in these recitals are as defined in Section 1 of 
this Agreement.
B. The City and the Borrower entered into the Disposition, Development and Loan 
Agreement dated August 17, 2020 and amended on ____________, providing for the 
development of certain real property located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, as more particularly described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the 
"Property").  
C. The City is the owner of the Property, and the Borrower and the City have entered 
into that certain Ground Lease dated as of __________________ (the "Ground Lease"), 
pursuant to which the Borrower will acquire a leasehold interest in the Property from the City 
for a period of ninety-nine (99) years (the "Leasehold Interest").  The Borrower plans to 
construct 225 multifamily housing units on the Property to extremely low, very low and low 
income households, including two (2) manager's units, and attendant site improvements 
(collectively, the "Improvements").  The Borrower's Leasehold Interest and the Borrower's fee 
interest in the Improvements, are collectively herein after referred to as the "Development."
357 of 556

--- page 358 ---
2
 
D.
The City is making the City LM Loan (defined in Section 1.1(b)(1) to the 
Borrower.  The City LM Loan is evidenced by the following documents: (1) that certain land 
Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement dated as of __________________, as amended 
by that certain First Amendment to Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement, dated as of 
_______________,  (collectively, the "City DDLA"); (2) Deed of Trust With Assignment of 
Rents, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing executed by the Borrower for the benefit of the 
City (the "City Deed of Trust"); (3) a Promissory Note executed by the Borrower for the benefit 
of the City in the amount of the City LM Loan (the "City Note"); (4) a Regulatory Agreement 
and Declaration of Restrictive Covenants (the "City Regulatory Agreement"); and (5) the Notice 
of Affordability Restrictions on Transfer of Property (“Affordability Notice”, provided pursuant 
to Health and Safety Code Sections 33334.3 and/or 33413(c)(5), or successor provisions.  
E.
In addition, the City is making the City Home Loan (defined in Section 1.1(b)(2)) 
to the Borrower.  The City Home Loan is evidenced by the following documents: (1) City 
DDLA; (2) City Deed of Trust; (3) City Home Loan Agreement by and between the Borrower 
and the City dated as ________________ (the "City Home Loan Agreement"); 4) Promissory 
Note executed by the Borrower for the benefit of the City in the amount of the City Home Loan 
(the "City Home Note"); (5) and City Regulatory Agreement.  
F. In addition, the City is making the City CLF Loan (defined in Section 1.1(b)(3)) to 
the Borrower. The City CLF Loan is evidenced by the following documents:(1) City DDLA; (2) 
City Deed of Trust; (3) Promissory Note executed by the Borrower for the benefit of the City in 
the amount of the City CFL Loan (the "City CFL Note"); and (4) City Regulatory Agreement.  
G. The County is making the County AHF Loan (defined in Section 1.1(b)(4)) to the 
Borrower.  The County AHF Loan is evidenced by the following documents: (1) Agreement 
between County of San Mateo Department of Housing and MP Downtown San Mateo 
Associates, L.P., to assist with Kiku Crossing _ for the period (date) to (date), dated as of 
________, 2022 (the "County AHF Loan Agreement"); (2) that certain Leasehold Deed of Trust 
With Assignment of Rents (securing repayment of the County AHF Loan), executed by the 
Borrower for the benefit of the County (the "County AHF Deed of Trust"); (3) that certain 
Promissory Note secured by a Deed of Trust executed by the Borrower for the benefit of the 
County in the amount of the County AHF Loan (the "County AHF Note"); and (5) that certain 
Declaration of Affordability Covenants, executed by the Borrower for the benefit of the County, 
securing the County AHF Loan (the "County AHF Affordability Covenant").
H. HEART is making the HEART Loan (defined in Section 1.1(b)(5)) to the Borrower.  
The HEART Loan is evidenced by the following documents: (1) HEART Loan Agreement by 
and between the Borrower and the City dated as _______________ (the "HEART Loan 
Agreement"); (2) that certain Deed of Trust With Assignment of Rents, Security Agreement and 
Fixture Filing executed by the Borrower for the benefit of HEART (the "HEART Deed of 
Trust"); (3) Promissory Note executed by the Borrower for the benefit of HEART in the amount 
of the HEART Loan (the "HEART Note"); and (4) a Regulatory Agreement and Declaration of 
Restrictive Covenants (the "HEART Regulatory Agreement").  
358 of 556

--- page 359 ---
3
I.
The City, County, and HEART desire to cause the City Deed of Trust, the County 
AFH Deed of Trust, and the HEART Deed of Trust (together, the "Deeds of Trust") to be equal 
in lien priority.   In addition, the City, the County, and HEART desire to divide: (i) the proceeds 
of any foreclosure, condemnation or insurance claim; and (ii) the Lenders' Share of Residual 
Receipts, as described herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS.  
Section 1.1
The following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Expenses" with respect to a particular fiscal year 
means the following costs reasonably and actually incurred for operation and maintenance of 
the Development to the extent that they are consistent with an annual independent audit 
performed by a certified public accountant using generally accepted accounting principles: 
(1)
Property taxes and assessments imposed on the Development; 
(2)
Debt service currently due on a non-optional basis (excluding debt 
service due from residual receipts or surplus cash of the Development) on loans associated with 
the construction and operation of the Development and approved by the City, the County, and 
HEART in the Final Financing Plan (in the form Exhibit B which is attached hereto and 
incorporated herein by this reference);
(3)
Property management fees and reimbursements, not to exceed fees 
and reimbursements which are standard in the industry, and pursuant to a management contract 
approved by the City and the County, with copy to HEART;
(4)
Premiums for property damage and liability insurance;
(5)
Utility services not paid for directly by tenants, including water, 
sewer, and trash collection;  
(6)
Maintenance and repair expenses and services, including pest 
control, landscaping, grounds maintenance, painting and decorating, cleaning, common systems 
repair, janitorial supplies and services, including capital replacements, each to the extent not 
funded by reserves, insurance proceeds, grants, or loans;
(7)
Any annual license or certificate of occupancy fees required for 
operation of the Development;
(8)
Annual program administration fees due to the City, HEART or 
County, as applicable;
(9)
Security services;
359 of 556

--- page 360 ---
4
(10)
Advertising and marketing expenses and services; 
(11)
Cash deposited into the replacement reserve account in the amount 
approved by the City and the County in the Final Financing Plan; 
(12)
Cash deposited into the operating reserve account to maintain the 
amount approved by the City and the County in the Final Financing Plan, but with the operating 
reserve capped at six (6) months of gross rent from the Development (as such rent may vary from 
time to time); 
(13)
Resident services;
(14)
Current and accrued annual partnership management fee of 
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) per year and current and accrued annual limited partner 
asset management fee of Seven Thousand Dollars ($7,000) per year, adjusted annually at three 
percent (3%), provided, however, following withdrawal of the investor limited partner from 
Borrower, the limited partner asset management fee shall no longer be included as an Annual 
Operating Expense for purposes of calculating Residual Receipts;
(15)
Reasonable accounting fees and legal fees;
(16)
An annual audit fee;
(17)
Payments of deductibles in connection with casualty insurance 
claims not normally paid from reserves;
(18)
Fidelity bond premiums;
(19)
The amount of uninsured losses actually replaced, repaired or 
restored, and not normally paid from reserves;
(20)
Repayment of operating deficits, loans or advances from the 
General Partner of the Partnership or an affiliate thereof;
(21)
Repayment of loans made by the General Partner of the 
Partnership or an affiliate thereof to cover eligible basis adjusters required pursuant to the 
Partnership Agreement, but excluding any compliance adjusters required pursuant to the 
Partnership Agreement;
(22)
Payment of any previously unpaid portion of Developer Fee 
(without interest), not to exceed the amount approved by the City and the County as part of the 
Final Financing Plan, provided that this shall only apply to any deferred portion of the net cash 
developer fee (net of any general partner capital contributions) that is approved by the City and 
County as payable from development sources (“Net Developer Fee”). For the avoidance of doubt, 
any deferred Developer Fee remaining after payment of the Net Developer Fee may be paid only 
from Borrower’s share of Residual Receipts;
360 of 556

--- page 361 ---
5
(23)
Extraordinary operating costs specifically approved in writing by 
the City, HEART and the County, unless incurred in connection with an emergency;
(24)
Other ordinary and reasonable operating expenses approved in 
writing by the City, HEART and the County and not listed above; and
(25)
Annual Operating Expenses shall exclude:  depreciation, 
amortization, depletion or other non-cash expenses, any amount expended from a reserve account, 
and any capital cost associated with the Development. 
(b) 
"Approved Financing" means all of the following loans, grants and equity 
obtained by the Borrower and approved by the County and the City for the purpose of financing 
the acquisition of the Leasehold Interest and construction of the Improvements:
(1)  A Low Moderate Housing Asset Fund loan from the City in the 
amount of Two Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,850,000) (the "City LM 
Loan");
(2)  A Home loan from the City in the amount of Six Hundred Fifty 
Thousand Dollars ($650,000) (the "City Home Loan");
(3) A Commercial Linkage Fee Fund loan from the City in the amount of 
Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (the “City CLF Loan”);
(4)   A San Mateo County loan in a total amount not to exceed Five Million 
Dollars One Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Eight Hundred Seventeen Dollars ($5,185,817) of 
Affordable Housing Funds (the "County AHF Loan");
(5) A loan from Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo 
County in the amount of Three Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($3,800,000) (the 
“HEART loan”);
(6) A loan from MidPen Housing Corporation in the amount of Five 
Million Dollars ($5,000,000) (the “Sponsor Loan”);
(7) A loan from California Housing Finance Agency Mixed-Income 
Program Funds in the amount of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (the “CalHFA MIP Loan”);
(8) A construction loan from ________ Bank (the "Bank") in the 
approximate amount of _________ Dollars ($XX) (the "Bank Loan");
(9) Tax credit investor limited partner capital in the approximate amount of 
____________ Dollars ($XX) (the "Tax Credit Investor Equity") provided by the Investor 
Limited Partner; and
(10)
A permanent loan in the approximate amount _____________ 
Dollars ($XX) (the "Permanent Loan").
361 of 556

--- page 362 ---
6
(c)
“City Loans” means the City LM Loan, City Home Loan and City CLF 
Loan, collectively.
(d)      "Gross Revenue" means for each calendar year, all revenue, income, 
receipts, and other consideration earned from the operation and leasing of the Development, 
including but not limited to:
(1)
All rents, fees and charges paid by tenants, payments or other 
rental subsidy payments received for the dwelling units, deposits forfeited by tenants, all 
cancellation fees, price index adjustments and any other rental adjustments to leases or rental 
agreements resulting in actual income; 
(2)
The proceeds of business interruption or similar insurance not paid 
to senior lenders;
(3)
The fair market value of any goods or services provided in 
consideration for the leasing or other use of any portion of the Development;
(4)
The proceeds of casualty insurance to the extent not utilized to 
repair or rebuild the Development (or applied toward the cost of recovering such proceeds) and 
not paid to senior lenders;
(5)
 Condemnation awards for a taking of part or all of the 
Development for a temporary period and not paid to senior lenders;
(6)
Net proceeds from vending and laundry room machines; 
(7)
Gross Revenue does not include security deposits from the 
tenants', loan proceeds, capital contributions or other similar advances.
(e)
"Development" has the meaning set forth in Paragraph B of the Recitals.
(f)
"Enforcing Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(b).
(g)
"Final Cost Certification" means the Final Cost Certification Sources and 
Uses of Funds prepared by the Borrower for the Development that (1) the Borrower submits to 
the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and (2) has been prepared using generally 
accepted accounting standards in effect in the United States of America from time to time, 
consistently applied.
(h)
"Final Development Cost" means the total of the cost of acquisition of the 
Leasehold Interest and construction of the Improvements (including but not limited to the 
funding of reserves and the payment of the non-deferred portion of developer fee up to the 
maximum permitted in the Final Financing Plan) as shown on the Final Cost Certification.
(i)
"Investor Limited Partner" means the investor limited partner identified in 
the Partnership Agreement, and its permitted successors and assigns.
362 of 556

--- page 363 ---
7
(j)
"Lenders' Share of Residual Receipts" means fifty percent (50%) of 
Residual Receipts.
(k)
"Net Proceeds of Permanent Financing" means the amount by which 
Permanent Financing exceeds the Final Development Costs.  Net Proceeds of Permanent 
Financing, if any, shall be determined pursuant to the procedure set forth in Section 4 below.
(l) 
“Parties" means the City, the County, HEART and the Borrower, 
collectively.
(m)
"Partnership Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Agreement of 
Limited Partnership, dated on or about the date of recordation of the Deeds of Trust, as may be 
amended from time to time, that governs the operation and organization of the Borrower as a 
California limited partnership.
(n)
"Permanent Financing" means the sum of the following amounts: 
(1) The Permanent Loan
(2) The City LM Loan 
(3) The City Home Loan
(4) The City CLF Loan
(5)  The County AHF Loan 
(6) The HEART Loan
(7) The Sponsor Loan
(8) The CalHFA MIP Loan 
(9) The Tax Creditor Investment Equity
(o)   "Prorata Percentages" means, at any time any determination thereof is to be 
made the following (a sample of which is provided in Exhibit C, which is attached hereto 
incorporated herein by this reference):
(1)
"City Loan Prorata Percentage" means the result, expressed as a 
percentage, obtained by dividing the sum of the City Loans by the sum of the City Loans, the 
County AHF Loan, the HEART Loan and the CalHFA MIP Loan;
(2)
"County Loan Prorata Percentage" means the result, expressed as a 
percentage, obtained by dividing the County AHF Loan by the sum of the City Loans, the County 
AHF Loan, the HEART Loan and the CalHFA MIP Loan;
363 of 556

--- page 364 ---
8
(3)         "HEART Loan Prorata Percentage" means the result, expressed as 
a percentage, obtained by dividing the HEART Loan by the sum of the City Loans, the County 
AHF Loan, the HEART Loan and the CalHFA MIP Loan.
(p)
"Residual Receipts" means for each calendar year, the amount by which 
Gross Revenue exceeds Annual Operating Expenses.
(q)
"Term" means the period of time that commences on the date of this 
Agreement, and expires, unless sooner terminated in accordance with this Agreement, on the 
earlier of the fifty-seventh (57th) anniversary of date on which this Agreement is recorded or the 
date on which all of the City LM Loan, City Home Loan, City CLF Loan, County AHF Loan 
and HEART Loan have been fully repaid.
ARTICLE 2.
ANNUAL PAYMENTS ON LOANS.  
Section 2.1
Loans.  
(a)
The City shall make the City LM Loan, City Home Loan, and City CLF Loan to the 
Borrower in accordance with the City DDLA.
(b)
The County shall make the County AHF Loan to the Borrower in accordance with the 
County AHF Loan Agreement.
(c)
HEART shall make the HEART Loan to the Borrower in accordance with the HEART 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.2
Prorata Payments.  
(a)
No later than May 1 of each calendar year, commencing on May 1 of the year following 
the full calendar year in which the Development has received a final certificate of occupancy 
certifying that the Development may be legally occupied, the Borrower shall pay the City, the 
County and HEART respectively, their Prorata Percentages of the Lenders' Share of Residual 
Receipts.  Payments to the City under this subsection shall be credited as repayments of the City 
LM Loan, the City Home Loan and the City CLF Loan, in a proportionate basis.
(b)
The City Loans shall be repaid by the Borrower pursuant to the repayment terms in the 
City DDLA, the City Home Loan Agreement and the City Notes, subject to applicable notice and 
cure periods, pursuant to the City DDLA.  In the event of any conflict between the repayment 
terms and provisions of the City DDLA, the City Home Loan Agreement, and this Agreement, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall apply.  The City shall not consent to any amendment or 
waiver of such repayment terms that may impair the County's security or HEART’s security 
under the County AHF Loan or the HEART Loan without the County's or HEART’s prior 
written approval, respectively, which the County or HEART may withhold in its sole discretion.
(c)
The County AHF Loan shall be repaid by the Borrower pursuant to the repayment terms 
in the County AHF Loan Agreement and the County AHF Note.  In the event of any conflict 
between the repayment terms and provisions of the County AHF Loan Agreement and this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall apply. The County shall not consent to any 
364 of 556

--- page 365 ---
9
amendment or waiver of such repayment terms that may to impair the City's or HEART’s 
security under the City Loans or the HEART Loan without the City's security or HEART’s prior 
written approval, respectively, which the City or HEART may withhold in its sole discretion.
(d)
The HEART Loan shall be repaid by the Borrower pursuant to the repayment terms in the 
HEART Loan Agreement and the HEART Note.  In the event of any conflict between the 
repayment terms and provisions of the HEART Loan Agreement and this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall apply. HEART shall not consent to any amendment or waiver 
of such repayment terms that may impair the City's security or County’s security under the City 
Loans or the County AHF Loan without the City's or County’s prior written approval, 
respectively, which the City or County may withhold in its sole discretion. 
(e)
The Borrower shall have the right to prepay the City Loans, County AHF Loan, or 
HEART Loan at any time.
Section 2.3
Special Repayments from Net Proceeds of Permanent Financing. 
(a)
The Borrower shall make special repayments applied to the principal of the City Loans, 
the County AHF Loan, and the HEART Loan in a total amount equal to the Net Proceeds of 
Financing, such amount to be divided between the City, the County and HEART in proportion to 
their Prorata Percentages, with the respectively allocated amounts being utilized for a special 
repayment of the respective loans.  The amount of the Net Proceeds of Financing shall be 
determined by the Borrower and submitted to the City, County and HEART for approval on the 
date the Borrower submits the Final Cost Certification for the Development to the California Tax 
Credit Allocation Committee.  The amount of the Net Proceeds of Financing shall be calculated 
using the actual amount of the permanent approved financing realized by the Borrower, provided 
that the Borrower provides sufficient evidence that the actual amount of permanent approved 
financing realized by the Borrower is the maximum amount that the Borrower could secure for 
the Development applying reasonable underwriting standards.  The Borrower shall also submit to 
the City, County, and HEART any additional documentation sufficient to verify the amount of 
the Net Proceeds of Financing.  The respective shares of the City County and HEARs of the Net 
Proceeds of Financing shall be due  to the City, County, and HEART from the Borrower no later 
than fifteen (15) days following the later of: (1) the date the Borrower receives its final capital 
contribution from the Borrower's limited partner investor; or (2) the date the Borrower has closed 
all permanent financing for the Development.   
Section 2.4
Reports and Accounting of Residual Receipts.  
(a)
Audited Financial Statement. In connection with the loan repayments required under 
Section 2.3, the Borrower shall furnish to the City, the County and HEART an audited statement 
duly certified by an independent firm of certified public accountants approved by the City, the 
County, and HEART setting forth in reasonable detail the computation and amount of Residual 
Receipts during the preceding calendar year.
(b)
Books and Records. The Borrower shall keep and maintain at the principal place of 
business of the Borrower, or elsewhere with the written consent of the City and County, full, 
complete and appropriate books, record and accounts relating to the Development, including all 
books, records and accounts necessary or prudent to evidence and substantiate in full detail the 
Borrower's calculation of Residual Receipts and disbursements of Residual Receipts. The 
365 of 556

--- page 366 ---
10
Borrower shall cause all books, records and accounts relating to its compliance with the terms, 
provisions, covenants and conditions of this Agreement to be kept and maintained in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, and to be consistent with 
requirements of this Agreement, which provide for the calculation of Residual Receipts on a cash 
basis.  The Borrower shall cause all books, records, and accounts to be open to and available for 
inspection by the City and the County and their respective auditors or other authorized 
representatives at reasonable intervals during normal business hours.  The Borrower shall cause 
copies of all tax returns and other reports that the Borrower may be required to furnish to any 
government agency to be open for inspection by the City and the County at all reasonable times 
at the place that the books, records and accounts of the Borrower are kept.  The Borrower shall 
preserve records on which any statement of residual receipts is based for a period of not less than 
five (5) years after such statement is rendered, and for any period during which there is an audit 
undertaken pursuant to subsection (c) below then pending.
(c)
County, HEART and City Audits. The receipt by the City, the County or HEART of any 
statement pursuant to subsection (a) above or any payment by the Borrower or acceptance by the 
City, the County or HEART of any loan repayment for any period shall not bind the City, the 
County or HEART as to the correctness of such statement or such payment.  Within three (3) 
years after the receipt of any such statement, the City, the County, and/or HEART or any 
designated agent or employee of the City, the County and/or HEART at any time shall be 
entitled to audit the Residual Receipts and all books, records, and accounts pertaining thereto.  
Such audit shall be conducted during normal business hours at the principal place of business of 
the Borrower and other places where records are kept.  Immediately after the completion of an 
audit, the City, the County or HEART shall deliver a copy of the results of such audit to the 
Borrower.  If it shall be determined that  as a result of such audit there has been a deficiency in a 
loan repayment to the City, the County and/or HEART, then such deficiency shall become 
immediately due and payable with interest at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent (10%), 
compounded annually, or the highest rate permitted by law, , determined as of and accruing from 
the date that said payment should have been made.  In addition, if the Borrower's auditor's 
statement for any calendar year shall be found to have understated Residual Receipts by more 
than five percent (5%) and at least Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) and the City, the County 
and/or HEART are entitled to any additional City Loans, County Loan and HEART Loan 
repayment as a result of said understatement, then the Borrower shall pay, in addition to the 
interest charges set forth in the preceding sentence referenced hereinabove, all of the City’s, the 
County's and/or HEART’s reasonable costs and expenses connected with any audit or review of 
the Borrower's accounts and records.  Notwithstanding the above, the City, the County and 
HEART shall not require the Borrower to pay the City’s, the County's or HEART’s audit costs 
and expenses unless the City, the County and/or HEART reasonably determine that the 
Borrower's error is a repeated error or otherwise made in bad faith.
Section 2.5
Deeds of Trust.  
(a)
The City shall secure: the City LM Loan, the City Home loan and the City CLF loan with 
the City Deed of Trust; 
(b)
The County, the City and HEART deeds of trust shall be recorded in the following order:
(1)
City Deed of Trust;
366 of 556

--- page 367 ---
11
(2)
County AHF Deed of Trust;
(3)
HEART Deed of Trust;
(c)
The deeds of trust recorded pursuant to Section 2.5(b) shall share co-equal lien priority, 
and the City, the County, and HEART agree to share foreclosure, insurance, and condemnation 
proceeds in accordance with the Prorata Percentages.  
Section 2.6
Notice of Default.  
(a)
The City, the County, and HEART shall each notify the other promptly upon declaring a 
default or learning of the occurrence of any material event of default, or any event which with 
the lapse of time would become a material event of default, under its respective loan documents 
for the City Loans, the County AHF Loan and the HEART Loan and the County Loan.
(b)
The City, the County and HEART agree not to make a demand for payment from the 
Borrower or accelerate the City LM Note, the City Home Note, the City CLF Note, the County 
AHF Note, or the HEART Note as the case may be, or commence enforcement of any of the 
rights and remedies under the City Deed of Trust, the County AHF Deed of Trust, or the HEART 
Deed of Trust, as the case may be, until the date that is five (5) business days following delivery 
of written notice by the Party enforcing its rights (the "Enforcing Party") to the other Parties 
stating that a "default" (as defined in the relevant Deed of Trust) has occurred and is continuing 
and that the Enforcing Party is requesting the other Party's assistance in foreclosure pursuant to 
Section 2.7.  All enforcement actions shall be subject to the terms of applicable subordination 
agreements for senior liens approved under the Financing Plan.
Section 2.7
Cooperation in Foreclosure.  
(a)
If there is a default under the City LM Loan, the City Home Loan, the City 
CLF Loan, the County AHF Loan or the HEART Loan, after expiration of any applicable cure 
periods, the Party that is the lender on the defaulted loan shall cooperate with the other lenders 
that are Parties to this Agreement to coordinate any foreclosure proceedings or other appropriate 
remedies.
(b)
Neither the City, nor the County nor HEART may contest the validity, 
perfection, priority, or enforceability of the lien granted to the other Party by a deed of trust 
secured by the Development.  Notwithstanding any failure of a Party to perfect its lien on the 
Development or any other defect in the security interests or obligations owing to such Party, the 
priority and rights as between the lenders that are Parties to this Agreement are as set forth in 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.8
Foreclosure Proceeds.  
(a)
If there is a foreclosure, or any other action, whether judicial or 
nonjudicial, under any or both of the Deeds of Trust (including the giving of a deed in lieu of 
foreclosure), the proceeds resulting from such foreclosure or action will be first used to pay: (1) 
all amounts paid to any senior lien holder; and (2) expenses incurred by the City, the County, and 
HEART, in connection with such foreclosure or other action.  
367 of 556

--- page 368 ---
12
(b)
After such payments are made the remaining balance (“Foreclosure Net 
Proceeds”) will be distributed as follows: (1) the City is entitled to the result obtained by 
multiplying the City Loans Prorata Percentage by the Foreclosure Net Proceeds; and (2) the 
County is entitled to the result obtained by multiplying the County Loan Prorata Percentage by 
the Foreclosure Net Proceeds; and (3) HEART is entitled to the result obtained by multiplying 
the HEART Loan Prorata Percentage by the Foreclosure Net Proceeds;  
Section 2.9
Insurance and Condemnation Proceeds.   If, as a result of having made the 
City Loans, the County AHF Loan, and the HEART Loan, the City, the County and HEART are 
entitled to insurance or condemnation proceeds, they will share such proceeds as follows: (a) the 
City is entitled the result obtained by multiplying the City Loans Prorata Percentage by the 
available proceeds; and (2) the County is entitled to the result obtained by multiplying the 
County Loan Prorata Percentage by the available proceeds; and (3) HEART is entitled to the 
result obtained by multiplying the HEART Loan Prorata Percentage by the available proceeds.
Section 2.10
Title to Development.  If, as a result of having made the City Loans, the 
County AHF Loan, or the HEART Loan, the City, the County or HEART is entitled to title to the 
Development as a consequence of the Borrower's default, then title is to be held in tenancy in 
common by the City, the County, and HEART in accordance with their respective prorata share 
of the Foreclosure Net Proceeds.  Subsequent decisions to hold or sell the Development will be 
made by joint decision of the City, the County and HEART.
ARTICLE 3.  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 3.1
Notices.  All notices required or permitted by any provision of this 
Agreement must be in writing and sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return 
receipt requested, or delivered by express delivery service, return receipt requested, or delivered 
personally, to the principal office of the Parties as follows:
City:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  99403
Attention:  Housing Manager
County:
County of San Mateo
Department of Housing
264 Harbor Blvd., Bldg. A
Belmont, CA 94002
Attn:  Director
HEART:
Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo 
County
2905 S. El Camino Real
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attn: Executive Director
368 of 556

--- page 369 ---
13
Borrower:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
c/o MidPen Housing
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attn: President and Chief Executive Officer
and to the Borrower with copies to:
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA 02110
Such written notices, demands, and communications may be sent in the same manner to such 
other addresses as the affected Party may from time to time designate as provided in this Section.  
Receipt will be deemed to have occurred on the date marked on a written receipt as the date of 
delivery or refusal of delivery (or attempted delivery if undeliverable).
Section 3.2
Titles. Any titles of the sections or subsections of this Agreement are 
inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be disregarded in interpreting any part of 
the Agreement's provisions.
Section 3.3
California Law and Venue.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws 
of the State of California.  Any legal action commenced to enforce or interpret the terms of this 
Agreement shall be filed and venued in San Mateo County, California.
Section 3.4
Parties Bound.  Except as otherwise limited herein, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their heirs, executors, 
administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.  This Agreement is intended to run 
with the land and shall bind the Developer and its successors and assigns in the Property and the 
Improvements for the entire Term, and the benefit hereof shall inure to the benefit of the City 
and its successors and assigns.
Section 3.5
Severability.  If any term of this Agreement is held by a court of 
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions shall 
continue in full force and effect unless the rights and obligations of the Parties have been 
materially altered or abridged by such invalidation, voiding or unenforceability.
Section 3.6
Legal Actions.  If any legal action is commenced to interpret or to enforce 
the terms of this Agreement or to collect damages as a result of any breach of this Agreement, 
each Party shall bear its own attorneys' fees and costs incurred in such action.
Section 3.7
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding 
and agreement of the Parties with respect to the distribution of proceeds upon foreclosure of or 
other remedies under the Deeds of Trust, and the entire understanding and agreement of the 
Parties with respect to the equal lien priority of the Deeds of Trust.
369 of 556

--- page 370 ---
14
Section 3.8
Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in multiple originals, 
each of which is deemed to be an original, and may be signed in counterparts.
Section 3.9
Amendments.  This Agreement may not be modified except by written 
instrument executed by the Parties.
[Remainder of Page Left Intentionally Blank]
[Signatures on Following Page]
370 of 556

--- page 371 ---
Signature Page
Intercreditor Agreement
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first 
written above.
BORROWER:
MP DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO ASSOCIATES, L.P., a 
California limited partnership 
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
[SIGNATURES CONTINUE NEXT PAGE]
371 of 556

--- page 372 ---
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter City
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:
___________________________
Assistant City Attorney
372 of 556

--- page 373 ---
COUNTY:
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, political subdivision of the 
State of California
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
373 of 556

--- page 374 ---
HEART:
HOUSING ENDOWMENT AND REGIONAL TRUST 
OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, a Joint Powers Authority 
(“JPA”) formed and existing under the laws of the State of 
California
By:
_________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Its:
_________________________________
374 of 556

--- page 375 ---
A-1
EXHIBIT A
PROPERTY LEGAL DESCRIPTION
The land referred to herein is situated in the State of California, County of San Mateo, City of San 
Mateo and is described as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of 
San Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at 
Page(s) 52 and 53.
APN: 034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A 
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
375 of 556

--- page 376 ---
B-1
EXHIBIT B
FINAL FINANCING PLAN
EXHIBIT B
Approved Development Budget
Sources of Funds
CONSTRUCTION
PERMANENT
 
 
State, Local, Federal Assistance:
County of San Mateo
5,185,817
5,185,817
Accrued/Deferred Interest
270,398
270,398
City of San Mateo: Low-Mod Loan
2,850,000 
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
146,667
146,667
City of San Mateo: HOME Loan
650,000
650,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
33,450
33,450
City of San Mateo: Commercial Linkage Loan
2,000,000
2,850,000 
Accrued/Deferred Interest
102,924
102,924
MidPen Sponsor Loan: Parking Funds
5,000,000
5,000,000
HEART AHTF Loan
3,800,000
3,800,000
Accrued/Deferred Interest
198,139
198,139
Deferred Developer Fee
2,000,000
2,000,000
Capital Contributions – General Partner
100
100
Capital Contributions – Limited Partner
21,783,250
73,252,978
Bank of America TE Construction Bond
85,000,000
Bank of America Taxable Tail
30,918,515
Costs Deferred Until Permanent Loan Closing
6,610,213
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche A
44,333,000
CalHFA TE Permanent Bond – Tranche B
27,726,000
CalHFA MIP Loan
2,000,000
Total Sources
166,549,474 
166,549,474 
Total Development Costs
166,549,474
166,549,474
376 of 556

--- page 377 ---
B-2
Uses of Funds
TOTAL COST
LAND COSTS
TOTAL LAND COSTS
1,508,272
DIRECT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS
126,071,058
INDIRECT COSTS
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
26,678,439
FINANCING COSTS
TOTAL FINANCING COSTS
12,291,705
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COSTS
166,549,474
377 of 556

--- page 378 ---
C-1
EXHIBIT C
RESIDUAL RECEIPTS NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
Assume all Loan Funds
are disbursed
Share of Residual Receipts
A
City LM Loan
 $    2,850,000 
17.3%
B
City HOME Loan
 $        650,000 
3.9%
C
City CLF Loan
 $    2,000,000 
12.1%
D
County AHF Loan
 $    5,185,817 
31.5%
E
HEART Loan
 $    3,800,000 
23.1%
F
CalHFA MIP Loan
 $    2,000,000 
12.1%
TOTAL
 $  16,485,817 
100%
Combined City Share of Residual Receipts
33%
Lender's Share of Residual Receipts
= 50% of Residual Receipts
Borrower's Shared Portion of Residual 
Receipts
= 50% of Residual Receipts
Annual City Loan Payment
=% of 50%
16.7%
Annual County Loan Payment
=% of 50%
15.7%
Annual HEART Loan Payment
=% of 50%
11.5%
CalHFA MIP Loan Payment
=% of 50%
6.1%
50%
378 of 556

--- page 379 ---
1
GARAGE LICENSE AGREEMENT
(Garage Improvements)
THIS GARAGE LICENSE AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is dated for reference _______________, 
20__ (“Effective Date”) by and between the City of San Mateo, a California charter city (the "City"), and 
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership (the “Licensee”).
RECITALS
A.
City is the fee owner of that certain real property located at 400 East 5th Avenue, in City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California, more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto 
and incorporated herein by this reference (the “Property”).
B.
The City and the Licensee desire for Licensee to construct no lessmore than six hundred 
ninety-six parking spaces (696) (the “Garage Improvements”).  Subject to the Garage Easement 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the Garage Improvements shall be owned, maintained and 
operated by the City.
C.
The parties desire to enter into this Agreement to establish the terms and conditions on 
which the Licensee may enter onto the Property in order for the Garage Improvements to be 
constructed on the Property. 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and other consideration, the 
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, City and Licensee hereby agree as follows:
1.
Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, shall be defined as follows:
(a)
“Agents” means the agents, employees, the Contractor and subcontractors of 
Licensee.
(b)
"City Council" means the City Council of the City of San Mateo.
(c)
"City Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.
(d)
“Contractor” means the licensed general contractor retained by the Licensee to 
construct the Garage Improvements.
(e)
"Construction Plans" means all construction documentation upon which 
Licensee and the Contractor, shall rely in building each and every part of the Garage Improvements and 
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, architectural drawings, final elevations, building plans 
and specifications (also known as "working drawings").
(f)
"Development" means the Property and the Garage Improvements.
(g)
"Garage Easement Agreement" means that easement agreement between the 
City and Licensee dated and recorded as of the Effective Date, whereby City has granted an appurtenant 
easement, for the term of the Ground Lease, against the Property for no less than 164 parking spaces to 
benefit the Residential Property.
379 of 556

--- page 380 ---
2
(h)
"Ground Lease" means the ground lease between the City and Licensee dated as 
of the Effective Date, whereby Licensee has leased the Residential Property from the City.
(i)
"Hazardous Materials" means:
(1)
Any "hazardous substance" as defined in Section 101(14) of CERCLA (42 
U.S.C. Section 9601(14)) or Section 25281(d) or 25316 of the California Health and Safety Code 
as amended from time to time;
(2)
Any "hazardous waste," "infectious waste" or "hazardous material" as 
defined in Section 25117, 25117.5 or 25501(j) of the California Health and Safety Code as 
amended from time to time;
(3)
Any other waste, substance or material designated or regulated in any 
way as "toxic" or "hazardous" in the RCRA (42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq.), CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 
Section 9601 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.), Safe 
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. Section 300(f) et seq.), Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
Section 2601 et seq.), Clear Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq.), California Health and Safety 
Code (Section 25100 et seq., Section 39000 et seq.), or California Water Code (Section 13000 et 
seq.) as amended from time to time; and
(4)
Any additional wastes, substances or materials which at such time are 
classified, considered or regulated as hazardous or toxic under any other present or future 
environmental or other similar laws relating to the Development.
The term "Hazardous Materials" shall not include:  (i) construction materials, 
gardening materials, household products, office supply products or janitorial supply products 
customarily used in the construction, operation, or maintenance, of residential developments, 
parking garages, or typically used in office, residential, or parking garage related activities; or (ii) 
certain substances which may contain chemicals listed by the State of California pursuant to 
California Health and Safety Code Sections 25249.8 et seq., which substances are commonly 
used by a significant portion of the population living within the region of the Development, 
including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, aspirin, tobacco products, nutrasweet and 
saccharine.
(j)
"Hazardous Materials Laws" means all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, 
regulations, orders and directives pertaining to Hazardous Materials in, on or under the Development or 
any portion thereof.
(k)
"Licensee Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2.
(l)
"Residential Property" means that certain real property located at 480 East 4th 
Avenue, in City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California.  The City and Licensee desire for Licensee 
to develop the “Residential Improvements”, consisting of approximately one hundred and sixty four 
(164) units of multi-family rental housing, on the Residential Property to be made available to and 
occupied by moderate and low income households, including two manager units, and including all 
common areas, amenities, plans, entitlements, appurtenances, improvements easements, buildings and 
fixtures associated with the Residential Property.
380 of 556

--- page 381 ---
3
(m)
“Term” has the meaning set forth in Section 3.
(n)
All other defined terms used in this Agreement shall be defined where first 
appearing in this Agreement.
2.
Construction of the Garage Improvements.  
2.1
Construction Pursuant to Plans.  Unless modified by operation of Section 2.4, the Garage 
Improvements shall be constructed substantially in accordance with the Construction Plans and the 
terms and conditions of the land use permits and approvals and building permits, including any 
variances granted for the Garage Improvements
2.2
Commencement of Garage Improvements.  Licensee shall commence construction of 
the Garage Improvements no later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date.
2.3
Completion of Garage Improvements.  Licensee shall diligently prosecute to completion 
the construction of the Garage Improvements no later than thirty-six (36) months following the 
commencement of construction.
2.4
Change in Construction of Garage Improvements.
(a)
If Licensee desires to make any material change in the Garage Improvements 
which are not substantially consistent with the Construction Plans, Licensee shall submit the proposed 
change to the City for its approval.  No change which is required for compliance with building codes or 
other government health and safety regulations shall be deemed material.  If the Garage Improvements, 
as modified by any such proposed change, will conform to the requirements of this Agreement, and the 
Construction Plans, the City shall approve the change by notifying Licensee in writing.  For purposes of 
this Section, a material change shall mean any change which is expected to substantially alter the 
external appearance of the Development (including any color change) or which is expected to result in 
an individual change of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) or a cumulative change of Two 
Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000), or more, in the cost of construction of the Garage 
Improvements.
(b)
Unless a proposed change is rejected by the City within fifteen (15) working 
days, it shall be deemed approved.  If rejected within such time period, the previously approved 
Construction Plans shall continue to remain in full force and effect.  If the City rejects a proposed 
change, it shall provide Licensee with the specific reasons therefor.
(c)
The approval of changes in the Construction Plans by the City pursuant to this 
Section shall be in addition to any approvals required to be obtained from the City pursuant to building 
permit requirements.  Approval of changes in the Construction Plans by the City shall not constitute 
approval by the City and shall in no way limit the City's discretion in approving changes to the 
Construction Plans.
2.5
Certificate of Completion; Expiration of Agreement.  Within thirty (30) days after 
completion of the construction of the Garage Improvements, in accordance with those provisions of this 
Agreement relating solely to the obligations of Licensee to construct the Garage Improvements 
(including the dates for beginning and completing construction of the Garage Improvements), the City 
381 of 556

--- page 382 ---
4
shall provide an instrument so certifying the completion of the construction of the Garage 
Improvements (the "Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion").  Concurrently with the issuance 
of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion this Agreement shall terminate, and the issuance 
of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion shall serve to demonstrate acceptance by the 
City of the Garage Improvements “as is”.  The Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion shall be a 
conclusive determination that the covenants in this Agreement with respect to the obligations of 
Licensee to construct the Garage Improvements have been met.  In conjunction with the issuance of the 
Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion, Licensee shall deliver to the City: (i) a complete set of 
"as built" drawings of the Garage Improvements (in a form mutually acceptable to the parties); (ii) all 
manufacturers' warranties, manuals, and other documentation, within the possession of Licensee, 
necessary for the City's use and occupancy of the Garage Improvements; and (iii) any other documents 
reasonably required by the City's standard process and protocol for the acceptance of public 
improvements (if any).  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, City shall have no 
claim against Licensee arising out of or related to the Garage Improvements that have been accepted 
pursuant to this Section, and releases Licensee from any and all responsibility or liability whatsoever 
arising out of, relating to or connected to the Garage Improvements after the date of issuance of the 
Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion (whether arising before or after such date); provided, 
however, that the City shall retain the right of recourse against any security or warranties assigned to 
City under terms and conditions set forth herein.  In addition, upon issuance of the Garage 
Improvements Certificate of Completion, City shall indemnify and defend Licensee its officers, directors, 
employees, agents, related and affiliated entities, lenders and investors (all of the foregoing, collectively, 
the “Licensee Indemnitees”) harmless from and against all liability, loss, cost, expense (including without 
limitation reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation), claim, demand, action, suit, judicial or 
administrative proceeding, penalty, deficiency, fine, order, and damage (all of the foregoing collectively 
“Claims”), including without limitation, Claims relating to property damage, personal injury, or death, to 
the extent arising out of, resulting from or connected with City’s operation, use, security, safety, 
maintenance, repair, replacement, reconstruction, or removal of the Garage Improvements, except to 
the extent arising from: (A) Licensee’s use of the Garage Improvements pursuant to the Garage 
Easement Agreement; and (B) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Licensee Indemnitees.  
The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration of the Term or other termination of this 
Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
2.6
Compliance with Applicable Law; Prevailing Wage Requirement.
(a)
Licensee shall cause construction of the Garage Improvements to be performed 
in compliance with:
(1)
All applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, state, 
county or municipal governments or agencies now in force or that may be enacted hereafter.
(2)
All directions, rules and regulations of any fire marshal, health officer, 
building inspector, or other officer of every governmental agency now having or hereafter acquiring 
jurisdiction.  The work shall proceed only after the payment of all applicable fees, procurement of each 
permit, license, or other authorization that may be required by any governmental agency having 
jurisdiction, and Licensee shall be responsible to the City for the procurement and maintenance thereof, 
as may be required of Licensee and all entities engaged in work on the Property.
382 of 556

--- page 383 ---
5
(b)
Licensee shall pay and shall cause the Contractor and subcontractors to pay 
prevailing wages in the construction of the Development as those wages are determined pursuant to 
California Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., to employ apprentices as required by California Labor Code 
Sections 1777.5 et seq., and the implementing regulations of the Department of Industrial Relations (the 
"DIR").  In addition, as applicable, Licensee shall cause its respective contractors and subcontractors in 
the construction of the Development to do all the following: (1) all calls for bids, bidding materials and 
the construction contract documents for the Development must specify that (A) no contractor or 
subcontractor may be listed on a bid proposal nor be awarded a contract for the Development unless 
registered with the DIR pursuant to Labor Code Section 1725.5, and (B) the Development is subject to 
compliance monitoring and enforcement by the DIR; (2) Licensee is required to provide the City all 
information required by Labor Code Section 1773.3 as set forth in the DIR's online form PWC-100 within 
2 days of the award of the contract (https://www.dir.ca.gov/pwc100ext/); (3) Licensee shall cause its 
respective contractors to post job site notices, as prescribed by regulation by the DIR; or (4) Licensee 
shall cause its respective contractors to furnish payroll records required by Labor Code Section 1776 
directly to the Labor Commissioner, at least monthly in the electronic format prescribed by the Labor 
Commissioner.  Licensee shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable 
to the City) the City against any claim for damages, compensation, fines, penalties or other amounts 
arising out of the failure or alleged failure of any person or entity (including Licensee, the Contractor and 
subcontractors) to pay prevailing wages in accordance with the terms of this Agreement as determined 
pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., to employ apprentices pursuant to California 
Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq., and implementing regulations of the DIR or to comply with the other 
applicable provisions of California Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq., 1777.5 et seq., and the 
implementing regulations of the DIR in connection with the construction of the Development.  The 
requirements in this Subsection survive the expiration of this Agreement.
(c)
Licensee shall defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable to the City) the City 
against any claim for damages, compensation, fines, penalties or other amounts arising out of the failure 
or alleged failure of any person or entity (including Licensee, its contractor and subcontractors) to pay 
prevailing wages in accordance with this Agreement as determined pursuant to Labor Code Sections 
1720 et seq., and implementing regulations of the Department of Industrial Relations or comply with the 
other applicable provisions of Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq., to employ apprentices pursuant to 
Labor Code Sections 1777.5 et seq., and implementing regulations of the Department of Industrial 
Relations in connection with the construction, pursuant to this Agreement, of the Development, in 
regards to the Property only for actions taken prior to the expiration of this Agreement, and shall 
indemnify and hold the City harmless against any damages, compensation, fines, penalties or other 
amounts resulting from the successful prosecution of such claim.
(d)
Licensee shall construct the Development to comply with all applicable federal 
and state disabled persons accessibility requirements including but not limited to the Federal Fair 
Housing Act, Section 504 of the Construction Act of 1973, Title II and/or Title III of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations and the Uniform Federal 
Accessibility Standards.
2.7
Mechanics Liens, Stop Notices, and Notices of Completion
383 of 556

--- page 384 ---
6
(a)
If any claim of lien is filed against the Property or the Garage Improvements or a 
stop notice is served on the City or any other lender or other third party in connection with the 
Development, then Licensee shall, within thirty (30) days after such filing or service, either pay or fully 
discharge the lien or stop notice, effect the release of such lien or stop notice by delivering to the City a 
surety bond from a surety acceptable to the City in sufficient form and amount, or provide the City with 
other assurance satisfactory to the City that the claim of lien or stop notice will be paid or discharged.
(b)
If Licensee fails to discharge any lien, encumbrance, charge, or claim in the 
manner required in this Section or obtain a surety bond, then in addition to any other right or remedy, 
the City may (but shall be under no obligation to) discharge such lien, encumbrance, charge, or claim at 
Licensee's expense.  Alternatively, the City may require Licensee to immediately deposit with the City 
the amount necessary to satisfy such lien or claim and any costs, pending resolution thereof.  The City 
may use such deposit to satisfy any claim or lien that is adversely determined against Licensee.
(c)
Licensee shall file a valid notice of cessation or notice of completion upon cessation of 
construction of the Development for a continuous period of thirty (30) days or more, and take all other 
reasonable steps to forestall the assertion of claims of lien against the Property and/or the Garage 
Improvements.  Licensee authorizes the City, but without any obligation, to record any notices of 
completion or cessation of labor, or any other notice that the City deems necessary or desirable to 
protect its interest in the Development and Property.
2.8
Equal Opportunity.  During the construction of the Development there shall be no 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital 
status, national origin or ancestry, or source of income, in the hiring, firing, promoting or demoting of 
any person engaged in the construction work.
2.9
Inspections.  Licensee shall permit and facilitate, and shall require its contractors to 
permit and facilitate, observation and inspection at the Development by the City and by public 
authorities during reasonable business hours upon forty-eight (48) hours' written notice for the 
purposes of determining compliance with this Agreement.
2.10
Information.  Licensee shall provide any information reasonably requested by the City in 
connection with the Development.
2.11
Records.
(a)
Licensee shall maintain complete, accurate, and current records pertaining to its 
interests in the Development for a period of five (5) years after the creation of such records, and shall 
permit any duly authorized representative of the City to inspect and copy records upon reasonable 
notice to Licensee.  Records must be kept accurate and current.
(b)
The City shall notify Licensee of any records it deems insufficient.  Licensee shall 
have thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of such a notice to correct any deficiency in the records 
specified by the City in such notice, or if a period longer than thirty (30) days is reasonably necessary to 
correct the deficiency, then Licensee shall begin to correct the deficiency within thirty (30) days and 
complete the correction of the deficiency as soon as reasonably possible.
384 of 556

--- page 385 ---
7
3.
Term.  The term of this Agreement (the “Term”) shall commence upon the Effective 
Date and shall terminate upon issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion, as 
further provided in Section 2.5.
4.
License.  Subject to the conditions, stipulations and provisions set forth herein, City 
hereby grants a non-exclusive license to Licensee and its Agents to enter upon the Property during the 
Term to construct the Garage Improvements, and for no other purpose.  Nothing in this Agreement shall 
be construed as a grant of title or any interest in the Property.
5.
Default.  The provisions of this Section shall govern the parties' remedies for breach or 
failure of this Agreement.
5.1
Default of City.  The following event shall constitute a City Event of Default and a basis 
for Licensee to take action against the City:
(a)
The City breaches any material provision of this Agreement.
(b)
Upon the happening of any of the above-described events, Licensee shall first 
notify the City in writing of its purported breach or failure, giving the City forty-five (45) days from 
receipt of such notice to cure or, if cure cannot be accomplished within forty-five (45) days, to 
commence to cure such breach, failure, or act.  In the event the City does not then so cure within said 
forty-five (45) days, or if the breach or failure is of such a nature that it cannot be cured within forty-five 
(45) days, the City fails to commence to cure within such forty-five (45) days and thereafter diligently 
completes such cure within a reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty 
(120) days, then Licensee shall be afforded the following remedies: (1) terminating in writing this 
Agreement (provided, however, that those provisions of this Agreement that recite that they survive 
termination of this Agreement shall all remain in full force and effect) the Ground Lease, and/or Garage 
Easement Agreement; and (2) prosecuting an action for specific performance and for damages.
5.2
Default of Licensee.  The following events each constitute a Licensee Event of Default 
and a basis for the City to take action against Licensee:
(a)
Licensee constructs or attempts to construct the Garage Improvements in 
violation of Sections 2.1 – 2.5.
(b)
A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered any decree or order (1) 
adjudging Licensee to be bankrupt or insolvent, (2) approving as properly filed a petition seeking its 
reorganization of Licensee or seeking any arrangement for Licensee under the bankruptcy law or any 
other applicable debtor's relief law or statute of the United States or any state or other jurisdiction, (3) 
appointing a receiver, trustee, liquidator, or assignee of Licensee in bankruptcy or insolvency or for any 
of their properties, or (4) directing the winding up or liquidation of Licensee, if any such decree or order 
described in clauses (1) to (4), inclusive, shall have continued unstayed or undischarged for a period of 
ninety (90) days unless a lesser time period is permitted for cure under any other mortgage on the 
Property, in which event such lesser time period will apply under this subsection 5.2(b) as well; or 
Licensee shall have admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as they fall due or shall have 
voluntarily submitted to or filed a petition seeking any decree or order of the nature described in clauses 
(1) to (4), inclusive.
385 of 556

--- page 386 ---
8
(c)
Licensee shall have assigned its assets for the benefit of its creditors or suffered 
a sequestration or attachment of or execution on any substantial part of its property, unless the 
property so assigned, sequestered, attached or executed upon shall have been returned or released 
within ninety (90) days after such event (unless a lesser time period is permitted for cure under any 
other mortgage on the Property, in which event such lesser time period shall apply under this 
subsection 5.2(c) as well) or prior to sooner sale pursuant to such sequestration, attachment, or 
execution.
(d)
Licensee shall have been dissolved or shall have voluntarily suspended its 
business.
(f)
Upon the happening of any of the above-described events, the City shall first 
notify Licensee in writing of its purported breach, failure or act above described, giving Licensee in 
writing sixty (60) days from receipt of such notice to cure, or, if cure cannot be accomplished within said 
sixty (60) days, to commence to cure such breach, failure, or act.  In the event Licensee fails to cure 
within said sixty (60) days, or if such breach is of a nature that it cannot be cured within sixty (60) days, 
Licensee fails to commence to cure within said sixty (60) days and diligently complete such cure within a 
reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) days, then the City shall 
be afforded all of its rights at law or in equity by taking any or all of the following remedies:
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 22(b), below, Termination of this 
Agreement, the Ground Lease and/or GarageEasement Agreement by written notice to Licensee.
(2)
Prosecuting an action for damages (but specifically excluding lost 
profits, special damages and consequential damages) or specific performance; and
(3)
Any of the remedies specified in this Agreement.
5.3
Right to Cure at Licensee's Expense.  The City shall have the right to cure any monetary 
default by Licensee under a loan secured by the Residential Property or the Residential Improvements in 
connection with the Development.  However, if Licensee is in good faith contesting a claim of default 
under a loan and the City's interest under this Agreement is not imminently threatened by such default, 
in the City's sole judgment, the City shall not have the right to cure such default.  Licensee agrees to 
reimburse the City for any funds advanced by the City to cure a monetary default by Licensee upon 
demand therefor, together with interest thereon at the lesser of the rate of five percent (5%) per annum 
or the maximum rate permitted by law from the date of expenditure until the date of reimbursement.
5.4
Remedies Cumulative.  No right, power, or remedy given by the terms of this Agreement 
is intended to be exclusive of any other right, power, or remedy; and each and every such right, power, 
or remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or remedy given by the terms 
of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise.  Neither the failure nor any delay to exercise any 
such rights and remedies shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any 
such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy, or any other right 
or remedy.
5.5
Waiver of Terms and Conditions.  No waiver of any default or breach by Licensee 
hereunder shall be implied from any omission by the City to take action on account of such default if 
386 of 556

--- page 387 ---
9
such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any default other than the default 
specified in the waiver, and such waiver shall be operative only for the time and to the extent therein 
stated.  Waivers of any covenant, term, or condition contained in this Agreement shall not be construed 
as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same covenant, term, or condition.  The consent or 
approval by the City to or of any act by Licensee requiring further consent or approval shall not be 
deemed to waive or render unnecessary the consent or approval to or of any subsequent similar act.
6.
Hazardous Materials. 
6.1
No Hazardous Materials Activities.  Licensee hereby represents and warrants to the City 
that, at all times from and after the Effective Date until the expiration of the Term, Licensee shall not 
cause or permit the Property or the Garage Improvements thereon to be used as a site for the use, 
generation, manufacture, storage, treatment, release, discharge, disposal, transportation or presence of 
any Hazardous Materials, except to the extent such Hazardous Materials were present on or about the 
Property prior to the Effective Date.
6.2
Hazardous Materials Laws.  Licensee hereby represents and warrants to the City that, at 
all times from and after the Effective Date until the expiration of this Agreement, Licensee shall be in 
material compliance with and cause the Property, and the Garage Improvements thereon to be in 
material compliance with Hazardous Materials Laws, including without limitation, those relating to soil 
and groundwater conditions.  Upon notice from the City to Licensee that Licensee not in compliance 
with Hazardous Material Laws, Licensee shall be given a reasonable period to cure, and not less than 
thirty (30) days, given the nature, context, and practicability of curing the material non-compliance.
6.3
Notices.  Licensee hereby represents and warrants to the City that, at all times from and 
after the Effective Date, Licensee shall immediately notify the City in writing of:  (i) the discovery of any 
Hazardous Materials on or under the Property, not previously disclosed by City; (ii) any knowledge by 
Licensee that the Property does not comply with any Hazardous Materials Laws; and (iii) any claims or 
actions pending or threatened against Licensee, the Property, or the Garage Improvements by any 
governmental entity or agency or any other person or entity relating to Hazardous Materials or pursuant 
to any Hazardous Materials Laws, or arising from claims of nuisance, or damage to property or personal 
injury relating to Hazardous Materials associated with the Property or the Garage Improvements 
thereon (collectively "Hazardous Materials Claims").  The City shall have the right to join and participate 
in, as a party if it so elects, any legal proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any Hazardous 
Materials Claims, and to have its reasonable attorney's fees in connection therewith paid by Licensee for 
any claims or actions arising from activities related to Hazardous Materials on the Property occurring 
after the Effective Date, except as otherwise provided by this Agreement.
6.4
Remedial Action.  Without the City's prior written consent, which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld or delayed, Licensee shall not take any remedial action in response to the 
presence of any Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the Development (other than in emergency 
situations or as required by governmental agencies having jurisdiction), nor enter into any settlement 
agreement, consent decree, or other compromise in respect to any Hazardous Materials Claims.
7.
General Indemnification.
387 of 556

--- page 388 ---
10
7.1
Licensee.  Licensee agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to the City) the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, 
from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement 
actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent arising out of Licensee's performance or non-
performance under this Agreement, or to the extent arising out of acts or omissions of any of Licensee's 
contractors, subcontractors, or persons claiming under any of the aforesaid, except to the extent 
directly caused by the City's or its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents willful 
misconduct or gross negligence.  The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration of the Term or 
other termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
7.2
City.  The City agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to Licensee) Licensee, its officers and board members, employees, and agents, 
from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement 
actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent arising out of the City's performance or non-
performance under this Agreement, or to the extent arising out of acts or omissions of any of the City's 
contractors, subcontractors, or persons claiming under any of the aforesaid, except to the extent 
directly caused by Licensee's or its officers and board members, employees, and agents willful 
misconduct or gross negligence.  The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration of the Term or 
other termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
8.
Insurance Requirements.
8.1
Required Coverage.  Licensee shall maintain and keep in force, at Licensee's sole cost 
and expense, the following insurance applicable to the Development from the Effective Date until the 
termination of this Agreement upon the completion of construction and issuance of the Garage 
Improvements Certificate of Completion.
(a)
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
(b)
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 
01 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per 
occurrence and an umbrella policy of $10,000,000. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
(c)
Automobile Liability:  Licensee shall cause its Contractor to maintain Insurance 
Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per 
accident for bodily injury and property damage and an umbrella policy of $10,000,000.   
(d)
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special 
Perils) coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions.
388 of 556

--- page 389 ---
11
(e)
Licensee shall cause its Contractor to maintain Contractors’ Pollution Legal 
Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions (if project involves environmental 
hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
8.3
Additional Insurance Provisions.  
(a)
Broader Coverage:  If the Licensee maintains broader coverage and/or higher 
limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage 
and/or the higher limits maintained by the Licensee. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the 
specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
(b)
Self-insured retentions:  Self-insured retentions for insurance required herein 
must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the Licensee shall cause 
the insurer to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents; or the Licensee shall provide a financial guarantee 
satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-
insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or City. 
(c)
Endorsements:  The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, 
the following provisions:
(1)
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are 
to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee including materials, parts, or equipment furnished 
in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or 
on behalf of the Licensee. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Licensee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, 
CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
(2)
For any claims related to this project, the Licensee’s insurance coverage 
shall be primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by 
the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the Licensee’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
(3)
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage 
shall not be canceled, except with notice to the City.
(d)
Acceptability of Insurers: Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to 
conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise 
acceptable to the City. 
(e)
Waiver of Subrogation: Licensee hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation 
which any insurer of Licensee may acquire from Licensee by virtue of the payment of any loss. Licensee 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
389 of 556

--- page 390 ---
12
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City for all 
work performed by the Licensee, its employees, or agents. 
(f)
Verification of Coverage:  Licensee shall furnish the City with original Certificates 
of Insurance including all required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy 
language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement 
Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to 
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Licensee’s obligation to 
provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance 
policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, at any time.
8.5
Audits. Licensee shall make available for examination at reasonable intervals and during 
normal business hours to the City all books, accounts, reports, files, and other papers or property with 
respect to all matters covered by this Agreement, and shall permit the City to audit, examine, and make 
excerpts or transcripts from such records.  The City may make audits of any conditions relating to this 
Agreement.
9.
Assignment.  Licensee shall not assign this Agreement or any interest herein without the 
prior written consent of the City in its reasonable discretion.  In connection with a request for 
assignment, there shall be submitted to the City for review all instruments and other legal documents 
proposed to effect any such assignment.  If a requested assignment is approved by the City such 
approval shall be indicated to Licensee in writing.  Such approval shall be granted or denied by the City 
within ninety (90) days of receipt by the City of Licensee's request for approval of an assignment.  In the 
event the City does not respond either granting or denying the request within ninety (90) days the 
request shall be deemed approved.  Upon such approval, if granted, the transferee, by an instrument in 
writing prepared by the City shall expressly assume the obligations of Licensee under this Agreement 
and agree to be subject to the conditions and restrictions to which Licensee is subject arising during this 
Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City hereby approves the assignment of this Agreement 
from Licensee to a limited liability company or limited partnership, the managing member or partner of 
which is a nonprofit public benefit corporation or limited liability company affiliated with MidPen 
Housing Corporation or.
10.
Venue.  In the event any legal action is commenced to interpret or to enforce the terms 
of this Agreement or to collect damages as a result of any breach thereof, the venue for such action shall 
be the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo, or where otherwise appropriate, exclusively in the 
United District Court, Northern District, San Francisco, California.
11.
Notices.  Formal notices, demands, and communications between the City and Licensee 
shall be sufficiently given if and shall not be deemed given unless dispatched by registered or certified 
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or delivered personally, to the principal office of the City 
and Licensee as follows:
390 of 556

--- page 391 ---
13
If to Licensee:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attn: President and Chief Executive Officer 
With copy to Equity Investor:
Bank of America, N.A.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc.
MA1-225-02-02
225 Franklin Street
Boston, MA  02110
Attention: Asset Management 
Facsimile: 617-346-2257
And:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
Matter No: B0965-0600
And with copy to Mortgagee:
Bank of America, N.A.
2000 Clayton Road, Building D, 6th Floor
Mail Code: CA4-704-06-06
Concord, CA  94520
Attention:  Loan Administration Manager
And:
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation 
1000 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 1500
Los Angeles, CA  90017
Attn:  Michael A. Williamson, Esq.
391 of 556

--- page 392 ---
14
Matter No: B0965-0600
If to City:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  99403
Attn: City Manager
Such written notices, demands and communications may be sent in the same manner to such other 
addresses as the affected party may from time to time designate by mail as provided in this Section.
12.
Non-Liability.
12.1
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents.  No member, official, employee or 
agent of the City or the City shall be personally liable to Licensee, or any successor in interest, in the 
event of any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become due to Licensee or 
successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
12.2
Non-Liability of Licensee, Employees and Agents.  No member, director, employee or 
agent of Licensee or Licensee shall be personally liable to the City, or any successor in interest, in the 
event of any default or breach by Licensee or for any amount which may become due to the City or 
successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
13.
Severability.  If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement is held by a 
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions 
shall continue in full force and effect unless the rights and obligations of the parties have been 
materially altered or abridged by such invalidation, voiding or unenforceability.
14.
Binding on Successors.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of 
the heirs, administrators, executors, successors in interest and assigns of each of the parties hereto.  
Any reference in this Agreement to a specifically named party shall be deemed to apply to any 
successor, heir, administrator, executor or assign of such party who has acquired an interest in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement, or under law.
15.
Modification. This Agreement may not be modified, amended or otherwise changed in 
any manner, except by a written amendment executed by both the City and Licensee, or their respective 
successors in interest.
16.
Controlling Laws. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance 
with, the laws of the State of California.
17.
No Third Party Beneficiaries. The rights, benefits and obligations conferred hereunder 
are for the benefit of the parties hereto and not for the benefit of any third party.
18.
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that 
it be submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation with thirty days (30) days of a request, 
and such mediation shall be limited to one (1) day of mediation.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the 
mediating parties.  In the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
392 of 556

--- page 393 ---
15
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation 
Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.  The cost of 
mediation (other than attorneys' fees of each party) shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the 
parties, but not more than sixty (60) days from when such process is commenced, unless the maximum 
time is extended by mutual written agreement executed by both parties.
19.
Litigation.  Licensee may at the reasonable request testify at City's request, if litigation is 
brought against City in connection with this Agreement, to the extent the Licensee is considered a 
material witness to the action being litigated.  Unless the action is brought by Licensee, or is based upon 
Licensee’s wrongdoing, City shall compensate Licensee for preparation for all reasonable attorneys' fees, 
and for preparation of testimony and travel at Licensee's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
20.
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with 
respect to the specific subject matter hereof, and all prior negotiations, agreements and understandings 
among Licensee and City with respect to the specific subject matter hereof are merged into this 
Agreement. 
21.
Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which together 
constitute one and the same agreement.
22.
Mortgagee and Investor Protections.  
(a) Licensee tenant may grant one or more mortgages of its interest in this License 
(each, a “Mortgage”) to lenders and, in connection therewith, to collaterally assign 
this License to such lenders.  In no event shall City ever be required to execute 
any such mortgage or any note secured thereby or any other obligation 
securing any such note, or to subordinate City’s fee interest in the Property 
or any portion thereof to the lien of any such mortgage.  Licensee shall 
identify the name of each mortgagee (“Mortgagee”) and the address(es) to 
which notices to the Leasehold Mortgagee are to be sent, and for purposes 
of this License the term “Mortgagee” shall include any trustee acting with 
respect to any tax-exempt bond financing encumbering the License.  City 
agrees to execute any additional documents or further assurances as may be 
reasonably requested by any Mortgagee in connection with any Mortgage 
permitted by this Section 22.
(b) No termination, cancellation, surrender, modification, or amendment of this 
License by agreement between City and Licensee shall be effective unless 
consented to in writing by the limited partner of Licensee (the “Equity 
Investor”) and such Mortgagees.
393 of 556

--- page 394 ---
16
(c)  City, upon providing Licensee with any written notice of a Licensee Event of 
Default, shall at the same time send a copy of such notice to the Equity 
Investor and every Mortgagee, if applicable, identified by written notice to 
City.  From and after such notice has been given to the Equity Investor and 
the Mortgagee, the Equity Investor and such Mortgagee shall have the same 
period, after the giving of such notice upon it, for remedying any default or 
causing the same to be remedied, as is given Licensee after the giving of such 
notice to Licensee, plus forty-five (45) days to remedy, commence remedying 
or cause to be remedied the defaults specified in any such notice.  City shall 
accept such performance by or at the instigation of the Equity Investor or 
such Mortgagee as if the same had been done by Licensee.  Following and 
during the existence of a Licensee Event of Default, Licensee authorizes the 
Equity Investor and any and each Mortgagee to take any such action at the 
Equity Investor’s and such Mortgagee’s option and does hereby authorize 
entry upon the Property by the Equity Investor and such Mortgagee for such 
purpose.
(d) In the event that the License is terminated by City, City shall, if requested by 
Mortgagee, grant to the Mortgagee a new license on the same terms as set 
forth herein.  
(e) A Mortgagee (or its designee) may become the licensee hereunder and 
succeed to Licensee’s interest in this License by assignment or foreclosure of 
its lien, and any purchaser at any sale of Licensee’s interest under this 
License in any proceeding for the foreclosure of any mortgage or the 
assignee or transferee of Licensee’s interest in this License under any 
instrument of assignment or transfer in lieu of the foreclosure of any 
mortgage shall be deemed to be an assignee or transferee approved by City 
and shall be deemed to have agreed to perform all of the terms, covenants, 
and conditions on the part of Licensee to be performed hereunder, but only 
for so long as such purchaser or assignee is the owner of Licensee’s interest 
in this License, and provided further that the thirty-six (36) month time frame 
to completed the Garage Improvements shall be tolled from the time a 
Licensee Event of Default is declared until three (3) months after such 
assignment or foreclosure is completed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Licensee and the City have executed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date.
394 of 556

--- page 395 ---
17
LICENSEE:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership
By: MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, a California 
limited liability company, its General Partner
By: Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc., a 
California nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, its sole member/manager
By:
                      _________________________________
Jan M. Lindenthal, Assistant Secretary
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city
By:
____________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Approved to as form and legality
__________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
395 of 556

--- page 396 ---
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
The Property is situated in the County of San Mateo, City of San Mateo, State of California, and is 
described as follows:
Parcel 1 as shown on Parcel Map No. 356, filed September 25, 1997, Book 70, of Parcel Maps, Pages 3 
and 4, San Mateo County Records.
APN: 033-281-140
JPN: 033-028-281-12.01
396 of 556

--- page 397 ---
1
RECORDING REQUESTED BY
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  99403
                                                                                                                  
(SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE RESERVED FOR RECORDER’S USE)
GARAGE EASEMENT AGREEMENT
This Garage Easement Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into effective as of 
_______________, 20__ (“Effective Date”) by and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal 
corporation (the “City”), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership 
(“Grantee”).  City and Grantee are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Parties”.
RECITALS
A.
City is the fee owner of that certain real property located at 400 East 5th Avenue, in City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California., more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto 
and incorporated herein by this reference (the “Garage Property”).
B.
Pursuant to that certain Ground Lease dated as of __________ __, 20__ by and between 
the City and Grantee (the “Ground Lease”), the City ground leased to Grantee that certain real property 
located at 480 East 4th Avenue, in City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California, more particularly 
described in Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference (the “Residential 
Property”).
C.
The City and Grantee desire for Grantee to develop approximately two hundred twenty-
five (225) units of multi-family rental housing, including two (2) unrestricted manager units on the 
Residential Property to be made available to and occupied by low income households, and including all 
common areas, amenities, plans, entitlements, appurtenances, improvements easements, buildings and 
fixtures associated with the Residential Property.
397 of 556

--- page 398 ---
2
D.
Pursuant to that certain Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement 
dated as of
, 20 August 17, 2020 by and between the City and Grantee (the “Disposition, 
Development and Loan Agreement”), Grantee agreed to construct on the Garage Property no 
lessmore than (six hundred ninety six (696) parking spaces (the “Garage Improvements”).  The 
Garage Property and the Garage Improvements are collectively referred to herein as (the 
“Garage”).  The Garage will contain up to
ofno more than 532 public parking 
spaces (of which two hundred thirty five (235) are replacing existing spaces) in an area of the 
Garage to be used by the City and its tenants, employees, licensees, guests, invitees, successors 
and assigns (the “City Parties”) and the general public (the “Public Parking Area”), and one 
hundred sixty-four (164) spaces in the Garage more particularly described in Exhibit C attached 
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference (the “Residential Parking Area”) are to be 
reserved solely for the use of Grantee and its tenants, employees, licensees, guests, invitees, 
successors and assigns of the Residential Project (the “Grantee Parties”).
E.
Pursuant to that certain Garage Operation and Maintenance Agreement dated as of 
__________ __, 20__ by and between the City and Partnership (the “Garage O & M Agreement”) the 
Parties have established the responsibility for maintenance and operation of the Garage and the 
allocation of responsibility for Garage operating and maintenance expenses between the City and 
Partnership.
F.
The Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to establish the easements under which 
the Grantee and the Grantee Parties may access and use the Residential Parking Area.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and other consideration, the 
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, City and Grantee hereby agree as follows:
1.
Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, shall be defined as follows:
(a)
“Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion” shall mean the instrument provided 
by the City certifying the completion of the construction of the Garage Improvements, as further set 
forth in the Garage License Agreement.
(b)
All other defined terms used in this Agreement shall be defined where first appearing in 
this Agreement.
398 of 556

--- page 399 ---
3
2.
Grant of Easements.    Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Operation 
and Maintenance Agreement, the City hereby grants to Grantee and the Grantee Parties the following 
appurtenant easements:
(a)
Parking Easement.  A perpetual, irrevocable, exclusive easement in, on and over the 
Residential Parking Area for the parking of the vehicles of Grantee and the Grantee Parties; and
(b)
Access Easement.  A perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive easement for vehicular and 
pedestrian access to and from the Residential Parking Area in, on and over that part of the Garage more 
particularly described in Exhibit D attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference (the 
“Garage Access Area”).
The grant of the foregoing easements by the City shall bind and burden the Garage Property 
which shall, for the purpose of this Agreement, be the servient tenement.  The grant of the foregoing 
easements to Grantee and the Grantee Parties shall benefit the Residential Property which shall, for the 
purpose of this Agreement, be the dominant tenement.
3.
Term.  The term of this Agreement (the “Term”) shall commence upon the Effective 
Date and shall terminate upon the termination of the Ground Lease.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
City and Grantee hereby acknowledge and agree that this Agreement shall be subject to the terms of 
the Garage License Agreement until issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion, at 
which time such Garage License Agreement shall terminate.
4.
Indemnification.
4.1
Grantee.  Grantee agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to the City) the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, 
from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement 
actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent arising out of Grantee's performance or non-
performance under this Agreement, or to the extent arising out of acts or omissions of any of Grantee’s 
contractors or subcontractors except to the extent directly caused by the City's or its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents willful misconduct or gross negligence.  The provisions of this 
Section shall survive expiration of the Term or other termination of this Agreement and shall remain in 
full force and effect.
4.2
City.  The City agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to Grantee) Grantee, its officers and board members, employees, and agents, 
399 of 556

--- page 400 ---
4
from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement 
actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent arising out of the City's performance or non-
performance under this Agreement, or to the extent arising out of acts or omissions of any of the City's 
contractors or subcontractors, except to the extent directly caused by Grantee or its officers and board 
members, employees, and agents willful misconduct or gross negligence.  The provisions of this Section 
shall survive expiration of the Term or other termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force 
and effect.
5.
Insurance.  
5.1
Coverage for the duration of the easement shall be at least as broad as:
(a)
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations property damage, bodily 
injury, and personal and advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence.  If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project 
location (ISP CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the genera aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit.
(b)
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California with Statutory 
Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
(c)
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvement or betterments, 
at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.
5.2
Additional Insurance Provisions.
(a)
Broader Coverage:  If the Grantee maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than 
the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the 
higher limits maintained by Grantee.  Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
(b)
Self-insured retentions.  Self-insured retentions for insurance required herein must be 
declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, either:  the Grantee shall cause the 
insurer to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions, as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents; or the Grantee shall provide a financial guarantee 
satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses.  The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-
insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or City.
(c)
Endorsements.  The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions:
400 of 556

--- page 401 ---
5
(1)
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, are to be covered 
as additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of Grantee’s use of the 
Garage in accordance with this Agreement.  General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to Grantee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85, or both CG 20 
10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used);
(2)
For any claims related to this Agreement, the Grantee’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents.  Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents, shall be excess of the Grantee’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
(3)
Each insurance policy required by this section shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City.
(d)
Acceptability of Insurers.  Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct 
business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable 
to the City.
(e)
Waiver of Subrogation.  Grantee hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any 
insurer of Grantee may acquire from Grantee by virtue of the payment of any loss.  Grantee agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation.  
(f)
Verification of Coverage.  Grantee shall furnish the City with original Certificates of 
Insurance including all required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language 
effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the 
CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins.  However, failure to obtain the 
required documents prior to Grantee’s use of the Garage shall not waive Grantee’s obligation to provide 
them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, 
including endorsements required by these specifications at any time.
5.
Venue.  In the event any legal action is commenced to interpret or to enforce the terms 
of this Agreement or to collect damages as a result of any breach thereof, the venue for such action shall 
be the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo, or where otherwise appropriate, exclusively in the 
United District Court, Northern District, San Francisco, California.
6.
Notices.  Formal notices, demands, and communications between the City and GRANTEE 
shall be sufficiently given if and shall not be deemed given unless dispatched by registered or certified 
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or delivered personally, to the principal office of the City 
and Grantee as follows:
If to GRANTEE:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
401 of 556

--- page 402 ---
6
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attn: President and Chief Executive Officer
If to City:
City of San Mateo
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  99403
Attn: City Manager
Such written notices, demands and communications may be sent in the same manner to such other 
addresses as the affected party may from time to time designate by mail as provided in this Section.
7.
Non-Liability.
7.1
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents.  No member, official, employee or 
agent of the City or the City shall be personally liable to Grantee, or any successor in interest, in the 
event of any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become due to Grantee or 
successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
7.2
Non-Liability of Grantee, Employees and Agents.  No member, director, employee or 
agent of Grantee or Grantee shall be personally liable to the City, or any successor in interest, in the 
event of any default or breach by Grantee or for any amount which may become due to the City or 
successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
8.
Severability.  If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement is held by a 
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions 
shall continue in full force and effect unless the rights and obligations of the parties have been 
materially altered or abridged by such invalidation, voiding or unenforceability.
9.
Covenants Run with the Land.  The covenants and restrictions contained in this 
Agreement shall run with the land and be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the City and Grantee 
and their respective successors in title to the Garage Property and the Residential Property or any part 
thereof, or any interest therein.
402 of 556

--- page 403 ---
7
10.
Modification. This Agreement may not be modified, amended or otherwise changed in 
any manner, except by a written amendment executed by both the City and Grantee, or their respective 
successors in interest.
11.
Controlling Laws. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance 
with, the laws of the State of California.
12.
No Third Party Beneficiaries. The rights, benefits and obligations conferred hereunder 
are for the benefit of the parties hereto and not for the benefit of any third party.
13.
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that 
it be submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation with thirty days (30) days of a request, 
and such mediation shall be limited to one (1) day of mediation.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the 
mediating parties.  In the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation 
Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.  The cost of 
mediation (other than attorneys' fees of each party) shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party 
shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the 
parties, but not more than sixty (60) days from when such process is commenced, unless the maximum 
time is extended by mutual written agreement executed by both parties.
14.
Litigation.  Grantee may at the reasonable request testify at City's request, if litigation is 
brought against City in connection with this Agreement, to the extent the Grantee is considered a 
material witness to the action being litigated.  Unless the action is brought by Grantee, or is based upon 
Grantee’s wrongdoing, City shall compensate Grantee for preparation for all reasonable attorneys' fees, 
and for preparation of testimony and travel at Grantee's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
15.
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with 
respect to the specific subject matter hereof, and all prior negotiations, agreements and understandings 
among Grantee and City with respect to the specific subject matter hereof are merged into this 
Agreement. 
16.
Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which together 
constitute one and the same agreement.
403 of 556

--- page 404 ---
8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GRANTEE and the City have executed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date.
GRANTEE:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership
By: MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, a California 
limited liability company, its General Partner
By: Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc., a 
California nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, its sole member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Jan M. Lindenthal, Assistant Secretary
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city
By:
_________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Approved to as form and legality
By: 
_________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
404 of 556

--- page 405 ---
9
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF GARAGE PROPERTY
The Garage Property is situated in the County of San Mateo, City of San Mateo, State of California, and is 
described as follows:
Parcel 1 as shown on Parcel Map No. 356, filed September 25, 1997, Book 70, of Parcel Maps, Pages 3 
and 4, San Mateo County Records.
APN: 033-281-140
JPN: 033-028-281-12.01
405 of 556

--- page 406 ---
10
EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
The Residential Property is situated in the County of San Mateo, City of San Mateo, State of 
California, and is described as follows:
All of Block 15, as shown on Parcel Map No. 324, filed in the Office of the County Recorder ofSan Mateo 
County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at Page(s) 52 and 53.
San Mateo County, State of California, on February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at
Page(s) 52 and 53.
APN: 
034-183-060
JPN: 
034-018-183-01A
034-018-183-02A
034-018-183-05A
406 of 556

--- page 407 ---
11
EXHIBIT C
RESIDENTIAL PARKING AREA
(The limits of the residential parking area on the fourth floor may be 
adjusted inaccordance with the final construction 
drawings.)
This exhibit has been revised with the images below.
Floor 4
 
Floor 5
407 of 556

--- page 408 ---
12
EXHIBIT D
GARAGE ACCESS AREA
This exhibit has been revised with the images below.
Vehicle Path of Travel
Pedestrian Path of Travel
Emergency-Only Path of Travel
Floor 1
Floor 2
408 of 556

--- page 409 ---
wer ¢_§

ianome ome

Cy SESOND LEVEL PLAN_TURNING MOVEMENT
SALE ie =

Floor 3

THIRD LEVEL PLAN_TURNING MOVEMENT
WEST

13

409 of 556


--- page 410 ---
Floor 4

Floor 5

a FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL PLAN_TURNING MOVEMENT
SE ie Ta

14

410 of 556


--- page 411 ---
1
GARAGE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
This Garage Operation and Maintenance Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into effective 
as of _______________, 20__ (“Effective Date”) by and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal 
corporation (the “City”), and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California limited partnership 
(“Partnership”).  City and Partnership are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Parties”.
RECITALS
A.
City is the fee owner of that certain real property located at 400 East 5th Avenue, in City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California (the “Garage Property”).
B.
Pursuant to that certain ground lease dated as of ____________, 20__ by and between the 
City and Partnership (the “Ground Lease”), the City ground leased to Partnership that certain real 
property located at 480 East 4th Avenue, in City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, California (the 
“Residential Property”).  Partnership shall develop approximately two hundred twenty-five (225) units of 
multi-family rental housing, including two (2) unrestricted manager units, on the Residential Property to 
be made available to and occupied by low-income households (the “Project”).
C.
Pursuant to that certain Garage License Agreement dated as of ____________, 20__ by 
and between the City and Partnership, Partnership agreed to construct on the Garage Property a garage 
structure (the “Garage”).  The Garage will contain no more than (i) 532 parking spaces in the area of the 
Garage more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference 
(the “Public Parking Area”) for the use of the City and the general public (the “City Parties”); and (ii) 164 
parking spaces in the area of the Garage more particularly described in Exhibit B attached hereto and 
incorporated herein by this reference (the “Residential Parking Area”) solely for the use of Partnership 
and its tenants, employees, licensees, guests, invitees, successors and assigns of the Project (the 
“Partnership Parties”).
D.
Pursuant to that certain garage easement agreement dated as of ____________, 20__ by 
and between the City and Partnership (the “Garage Easement Agreement”), the City has granted to the 
Partnership and the Partnership Parties certain parking and access easements for access to and use of the 
Garage Property.
E.
The Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to establish the responsibility for 
maintenance and operation of the Garage and the allocation of responsibility for Garage operating and 
maintenance expenses between the City and Partnership.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and other consideration, the 
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, City and Partnership hereby agree as follows:
1.
Definitions. The following terms, as used herein, shall be defined as follows:
(a)
"City Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.
411 of 556

--- page 412 ---
2
(b)
“City’s Reimbursable Obligations” means those items listed in Column III of Exhibit C 
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference (“Exhibit C”). 
(c)
“Partnership’s Share” means the parking count in the Residential Parking Area as share 
of total parking count in the Garage.
(d)
"Hazardous Materials" means:
(1) Any "hazardous substance" as defined in Section 101(14) of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 
Section 9601(14)) or Section 25281(d) or 25316 of the California Health and Safety Code 
as amended from time to time;
(2) Any "hazardous waste," "infectious waste" or "hazardous material" as defined in Section 
25117, 25117.5 or 25501(j) of the California Health and Safety Code as amended from 
time to time;
(3) Any other waste, substance or material designated or regulated in any way as "toxic" or 
"hazardous" in the RCRA (42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq.), CERCLA (42 U.S.C. Section 
9601 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.), Safe 
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. Section 300(f) et seq.), Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq.), Clear Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq.), California 
Health and Safety Code (Section 25100 et seq., Section 39000 et seq.), or California 
Water Code (Section 13000 et seq.) as amended from time to time; and
(4) Any additional wastes, substances or materials which at such time are classified, 
considered or regulated as hazardous or toxic under any other present or future 
environmental or other similar laws applicable to the Garage.
(5) The term "Hazardous Materials" shall not include:  (i) construction materials, gardening 
materials, household products, office supply products or janitorial supply products 
customarily used in the construction, operation, or maintenance, of residential 
developments, parking garages, or typically used in office, residential, or parking garage 
related activities; or (ii) certain substances which may contain chemicals listed by the 
State of California pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Sections 25249.8 et 
seq., which substances are commonly used by a significant portion of the population 
living within the region of the Development, including, but not limited to, alcoholic 
beverages, aspirin, tobacco products, nutrasweet and saccharine.
(e) 
"Hazardous Materials Laws" means all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, 
regulations, orders and directives applicable to Hazardous Materials in, on or under the 
Garage or any portion thereof.
(f)
"Partnership Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.
(g)
All other defined terms used in this Agreement shall be defined where first appearing in 
this Agreement.
2.
 Term.  The term of this Agreement (the “Term”) shall commence upon the date on which a 
certificate of occupancy is issued for the Project and shall terminate upon the ninety-ninth 
anniversary of such datetermination of the Garage Easement Agreement.
412 of 556

--- page 413 ---
3
3.
Use.
3.1
Garage.
(a) Use of Public Parking Area.  The City and the City Parties shall use the Public Parking Area 
in accordance with the City’s approved parking ordinances and resolutions.
(b) Use of Residential Parking Area.  The Partnership and the Partnership Parties shall use the 
Residential Parking Area for the parking of automobiles only.  Each automobile shall park 
within the bounds of a single parking space.  “Automobiles” shall mean any vehicles that are 
suitable for use on a street or roadway and which are of a size capable of fitting into a single 
parking space without intruding into adjoining spaces or access areas.  Examples of vehicles 
that are not permitted to park in the Residential Parking Area include, but are not limited to, 
campers, motor homes, buses, boats, and industrial or agricultural vehicles.  Motorcycles, 
bicycles and similar modes of transportation may be parked in appropriate areas as may be 
designated within the Garage.
(c) Partnership and the City shall not permit any automobile brought onto the Garage by any 
Partnership Parties or City Parties to be serviced or otherwise repaired while parked in the 
Garage unless such repair or service is necessary to remove the vehicle from the Garage; for 
the protection of public health and safety or the environment; or to otherwise comply with 
applicable laws and regulations.
(d) Partnership and the Partnership Parties shall have access to the Garage at all times, subject to 
the City’s right to install gates or other security measures.  Any such gates or security measures 
shall not unreasonably interfere with the use of the Garage by Partnership or the Partnership 
Parties, and Partnership and the Partnership Parties shall be provided with the means of access 
through any such gates or other security measures.  Any such gates or security measures shall 
not be closed Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. PST each day.
(e) Partnership will cause there to be adopted and maintained parking enforcement policies 
applicable to the use of the Residential Parking Area (the “Parking Policies”).
4.
Maintenance and Repair Obligations
4.1
City’s Maintenance and Repair Obligations.  During the Term the City shall be 
responsible for maintenance and repair of the public parking area and shall perform the 
maintenance responsibilities set forth in Columns I and III of Exhibit C for the Garage in 
accordance with all applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders, and regulations of all federal, state, 
municipal, and other governmental agencies and bodies having or claiming jurisdiction and all 
their respective departments, bureaus, and officials.  The City shall perform the maintenance 
responsibilities set forth in Column I of Exhibit C at its sole cost and expense.  The City shall 
perform the maintenance responsibilities set forth in Column III of Exhibit C at its cost and 
expense and Partnership shall pay Partnership’s Share of City’s Reimbursable Obligations in 
accordance with Section 4.4.  During the Term the City shall promptly repair, replace or restore at 
its sole cost and expense any and all of the improvements in the Public Parking Area, including 
the garage structure, that have been disturbed, damaged or destroyed to same condition existing 
before such disturbance, damage or destruction occurred.
413 of 556

--- page 414 ---
4
4.2
Partnership’s Maintenance and Repair Obligations.  During the Term the Partnership 
shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of the Residential Parking Area in accordance 
with the maintenance responsibilities set forth in Column II of Exhibit C in accordance with all 
applicable laws, rules, ordinances, orders, and regulations of all federal, state, municipal, and 
other governmental agencies and bodies having or claiming jurisdiction and all their respective 
departments, bureaus, and officials.  The Partnership shall perform the maintenance 
responsibilities set forth in Column II of Exhibit C at its sole cost and expense.  During the Term 
the Partnership shall promptly repair, replace or restore at its sole cost and expense any and all of 
the improvements in the Residential Parking Area as set forth in Column II of Exhibit C that have 
been disturbed, damaged or destroyed to same condition existing before such disturbance, 
damage or destruction occurred.. 
4.3
Partnership’s Step-In Rights.  In the event that the City breaches any of the covenants 
contained in subsection 4.1 and such default affects Partnership and Partnership Parties access 
and use of the Residential Parking Area, then Partnership, in addition to whatever other remedy it 
may have under this Agreement or at law or in equity, shall have the right but not the obligation 
to enter upon the Garage Property and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work 
necessary to restore access and use.  If default with respect to minor graffiti, reasonably defined 
debris, waste material, general maintenance, landscaping and building improvements continues 
for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to the City from Partnership, then Partnership 
shall have the right but not the obligation to enter upon the Garage Property and perform all acts 
and work necessary to protect, maintain, and preserve the garage and landscaped areas on the 
Garage Property.  Partnership shall have the right to invoice City for the costs related to such 
default in the amount of the expenditures arising from such acts and work for restoration of use 
and access, protection, maintenance, and preservation by Partnership and/or costs of such cure, 
including a ten percent (10%) administrative charge, which amount shall be promptly paid by the 
City to Partnership within 45 days of work competed.  Partnership may bring legal action to 
collect the sums due as the result of expending monies pursuant to this subsection.  The City 
agrees that if Partnership brings legal action to enforce its rights under this subsection, the City 
shall pay Partnership all costs incurred by it, including attorneys' fees and court costs, together 
with interest from the date Partnership provided notice under this subsection, at the rate of seven 
percent (7%) per annum.
4.4
Payment of Partnership’s Share.
(a) During the Term the Partnership shall pay to the City Partnership’s Share of the costs 
incurred by the City in performing the City’s Reimbursable Obligations. 
(b) Partnership’s Share shall be paid and adjusted with reference to a fiscal period of twelve (12) 
calendar months (“Fiscal Period”), which shall be a fiscal year.  At the commencement of the 
Term and on the anniversary of such date during the Term, City shall advise Partnership in 
writing of its estimate (the “Estimate”) of the dollar amount of the Partnership’s Share of the 
costs of City’s Reimbursable Obligations to be payable by Partnership during the Fiscal 
Period.   The Partnership’s Share will be the same percentage as the percentage of parking 
spaces dedicated to the Residential Parking Area of the total parking spaces.  Such Estimate 
414 of 556

--- page 415 ---
5
shall in every case be a reasonable estimate and, if requested by Partnership, shall be 
accompanied by reasonable particulars of the manner in which it was calculated.  
Partnership’s Share of the costs of City’s Reimbursable Obligations shall be paid in equal 
monthly installments on the first day of each month during the Term based on the Estimate.  
Within thirty (30) days after the end of each the Fiscal Period, City shall provide Partnership 
with a reconciliation (the “Annual Reconciliation”) of the actual Partnership’s Share of the 
actual costs incurred by City in performing City’s Reimbursable Obligations for such Fiscal 
Period and a calculation of the amount by which the actual Partnership’s Share payable by 
Partnership exceeds or is less than (as the case may be) the aggregate installments of 
Partnership’s Share paid by Partnership for such Fiscal Period, together with the total amount 
of City’s Reimbursable Obligations for such Fiscal Period.  Within thirty (30) days after the 
submission of Annual Reconciliation either Partnership shall pay to City any amount by 
which the amount found payable by Partnership with respect to such Fiscal Period exceeds 
the aggregate of the monthly payments made by Partnership during such Fiscal Period, or 
City shall pay to Partnership any amount by which the amount found payable as aforesaid is 
less than the aggregate of such monthly payments.
(c) If the Partnership disputes the amount set forth in any Annual Reconciliation provided by 
City, to the Parties will meet and confer to review City’s books and records with respect to 
City’s Reimbursable Obligations for such Fiscal Period to be audited.  If, as a result of the 
review, the Partnership becomes entitled to a refund or credit in an amount greater than five 
percent (5%) of the Partnership’s Share of the City’s Reimbursable Obligations as stated in 
the Annual Reconciliation, the reasonable cost of the review shall be borne by City; otherwise 
the cost of such review shall be paid by Partnership.  If Partnership does not request review in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section within thirty (30) days after receipt of the 
Annual Reconciliation, the Annual Reconciliation shall be final and binding for all purposes.
4.5 
Garage Property Management Agent.  At all times during the Term the City shall manage 
the Garage, including the public parking area and the garage structure, in accordance to Columns 
I and III of Exhibit C.  The Partnership will be responsible for the residential parking area, in 
accordance to Column II of Exhibit C.   
5.
Taxes, Assessments and Development Impact Fees.  At all times during the Term the City shall 
pay all real and personal property taxes, assessments and charges and all franchise, income, 
employment, old age benefit, withholding, sales, and other taxes assessed against it, or payable by 
it, at such times and in such manner as to prevent any penalty from accruing, or any lien or charge 
from attaching to the Garage Property or Partnership’s interest in the Garage Property; provided, 
however, that the City shall have the right to contest in good faith any such taxes, assessments, or 
charges.  In the event the City exercises its right to contest any tax, assessment, or charge against 
it, the City, on final determination of the proceeding or contest, shall immediately pay or 
discharge any decision or judgment rendered against it, together with all costs, charges and 
interest.
415 of 556

--- page 416 ---
6
6.
Default.  The provisions of this Section shall govern the parties' remedies for breach or failure of 
this Agreement.
6.1
Default of City.  The following event shall constitute a City Event of Default and a basis 
for Partnership to take action against the City:
(a) The City breaches any material provision of this Agreement.
(b) Upon the happening of any of the above-described events, Partnership shall first notify the 
City in writing of its purported breach or failure, giving the City 60 days from receipt of such 
notice to cure or, if cure cannot be accomplished within 60 days, to commence to cure such 
breach, failure, or act.  In the event the City does not then so cure within said 60 days, or if 
the breach or failure is of such a nature that it cannot be cured within 60 days, the City fails to 
commence to cure within such 60 days and thereafter diligently completes such cure within a 
reasonable time thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) days, then 
Partnership may pursue any and all remedies available at law.
6.2
Default of Partnership.  The following event shall constitute a Partnership Event of 
Default and a basis for the City to take action against Partnership:
(a) Partnership breaches any material provision of this Agreement.
(b) Upon the happening of any of the above-described events, the City shall first notify 
Partnership in writing of its purported breach, failure or act above described, giving 
Partnership in writing sixty (60) days from receipt of such notice to cure, or, if cure cannot be 
accomplished within said sixty (60) days, to commence to cure such breach, failure, or act.  
In the event Partnership fails to cure within said sixty (60) days, or if such breach is of a 
nature that it cannot be cured within sixty (60) days, Partnership fails to commence to cure 
within said sixty (60) days and diligently complete such cure within a reasonable time 
thereafter but in no event later than one hundred twenty (120) days, then the City shall be 
afforded all of its rights at law or in equity by taking any or all of the following remedies: 
prosecuting an action for damages (but specifically excluding lost profits, special damages 
and consequential damages) or specific performance.
6.3
Remedies Cumulative.  No right, power, or remedy given by the terms of this Agreement 
is intended to be exclusive of any other right, power, or remedy; and each and every such right, 
power, or remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or remedy 
given by the terms of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise.  Neither the failure nor 
any delay to exercise any such rights and remedies shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any 
single or partial exercise of any such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of 
such right or remedy, or any other right or remedy.
6.4
Waiver of Terms and Conditions.  No waiver of any default or breach by Partnership 
hereunder shall be implied from any omission by the City to take action on account of such 
416 of 556

--- page 417 ---
7
default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any default other 
than the default specified in the waiver, and such waiver shall be operative only for the time and 
to the extent therein stated.  Waivers of any covenant, term, or condition contained in this 
Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same covenant, 
term, or condition.  The consent or approval by the City to or of any act by Partnership requiring 
further consent or approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary the consent or 
approval to or of any subsequent similar act.
7.
Hazardous Materials. 
7.1
No Hazardous Materials Activities.  Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the 
other that, at all times from and after the Issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of 
Completion until the expiration of the Term, each Party shall not cause or permit its portion of the 
Garage Property or the Garage Improvements to be used as a site for the use, generation, 
manufacture, storage, treatment, release, discharge, disposal, transportation or presence of any 
Hazardous Materials.
7.2
Hazardous Materials Laws.  Each Party hereby represents to the other that, at all times 
from and after the issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion until the 
expiration of the Term, each Party shall comply and cause the Garage Property and the Garage 
Improvements to comply with Hazardous Materials Laws, including without limitation, those 
relating to soil and groundwater conditions.
7.3
Notices.  Each Party hereby represents to the other that, at all times from and after the 
issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion until the expiration of the Term, 
each Party shall immediately notify the other in writing of:  (i) the discovery of any Hazardous 
Materials on or under the Garage Property; (ii) any knowledge  that the Garage Property does not 
comply with any Hazardous Materials Laws; (iii) any claims or actions pending or threatened 
against Partnership, the Garage Property, or the Garage Improvements by any governmental 
entity or agency or any other person or entity relating to Hazardous Materials or pursuant to any 
Hazardous Materials Laws, or arising from claims of nuisance, or damage to property or personal 
injury relating to Hazardous Materials associated with the Garage Property or the Garage 
Improvements located thereon (collectively "Hazardous Materials Claims"); and (iv) the 
discovery of any occurrence or condition on any real property adjoining or in the vicinity of the 
Garage Property, that could cause the Garage Property, or any part thereof to be designated as 
"border zone property" under the provisions of California Health and Safety Code Sections 
25220, et seq., or any regulation adopted in accordance therewith, or to be otherwise subject to 
any restrictions on the ownership, occupancy, transferability or use of the Garage Property under 
any Hazardous Materials Laws.  Each Party shall have the right to join and participate in, as a 
party if it so elects, any legal proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any Hazardous 
Materials Claims and to have its reasonable attorney's fees in connection therewith paid by the 
party ultimately determined to be responsible.
417 of 556

--- page 418 ---
8
7.4
Remedial Action.  Without prior written notice to Partnership, the City shall not take any 
remedial action in response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the 
Garage Property or the Garage Improvements (other than in emergency situations or as required 
by governmental agencies having jurisdiction), nor enter into any settlement agreement, consent 
decree, or other compromise in respect to any Hazardous Materials Claims
7.5
Indemnification.  Each Party agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by 
counsel reasonably satisfactory to the other) the other Party, its elected officials, officers and 
board members, employees, and agents, from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, 
administrative proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens 
to the extent arising out of liability due to arising from (i) any Hazardous Materials that after the 
issuance of the Garage Improvements Certificate of Completion are (a) released, spilled or treated 
at the Garage Property, or (b) any breach of the representations and warranties in Sections 6.1 and 
6.2, caused by the that Party.  The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration of the Term 
or other termination of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
8.
General Indemnification.
8.1
Partnership.  Partnership agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by 
counsel reasonably satisfactory to the City) the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative 
proceeding, arbitrations, enforcement actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent 
arising out of Partnership's performance or non-performance under this Agreement, or to the 
extent arising out of acts or omissions of any of Partnership’s contractors or subcontractors , 
except to the extent directly caused by the City's or its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents willful misconduct or gross negligence. Partnership is responsible for any claims 
arising out of residents’ use of the Residential Parking Area to the extent that such claims arise 
out of Partnership’s performance of its maintenance obligations as set forth in Column II in 
Exhibit C. The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration of the Term or other termination 
of this Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect.
8.2
City.  The City agrees to indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend (by counsel 
reasonably satisfactory to Partnership) Partnership, its officers and board members, employees, 
and agents, from all suits, actions, claims, causes of action, administrative proceeding, 
arbitrations, enforcement actions, costs, demands, judgments and liens to the extent arising out of 
the City's performance or non-performance under this Agreement, or to the extent arising out of 
acts or omissions of any of the City, its employees, its  contractors, and its subcontractors,, except 
to the extent directly caused by Partnership or its officers and board members, employees, and 
agents willful misconduct or gross negligence.  City is responsible for any claims arising out of 
any use of the Public Parking Area and any claims arising out of City’s performance of its 
maintenance obligations as set forth in Column I and III of Exhibit C, including, but not limited 
to residents entering and exiting the residential portion of the Garage.  The provisions of this 
Section shall survive expiration of the Term or other termination of this Agreement and shall 
remain in full force and effect.
9.
Insurance Requirements.
418 of 556

--- page 419 ---
9
9.1
Required Coverage.  
(a) 
City. The City shall, at all times during the Term, maintain and keep in force, at its sole 
cost and expense, the following insurance applicable to the Garage:
(1) To the extent required by law, Workers' Compensation insurance, including 
Employer's Liability coverage, with limits not less than required by applicable law.
(2) Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability insurance with limits not less than 
One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence and Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) 
annual aggregate combined single limit for Bodily Injury and Property Damage, 
including coverages for Contractual Liability, Personal Injury, Broadform Property 
Damage, Products and Completed Operations, and an umbrella policy with limits not less 
than Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000).
(3) Comprehensive Automobile Liability insurance with limits not less than One Million 
Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence, combined single limit for Bodily Injury and 
Property Damage, including coverages for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles, as 
applicable.
(4) Property insurance against all risks of loss to the Garage, excluding any tenant 
improvements or betterments, at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty 
provision.
(b) 
Partnership.  The Partnership shall, at all times during the Term, maintain and keep in 
force, at its sole cost and expense, the following insurance applicable to the Residential Parking 
Area:
(1) To the extent required by law, Workers' Compensation insurance, including 
Employer's Liability coverage, with limits not less than required by applicable law.
(2) Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability insurance with limits not less than 
One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence and Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) 
annual aggregate combined single limit for Bodily Injury and Property Damage, 
including coverages for Contractual Liability, Personal Injury, Broadform Property 
Damage, Products and Completed Operations, and an umbrella policy with limits not less 
than Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000).
(3) Comprehensive Automobile Liability insurance with limits not less than One Million 
Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence, combined single limit for Bodily Injury and 
Property Damage, including coverages for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles, as 
applicable.  For non-owned and hired vehicles, insurance can be provided under 
Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability insurance.
(4) Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements (defined to be 
light fixtures, security cameras, signage, access control infrastructure, pedestrian gate to 
pedestrian bridge, and EV equipment) or betterments, at full replacement cost with no 
coinsurance penalty provision.
419 of 556

--- page 420 ---
10
(5) Garagekeeper’s Legal Liability Insurance with a limit not less than $2,000,000 
combined single limit per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate.
9.2
General Requirements.  
(a) Per Occurrence.  The required insurance shall be provided under an occurrence form, and each 
Party shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the Term.  Should any of the 
required insurance be provided under a form of coverage that provides that claims investigation 
or legal defense costs be included in such annual aggregate limit, such annual aggregate limit 
shall be three times the occurrence limits specified above.
(b) Additional Insureds. Comprehensive General Liability and Comprehensive Automobile 
Liability insurance policies shall be endorsed to name as additional insureds the other Party and 
its board members, elected and appointed officials, officers, agents, and employees.
(c) Primary Coverage.  For any claims covered by City’s insurance, the City’s insurance coverage 
shall be primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects 
Partnership, its officers, officials, employees, and agents.  Any insurance maintained by 
Partnership, it officers, officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the City’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.  Cancellation.  For any claims covered by Partnership’s insurance, the 
Partnership’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 
20 01 04 13 as respects City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents.  Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
and agents, shall be excess of Partnership’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
(d) Notice of Cancellation.  All policies shall be endorsed to provide the Policyholder thirty (30) 
days' prior written notice of cancellation, reduction in coverage, or intent not to renew, and it 
shall be the Policyholder’s responsibility to notify the other Party of such cancellation, reduction 
or intent to non-renew, at the address established for notices pursuant to Section 11.
(e) Waiver of Subrogation.  Each Party grants to the other Party a waiver of any right to 
subrogation which any insurer of either Party may acquire against the other Party by virtue of the 
payment of any loss under such insurance.  Each Party agrees to obtain any endorsement that may 
be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether 
or not a Party has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer,
(f) Acceptability of Insurers.  Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct 
business in the state with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise 
acceptable to the other Party.
(g) Self-Insured Retentions.  Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the 
Parties.  At the option of either Party, the other Party must either:  1) Obtain coverage to reduce 
or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the other Party, its officers, officials, 
employees, and agents; or 2) provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the other Party 
guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses.  The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured 
retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or the other Party.
420 of 556

--- page 421 ---
11
(h) Verification of Coverage.  Upon execution of this Agreement,  each Party shall provide 
certificates of insurance, in form and with insurers reasonable acceptable to the requesting Party, 
evidencing compliance with the requirements of this Section, and shall provide complete copies 
of such insurance policies, including a separate endorsement naming other party, its board 
members, elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, as additional insureds.
9.3 
Audits. The City shall make available for examination at reasonable intervals and during 
normal business hours to Partnership all books, accounts, reports, files, and other papers or 
property with respect to all matters covered by this Agreement, and shall permit Partnership to 
audit, examine, and make excerpts or transcripts from such records. Partnership may make audits 
of any conditions relating to this Agreement.
10.
Assignment.  Partnership shall not assign this Agreement or any interest herein without the prior 
written consent of the City in its reasonable discretion.  In connection with a request for 
assignment, there shall be submitted to the City for review all instruments and other legal 
documents proposed to effect any such assignment.  If a requested assignment is approved by the 
City such approval shall be indicated to Partnership in writing.  Such approval shall be granted or 
denied by the City within ninety (90) days of receipt by the City of Partnership’s request for 
approval of an assignment.  In the event the City does not respond either granting or denying the 
request within ninety (90) days the request shall be deemed approved.  Upon such approval, if 
granted, the transferee, by an instrument in writing prepared by the City shall expressly assume 
the obligations of Partnership under this Agreement and agree to be subject to the conditions and 
restrictions to which Partnership is subject arising during this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the City hereby approves the assignment of this Agreement from Partnership to a 
limited liability company or limited partnership, the managing member or partner of which is a 
nonprofit public benefit corporation or limited liability company affiliated with MidPen Housing 
Corporation.
11.
Venue.  In the event any legal action is commenced to interpret or to enforce the terms of this 
Agreement or to collect damages as a result of any breach thereof, the venue for such action shall 
be the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo, or where otherwise appropriate, exclusively in 
the United District Court, Northern District, San Francisco, California.
12.
Notices.  Formal notices, demands, and communications between the City and Partnership shall 
be sufficiently given if and shall not be deemed given unless dispatched by registered or certified 
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested or delivered personally, to the principal office of 
the City and Partnership as follows:
If to Partnership:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.
303 Vintage Park Drive, Suite 250
Foster City, CA 94404
Attn: President and Chief Executive Officer
If to City:
City of San Mateo
421 of 556

--- page 422 ---
12
320 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  99403
Attn: City Manager
Such written notices, demands and communications may be sent in the same manner to such other 
addresses as the affected party may from time to time designate by mail as provided in this 
Section.
13.
Non-Liability.
13.1 
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents.  No member, official, employee 
or agent of the City or the City shall be personally liable to Partnership, or any successor in 
interest, in the event of any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become 
due to Partnership or successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
13.2
 Non-Liability of Partnership, Employees and Agents.  No member, director, employee or 
agent of Partnership or Partnership shall be personally liable to the City, or any successor in 
interest, in the event of any default or breach by Partnership or for any amount which may 
become due to the City or successor or on any obligation under the terms of this Agreement.
14.
Severability.  If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement is held by a court of 
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions shall 
continue in full force and effect unless the rights and obligations of the parties have been 
materially altered or abridged by such invalidation, voiding or unenforceability.
15.
Covenants Run with the Land.  The covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement shall 
run with the land and be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the City and Partnership and 
their respective successors in title to the Garage Property and the Residential Property or any part 
thereof, or any interest therein.
16.
Modification. This Agreement may not be modified, amended or otherwise changed in any 
manner, except by a written amendment executed by both the City and Partnership, or their 
respective successors in interest.
17.
Controlling Laws. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the 
laws of the State of California.
18.
No Third Party Beneficiaries. The rights, benefits and obligations conferred hereunder are for the 
benefit of the parties hereto and not for the benefit of any third party.
422 of 556

--- page 423 ---
13
19.
Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within thirty days (30) days of a 
request, and such mediation shall be limited to one (1) day of mediation.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties.  In the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit 
one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected 
by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation (other than attorneys' fees of each party) shall be borne 
equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be 
permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt 
to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties, but not more than sixty (60) days 
from when such process is commenced, unless the maximum time is extended by mutual written 
agreement executed by both parties.
20.
Litigation.  Partnership may at the reasonable request testify at City's request, if litigation is 
brought against City in connection with this Agreement, to the extent the Partnership is 
considered a material witness to the action being litigated.  Unless the action is brought by 
Partnership, or is based upon Partnership’s wrongdoing, City shall compensate Partnership for 
preparation for all reasonable attorneys' fees, and for preparation of testimony and travel at 
Partnership's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
21.
Entire Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in the Ground Lease and Garage Easement 
Agreement, this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the 
specific subject matter hereof, and all prior negotiations, agreements and understandings among 
Partnership and City with respect to the specific subject matter hereof are merged into this 
Agreement. 
22.
Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which together constitute 
one and the same agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Partnership and the City have executed this Agreement as of the 
Effective Date.
423 of 556

--- page 424 ---
14
PARTNERSHIP:
MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a California 
limited partnership
By: MP Downtown San Mateo, LLC, a 
California limited liability company, its General 
Partner
By: Mid-Peninsula Baker Park, Inc., a 
California nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, its Managersole 
member/manager
By:
_________________________________
Jan M. Lindenthal, Assistant Secretary
CITY:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city
By:
_________________________________
Drew Corbett, City Manager
Approved to as form and legality
By: 
_________________________________
Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney
424 of 556

--- page 425 ---
EXHIBIT A
Public Parking Area
(The limits of the public parking area on the first and fourth floors may be 
adjusted in accordance with the final construction drawings.)
This exhibit has been revised with the images below.
Floor 1
425 of 556

--- page 426 ---
i

Ky DD i Da

aa

© OGGOH O O

Floor 2

r=
i
oO
a.
2
2
J
Oo.

SECOND LEVEL PLAN

Floor 3

426 of 556


--- page 427 ---
©)

1S)

wer

we

© © ® BO®

gy

ey
®)
— (aa ‘ C) Sh if H
Dat 3 5

; K~ \\e ©

’

2
)

©)
H

)
i

©)

a= (ss3

427 of 556


--- page 428 ---
Floor 4

Peto 2n noes Aas rae 9A

re

[E = Public Parking

Public Parking Sy

428 of 556


--- page 429 ---
EXHIBIT B
Residential Parking Area
(The limits of the residential parking area on the fourth floor may be adjusted in 
accordance with the final construction drawings.)
Floor 4
 
Floor 5
429 of 556

--- page 430 ---
>
EY

9OOo0o KO OBE HOH B®
Jew | we [ow] we | we | we [we | we | we | we | we | we [we [we | we [oe [we [we | we [ve | oe | oe |

Oo o0 OOO 0 DB ®D

O @ GQOOO © O

FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL PLAN

oo

vi

430 of 556


--- page 431 ---
EXHIBIT C
Maintenance Responsibilities:
I
Exclusively City
II
Exclusively Partnership
III
City Maintains, Partnership 
Contributes Partnership’s Share
Within public parking area:
-
Light fixtures
-
Restriping
-
Cleaning / power-washing 
floor
-
Trash
-
Security cameras 
(separate system from 
resident parking area)
-
Elective wayfinding 
signage
-
Elective parking 
availability signage and 
occupancy count 
infrastructure
-
Elective pay stations
-
EV equipment
-
Enforcement of user 
requirements: parking 
payment, inoperable 
vehicles, automobile 
parking only, no repairs of 
vehicles within garage, 
etc.
-
Towing
-
Space numbers
-
Interior painting
-
Ground floor utility room
Within resident parking area:
-
Light fixtures
-
Restriping
-
Cleaning / power-washing 
floor
-
Trash
-
Security cameras 
(separate system from 
public parking area)
-
Elective property 
management signage
-
Access control 
infrastructure 
-
Access to pedestrian 
bridge from pedestrian 
gate at residential parking 
area 
-
EV equipment
-
Enforcement of user 
requirements: parking 
assignments, inoperable 
vehicles, automobile 
parking only, no repairs of 
vehicles within garage, 
etc.
-
Towing
-
Space numbers
-
Interior painting
Superstructure:
-
Elevator, including 
cleaning and all required 
testing and monitoring 
required for recurring 
certification requirements 
as mandated by the State 
of California for 
conveyance systems
-
Stairwells, including 
cleaning
-
Fire rated exit corridor
-
Extermination / bird 
roosting
-
Resealing floor, including 
code-required textured 
flooring
-
Building exterior, 
exclusive of public art, 
decorative façade and 
pedestrian bridge 
attachment to 
superstructure
-
Code-required signage
-
Cable rails at ramps
-
Floor drains
-
Utilities: 
Electrical/Water/Sewer
-
PV Panels 
-
Fire protection systems, 
including: fire risers, 
back-flow preventer, 
sprinkler lines and heads, 
fire pump (if required), 
inspection and monitoring 
for recurring certifications 
as required
431 of 556

--- page 432 ---
-
Window washing (if 
relevant, i.e. elevator 
becomes glass enclosed)
-
Solar carports (if relevant, 
i.e. required by code)
-
Landscape, including: 
irrigation, irrigation 
controls and Back-flow 
preventer and all fencing 
on property
-
Exterior lighting
-
Mechanical and electrical 
systems
-
Decorative façade (if 
counted as “public art 
requirement”)Public art
-
Permanent stormwater 
treatment facilities, 
including storm drains
-
Fire life safety alarm and 
elevator call monitoring
Decorative façade fins (if not 
counted as “public art 
requirement”)
Resident parking gate
Sidewalk
Pedestrian bridge attachment to 
superstructure
Fencing at ground floor parking 
bays
Exterior signage
Tree pruning
432 of 556

--- page 433 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-5417
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Municipal Code Cleanup Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.24 “Streets and Sidewalks,” Chapter 23.40 “Site 
Development,” Chapter 27.71 “Landscape for Planning Applications,” and Chapter 27.78 “Variances,” to clarify tree 
provisions; Chapter 27.04 “Definitions,” to remove curb level and clarify floor area for structures and basement; Chapter 
27.64 “Off-Street Parking and Loading,” to clarify on-street loading and Site Plan and Architectural Review provisions; 
update all references from “Uniform Building Code” to “California Building Code”; and update all references from “City 
Engineer” to “Public Works Director.”
BACKGROUND:
The proposed amendments are intended to clarify existing requirements that are ambiguous, contain errors and/or
omissions, are inconsistent with other provisions of the municipal code, and generate confusion for staff and members of 
the public. The proposed changes to the zoning code are outlined below. A clean version of the proposed changes is 
included in Attachment 1 (Draft Ordinance). A strike through and underline version is also provided and organized by topic 
for ease of review, see Attachment 2 (Proposed Amendments).
Proposed Code Amendments
Changes to Chapter 27.04 (Definitions) pertaining to curb level
In 1978, the City Council approved a “curb level” definition. In 1985, the City Council approved an amendment to the
building height definition to measure building height from grade rather than curb level. The curb level definition, which 
should have been removed as part of the 1985 amendment, no longer serves a purpose and is proposed to be removed.
Changes to Chapter 27.04 (Definitions) pertaining to floor area 
For the purposes of calculating floor area ratio, covered structures such as patios and carports are counted as floor area 
regardless of the number of open sides, as well as basements. The proposed change reformats the list and provides clarity 
for what is considered a covered structure that counts toward floor area ratio, and when basements are counted as floor 
area. After the Planning Commission meeting, the following minor edits were made to the floor area definition: change the 
reference from “conditioned” space to “habitable” space as the latter is utilized elsewhere in the zoning code, fix a typo by 
replacing an “or” with an “and”; and remove proposed language in Section 27.04.200 (c)(7) as there is an existing 
definition for “Story” in Section 27.04.445.
Changes to Chapters 27.64 (Off-Street Parking and Loading) pertaining to on-street loading
When a proposed new development or new use in an existing building requests relief from the requirement to provide off-
street loading berths, a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) or Variance is required. The current Code language
prohibits an applicant from requesting a SPAR to omit the required off-street loading unless it can be demonstrated that
433 of 556

--- page 434 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
only street access to the building is available. The prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is developed
or proposed for development must have access to a street. The result has been that the provision is confusing and has not
been applied consistently over the years, resulting in a number of instances where developments have applied for and
been granted relief from the City’s on-site loading requirements without meeting the prerequisite language. The intent of
the proposed code amendment is to clarify the Code for greater transparency and to promote consistency in how the
provision is applied. The process to request and establish loading elsewhere would not be affected by the proposed
amendment.  
Changes to Chapters 17.24 (Streets and Sidewalks), 23.40 (Site Development Code), 27.71 (Landscape for Planning 
Applications) and 27.78 (Variance) pertaining to trees.
On May 3, 2021, the City Council repealed Chapters 13.35, “Street Trees,” and 13.52, “Heritage Trees,” and adopted 
Chapter 13.40, “Protected Tree.” The new ordinance updated the City’s requirements in line with current best practices. 
Changes are proposed to Chapters 27.71, “Landscape,” 27.78, “Variance,” 17.24, “Streets and Sidewalks,” and 23.40, “Site 
Development,” to align with Chapter 13.40 for internal consistency, incorporate best practices, and provide clarity for 
customers regarding trees. 
Change references to Building Code and Director of Public Works
The Uniform Building Code (UBC) is referenced in multiple places; however, the last publication was in 1997 and it is no 
longer used. The proposed amendments include replacing all references to “Uniform Building Code” with “California 
Building Code.”  Also, the Municipal Code currently references “City Engineer,” which is not a current position.  These 
revisions replace the term “City Engineer” with the term “Director of Public Works” throughout the Municipal Code.
Planning Commission Review
The Planning Commission held a noticed public hearing on October 26, 2021, to review the proposed Zoning Code 
amendments and provide a recommendation to the City Council. There were no public comments submitted prior to the 
meeting or when the Chair opened up the hearing to the public. Following questions and a discussion, the Commission 
voted unanimously (5-0) to recommend adoption of the ordinance to amend the Zoning Code chapters. The draft minutes 
of the Planning Commission meeting were not available at the time of publication of this report, but the video of the 
meeting is available here.
After the Planning Commission reviewed this item, staff made minor edits to the floor area definition, added proposed 
amendments to Chapters 17.24 and 23.40 to clarify tree provisions, and expanded the updated of references to California 
Building Code and Director of Public Works to apply throughout the municipal code.  It should be noted that the proposed 
amendments to the Zoning Code were presented to the Planning Commission consistent with the City’s Municipal Code 
requirements, and changes to other titles in the Municipal Code are being presented to the City Council in this ordinance 
introduction.
Next Steps
Following the public hearing to introduce the proposed Ordinance, this item will be scheduled for a second reading for 
adoption at the next scheduled City Council meeting, with the code amendments going into effect 30 days after adoption. 
   
BUDGET IMPACT:
Management and administration of the Zoning Code, including the processing of City initiated Municipal Code 
amendments, is funded as part of the Community Development Department’s annual budget.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Zoning Code amendment is exempt from CEQA under the “common sense exemption” (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3)) because it provides clarification and improves legibility, and it can be seen with certainty that the changes will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment.    
434 of 556

--- page 435 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Proposed Amendments with track changes
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216
435 of 556

--- page 436 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Repealing Section 27.04.140, “Curb Level,” Amending Sections 17.24.020 “Definitions,” 27.04.200, “Floor 
Area,” 27.64.390, “Schedule of Loading Requirements,” and Chapters 23.40, “Site Development Code,” 27.71, 
“Landscape for Planning Applications,” 27.78, “Variances,” and Adding References to California Building Code 
and Director of Public Works Throughout the Municipal Code 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to replace references to the “Uniform Building Code” with references to the 
“California Building Code” throughout the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to replace references to City Engineer” with references to “Public Works 
Director” throughout the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City’s Zoning Code is codified in Title 27 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to make several minor revisions to Title 27, including deleting the definition 
for “curb level,” clarifying the manner in which floor area is calculated, revising the circumstances under which 
on-street loading berths will be considered, and updating tree provisions including cross-references to the City’s 
protected tree ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to update tree provisions including references to the City’s protected tree 
ordinance in Section 17.24.020, “Definitions” and Chapter 23.40, “Site Development Code.”
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 27.04.140 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 2. Section 27.04.200 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.04.200 Floor Area.
(a) Definitions.
(1) Floor Area. Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all principal and 
accessory buildings and above grade covered parking on a zoning plot.
(2) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area ratio means the gross floor area of the buildings on a 
zoning plot divided by the net lot area.
(b) Measurement, other than single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building's wall planes, from the 
centerline of party walls, or from a line three feet from the edge of an eave, whichever produces the 
largest floor area. Stories exceeding fifteen (15) feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, 
with the exception that ground floor retail may be up to eighteen (18) feet in height measured from first 
436 of 556

--- page 437 ---
finish floor to second finish floor before being counted as additional floor area. Floor area also includes 
all accessory structures on the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(6).
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided that the area is 
not used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are open to the 
public. Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be counted only as ground floor area;
(C) Covered walkways and balconies;
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted only once as 
floor area, regardless of height;
(E) Bicycle parking facilities;
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a 
multi-family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within 
the primary structure or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(G) Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in areas delineated 
for exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the Mariner's Island Specific Plan or the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan.
(c) Measurement, for single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts, shall include the following:
(1) A covered structure or portion of a building where it has a horizontal or sloped covering 
which consists of 50% or more solid material. 
(2) All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (as measured from the outside 
perimeter of walls), and the area (or footprint) of any attached carports, covered balconies or porches 
(as measured from the outside perimeter of its support structures).
(A) Exception: To encourage street frontage activity, the first 100 square feet of a 
covered front porch shall not be included as floor area.
(3) The area of all detached accessory structures, regardless of the number of open sides, 
including: 
(A) Detached garages and carports; 
(B) Storage sheds and other similar structures; and  
(C) Covered patios or similar structures. 
437 of 556

--- page 438 ---
(4) Any interior space where the vertical distance between the upper surface of the floor and 
the floor above is fifteen (15) feet or more shall be counted as twice the floor area. If there is no floor 
above the space, then the distance shall be measured to the underside of the roof structure.
(5) Attic space is considered floor area when area "A" is at least 50% of areas "A" and "B" 
combined in the following plan-view diagram:
Area "B"
(ceiling height between 5′ 
and 7′ 6″)
Area "A"
(ceiling height 7′ 6″ or 
greater)
Area "B"
(ceiling height between 5′ 
and 7′ 6″)
(6) A basement is considered floor area when:
(A) It is habitable space as defined in the current California Building Code, and
(B) More than one-half the area of the outermost basement walls is above finished or 
pre-existing grade (whichever is lower), and the surface of the finished floor level above is 
either:
(i) More than four (4) above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) 
for more than 50% of the total perimeter, and
(ii) More than twelve (12) feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is 
lower) at any point.
(d) Off-Street Parking and Loading. Floor area for determining off-street parking and loading 
requirements as contained in Chapter 27.64, shall be based on physical floor space and shall not include the 
following:
(1) Storage areas except for areas located within selling or working space such as counters, 
racks, and closets;
(2) Utility areas including, but not limited to, elevator shafts, telephone switching rooms, 
stairwells, rest rooms, and heating and cooling rooms;
(3) Accessory facilities to be used only by employees of the principal uses;
(4) Off-street parking and loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space;
(5) Basement, attic, or mezzanine floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, to 
the production of processing of goods, or to business or professional offices;
(6) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-family, 
commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the primary structure or 
may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
438 of 556

--- page 439 ---
(7) Floor Area Computed for Building Volume. Additional parking shall be required in the event 
of change of excluded floor areas into uses generating parking.
(e) Interpretation. All interpretations of floor area shall be subject to the review and approval of the 
Zoning Administrator.
(f) No change in the definition or calculation of floor area, except to the extent that the City Council 
expressly states that the change allows greater floor area, shall be construed to authorize an expansion of the 
allowable floor area of a building or structure, whether pursuant to Chapter 27.72 or otherwise.
Section 3. Section 27.64.390 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.64.390 Schedule of Loading Requirements.
All planning applications shall include a description of the means by which loading activities for the 
intended use are to be accommodated. For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading berths shall 
be provided on the basis of number of residential units or gross floor area of building or portions thereof 
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown herein. Off-street loading berths as prescribed below shall be 
accessible from a public alley, driveway easement, or from an adjacent off-street parking area. The 
requirements for off-street loading berths may be modified by one of the following means:
(a) Approval of a site plan and architectural review (SPAR) by the Zoning Administrator, based on the 
following findings:
(1) Adequate on-street parking is available along a parcel frontage to accommodate a loading 
berth;
(2) The on-street parking intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 50 feet 
from any intersections, and provides convenient access to building entrances; and
(3) The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding use of the 
sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to public safety; or
(b) Approval of a variance application in accordance with Chapter 27.78.
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS (ON- AND OFF-SITE)
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
A. Hospitals, Sanitariums, and other institutional 
uses.
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
20,000 to 150,000
2
10' x 50'
B. Hotels, Clubs, Lodges—when containing any of 
the following: Retail Shops, Restaurants, 
Convention Halls, Auditoriums, Exhibition Halls, or 
Business or Professional Offices (other than 
for each additional 150,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
439 of 556

--- page 440 ---
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
accessory)
5,000 to 12,000
1
10' x 25'
12,000 to 25,000
2
10' x 25'
25,000 to 40,000
2
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
3
10' x 50'
C. Retail Stores
D. Establishments Dispensing Food or Beverage, for 
Consumption on the Premises, except for Fast Food 
Establishments
E. Motor Vehicle and Machinery Sales
F. Wholesale Establishments (but not including 
warehouse and storage buildings other than 
accessory)
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 50'
G. Auditoriums, Convention Halls, Exhibition Halls, 
Sports Arenas, Stadiums
H. Bowling Alleys
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
50,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
I. Banks and Offices – Business, Professional and 
Governmental
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 25'
5,000 to 10,000
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 40,000
1
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
2
10' x 50'
J. Establishments engaged in Production, 
Processing, Cleaning, Servicing, Testing, or Repair of 
Materials, Goods, or Products
K. Warehouses and Storage Buildings
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 50'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
L. Theaters
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
M. Funeral Homes
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
2,000 to 7,000
1
10' x 25'
N. Fast Food Establishments
7,000 to 12,000
2
10' x 25'
O. Multiple-Family Residential*
50 or more units
1
10' x 25'
*May be eliminated in mixed-use developments where a minimum of 1 loading berth is required for 
nonresidential uses
Section 4. Section 27.71.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.71.020 Scope.
(a) This chapter shall apply as a minimum for all projects requiring approval of a planning application 
pursuant to Section 27.08.010, except for single-family dwelling design review applications. Landscaping not 
subject to this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 13.40. The Zoning Administrator may 
determine that minor additions or changes to existing property are not reasonably related to the purpose of this 
chapter and may be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
Section 5. Section 27.71.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
440 of 556

--- page 441 ---
27.71.040 Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
(a) “Existing Trees” means all existing trees over six inches in trunk diameter (measured at 54 inches 
from natural grade) on the subject property and any Protected Trees on the subject property or any property 
within 30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity, as outlined in Chapter 13.40.
(b) "Groundcover" means low growing live perennial vegetation, other than turf, of a species which is 
sold as a groundcover or shrub by licensed nurserymen.
(c) A "heritage tree" is as defined in Chapter 13.40.
(d) "Landscape" or "landscaped area" means an area that consists of living plantings.
(e) "Landscape unit (LU)" means the unit of measurement for trees which indicates the worth of each 
relative to one another and towards satisfying City requirements.
(f) "Natural landscaping" means an area consisting of uncultivated native plant growth and other 
features of natural terrain such as rock outcroppings, streams or other areas covered by water.
(g) "Plantings" means annuals, groundcover, turf grass, shrubs or trees.
(h) “Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or Street Tree as defined in Chapter 13.40 or a tree 
designated as protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to this Chapter.
(i) “Project Arborist” means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist.
(j) "Shrubs" means live perennial vegetation, greater than an average height of two (2) feet and 
maintained below twelve (12) feet in height. Vines shall be considered shrubs.
(k) “Street Tree” means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of 
achieving ten (10) feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public 
right of way or a designated planting easement.
(l) "Trees" means a live self-supporting woody plant having at least one well defined stem or trunk and 
normally attaining a mature height and spread of at least twelve (12) feet, and having a trunk that may, at 
maturity, be kept clear of leaves and branches at least six (6) feet above grade.
(m) "Turfgrass" means live vegetation of a species normally grown as turf by a nursery and which is 
maintained at a height of three inches or less.
Section 6. Section 27.71.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
441 of 556

--- page 442 ---
27.71.070 Submittals Required for a Planning Application.
(a) All landscape plans must be at a reasonable scale to indicate all types of improvements. All plans 
must contain sufficient information to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter and must 
include, but are not limited to, the following information:
(1) North arrow and scale;
(2) The name of the applicant/owner;
(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or firm responsible for the preparation 
of the plans and other required information;
(4) The dates the plans are submitted and revised;
(5) All existing and proposed buildings and other structures, paved areas, planted areas, power 
poles, fire hydrants, light standards, signs, fences, and other permanent features to be added and/or 
retained on the site;
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule 
identifying Major Vegetation (as defined in Chapter 23.40) and all Protected Trees including trunk 
diameter, species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing 
and proposed replacement Landscape Unit (LU) values;
(7) All existing and proposed streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, railroad tracks, drainage 
ditches, and other public or semi-public improvements within and immediately adjacent to the site;
(8) Contour lines, if the slopes are in excess of 10%;
(9) Existing and proposed topographic elevations at sufficient locations, to clearly show the 
drainage pattern unless this information is provided on a grading plan or other documents in the 
planning application;
(10) All property lines and easements;
(11) Square footage of all planted area;
(12) Species, sizes and location of all proposed plant material including the accurate driplines of 
all Protected Trees;
(13) Soil tests as required by the discretion of the Zoning Administrator; and
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Chapter 13.40 and the Administrative Guidelines.
(b) All projects with over 1,000 square feet of new or modified planting areas as required to meet the 
provisions of this chapter shall have all landscape plans and accompanying documents prepared or reviewed and 
found acceptable by a licensed landscape architect registered with the State of California.
442 of 556

--- page 443 ---
Section 7.  Section 27.71.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:  
27.71.080 Submittals Required for a Building Permit Application.
(a) All of the required submittals for a planning application;
(b) Type and depth of mulch indicated on the plan;
(c) An irrigation plan accurately drawn to scale that indicates all components of the irrigation system 
including sprinklers and other outlets, valves, the backflow prevention device(s), controller(s), and piping;
(d) All tree information required in Section 27.71.150 and Chapter 13.40; 
(e) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape area for the plant establishment period;
(f) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area, financial securities as required in 
Section 27.71.090; and
(g) Soil tests as required in Section 27.71.110.
Section 8. Section 27.71.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
27.71.110 Plant Coverage and Tree Sizes.
(a) Allowed Bare Ground. Areas of bare ground or ground covered only by bark or rocks shall be allowed 
on-site only where required as part of an approved facility, such as a baseball diamond, vegetable garden, 
flowerbed, or similar use.
(b) Allowed Natural Landscaping. Natural landscaping shall be allowed only in areas where it is 
compatible with the surrounding environment.
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of 
installation, except for heritage tree replacements, which shall be replaced according to Chapter 13.40 and the 
Administrative Guidelines. 
(d) Plant Coverage.
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped 
area. The ratio may include existing trees and required parking area trees. Public parks, golf courses, 
cemeteries, school recreation areas and public facilities need not comply with this ratio.
(2) Groundcover and shrub massing areas shall be planted in a manner or at the spacings 
recommended by the American Association of Nurserymen, to uniformly cover the proposed 
groundcover areas within two years and the shrub areas within five years or a period optimum for the 
species.
443 of 556

--- page 444 ---
(e) Security Planting. The use of plant materials that promote building security is encouraged. A list of 
such materials may be obtained from the Planning Division. Perimeter landscaped areas should incorporate 
thorny plant materials to discourage persons from cutting through parking areas, trampling vegetation near 
ground floor windows, or climbing perimeter fences and walls.
Section 9. Section 27.71.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:'
Section 27.71.120 Street Trees.
(a) Tree Planting.
(1) 24-inch box size or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with 
the City Street Tree Master Plan. The City Arborist shall have the authority to recommend planting of 
fifteen (15) gallon street trees when:
(A) Upon written request by the applicant; and 
(B) The fifteen (15) gallon size trees are the only ones available in stock, or 
(C) The quality of the fifteen (15) gallon size trees are superior to that available in 24-
inch box size.
(2) Trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed thirty (30) feet except to allow for utilities, 
street furnishings, driveways, or other features necessary to ensure public safety, as approved by the 
City Arborist.
(b) Access Easement. Where a planning application requires a parcel or tentative map, an access 
easement shall be required if the street trees are to be located on private property and no such easement exists. 
However, it is recommended that even when a parcel or tentative map is not required or included, an easement 
be provided to the City for site access purposes in the event of an emergency or a hazardous situation.
Section 10. Subsection (a) of Section 27.71.150, “Preservation of Existing Trees,” of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code is amended to read as follows:
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six inches in trunk diameter, measured at 54 inches from 
natural grade and Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40.080 shall be evaluated on the basis of species, 
size, condition, location and classification as a Protected Tree. 
Section 11. Section 27.71.150 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:
Section 27.71.150 Preservation of Existing Trees.
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter, measured at 54 inches from 
natural grade and Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a Protected Tree.
444 of 556

--- page 445 ---
(b) Required Submittals. To evaluate the existing trees the landscape plan and a tree evaluation 
schedule shall be submitted with the planning application showing:
(1) The location of all existing trees six (6) inches or greater in trunk diameter (measured at 54 
inches from natural grade), noting which are to be removed and which are located within the allowable 
building area;
(2) Trunk diameter in inches measured 54 inches above natural grade;
(3) Species name and species value as determined by utilizing the most recent edition of the 
Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers;
(4) Condition and location value of trees as determined by an ISA Certified Arborist;
(5) The total LU value of trees to be removed; and
(6) The total LU value of replacement trees.
(c) Landscape Unit Value (LU).
(1) The tree species, condition, and location values of the trees shall be based on an evaluation 
by an experienced landscape appraiser recognized by the American Society of Consulting Arborists 
utilizing the most recent Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape 
Appraisers; and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(2) Trees not within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of 1.0 (100%). 
Trees located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(3) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%). 
Trees located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(4) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%). 
The species, condition and location value assume an average tree value to be .70 (.7 x .7 x .7 = .343). All 
existing trees to be removed shall be given a LU value based upon the following calculation:
species value% x condition value% x location value%
Trunk diameter inches x bldg.
x
=
LU
.35
setback% x heritage tree%
(d) Tree Replacement. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total 
removed LU value. The following rates shall be given to replacement trees to obtain the replacement LU value:
LU Value
Replacement Tree Size
1
15-gallon
2
24-inch box
3
36-inch box
4
48-inch box
445 of 556

--- page 446 ---
The LU value for replacement Street Trees shall be calculated separately from other replacement trees.
(e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. The site design shall make every reasonable effort to preserve 
Heritage Trees, consistent with Chapter 13.40. Conditions shall also be imposed to protect Heritage Trees during 
construction. Heritage Trees shall be removed only when the City Arborist determines that their preservation 
would result in a threat to health, safety, and welfare due to a hazardous tree condition, impacts on soil erosion 
and stability, or an unreasonable effect upon the economic enjoyment of the property, consistent with Chapter 
13.40.
(f) Protection of Existing Trees. The site design shall make reasonable effort to protect existing trees. The 
design shall be evaluated as to how it protects existing trees or the reasons for removal of existing trees. Tree 
protection measures shall be provided for trees to remain on-site, which shall be consistent with Chapter 13.40 
and imposed as a condition of approvals.
(g) Alternates to On-Site Replacement. If the required LU value for replacement of existing trees to be 
removed is not made up with replacement trees on-site, the City shall require that trees be planted in another 
location on-site or off-site or a contribution of funds be made to the City to be used for plantings on public land 
or a combination of the above options. If a contribution of funds is required, it shall be the fee as established by 
resolution of the City Council in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
Section 12. Section 27.78.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read:
27.78.020 Conditions for Granting.
(a) In order to make its determination that there is hardship, the approval body designated in this Title 
shall determine if each of the following conditions pertain:
(1) There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the 
property that do not apply generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood including buildings 
of architectural or historical significance or of architectural interest as recognized by action of the City 
Council or another government agency.
(2) A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of 
the applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood;
(3) Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or 
welfare or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the 
property is located; and
(4) Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan.
(b) Parking stall dimension variances shall also meet all of the following limitations:
(1) Handicapped stalls required by the State Architect's Handicapped Access Regulations are not 
eligible for this process.
446 of 556

--- page 447 ---
(2) The application must be based on constraints imposed by physical features of the site (such 
as slopes, Major Vegetation to be preserved as defined in Chapter 23.40, or Protected Trees as defined 
in Chapter 13.40), or existing structural improvements. No variance shall be granted for stall dimensions 
due to mere lack of space on the site to meet standard requirements for the project, nor for the sole 
purposes of design simplicity, reduced cost or other convenience of the applicant.
(3) Variances for the width of stalls shall only be allowed for locating posts or stub walls in the 
very front or rear part of the stalls where they will not obstruct the swing of doors for passenger 
vehicles, or to allow continued use of established parking structures.
(4) The application meets one or more of the following:
(A) The variance is needed to continue using existing facilities;
(B) No more than one dimension is to vary, and by not more than 1 foot width or 6 
inches height or 2 feet length;
(C) No more than 10% of all required stalls, or 3 stalls, whichever is greater, are to vary;
(D) The total volume of each of the stalls will be at least 95% of the unvaried volume of 
height, width and depth combined.
Section 13. Section 17.24.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read:
17.24.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth 
below. Unless in direct conflict with terms defined herein, other words and phrases shall be interpreted as 
defined in the Streets and Highways Code:
(a) Director of Public Works. Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(b) Driveway Approach. The concrete structure located in the public right-of-way between the public 
street and a driveway or parking area on private property.
(c) Protected Tree. A tree as defined in Chapter 13.40 as a Protected Tree.
(d) Planting strip. The area of the street lying between the curb line and the street line or edge of right-
of-way along any street; including the sidewalk.
(e) Property Owner. Without limitation, the fee owner of real property and the person or persons in 
possession of the real property.
(f) Sidewalk. Any area provided for the use of pedestrians, including planting areas, driveway 
approaches or parking strips, between the public vehicular roadway and the edge of right-of-way bordering 
adjacent private property.
447 of 556

--- page 448 ---
(g) Street Tree. Any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem achieving ten feet or more 
in height, growing within a street right-of-way; planted within a street right-of-way and/or designated planting 
easement.
Section 14. Section 23.40.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read:
23.40.020 Definitions.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
(a) "Best Management Practice (BMP)" means a technique or series of techniques which, when utilized 
in a designated manner, is proven to be effective in controlling construction-related runoff, erosion, and 
sedimentation.
(b) "Certify" or "Certification" means the specific inspections and tests where required have been 
performed, and that such tests comply with the applicable requirements of State and Federal law and of this 
chapter.
(c) "Cubic Yards" means the amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the method of 
"average end areas".
(d) "Erosion" means the action or process of wearing away of earth or soil by the action of water.
(e) "Excavation" means any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar 
material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and includes the 
conditions resulting therefrom.
(f) "Existing Grade" means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to excavation or 
filling.
(g) "Filling" means any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is deposited, placed, 
replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by man to a new location and shall include the 
conditions resulting therefrom.
(h) "Final Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a set of measures designed to control surface 
runoff and erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site after all other planned final structures and 
permanent improvements have been erected or installed.
(i) "Grading" means excavation or fill or any combination thereof and includes the conditions resulting 
from any excavation or fill.
(j) "Intensify" means the addition of one or more dwelling units in a residential district; or the physical 
extension of a structure or the expansion of a parking area in any commercial, executive, or industrial district.
448 of 556

--- page 449 ---
(k) "Interim Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a set of measures designed to control surface 
runoff and erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site during the period in which pre-construction and 
construction-related grading occurs.
(l) "Landscape Architect" means a person who is licensed by the State of California to practice landscape 
architecture.
(m) "Major Vegetation" means live vegetation, consisting of tree growth with a trunk diameter of six (6) 
inches or greater (circumference of eighteen and nine-tenths inches) measured at fifty-four (54) inches above 
natural grade.
(n) "Manual of Standards (Manual)" means a compilation of technical application standards and design 
specifications adopted by the Director of Public Works as being proven methods of controlling construction-
related runoff, erosion, and sedimentation.
(o) "Natural Slope" means the predominant slope or slopes of land in its natural condition disregarding 
minor surface humps or hollows.
(p) "Natural Terrain" means the natural contour of a site before man-made development, or as the same 
exists prior to the undertaking of any new improvement.
(q) "Parcel" means an area of land which has been legally subdivided.
(r) "Permittee" means any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
(s) “Project Arborist” means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist.
(t) “Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or a Street Tree (as defined in SMMC 13.40 Protected Trees), 
or a tree designated as protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to Chapter 27.71.
(u) "Removal" means:
(1) Cutting to the ground, complete extraction, or killing by spraying, girdling, or any other 
means; or
(2) Major Pruning not done in conformance with a Major Pruning Permit as defined in Section 
13.40.
(v) "Sediment" means material deposited by water.
(w) "Site" means a lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading is 
performed as a single unified operation.
(x) "Site Development" means grading and/or removing major vegetation.
449 of 556

--- page 450 ---
(y) "Site Development Planning Application" means an application through the Planning Division for 
approval of a project requiring a site development permit.
(z) "Site Development Permit" means a permit issued through the Public Works Department to proceed 
with site development.
(aa) "Slope" shall be defined as an inclined ground surface, expressed as a fraction of vertical over 
horizontal distance (rise over run) across any portion of a parcel. The term "gradient" shall be synonymous with 
the term "percent slope". For purposes of this chapter, slope shall be measured across the predominant slope or 
slopes of land disregarding minor surface humps or hollows.
(bb) "Slope Height" means the vertical dimension between the high (top) and low (toe) points of a slope. 
The top and the toe of the slope shall be the points at which the slope intersects flat planes. A flat plane shall be 
considered any surface with a gradient of five (5%) percent or less. The overall height of separated slopes shall 
be added in calculating slope height unless the slopes are separated by a flat area at least forty (40) feet wide. 
The height of existing engineered retaining walls shall not be included in the calculation of slope height.
(cc) "Soils Engineer" means a registered engineer recognized by the State Board of Registration for 
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors as authorized and competent to do the work required.
(dd) "Vacant" means land on which there are no structures or only structures which are secondary to 
the use or maintenance of the land itself.
Section 15. Section 23.40.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended to read:
Section 23.40.040 Procedures.
This Section contains the provisions for the 2 phases of the site development approval and permitting 
process. Phase I consists of the site development planning application, which is processed through the Planning 
Division. Phase II provides for obtaining the site development permit from the Public Works Department 
following approval of the site development planning application.
(a) Phase I—Site Development Planning Application. Each application for site development through the 
Planning Division shall be made by the owner of record or his or her authorized agent, submitted on forms 
furnished for that purpose, and accompanied by the required project submittals, fees and deposits.
(1) Review and Approval Authority. Each site development planning application shall be 
processed in accordance with Chapter 27.08 (Rules of Procedure) contained in Title 27 (Zoning) of the 
Municipal Code. Such processing includes project review, noticing, hearing, approval and appeal of 
decisions. Decision authority for approval, approval with conditions, or denial of site development 
projects is set forth in the following table:
450 of 556

--- page 451 ---
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA)
APPROVAL AUTHORITY
Zoning Administrator
Planning Commission
Grading, where the aggregate volume does not exceed 
5,000 cubic yards and the site development is not 
occurring on slopes greater than 25% or within the 
setbacks from such slopes would require a Site 
Development Planning Application for Grading.
Grading, where the aggregate volume exceeds 5,000 
cubic yards and/or the proposed grading (cut/fill) 
exceeds 5 feet (height/depth) at its maximum point 
would require a Site Development Planning Application 
for Grading.
Removal of major vegetation Protected Trees from 
property which has been previously developed and/or 
subdivided and which is being redeveloped or more 
intensely used would require a Site Development 
Planning Application for Tree Removal.
Site development occurring on slopes greater than 
25% or within slope setbacks would require a Site 
Development Planning Application for Grading.
Removal of major vegetation Protected Trees from 
previously undeveloped and/or unsubdivided acreage, 
or land which is to be resubdivided would require a 
Site Development Planning Application for Tree 
Removal.
(2) Basic Submittals. Each site development planning application shall be accompanied by a plot 
plan signed by a civil engineer, showing the following, however, at the time of application, the Director 
of Public Works may modify these requirements based upon special site conditions or unique 
circumstances that clearly indicate that the required submittal is unnecessary. During the review 
process, the City may require additional information necessary to make a final determination.
(A) Location of existing and proposed buildings or structures on the property;
(B) Location of all existing and proposed streets, roadways, driveways, easements, 
public utilities and rights-of-way;
(C) Details of any proposed culverts, drainage structures, collection system, cribbing, 
terraces, and/or surface protection, not including vegetative cover, required for drainage and 
erosion control of the property, or adjoining property;
(D) Delineation and brief description of the surface runoff and erosion control measures 
to be implemented, including any applicable construction phase BMPs;
(E) The present contours of the site in dashed lines and the proposed contours in solid 
lines. Contour intervals shall be not more than two (2) feet where slopes are predominantly five 
(5%) percent or less, and not more than five (5) feet where slopes are predominantly steeper 
than five (5%) percent. Ninety (90%) percent of all contours shall be accurate within one-half 
contour interval of correct position. The source of topographical information shall be indicated;
(F) The location of all drainage to, from, and across the site including the location of any 
intermittent and permanent springs or other potential locations of water quality impact;
451 of 556

--- page 452 ---
(G) The location of all Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 and Chapter 23.40 
together with an indication of those which must be removed;
(H) Geotechnical study prepared by a soils engineer which shall include at a minimum, 
historical data (such as from original subdivision records) and conclusions/recommendations 
based upon an adequate number of soil borings driver to adequate depth, for foundation 
footings, retaining walls, provisions for differential settlement, and for grading procedures and 
designs for interim and final soil stabilization devices and measures.
(3) Supplemental Submittals. The following information may be required for any site 
development planning application, or as a condition of approval of said application, if the Director of 
Public Works, after preliminary review of the application, finds any or all necessary to accomplish the 
purpose of this chapter.
(A) A statement of the estimated quantity of material proposed to be excavated and/or 
the amount of fill in cubic yards;
(B) Grading specifications prepared by a soils engineer;
(C) Roadway and/or driveway geometry including profiles and cross-Sections;
(D) Drainage calculations, including at a minimum, existing and post-project run-off 
quantities, capacity of existing downstream drainage systems, and impact of the project on 
those systems;
(E) Interim Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (Interim Plan). All of the following 
information shall be provided with respect to conditions existing on the site during grading 
activities or soil storage:
(i) Maximum surface runoff from the site shall be calculated using the method 
approved by the Director of Public Works and maintained in the Manual, or any other 
method proven to the Director of Public Works to be as or more accurate;
(ii) Sediment yield shall be calculated suing the method approved by the 
Director of Public Works and maintained in the Manual, or any other method proven to 
the Director of Public Works to be as or more accurate;
(iii) A delineation and brief description of the measures to be undertaken to 
retain sediment on the site, including, but not limited to, the designs and specifications 
for berms and sediment detention basins, and a schedule for their maintenance and 
upkeep;
(iv) A delineation and brief description of the surface runoff and erosion control 
measures to be implemented, including, but not limited to, types and method of 
applying mulches, and designs and specifications for diverters, dikes and drains, and a 
schedule for their maintenance and upkeep;
452 of 556

--- page 453 ---
(v) A delineation and brief description of the vegetative measures to be taken, 
including, but not limited to, seeding methods, the type, location, and extent of pre-
existing and undisturbed vegetation types, and a schedule for their maintenance and 
upkeep;
(vi) The location of all the measures listed by the permittee under Subsections 
(iii), (iv) and (v) above, shall be depicted on the site map and/or grading plan;
(vii) A contingency plan to be implemented in the case of failure of control 
measures or in the case of intense or prolonged rainfall;
(F) Final Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (Final Plan). The Final Plan shall provide all 
of the information listed in E, above, with respect to conditions existing on the site after final 
structures and improvements (except for those required under this Section) have been 
completed and where these final structures have not been covered by an Interim Plan.
(G)  A master work schedule showing the following information:
(i) Statement of the estimated starting and completion dates for the grading 
work proposed and any landscape work that may be required;
(ii) Proposed schedule for installation of all interim erosion and sediment 
control measures including, but not limited to, the stage of completion of erosion and 
sediment control devices and vegetative measures;
(iii) Schedule for construction, if any;
(iv) Schedule for installation of permanent erosion and sediment control devices 
where required;
(H) Plans and specifications showing functional planting for the protection of the public 
safety and, if appropriate, information relating to landscaping of adjacent or surrounding areas 
affected by the proposed development. Such plans and specifications shall be prepared and 
signed by a landscape architect, except where specified below. These plans shall show:
(i) Distribution of plant material; location, quantity and key number of each 
species of plant in each group; outline of all lawn areas, areas to be seeded, sodded or 
sprigged; existing trees, if any, to be preserved, transplanted or removed; kind, size, and 
work involved as related to slope control and/or physical environment;
(ii) A Tree Evaluation Schedule of existing trees as defined in Chapter 27.71 
prepared and signed by an ISA Certified Arborist (Project Arborist), identifying trees to 
be preserved, transplanted or removed;  
(iii) A Tree Protection Plan prepared and signed by the Project Arborist 
specifying tree protection measures in accordance with Chapter 13.40; 
453 of 556

--- page 454 ---
(iv) The kind, size, and work involved as related to slope control and/or physical 
environment;
(v) List of plant material giving standard botanical plant names and key number 
for each variety for reference to plan, and in addition, the size, quality or other 
pertinent description common to the trade; 
(vi) A Required Tree Planting Form specifying the mitigation for removal of 
existing trees in the form of tree planting and/or payment of in-lieu fees;
(vii) A specification describing the methods for planting the areas to be 
landscaped with special emphasis on: (a) soil preparation, fertilization, plant material 
and methods of planting, and (b) initial maintenance of the plant material and slopes 
until a specified percentage of plant coverage is established uniformly on the cut and fill 
slopes;
(viii) A statement by landscape architect regarding: (a) The length of time after 
planting, with the specified maintenance normally required to produce the specified 
percentage of plant coverage on the slopes in the slope control areas, and (b) the 
additional length of time, without any special maintenance, normally required to 
produce a coverage of permanent planting which will control erosion;
(ix) Details of all items and features pertaining to site preservation and 
improvements such as retaining walls, and tree wells, and details not shown on other 
plans accompanying the application;
(x) Such other and further details as may be specified and required by the 
Director of Public Works to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(I) The name, address, and phone numbers of all persons, if any, who will receive 
excavated material in excess of five hundred cubic yards;
(J) If fill material is to be obtained from elsewhere other than the site, a statement as to 
the source and type thereof if such information is known at the time of application. If not known 
at such time, such information shall be submitted when known and, in any event, not later than 
commencement of hauling operations of the imported fill material;
(K) The route or routes proposed to be followed in San Mateo, excavation or fill 
material, as required by the schedule of truck routes on file in the office of the City Clerk;
(L) Such further applicable information as the  Director of Public Works may required in 
order to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(4) Findings for Approval. Prior to recommending approval of a site development planning 
application, the approval body shall find that all concerns regarding surface grading, structure 
foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal have been 
454 of 556

--- page 455 ---
addressed. The approval body shall consider the following factors, where applicable, in making the 
above finding:
(A) Saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic;
(B) Runoff of surface waters that produce erosion, and silting of drainage ways;
(C) Subsurface conditions such as the rock strata and faults;
(D) Nature and type of soil or rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may 
create earth movements;
(E) Effect upon the potential for optimum subdivision design;
(F) Effect upon the visual relationships with other development in the vicinity of the site;
(G) Appropriateness of the proposed site development for the character of a planned 
community or planned unit development proposal;
(H) Capability of proposed slopes to be landscaped;
(I) Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through 
the proposed grading or removal of vegetation;
(J) The report from the Project Arborist with respect to Protected Trees pursuant to 
Chapters 27.71 and 13.40;
(K) Any other considerations arising from any environmental impact report which will 
eliminate or mitigate environmental damage.
(5) Exceptions. The approval body may authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and 
regulations set forth in this chapter. Application for any exception shall be made by stating fully the 
grounds of the application and the facts relied upon. Such application shall be filed with the site 
development planning application. In order for the land referred to in the application to come within the 
provisions of this Section, it is necessary that the approval body make all of the following findings:
(A) The land is of such shape or size, or is affected by such physical conditions, or is 
subject to such title limitations of record that it is impossible or impractical for applicant to 
comply with all of the regulations of this chapter.
(B) The exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial 
property right of the applicant;
(C) The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public welfare or 
injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject property.
455 of 556

--- page 456 ---
(i) Planning Application Expiration. Every site development planning application 
shall expire as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.060—Approval 
Expiration (Zoning Code).
(b) Phase II—Site Development Permit. Subsequent to approval of a site development planning 
application but prior to site development, the applicant shall obtain a site development permit for grading from 
the Public Works Department and a site development permit for tree removal from Community Development 
Department. Application for a site development permit shall be made by the owner of record or his or her 
authorized agent, and shall be accompanied by the required fees, deposits, and project submittals specified in 
any conditions of approval for the planning application or required by this chapter.
(1) Permit Issuance. Following approval of a site development planning application, a site 
development permit may be issued if:
(A) The planning application has not expired and all conditions of approval of the 
planning application have been met; and
(B) Such permit is accompanied by, or combined with, a valid building permit issued by 
the City; or
(C) The proposed grading is coordinated with any overall grading plans previously 
approved by the City, under the subdivision regulations or other Sections of This Code, for the 
area in which the site is situated.
(2) Approved Plans. The approved site development permit, including plans for grading work, as 
well as, the location of trees (existing on-site trees, Protected Trees and Street Trees), trees proposed to 
be removed, trees proposed to be protected, and tree protection measures shall be maintained at the 
site during the progress of the grading, excavation, building demolition, construction and/or other site 
work. In order to obtain the inspections required by this Chapter in accordance with the following 
schedule, the permittee shall notify the Director of Public Works, Director of Parks and Recreation, and 
Director of Community Development Department (or their designees) at least two full working days 
before said inspection is to be made.
(3) Inspections. The Director of Public Works, and where applicable, the Director of Parks and 
Recreation or the Building Official (or their designees), shall make the following required inspections, as 
applicable, and shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee, as 
provided in (4), below, wherein the same fails to comply with this chapter or the terms of the permit 
granted. Where it is found by inspection that conditions are not substantially as stated or shown in the 
application for a site development permit, the Director of Public Works may stop further work until 
approval is obtained for a revised site development permit, conforming to the existing conditions.
(A) Initial Inspection. Before commencement of grading operations, and after required 
construction stakes have been set;
456 of 556

--- page 457 ---
(B) Erosion Control. When all interim erosion control devices have been installed and 
planting requirements have been completed;
(C) Rough Grading. When all rough grading has been completed;
(D) Final Inspection. When all work, including, but not limited to, final grading, 
installation of all drainage devices, and final erosion control measures, has been completed;
(4) Inspector. All inspections performed under site development permits specified in this 
chapter shall be performed by a representative of the issuing department, and all orders issued to the 
permittee shall be issued through said representative.
(5) Inspection by Building Official. Structures requiring building permits shall be inspected by the 
Building Official, or their designee, in accordance with procedures established by this Code, provided, 
however, no building permit for such structures shall be issued until a site development permit for the 
building site has been issued or it has been determined that a site development permit is not required 
by this chapter.
(6) Site Development Permit Sign-Off. If, upon final inspection, it is found that the work 
authorized by the site development permit has been completed in accordance with the requirements of 
the permit and this chapter, the Director of Public Works shall indicate that such work, has to the best of 
his or her knowledge, been satisfactorily performed.
(7) Permit Revocation.
(A) Violations. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading, 
or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any provisions of this chapter. The  
Director of Public Works, Planning Manager, Building Official, and/or the Director of Parks and 
Recreation are empowered to investigate and make reports to the Planning Commission on any 
violations of this chapter. The Planning Commission, if it determines from the evidence 
presented that a violation exists, may recommend to the City Council that action be taken to 
seek compliance with this chapter.
(B) Authority. In the event any person holding a site development permit pursuant to 
this chapter violates the terms of the permit, or conducts, carries on or permits to be conducted 
or carried on said site development in such a manner as materially or adversely to affect the 
health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the property of 
the permittee, or conducts or carries on or permits to be conducted or carried on said site 
development so that it is materially detrimental to the public welfare, or injurious to property, 
or improvements in the neighborhood, the Director of Public Works may order a temporary 
suspension, effective immediately upon notification, and the permittee shall show cause before 
the Planning Commission that the permit should not be permanently revoked.
(C) Procedure for Revoking Site Development Permit. No site development permit shall 
be permanently revoked or suspended until a hearing is held by the Planning Commission. 
457 of 556

--- page 458 ---
Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon the permittee, either personally or by 
certified mail. Such notice shall be given the permittee at least five days prior to the date set for 
the hearing and shall state:
(i) The grounds for complain or reasons for the revocation or suspension, in 
clear and concise language;
(ii) The time when, and the place where, such hearing is to be held.
(D) Hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold such hearing at the next regularly 
scheduled meeting at which all conditions of this Subsection can be met. At any such hearing, 
the permittee shall be given an opportunity to be heard, and he or she may call witnesses and 
present evidence on his or her behalf. Upon conclusion of such hearing the Planning 
Commission shall determine whether or not the permit shall be suspended, revoked or 
modified.
(8) Fees.
(A) Filing Fees. Filing fees and deposits for services shall be as set forth in fee schedules 
to be adopted from time to time by the City Council.
(B) Consultant Fees. City officers administering this chapter may engage consulting 
professional services to advise in the review of site development permit applications and may 
charge not to exceed 100 percent (100%) of the cost of such services to the applicant.
(C) Applicable fees for Landscape Unit (LU) value are subject to the Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule in effect at the time of issuance of the Site Development Permit for tree removal.
(9) Permit Expiration. Every site development permit shall expire by limitation and become null 
and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty 
days, or is not completed within one year from date of issue unless the time is specified on the permit or 
as provided in Section 23.40.050(k)(2), except that the Director of Public Works may, if the permit 
holder presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being started or 
completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is 
made before the expiration date of the permit.
(10) Prohibited Activities. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as permitting the 
removal of topsoil solely for resale, or of permitting quarrying of any nature within the limits of the City. 
This chapter shall also not be construed as authorizing any persons to maintain a private or public 
nuisance upon their property, and compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be a defense 
in any action to abate such nuisance.
Section 16. Throughout the Municipal Code, replace references to “Uniform Building Code (UBC)” with “Building 
Code.”
458 of 556

--- page 459 ---
Section 17. Throughout the Municipal Code, replace references to “City Engineer” with “Director of Public 
Works.”
Section 18. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, these 
proposed Municipal Code amendments are not a “project” subject to CEQA in that the amendments will not 
have a direct or indirect effect on the physical environment.
Section 19. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 20. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 21. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
459 of 556

--- page 460 ---
Attachment 2 – Proposed Amendments 
Notes:  

Staff clarification/comments are shown as italicized text.

Existing code language that are proposed to be removed are shown as strike-out text.  

Proposed code language is shown as underlined text.
CURB LEVEL 
Reason for Proposed Change:  In 1978, the City Council approved a “curb level” definition. In 1985, the City 
Council approved an amendment to the building height definition to measure building height from grade rather 
than curb level. Thus, this remnant curb level definition, which should have been removed as part of the 1985 
amendment, is an antiquated definition that no longer serves a purpose and is proposed to be removed.
Proposed Change:
27.04.140 CURB LEVEL.
"Curb level" means the officially established grade of the curb fronting the midpoint of a lot. Where a building 
faces on more than one street, a "curb level" shall be determined for each frontage. Where no curb elevation 
has been established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this 
title. 
(Ord. No. 1978-18 § 17; prior code § 142.01(48).)
460 of 556

--- page 461 ---
FLOOR AREA – COVERED STRUCTURES AND BASEMENTS
Reason for Proposed Change:  For the purposes of calculating floor area ratio, covered structures such as 
patios and carports are counted as floor area regardless of the number of open sides, as well as basements. The 
proposed change reformats the list and provides clarity for what is considered a covered structure that counts 
toward floor area ratio, and when basements are counted as floor area. After the Planning Commission 
meeting, the following minor edits were made to the floor area definition: change the reference from 
“conditioned” space to “habitable” space as the latter is utilized elsewhere in the zoning code, fix a typo by 
replacing an “or” with an “and”; and remove proposed language in Section 27.04.200 (c)(7) as there is an 
existing definition for “Story” in Section 27.04.445.
Proposed change: 
27.04.200 FLOOR AREA.
(a) Definitions.
(1) Floor Area. Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all principal and accessory 
buildings and above grade covered parking on a zoning plot.
(2) Floor Area Ratio (FAR). Floor area ratio means the gross floor area of the buildings on a zoning plot 
divided by the net lot area.
(b) Measurement, other than single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building's wall planes, from the centerline of 
party walls, or from a line three feet from the edge of an eave, whichever produces the largest floor 
area. Stories exceeding fifteen (15) feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with the 
exception that ground floor retail may be up to eighteen (18) feet in height measured from first finish 
floor to second finish floor before being counted as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all 
accessory structures on the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(5)(6).
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided that the area is not 
used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are open to the public. 
Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be counted only as ground floor area;
(C) Covered walkways and balconies;
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted only once as floor 
area, regardless of height;
(E) Bicycle parking facilities;
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-
family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the 
primary structure or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
(G) Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area in areas delineated for 
exclusion within an adopted plan, such as the Mariner's Island Specific Plan or the Bay 
Meadows Specific Plan.
(c) Measurement, for single-family dwellings in R1 zoning districts, shall include the following:
(1) All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (measured from the outside perimeter 
of said walls).
(1) A covered structure or portion of a building where it has a horizontal or sloped covering which 
consists of 50% or more solid material. 
461 of 556

--- page 462 ---
(2) The area of all accessory structures, including garages, carports, and storage sheds, and covered 
patios, porches (excepting covered porches of up to 100 square feet), and other similar structures that 
are enclosed on three or more sides.
(2) All area enclosed within the walls of the principal structure (as measured from the outside 
perimeter of the walls), and the area (or footprint) of any attached carports, covered balconies or 
porches (as measured from the outside perimeter of its support structures).
(A) Exception: to encourage street frontage activity, the first 100 square feet of a covered front 
porch shall not be included as floor area.
(3) The area of all detached accessory structures, regardless of the number of open sides, including: 
(A) Detached garages and carports; 
(B) Storage sheds and other similar structures; and  
(C) Covered patios or similar structures. 
(3) (4) Any interior space where the vertical distance between the upper surface of the floor and the 
floor above is fifteen (15) feet or more shall be counted as twice the floor area. If there is no floor 
above the space, then the distance shall be measured to the underside of the roof structure.
(4) (5) Attic space is considered floor area when area "A" is at least 50% of areas "A" and "B" combined 
in the following plan-view diagram:
Area "B"
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″)
Area "A"
(ceiling height 7′ 6″ 
or greater)
Area "B"
(ceiling height 
between 5′ and 7′ 
6″)
(5) A basement is considered floor area and a story when more than one-half the area of the 
outermost basement walls are above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) and the 
surface of the finished floor level above is either:
(A) More than four feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) for more 
than 50% of the total perimeter, or
(B) More than 12 feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) at any point.
(6) A basement is considered floor area when:
(A) It is conditioned habitable space as defined in the California Building Code, or and 
(B) More than one-half the area of the outermost basement walls is above finished or pre-
existing grade (whichever is lower), and the surface of the finished floor level above is either:
1) More than four (4) feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) for 
more than 50% of the total perimeter, or
2) More than twelve (12) feet above finished or pre-existing grade (whichever is lower) 
at any point.
(7) A basement is considered both floor area and a story when it meets the conditions described in 
subsection (6)(b).
(d) Off-Street Parking and Loading. Floor area for determining off-street parking and loading requirements as 
contained in Chapter 27.64, shall be based on physical floor space and shall not include the following:
(1) Storage areas except for areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks, and 
closets;
(2) Utility areas including, but not limited to, elevator shafts, telephone switching rooms, stairwells, 
rest rooms, and heating and cooling rooms;
(3) Accessory facilities to be used only by employees of the principal uses;
(4) Off-street parking and loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space;
(5) Basement, attic, or mezzanine floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, to the 
production of processing of goods, or to business or professional offices;
(6) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended to serve a multi-family, 
commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such floor area may be located within the primary structure 
or may be in a freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
462 of 556

--- page 463 ---
(7) Floor Area Computed for Building Volume. Additional parking shall be required in the event of 
change of excluded floor areas into uses generating parking.
(e) Interpretation. All interpretations of floor area shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning 
Administrator.
(f) No change in the definition or calculation of floor area, except to the extent that the City Council expressly 
states that the change allows greater floor area, shall be construed to authorize an expansion of the allowable 
floor area of a building or structure, whether pursuant to Chapter 27.72 or otherwise.
463 of 556

--- page 464 ---
LOADING ZONES
Reason for Proposed Change:  When a proposed new development or new use in an existing building requests 
relief from the requirement to provide off-street loading berths, and a Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) or Variance is required. The current Code language prohibits an applicant from requesting a SPAR to 
omit the required off-street loading unless it can be demonstrated that only street access to the building is 
available. The prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is developed or proposed for 
development must have access to a street. The result has been that the provision is confusing and has not been 
applied consistently over the years, resulting in a number of instances where developments have applied for 
and been granted relief from the City’s on-site loading requirements without meeting the prerequisite 
language. The proposed amendment is intended to clarify the Code for greater transparency and to promote 
consistency in how the provision is applied. The process to request and establish loading elsewhere would not 
be affected by the proposed amendment.  
Proposed Change:
Chapter 27.64 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
27.64.390 SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
All planning applications shall include a description of the means by which loading activities for the intended 
use are to be accommodated. For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading berths shall be 
provided on the basis of number of residential units or gross floor area of building or portions thereof devoted 
to such uses in the amounts shown herein. Off-street loading berths as prescribed below shall be required 
where access to such berths is available accessible from a public alley, driveway easement, or from an adjacent 
off-street parking area. Where only street access is available, tThe requirements for off-street loading berths 
may be modified by one of the following means:
(a) Approval of a site plan and architectural review (SPAR) by the Development Review Board Zoning 
Administrator, based on the following findings: that each of the following conditions pertain:
(1) Adequate on-street parking is available along the parcel frontage to accommodate a loading 
vehicle;
(2) On-The on-street parking intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 50 feet from 
any intersections, and provides convenient access to building entrances; and
(3) The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding use of the 
sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to public safety; or
 (b) Approval of a variance application in accordance with Chapter 27.78.
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS (ON- AND OFF-STREET)
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
A. Hospitals, Sanitariums, and other institutional 
uses.
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
B. Hotels, Clubs, Lodges—when containing any of 
the following: Retail Shops, Restaurants, 
20,000 to 150,000
2
10' x 50'
464 of 556

--- page 465 ---
USE
GROSS FLOOR AREA IN 
SQUARE FEET OR NUMBER OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
NO.
OF BERTHS
Convention Halls, Auditoriums, Exhibition Halls, or 
Business or Professional Offices (other than 
accessory)
for each additional 150,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
5,000 to 12,000
1
10' x 25'
12,000 to 25,000
2
10' x 25'
25,000 to 40,000
2
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
3
10' x 50'
C. Retail Stores
D. Establishments Dispensing Food or Beverage, for 
Consumption on the Premises, except for Fast Food 
Establishments
E. Motor Vehicle and Machinery Sales
F. Wholesale Establishments (but not including 
warehouse and storage buildings other than 
accessory)
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
10,000 to 20,000
1
10' x 25'
20,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 50'
G. Auditoriums, Convention Halls, Exhibition Halls, 
Sports Arenas, Stadiums
H. Bowling Alleys
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 50'
50,000 to 100,000
1
10' x 25'
I. Banks and Offices – Business, Professional and 
Governmental
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 25'
5,000 to 10,000
1
10' x 25'
10,000 to 40,000
1
10' x 50'
40,000 to 100,000
2
10' x 50'
J. Establishments engaged in Production, 
Processing, Cleaning, Servicing, Testing, or Repair of 
Materials, Goods, or Products
K. Warehouses and Storage Buildings
for each additional 100,000 or 
fraction of 500,000, add
1
10' x 50'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
L. Theaters
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
8,000 to 25,000
1
10' x 25'
M. Funeral Homes
for each additional 50,000 or 
fraction, add
1
10' x 25'
2,000 to 7,000
1
10' x 25'
N. Fast Food Establishments
7,000 to 12,000
2
10' x 25'
O. Multiple-Family Residential*
50 or more units
1
10' x 25'
* May be eliminated in mixed-use developments where a minimum of 1 loading berth is required for 
nonresidential uses.
465 of 556

--- page 466 ---
TREES
Reason for Proposed Change:  The City Council repealed Chapters 13.35 Street Trees and 13.52 Heritage Trees; 
and adopted Chapter 13.40 Protected Tree on May 3, 2021. The new ordinance updated the city’s requirements 
in line with current best practices. Changes are proposed to Chapters 17.24 Streets and Sidewalks, 23.40 Site 
Development, 27.71 Landscape and 27.78 Variance to align with Chapter 13.40 for internal consistency, 
incorporate best practices and provide clarity for customers regarding trees. Following the Planning 
Commission meeting, minor edits were made to further refine proposed language, update cross-refenced code 
numbers, replace references to City Engineer with Director of Public Works and reformat to include numbering. 
Proposed Change:
Chapter 27.71 LANDSCAPE FOR PLANNING APPLICATIONS
27.71.010 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance the quality of life in San Mateo by the provision for appropriate 
design of landscaping and through the preservation of existing trees. Landscaping shall be a major component 
of all site design in order to create a city that has a strong landscaped character. The intent is that individual 
neighborhood character be developed and maintained, architecture be softened by plant materials where 
appropriate, conflicting uses be buffered, parking areas be screened, comfortable outdoor living and walking 
spaces be created, air pollution be mitigated and future developments be made water efficient.
27.71.020 SCOPE.
This chapter shall apply as a minimum for all projects requiring approval of a planning application pursuant 
to Section 27.08.010, except for single-family dwelling design review applications. Landscaping not subject 
to this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 10.52, Heritage Trees Chapter 13.40. The Zoning 
Administrator may determine that minor additions or changes to existing property are not reasonably related 
to the purpose of this chapter and may be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
27.71.030 GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
(a) Required Landscaping. All required front and street side yards shall be landscaped, except for necessary 
driveways and walkways. In all other areas landscaping shall be required except for necessary circulation areas, 
paved outdoor living areas or water features.
(b) Buffering and Screening. Plantings shall be provided to buffer residential uses from commercial or industrial 
uses. Plantings shall also be provided to screen service and storage areas, parking lots or unsightly areas. 
Plantings shall be used where appropriate to control noise, wind, climate and ensure privacy.
(c) Outdoor Living Areas. Landscaping shall be arranged so as to provide usable outdoor living areas where 
appropriate. Plant materials and architectural features should be used to control noise, sun and wind and 
provide adequate privacy.
(d) Composition of Required Landscaping. All required landscaping shall include the planting and maintenance 
of some combination of trees, groundcover, shrubs, vines, annuals and lawns. In addition, the combination or 
design may include natural or structural features, including, but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, 
artwork, screens, walls, and fences.
(e) Security. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained to provide aesthetic quality while promoting 
building security.
466 of 556

--- page 467 ---
(f) Minimum Requirements. The provisions contained in this chapter are intended to be a minimum standard. 
Compatibility with other projects and compliance with required findings and adopted goals and policies of the 
City shall be evaluated through the planning application process.
27.71.040 DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
(a) “Existing Trees” means all existing trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter (measured at 54 inches from 
natural grade) on the subject property and any Protected Trees on the subject property or any property within 
30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity, as outlined in Chapter 13.40.
(a) (b) "Groundcover" means low growing live perennial vegetation, other than turf, of a species which is sold 
as a groundcover or shrub by licensed nurserymen.
(b)  A "heritage tree" is any one of the following:
(1) Any bay (Umbellularia californica), buckeye (Aesculus spp.), oak (Quercus spp.), cedar (Cedrus ssp.) 
or redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) tree that has a diameter of 10 inches or more measured at 48 
inches above natural grade;
(2) A tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special historical value 
or of significant community benefit;
(3) A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival; and
(4) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of 16 inches or more, measured at 48 inches above natural 
grade.
(c) A "heritage tree" is as defined in Chapter 13.40.
(c) (d) "Landscape" or "landscaped area" means an area that consists of living plantings.
(d) (e)"Landscape unit (LU)" means the unit of measurement for trees which indicates the worth of each 
relative to one another and towards satisfying City requirements.
(e) (f) "Natural landscaping" means an area consisting of uncultivated native plant growth and other features 
of natural terrain such as rock outcroppings, streams or other areas covered by water.
(f) (g) "Plantings" means annuals, groundcover, turf grass, shrubs or trees.
(h) “Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or Street Tree as defined in Chapter 13.40 or a tree designated as 
protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to this Chapter.
(i) Project Arborist means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City 
Arborist.
(g) (j) "Shrubs" means live perennial vegetation, greater than an average height of two (2) feet and maintained 
below twelve (12) feet in height. Vines shall be considered as shrubs.
(k) “Street Tree” means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of achieving ten 
(10) feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public right of way or 
a designated planting easement.
(h) (l) "Trees" means a live self-supporting woody plant having at least one well defined stem or trunk and 
normally attaining a mature height and spread of at least twelve (12) feet, and having a trunk that may, at 
maturity, be kept clear of leaves and branches at least six (6) feet above grade.
(i) (m) "Turfgrass" means live vegetation of a species normally grown as turf by a nursery and which is 
maintained at a height of three inches or less.
27.71.050 MAINTENANCE.
All landscape areas shall be maintained free of weeds, litter and debris. All plantings shall be maintained in a 
healthy growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to ensure 
continued conformance with approved plans.
467 of 556

--- page 468 ---
27.71.060 PLANT ESTABLISHMENT PERIOD.
A plant establishment period of three growing season months (March through October) shall be required for 
all landscape areas. At the completion of this period all plant materials shall be in a healthy condition and the 
landscaped area shall be maintained free of weeds, litter and debris.
(a) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape for the plant establishment period shall be submitted.
(b) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area and for all residential condominiums, 
financial securities shall be held by the City as required in Section 27.71.090 to ensure compliance with the 
plant establishment period.
27.71.070 SUBMITTALS REQUIRED FOR A PLANNING APPLICATION.
(a) All landscape plans must be at a reasonable scale to indicate all types of improvements. All plans must 
contain sufficient information to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter and must include, 
but are not limited to, the following information:
(1) North arrow and scale;
(2) The name of the applicant/owner;
(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or firm responsible for the preparation of the 
plans and other required information;
(4) The dates the plans are submitted and revised;
(5) All existing and proposed buildings and other structures, paved areas, planted areas, power poles, 
fire hydrants, light standards, signs, fences, and other permanent features to be added and/or 
retained on the site;
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule identifying trees 
as to size, species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing 
and proposed replacement LU values;
(6) All existing plant material to remain and to be removed, a tree evaluation schedule identifying 
Major Vegetation (as defined in Chapter 23.40) and all Protected Trees including trunk diameter, 
species, the condition of trees to be removed as determined by an arborist and the existing and 
proposed replacement Landscape Unit (LU) values;
(7) All existing and proposed streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, railroad tracks, drainage ditches, 
and other public or semi-public improvements within and immediately adjacent to the site;
(8) Contour lines, if the slopes are in excess of 10%;
(9) Existing and proposed topographic elevations at sufficient locations, to clearly show the drainage 
pattern unless this information is provided on a grading plan or other documents in the planning 
application;
(10) All property lines and easements;
(11) Square footage of all planted area;
(12) Species, sizes and location of all proposed plant material including the accurate driplines of all 
Protected Trees;
(13) Soil tests as required by the discretion of the Zoning Administrator; and
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Section 13.52.025(c) of the municipal code.
(14) A tree protection plan consistent with Chapter 13.40 and the Administrative Guidelines.
(b) All projects with over 1,000 square feet of new or modified planting areas as required to meet the 
provisions of this chapter shall have all landscape plans and accompanying documents prepared or reviewed 
and found acceptable by a licensed landscape architect registered with the State of California.
27.71.080 SUBMITTALS REQUIRED FOR A BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
(a) All of the required submittals for a planning application;
(b) Type and depth of mulch indicated on the plan;
468 of 556

--- page 469 ---
(c) An irrigation plan accurately drawn to scale that indicates all components of the irrigation system including 
sprinklers and other outlets, valves, the backflow prevention device(s), controller(s), and piping;
(d) All required tree preservation fees as required in Section 27.71.150;
(d) All tree information as required in Section 27.71.150 and Chapter 13.40; 
(e) For projects with less than 10,000 square feet of landscaped area, proof of a contract with a licensed 
landscape contractor to maintain the landscape area for the plant establishment period;
(f) For projects with greater than 10,000 square feet of landscape area, financial securities as required 
in Section 27.71.090; and
(g) Soil tests as required in Section 27.71.110.
27.71.090 REQUIREMENTS FOR USE OR ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
(a) Prior to use, final inspection, or the issuance of certificate of occupancy, all landscaping shall be installed in 
conformance with the approved plans.
(b) Phased Projects. Incremental landscape installation may be permitted by the Zoning Administrator when 
building construction is phased.
(c) Financial Security. Financial security shall be required for all projects with over 10,000 square feet of 
landscape area and for all residential condominiums. On smaller projects where adverse weather, drought 
conditions or project phasing prohibit the installation of landscaping, the Zoning Administrator may allow 
financial security to be submitted to the City in order to allow use or issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The 
security shall be in a form which is legally sufficient to ensure the preservation of trees and the installation of 
all approved landscape improvements. Financial security shall be returned to the applicant upon completion of 
the plant establishment period. The City shall be the beneficiary and the sole determinant of compliance and 
completion. A detailed cost estimate of all landscape improvements plus the value of any existing trees to 
remain, as determined in Section 27.71.150, shall be used to determine the amount of security.
27.71.100 LANDSCAPE COMPATIBILITY AND SOIL TESTING.
The location and nature of all landscaping shall be compatible with the soil, amendments, existing plantings to 
remain and character of the landscaping in the vicinity. For projects with over 10,000 square feet of landscape 
area or in areas of questionable soils such as the foothills or areas of bay fill, soils testing shall be required. 
Testing shall be performed by a professional testing laboratory. Soil shall be amended according to test report 
recommendations.
27.71.110 PLANT COVERAGE AND TREE SIZES.
(a) Allowed Bare Ground. Areas of bare ground or ground covered only by bark or rocks shall be allowed on-
site only where required as part of an approved facility, such as a baseball diamond, vegetable garden, 
flowerbed, or similar use.
(b) Allowed Natural Landscaping. Natural landscaping shall be allowed only in areas where it is compatible with 
the surrounding environment.
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of installation, 
except for heritage tree replacements, which require a minimum size of 24-inch box.
(c) Minimum Tree Size. All required trees shall be a minimum size of 15-gallon container at time of installation, 
except for heritage tree replacements, which shall be replaced according to Chapter 13.40 and the 
Administrative Guidelines. 
(d) Plant Coverage.
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped area. 
The ratio may include existing trees and required street and parking area trees. In some instances a 
greater ratio will be necessary to achieve desired landscaping objectives. Required tree ratio excluded 
for public parks, golf courses, cemeteries and school recreation areas.
469 of 556

--- page 470 ---
(1) Trees shall be planted at a minimum ratio of one per 400 square feet of required landscaped area. 
The ratio may include existing trees and required parking area trees. Public parks, golf courses, 
cemeteries, school recreation areas and public facilities are not required to meet this ratio.
(2) Groundcover and shrub massing areas shall be planted in a manner or at the spacings 
recommended by the American Association of Nurserymen, to uniformly cover the proposed 
groundcover areas within two years and the shrub areas within five years or a period optimum for the 
species.
(e) Security Planting. The use of plant materials that promote building security is encouraged. A list of such 
materials may be obtained from the Planning Division. Perimeter landscaped areas should incorporate thorny 
plant materials to discourage persons from cutting through parking areas, trampling vegetation near ground 
floor windows, or climbing perimeter fences and walls.
27.71.120 STREET TREES.
(a) Tree Planting. Fifteen-gallon or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with 
the City Street Tree Master Plan. Trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed 30 feet except to allow for 
utilities, street furnishings and driveways. Trees shall be planted closer than 30 feet if so recommended by the 
City Arborist. 
(a) Tree Planting. 
(1) 24-inch box size or larger street trees shall be planted along public streets in accordance with the 
City Street Tree Master Plan. The City Arborist shall have the authority to recommend planting of 
fifteen (15) gallon street trees when:
(A) Upon written request by the applicant; and 
(B) The fifteen (15) gallon size trees are the only ones available in stock, or 
(C) The quality of the fifteen (15) gallon size trees are superior to that available in 24-inch box 
size.   
(2) Trees shall planted at a spacing no more than thirty (30) feet except to allow for utilities, street 
furnishings, driveways, or other features necessary to ensure public safety, as approved by the City 
Arborist. 
(b) Tree Maintenance Easement Access Easement. Where a planning application requires a parcel or tentative 
map, a street tree maintenance an access easement shall be required if the street trees are to be located on 
private property and no such easement exists. However, it is recommended that even when a parcel or 
tentative map is not required or included, an easement be provided to allow the City to maintain the trees 
(other than irrigating) on private property the City for site access purposes in the event of an emergency or a 
hazardous situation.
27.71.130 PARKING AREAS.
The following requirements shall apply to open parking areas containing five or more parking spaces.
(a) Setbacks. Whenever a parking area is located adjacent to any residential use or zone and along all street 
frontages, a landscape strip shall be provided that is equal in width to five percent of the parking lot depth or 
six feet, whichever is greater.
(b) Percentage of Parking Areas to be Landscaped. At least 10% of the open parking area shall be landscaped. 
The following shall be considered in computing the landscape area:
(1) Parking area includes all paved surfaces devoted to on-site circulation and parking;
(2) Only those landscaped areas within six feet of a parking stall or aisle shall apply towards meeting 
the 10% requirement;
(3) Areas to be considered shall include planting areas and required curbing.
(c) Screening. All open parking areas shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any 
property in a residential zone and along all street frontages. Screening of adjoining property shall be a 
minimum of four feet to a maximum of six feet in height. Screening along street frontages shall be at least two 
and one-half feet in height for at least 80% of its length. Screening shall be accomplished by a wall, fence, 
470 of 556

--- page 471 ---
earth berm, densely planted shrub mass or any combination of the above. Where walls or fences are provided, 
they shall be located adjacent to the edge of the parking lots. Screening shall conform with the sight distance 
requirements contained in Chapter 27.84 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(d) Parking Lot Islands.
(1) All islands and small areas unused for parking or circulation shall be landscaped. The Zoning 
Administrator may determine that certain areas for reasons of size, aesthetics or circulation should not 
be landscaped and may approve paving in those areas.
(2) Interior landscape islands, having a minimum dimension of five feet including curb, shall be 
provided after every 10 parking spaces in a row to provide for tree planting.
(e) Required Trees. For each three parking spaces at least one tree shall be planted within the parking lot 
landscaped area in addition to any required street trees. Existing trees may be included in the required total.
(f) Protection of Planting Areas. All planting areas shall be protected from common vehicular traffic. For 
parking lots containing five stalls or more, this requirement shall be met by a six-inch-high vertical concrete 
curb. For parking lots containing less than five stalls, this requirement may be met by a concrete wheel stop in 
front of each diagonal or perpendicular stall plus a minimum six-inch-high concrete curb in other areas or 
approved equal. No trees or shrubs shall be planted and sprinkler heads shall be kept below curb height within 
two feet six inches of any curb or wheel stops which front upon parking stalls or backup areas.
27.71.140 RIGHT-OF-WAY LANDSCAPING.
The unpaved right-of-way area located between the public street and private property shall be landscaped in a 
manner compatible with the required landscaping on site. Such landscaping shall be permanently maintained 
by the property owner in conformance with the approved plans and so as not to create a safety hazard. Strips 
of public right-of-way located between the curb and sidewalks may not be paved but must likewise be 
landscaped. Long narrow strips of turfgrass such as traffic medians and areas between curbs and sidewalks are 
prohibited.
27.71.150 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES.
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six inches in caliper shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a heritage tree.
(a) Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six (6) inches in trunk diameter, measured at 54 inches from natural 
grade and Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a Protected Tree. 
(b) Required Submittals. To evaluate the existing trees the landscape plan and a tree evaluation schedule shall 
be submitted with the planning application showing:
(1) The location of all existing trees six (6) inches or greater in caliper trunk diameter (measured at 54 
inches from natural grade), noting which are to be removed and which are located within the 
allowable building area;
(2) Caliper size Trunk diameter in inches measured 48 inches above grade 54 inches above natural 
grade;
(3) Species name and species value as determined by utilizing the most recent edition of the Guide for 
Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers;
(4) Condition and location value of trees as determined by an arborist or landscape architect an ISA 
Certified Arborist;
(5) The total LU value of trees to be removed; and
(6) The total LU value of replacement trees.
(c) Landscape Unit Value (LU).
(1) The tree species, condition, and location values of the trees shall be based on an evaluation by an 
experienced landscape appraiser recognized by the American Society of Consulting Arborists utilizing 
the most recent Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers; 
and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
471 of 556

--- page 472 ---
(2) Trees not within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of 1.0 (100%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(3) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%). Trees 
located within the allowable building area shall receive a location factor of .70 (70%).
(4) Trees designated as heritage trees shall receive a bonus percentage value of 1.25 (125%).
The species, condition and location value assume an average tree value to be .70 (.7 x .7 x .7 = .343). 
All existing trees to be removed shall be given a LU value based upon the following calculation:
species value% x condition value% x location value%
.35
x caliper inches x bldg./setback% x heritage tree% = LU
species value% x condition value% x location value%
Trunk diameter inches x 
bldg.
x
=
LU
.35
setback% x heritage tree%
(d) Tree Replacement. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total 
removed LU value. The following rates shall be given to replacement trees to obtain the replacement LU value:
LU Value
Replacement Tree Size
1
15-gallon
2
24-inch box
3
36-inch box
4
48-inch box
Replacement trees shall be in addition to and not substitute requirements for street trees, parking lot trees or 
other required trees.  The LU value for replacement Street Trees shall be calculated separately from other 
replacement trees.
(e) Preservation of Heritage Trees. The site design shall make every reasonable effort to preserve Heritage 
Trees, consistent with Section 13.52.025 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code. Conditions shall also be imposed 
to protect Heritage Trees during construction. Heritage Trees shall be removed only when the City Arborist 
determines that their preservation would result in a threat to health, safety, and welfare due to a hazardous 
tree condition, impacts on soil erosion and stability, or an unreasonable effect upon the economic enjoyment 
of the property, consistent with Section 13.52.040 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code.
(f) Protection of Existing Trees. The site design shall make reasonable effort to protect existing trees. The 
design shall be evaluated as to how it protects existing trees or the reasons for removal of existing trees. Tree 
protection measures shall be provided for trees to remain on-site, which shall be consistent with Section 
13.52.025 Chapter 13.40 of the municipal code and imposed as a condition of approvals.
(g) Alternates to On-Site Replacement. If the required LU value for replacement of existing trees to be removed 
is not made up with replacement trees on-site, the City shall require that trees be planted in another location 
on-site or off-site or a contribution of funds be made to the City to be used for plantings on public land or a 
combination of the above options. If a contribution of funds is required, it shall be the fee as established by 
resolution of the City Council in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
472 of 556

--- page 473 ---
27.78 VARIANCES
27.78.010 PURPOSE.
In order that the purpose of this Code may be carried out, the approval body designated in this Title may, upon 
receiving an application for a variance from the provisions of this Title, vary such provisions upon finding that 
owing to special conditions, enforcement of the Title would result in hardship. Any variance granted shall be 
subject to such conditions as will assure that the adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of special 
privilege.
27.78.020 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING.
(a) In order to make its determination that there is hardship, the approval body designated in this Title shall 
determine if each of the following conditions  pertain:
(1) There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the property that 
do not apply generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood including buildings of 
architectural or historical significance or of architectural interest as recognized by action of the City 
Council or another government agency.
(2) A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the 
applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood;
(3) Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or 
materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is 
located; and
(4) Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan.
(b) Parking stall dimension variances shall also meet all of the following limitations:
(1) Handicapped stalls required by the State Architect's Handicapped Access Regulations are not 
eligible for this process.
(2) The application must be based on constraints imposed by physical features of the site (such as 
slopes, major vegetation to be preserved or the like) Major Vegetation to be preserved as defined in 
Chapter 23.40, or Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40), or existing structural improvements. 
No variance shall be granted for stall dimensions due to mere lack of space on the site to meet 
standard requirements for the project, nor for the sole purposes of design simplicity, reduced cost or 
other convenience of the applicant.
(3) Variances for the width of stalls shall only be allowed for locating posts or stub walls in the very 
front or rear part of the stalls where they will not obstruct the swing of doors for passenger vehicles, 
or to allow continued use of established parking structures.
(4) The application meets one or more of the following:
(A) The variance is needed to continue using existing facilities;
(B) No more than one dimension is to vary, and by not more than 1 foot width or 6 inches 
height or 2 feet length;
(C) No more than 10% of all required stalls, or 3 stalls, whichever is greater, are to vary;
(D) The total volume of each of the stalls will be at least 95% of the unvaried volume of height, 
width and depth combined.
473 of 556

--- page 474 ---
17.24.020 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below. 
Unless in direct conflict with terms defined herein, other words and phrases shall be interpreted as defined in 
the Streets and Highways Code:
Director of Public Works. Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
Driveway Approach. The concrete structure located in the public right-of-way between the public street and a 
driveway or parking area on private property.
Heritage Protected Tree. A tree as defined in Chapter 13.52 13.40 as being a heritage tree Protected Tree 
subject to the provisions of that chapter.
Planting strip. The area of the street lying between the curb line and the street line or edge of right-of-way 
along any street; including the sidewalk.
Property Owner. Without limitation, the fee owner of real property and the person or persons in possession of 
the real property.
Sidewalk. Any area provided for the use of pedestrians, including planting areas, driveway approaches or 
parking strips, between the public vehicular roadway and the edge of right-of-way bordering adjacent private 
property.
Street Tree. Any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem achieving ten feet or more in height, 
growing within a street right-of-way; planted within a street right-of-way and/or designated planting 
easement.
474 of 556

--- page 475 ---
Chapter 23.40 SITE DEVELOPMENT CODE
23.40.010 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
(a) Title. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited and referred to, as the "San Mateo City Site 
Development Code."
(b) Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to Section II of Article XI of the Constitution, the General Laws 
of the State and the Charter of the City. This chapter is enacted to implement applicable elements of the San 
Mateo General Plan as may hereafter be adopted. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all site 
development on private property within the City as delineated in Section 23.40.030 and may also be used for 
review of public projects that require a planning application and public review.
(c) Purpose. This chapter is adopted to promote public health and safety and general public welfare, and 
specifically to:
(1) Protect public and private lands from erosion, earth movement, flooding, and ensure the maximum 
preservation of the natural scenic character of the City by establishing minimum standards and 
requirements relating to land grading, excavations and fills, and removal of major vegetation by 
establishing procedures by which these standards and requirements may be enforced;
(2) Ensure that the development of each site relates to adjacent lands so as to maximize visually 
pleasant relationships and minimize physical problems which could result in increased development or 
maintenance costs.
(3) Regulate development on or near steep slopes in order to protect the public health, safety and 
welfare and preserve the natural setting of the hillsides. Minimize the risk of personal injury, damage 
to property, and impact on water quality from potential landslides, erosion, earth creep, stormwater 
runoff, and other hazards associated with hillside areas of the City. Preserve existing topographical 
forms, open spaces, habitat areas and visual resources from encroachment by new hillside 
development.
(d) Interpretation.
(1) In their interpretation and application, provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum 
requirements, except where they are expressly stated to be maximum requirements. It is not intended 
to impair, or interfere with any private restrictions placed upon property by covenant or deed; 
provided, however, that where this chapter imposes higher standards or a greater restriction upon the 
development of land than are imposed or required by such private restrictions, the provisions of this 
chapter shall control.
(2) Whenever any provision of this chapter and any other provisions of law, whether set forth in this 
chapter or in any other law, ordinance or resolution of any kind, impose overlapping or contradictory 
regulations over the development of land, or contain any restrictions covering any of the same subject 
matter, that provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards or requirements shall 
govern.
(3) Whenever this chapter grants authority to the City Engineer Director of Public Works, Building 
Official or Director of Parks and Recreation, that official may delegate such authority to a designee.
(e) City Nonliability. Failure of the City officials to observe or recognize hazardous or scarring conditions which 
may adversely affect the economic value of other property in the vicinity, or to recommend denial of a site 
development planning application or of a site development permit, shall not relieve the permittee for 
responsibility for the condition or damages resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the City, its officers or 
agents, being responsible for the conditions or damages resulting therefrom.
(General Note: reformat entire definitions per standard numbering convention in Clean version of 
Ordinance.)
23.40.020 DEFINITIONS.
475 of 556

--- page 476 ---
For the purposes of this chapter Chapter, certain terms used herein the following terms are defined as set 
forth below:
"Best Management Practice (BMP)" means a technique or series of techniques which, when utilized in a 
designated manner, is proven to be effective in controlling construction-related runoff, erosion, and 
sedimentation;
"Certify" or "Certification" means the specific inspections and tests where required have been performed, and 
that such tests comply with the applicable requirements of State and Federal law and of this chapter;
"Cubic Yards" means the amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the method of "average end 
areas";
"Erosion" means the action or process of wearing away of earth or soil by the action of water.
"Excavation" means any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar material is 
cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and includes the conditions 
resulting therefrom;
"Existing Grade" means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to excavation or filling;
"Filling" means any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is deposited, placed, replaced, 
pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by man to a new location and shall include the conditions 
resulting therefrom;
"Final Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a set of measures designed to control surface runoff and 
erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site after all other planned final structures and permanent 
improvements have been erected or installed;
"Grading" means excavation of or fill or any combination thereof and includes the conditions resulting from 
any excavation or fill;
"Intensify" means the addition of one or more dwelling units in a residential district; or the physical extension 
of a structure or the expansion of a parking area in any commercial, executive, or industrial district;
"Interim Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a set of measures designed to control surface runoff and 
erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site during the period in which pre-construction and 
construction-related grading occurs;
"Landscape Architect" means a person who is licensed by the State of California to practice landscape 
architecture;
"Major Vegetation" means live vegetation, consisting of tree growth with a trunk diameter of six (6) inches or 
greater (circumference of eighteen and none-tenths nine-tenths inches) measured at forty-eight (48) fifty-four 
(54) inches above natural grade;
"Manual of Standards (Manual)" means a compilation of technical application standards and design 
specifications adopted by the City Engineer Director of Public Works as being proven methods of controlling 
construction-related runoff, erosion, and sedimentation;
"Natural Slope" means the predominant slope or slopes of land in its natural condition disregarding minor 
surface humps or hollows;
"Natural Terrain" means the natural contour of a site before man-made development, or as the same exists 
prior to the undertaking of any new improvement;
"Parcel" means an area of land which has been legally subdivided;
"Permittee" means any person to whom a site development permit is issued'
“Project Arborist” means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of Construction 
Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction Activity within the 
Dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist. 
“Protected Tree” means a Heritage Tree or a Street Tree (as defined in SMMC 13.40 Protected Trees), or a tree 
designated as protected as part of an approved Planning Application that is subject to Chapter 27.71.
"Removal" means cutting major vegetation to the ground, complete extraction, or filling by spraying, girdling, 
root cutting, etc.;
"Removal" means:
(1) Cutting to the ground, complete extraction, or killing by spraying, girdling, or any other means; or
476 of 556

--- page 477 ---
(2) Major Pruning not done in conformance with a Major Pruning Permit as defined in Section 13.40.
"Sediment" means material deposited by water.
"Site" means a lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading is performed as a 
single unified operation;
"Site Development" means grading and/or removing major vegetation;
"Site Development Planning Application" means an application through the Planning Division for approval of a 
project requiring a site development permit;
"Site Development Permit" means a permit issued through the Public Works Department to proceed with site 
development.
"Slope" shall be defined as an inclined ground surface, expressed as a fraction of vertical over horizontal 
distance (rise over run) across any portion of a parcel. The term "gradient" shall be synonymous with the term 
"percent slope". For purposes of this chapter, slope shall be measured across the predominant slope or slopes 
of land disregarding minor surface humps or hollows;
"Slope Height" means the vertical dimension between the high (top) and low (toe) points of a slope. The top 
and the toe of the slope shall be the points at which the slope intersects flat planes. A flat plane shall be 
considered any surface with a gradient of five (5%) percent or less. The overall height of separated slopes shall 
be added in calculating slope height unless the slopes are separated by a flat area at least forty (40) feet wide. 
The height of existing engineered retaining walls shall not be included in the calculation of slope height;
"Soils Engineer" means a registered engineer recognized by the State Board of Registration for Professional 
Engineers and Land Surveyors as authorized and competent to do the work required;
"Vacant" means land on which there are no structures or only structures which are secondary to the use or 
maintenance of the land itself.
23.40.030 REQUIRED APPROVALS.
(a) Approval Authority. No person shall commence or perform any site development or slope construction, as 
detailed in (b) and (c) below, without first obtaining approval of a site development planning application 
followed by application for, and issuance of, a site development permit, which allows construction to proceed. 
the purpose of the planning application is to define the basic parameters of the proposed work, determine of 
viability of the site development project, and allow for public review. The purpose of the site development 
permit is to insure that the final construction documents comply with all code requirements and conditions of 
approval of the planning application.
(b) General Site Work. Site development occurring within any of the following provisions shall require a site 
development planning application and a site development permit unless such work is exempted by "d" below:
(1) Grading will exceed an area of 5,000 square feet and 5,000 cubic feet (185 cubic yards);
(2) Grading will exceed a volume of 550 cubic yards;
(3) Grading, regardless of quantity, where, in the opinion of the Building Official and/or City Engineer  
Director of Public Works, special physical conditions of the site or protection of the public safety 
requires application of this chapter.
(4) Major vegetation is to be removed from any vacant parcel of land, from the public right of way, or 
from a parcel of land in conjunction with redevelopment or intensifying the use of the parcel or in 
preparation of such activity.
(c) Slope Work. Site development located on a slope of 15 percent or greater or within the slope setbacks as 
defined in the following table, shall require a site development planning application and a site development 
permit unless such work is exempted by "d" below;
SLOPE SETBACKS
Slope
Slope Height
10 feet to 30 feet
Over 30 feet
15% up to 25%
15 feet from the top or toe of the 
slope.
477 of 556

--- page 478 ---
SLOPE SETBACKS
Slope
Slope Height
Over 25% and up to 50%
The greater of either: 15 feet; the 
diagonal distance of 3 horizontal 
to 1 vertical measured from the 
toe of the slope; or a distance 
equal to the slope height from the 
top or the toe of the slope.
The work is located within the 
greater of either: the diagonal 
distance of 4 horizontal to 1 
vertical, measured from the toe of 
the slope; or a distance equal to 
the height of the slope.
Over 50%
The greater of either: 15 feet; the 
diagonal distance of 3 horizontal 
to 1 vertical measured from the 
toe of the slope; or a distance 
equal to two times the slope 
height from the top of the slope or 
one times the slope height from 
the toe of the slope.
(d) Exceptions. Site development meeting one of the following criteria is exempt from the requirement for a 
site development planning application and a site development permit.
(1) Excavation below finished grade for tanks, vaults, sewer facilities, tunnels, equipment basements, 
swimming pools, cellars or footings for building or structures authorized by a valid building permit;
(2) Excavations by public utility companies or the City in public utility easements, streets, rights-of-
way, or on property owned in fee by the public utility companies, for the purpose of maintaining 
existing utilities or installing new facilities either above or below ground;
(3) Excavations for installation of fence posts or planting of trees;
(4) Interment operations of a cemetery, but not including grading for cemetery development;
(5) Excavation on slopes 10 feet, or less, in height;
(6) Excavation for pier or caisson footings for a nonhabitable structure such as a deck, gazebo, shed or 
similar structure, provided the slope is no greater than 25 percent;
(7) Excavations for storm drain facilities on properties in single family use and on other properties 
where the ground surface is brought back to its original level and the existing drainage pattern is 
maintained;
(8) Projects consisting of soil excavation for examination or contaminant remediation where soil is 
removed for testing or treatment and replaced with non-contaminated soil to the original surface 
condition and level; and
(9) Single family additions and accessory structures meeting one of the conditions set forth below:
(A) Single family additions and accessory structures located within slope setbacks or on slopes 
greater than 15 percent (unless governed by (B) below) provided:
(i) A geotechnical report containing applicable foundation, grading and drainage 
recommendations may be required at the discretion of the City Engineer Director of 
Public Works or Building Official. Factors to be considered in determining whether a 
geotechnical report is required include, but are not limited to, slope gradient, 
potential affect upon adjacent properties, construction method and subsurface 
geology;
(B) Single family additions and accessory structures of more than 500 square feet located 
within slope setbacks or on slopes greater than twenty-five percent (25%), when supported by 
a geotechnical report containing applicable foundation, grading and drainage 
recommendations;
478 of 556

--- page 479 ---
(C) Single family additions and accessory structures 5 feet or more from the top of creek banks, 
except where the "San Mateo Creek setback" (as defined in City of San Mateo Downtown 
Specific Plan Urban Design Policy UD-24 San Mateo Creek Flood Protection) applies.
23.40.040 PROCEDURES.
This Section contains the provisions for the 2 phases of the site development approval and permitting process. 
Phase I consists of the site development planning application, which is processed through the Planning 
Division. Phase II provides for obtaining the site development permit from the Public Works Department 
following approval of the site development planning application.
(a) Phase I—Site Development Planning Application. Each application for site development through the 
Planning Division shall be made by the owner of record or his or her authorized agent, submitted on forms 
furnished for that purpose, and accompanied by the required project submittals, fees and deposits.
(1) Review and Approval Authority. Each site development planning application shall be processed in 
accordance with Chapter 27.08 (Rules of Procedure) contained in Title 27 (Zoning) of the Municipal 
Code. Such processing includes project review, noticing, hearing, approval and appeal of decisions. 
Decision authority for approval, approval with conditions, or denial of site development projects is set 
forth in the following table:
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION (SDPA)
APPROVAL AUTHORITY
Zoning Administrator
Planning Commission
Grading, where the aggregate volume does not exceed 
5,000 cubic yards and the site development is not 
occurring on slopes greater than 25% or within the 
setbacks from such slopes would require a Site 
Development Planning Application for Grading.
Grading, where the aggregate volume exceeds 5,000 
cubic yards and/or the proposed grading (cut/fill) 
exceeds 5 feet (height/depth) at its maximum point 
would require a Site Development Planning Application 
for Grading.
Removal of major vegetation Protected Trees from 
property which has been previously developed and/or 
subdivided and which is being redeveloped or more 
intensely used would require a Site Development 
Planning Application for Tree Removal.
Site development occurring on slopes greater than 
25% or within slope setbacks would require a Site 
Development Planning Application for Grading.
Removal of major vegetation Protected Trees from 
previously undeveloped and/or unsubdivided acreage, 
or land which is to be resubdivided would require a 
Site Development Planning Application for Tree 
Removal.
(2) Basic Submittals. Each site development planning application shall be accompanied by a plot plan 
signed by a civil engineer, showing the following, however, at the time of application, the City Engineer 
Director of Public Works may modify these requirements based upon special site conditions or unique 
circumstances that clearly indicate that the required submittal is unnecessary. During the review 
process, the City may require additional information necessary to make a final determination.
(A) Location of existing and proposed buildings or structures on the property;
(B) Location of all existing and proposed streets, roadways, driveways, easements, public 
utilities and rights-of-way;
(C) Details of any proposed culverts, drainage structures, collection system, cribbing, terraces, 
and/or surface protection, not including vegetative cover, required for drainage and erosion 
control of the property, or adjoining property;
479 of 556

--- page 480 ---
(D) Delineation and brief description of the surface runoff and erosion control measures to be 
implemented, including any applicable construction phase BMPs;
(E) The present contours of the site in dashed lines and the proposed contours in solid lines. 
Contour intervals shall be not more than two (2) feet where slopes are predominantly five (5%) 
percent or less, and not more than five (5) feet where slopes are predominantly steeper than 
five (5%) percent. Ninety (90%) percent of all contours shall be accurate within one-half 
contour interval of correct position. The source of topographical information shall be 
indicated;
(F) The location of all drainage to, from, and across the site including the location of any 
intermittent and permanent springs or other potential locations of water quality impact;
(G) The location of all major vegetation and heritage trees as defined by Section 23.40.070 and 
Section 10.52.020, respectively, together with an indication of those which must be removed;
(G) The location of all Protected Trees as defined in Chapter 13.40 and Chapter 23.40 together 
with an indication of those which must be removed;
(H) Geotechnical study prepared by a soils engineer which shall include at a minimum, 
historical data (such as from original subdivision records) and conclusions/recommendations 
based upon an adequate number of soil borings driver to adequate depth, for foundation 
footings, retaining walls, provisions for differential settlement, and for grading procedures and 
designs for interim and final soil stabilization devices and measures.
(3) Supplemental Submittals. The following information may be required for any site development 
planning application, or as a condition of approval of said application, if the City Engineer Director of 
Public Works, after preliminary review of the application, finds any or all necessary to accomplish the 
purpose of this chapter.
(A) A statement of the estimated quantity of material proposed to be excavated and/or the 
amount of fill in cubic yards;
(B) Grading specifications prepared by a soils engineer;
(C) Roadway and/or driveway geometry including profiles and cross-Sections;
(D) Drainage calculations, including at a minimum, existing and post-project run-off quantities, 
capacity of existing downstream drainage systems, and impact of the project on those 
systems;
(E) Interim Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (Interim Plan). All of the following information 
shall be provided with respect to conditions existing on the site during grading activities or soil 
storage:
(i) Maximum surface runoff from the site shall be calculated using the method 
approved by the City Engineer Director of Public Works and maintained in the Manual, 
or any other method proven to the City Engineer Director of Public Works to be as or 
more accurate;
(ii) Sediment yield shall be calculated suing the method approved by the City Engineer 
Director of Public Works and maintained in the Manual, or any other method proven 
to the City Engineer Director of Public Works to be as or more accurate;
(iii) A delineation and brief description of the measures to be undertaken to retain 
sediment on the site, including, but not limited to, the designs and specifications for 
berms and sediment detention basins, and a schedule for their maintenance and 
upkeep;
(iv) A delineation and brief description of the surface runoff and erosion control 
measures to be implemented, including, but not limited to, types and method of 
applying mulches, and designs and specifications for diverters, dikes and drains, and a 
schedule for their maintenance and upkeep;
(v) A delineation and brief description of the vegetative measures to be taken, 
including, but not limited to, seeding methods, the type, location, and extent of pre-
480 of 556

--- page 481 ---
existing and undisturbed vegetation types, and a schedule for their maintenance and 
upkeep;
(vi) The location of all the measures listed by the permittee under Subsections (iii), (iv) 
and (v) above, shall be depicted on the site map and/or grading plan;
(vii) A contingency plan to be implemented in the case of failure of control measures 
or in the case of intense or prolonged rainfall;
(F) Final Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (Final Plan). The Final Plan shall provide all of the 
information listed in E, above, with respect to conditions existing on the site after final 
structures and improvements (except for those required under this Section) have been 
completed and where these final structures have not been covered by an Interim Plan.
(G) A master work schedule showing the following information:
(i) Statement of the estimated starting and completion dates for the grading work 
proposed and any landscape work that may be required;
(ii) Proposed schedule for installation of all interim erosion and sediment control 
measures including, but not limited to, the stage of completion of erosion and 
sediment control devices and vegetative measures;
(iii) Schedule for construction, if any;
(iv) Schedule for installation of permanent erosion and sediment control devices 
where required;
(H) Plans and specifications showing functional planting for the protection of the public safety 
and, if appropriate, information relating to landscaping of adjacent or surrounding areas 
affected by the proposed development. Such plans and specifications shall be prepared and 
signed by a landscape architect, except where specified below. These plans shall show:
(i) Distribution of plant material; location, quantity and key number of each species of 
plant in each group; outline of all lawn areas, areas to be seeded, sodded or sprigged; 
existing trees, if any, to be preserved, transplanted or removed; kind, size, and work 
involved as related to slope control and/or physical environment;
(ii) A Tree Evaluation Schedule of existing trees as defined in Chapter 27.71 prepared 
and signed by an ISA Certified Arborist (Project Arborist), identifying trees to be 
preserved, transplanted or removed;  
(iii) A Tree Protection Plan prepared and signed by the Project Arborist specifying tree 
protection measures in accordance with Chapter 13.40; 
(iv) The kind, size, and work involved as related to slope control and/or physical 
environment;
(ii) (v) List of plant material giving standard botanical plant names and key number for 
each variety for reference to plan, and in addition, the size, quality or other pertinent 
description common to the trade; 
(vi) A Required Tree Planting Form specifying the mitigation for removal of existing 
trees in the form of tree planting and/or payment of in-lieu fees;
(iii) (vii) A specification describing the methods for planting the areas to be landscaped 
with special emphasis on: (a) soil preparation, fertilization, plant material and methods 
of planting, and (b) initial maintenance of the plant material and slopes until a 
specified percentage of plant coverage is established uniformly on the cut and fill 
slopes;
(iv) (viii) A statement by landscape architect regarding: (a) The length of time after 
planting, with the specified maintenance normally required to produce the specified 
percentage of plant coverage on the slopes in the slope control areas, and (b) the 
additional length of time, without any special maintenance, normally required to 
produce a coverage of permanent planting which will control erosion;
481 of 556

--- page 482 ---
(v) (ix) Details of all items and features pertaining to site preservation and 
improvements such as retaining walls, and tree wells, and details not shown on other 
plans accompanying the application;
(vi) (x) Such other and further details as may be specified and required by the City 
Engineer Director of Public Works to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(I) The name, address, and phone numbers of all persons, if any, who will receive excavated 
material in excess of five hundred cubic yards;
(J) If fill material is to be obtained from elsewhere other than the site, a statement as to the 
source and type thereof if such information is known at the time of application. If not known 
at such time, such information shall be submitted when known and, in any event, not later 
than commencement of hauling operations of the imported fill material;
(K) The route or routes proposed to be followed in San Mateo, excavation or fill material, as 
required by the schedule of truck routes on file in the office of the City Clerk;
(L) Such further applicable information as the  City Engineer Director of Public Works may 
required in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(4) Findings for Approval. Prior to recommending approval of a site development planning application, 
the approval body shall find that all concerns regarding surface grading, structure foundations, 
drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal have been addressed. The 
approval body shall consider the following factors, where applicable, in making the above finding:
(A) Saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic;
(B) Runoff of surface waters that produce erosion, and silting of drainage ways;
(C) Subsurface conditions such as the rock strata and faults;
(D) Nature and type of soil or rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may create 
earth movements;
(E) Effect upon the potential for optimum subdivision design;
(F) Effect upon the visual relationships with other development in the vicinity of the site;
(G) Appropriateness of the proposed site development for the character of a planned 
community or planned unit development proposal;
(H) Capability of proposed slopes to be landscaped;
(I) Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through the 
proposed grading or removal of vegetation;
(J) The report from the Director of Parks and Recreation with respect to heritage trees 
pursuant to Section 10.52.040;
(J) The report from the Project Arborist with respect to Protected Trees pursuant to Chapters 
27.71 and 13.40;
(K) Any other considerations arising from any environmental impact report which will 
eliminate or mitigate environmental damage.
(5) Exceptions. The approval body may authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and 
regulations set forth in this chapter. Application for any exception shall be made by stating fully the 
grounds of the application and the facts relied upon. Such application shall be filed with the site 
development planning application. In order for the land referred to in the application to come within 
the provisions of this Section, it is necessary that the approval body make all of the following findings:
(A) The land is of such shape or size, or is affected by such physical conditions, or is subject to 
such title limitations of record that it is impossible or impractical for applicant to comply with 
all of the regulations of this chapter.
(B) The exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property 
right of the applicant;
(C) The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to 
other property in the vicinity of the subject property.
482 of 556

--- page 483 ---
(6) Planning Application Expiration. Every site development planning application shall expire as 
provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.060—Approval Expiration (Zoning Code).
(b) Phase II—Site Development Permit. Subsequent to approval of a site development planning application but 
prior to site development, the applicant shall obtain a site development permit for grading from the Public 
Works Department and a site development permit for tree removal from Community Development 
Department. Application for a site development permit shall be made by the owner of record or his or her 
authorized agent, and shall be accompanied by the required fees, deposits, and project submittals specified in 
any conditions of approval for the planning application or required by this chapter.
(1) Permit Issuance. Following approval of a site development planning application, a site development 
permit may be issued if:
(A) The planning application has not expired and all conditions of approval of the planning 
application have been met; and
(B) Such permit is accompanied by, or combined with, a valid building permit issued by the 
City; or
(C) The proposed grading is coordinated with any overall grading plans previously approved by 
the City, under the subdivision regulations or other Sections of This Code, for the area in which 
the site is situated.
(2) Approved Plans. The approved site development permit, including plans for grading work and/or 
major vegetation removal, shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the grading. In order 
to obtain the inspections required by this chapter in accordance with the following schedule, the 
permittee shall notify the City Engineer and where applicable, the Director of Parks and Recreation at 
least two full working days before said inspection is to be made.
(2) Approved Plans. The approved site development permit, including plans for grading work, as well 
as, the location of trees (existing on-site trees, Protected Trees and Street Trees), trees proposed to be 
removed, trees proposed to be protected, and tree protection measures shall be maintained at the 
site during the progress of the grading, excavation, building demolition, construction and/or other site 
work. In order to obtain the inspections required by this Chapter in accordance with the following 
schedule, the permittee shall notify the Director of Public Works, and where applicable, the Director of 
Parks and Recreation, and Director of Community Development Department (or their designees) at 
least two full working days before said inspection is to be made.
(3) Inspections. The City Engineer Director of Public Works, and where applicable, the Director of Parks 
and Recreation or the Building Official (or their designees), shall make the following required 
inspections, as applicable, and shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify 
the permittee, as provided in (4), below, wherein the same fails to comply with this chapter or the 
terms of the permit granted. Where it is found by inspection that conditions are not substantially as 
stated or shown in the application for a site development permit, the City Engineer Director of Public 
Works may stop further work until approval is obtained for a revised site development permit, 
conforming to the existing conditions.
(A) Initial Inspection. Before commencement of grading operations, and after required 
construction stakes have been set;
(B) Erosion Control. When all interim erosion control devices have been installed and planting 
requirements have been completed;
(C) Rough Grading. When all rough grading has been completed;
(D) Final Inspection. When all work, including, but not limited to, final grading, installation of 
all drainage devices, and final erosion control measures, has been completed;
(4) Inspector. All inspections performed under site development permits specified in this chapter shall 
be performed by a representative of the issuing department, and all orders issued to the permittee 
shall be issued through said representative.
483 of 556

--- page 484 ---
(5) Inspection by Building Official. Structures requiring building permits shall be inspected by the 
Building Official, or their designee, in accordance with procedures established by this Code, provided, 
however, no building permit for such structures shall be issued until a site development permit for the 
building site has been issued or it has been determined that a site development permit is not required 
by this chapter.
(6) Site Development Permit Sign-Off. If, upon final inspection, it is found that the work authorized by 
the site development permit has been completed in accordance with the requirements of the permit 
and this chapter, the City Engineer Director of Public Works shall indicate that such work, has to the 
best of his or her knowledge, been satisfactorily performed.
(7) Permit Revocation.
(A) Violations. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading, or 
cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any provisions of this chapter. The  
City Engineer Director of Public Works, the Chief of Planning Planning Manager, Building 
Official, and/or the Director of Parks and Recreation are empowered to investigate and make 
reports to the Planning Commission on any violations of this chapter. The Planning 
Commission, if it determines from the evidence presented that a violation exists, may 
recommend to the City Council that action be taken to seek compliance with this chapter.
(B) Authority. In the event any person holding a site development permit pursuant to this 
chapter violates the terms of the permit, or conducts, carries on or permits to be conducted or 
carried on said site development in such a manner as materially or adversely to affect the 
health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the property 
of the permittee, or conducts or carries on or permits to be conducted or carried on said site 
development so that it is materially detrimental to the public welfare, or injurious to property, 
or improvements in the neighborhood, the City Engineer Director of Public Works may order a 
temporary suspension, effective immediately upon notification, and the permittee shall show 
cause before the Planning Commission that the permit should not be permanently revoked.
(C) Procedure for Revoking Site Development Permit. No site development permit shall be 
permanently revoked or suspended until a hearing is held by the Planning Commission. 
Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon the permittee, either personally or by 
certified mail. Such notice shall be given the permittee at least five days prior to the date set 
for the hearing and shall state:
(i) The grounds for complain or reasons for the revocation or suspension, in clear and 
concise language;
(ii) The time when, and the place where, such hearing is to be held.
(D) Hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold such hearing at the next regularly scheduled 
meeting at which all conditions of this Subsection can be met. At any such hearing, the 
permittee shall be given an opportunity to be heard, and he or she may call witnesses and 
present evidence on his or her behalf. Upon conclusion of such hearing the Planning 
Commission shall determine whether or not the permit shall be suspended, revoked or 
modified.
(8) Fees.
(A) Filing Fees. Filing fees and deposits for services shall be as set forth in fee schedules to be 
adopted from time to time by the City Council.
(B) Consultant Fees. City officers administering this chapter may engage consulting 
professional services to advise in the review of site development permit applications and may 
charge not to exceed 100 percent (100%) of the cost of such services to the applicant.
(C) Applicable fees for Landscape Unit (LU) value are subject to the Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule in effect at the time of issuance of the Site Development Permit for tree removal.
(9) Permit Expiration. Every site development permit shall expire by limitation and become null and 
void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty days, 
484 of 556

--- page 485 ---
or is not completed within one year from date of issue unless the time is specified on the permit or as 
provided in Section 23.40.050(k)(2), except that the City Engineer Director of Public Works may, if the 
permit holder presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being 
started or completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written 
application is made before the expiration date of the permit.
(10) Prohibited Activities. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as permitting the 
removal of topsoil solely for resale, or of permitting quarrying of any nature within the limits of the 
City. This chapter shall also not be construed as authorizing any persons to maintain a private or public 
nuisance upon their property, and compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be a 
defense in any action to abate such nuisance.
485 of 556

--- page 486 ---
23.40.050 —PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
(a) Standards Generally. All grading and grading operations shall comply with the requirements set forth in this 
Section in addition to other requirements of this Code.
(b) Hours of Operation. All grading operations shall be restricted to weekdays between the hours of seven a.m. 
and seven p.m., unless the City Engineer Director of Public Works finds evidence that an emergency exists 
which would imperil or inconvenience the public, in which case he or she may permit the work to proceed 
during such other hours as may be necessary.
(c) Slopes.
(1) Vacant Parcels. In evaluating the reasonableness of construction, the reviewing authority may 
consider, in addition to other factors set forth in this chapter, the amount of cut and fill, steepness of 
driveway, removal of major vegetation, height, bulk and visibility of proposed structures, preservation 
of natural topographic landforms, and compatibility with the pattern and scale of development within 
the surrounding neighborhood.
(2) Subdivisions. Subdivisions of sloped properties are limited by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
26.20—Lots (Subdivision Code).
(3) Limits of Hillside Grading. In R1 and R2 zones, grading on slopes of 25 percent or more shall be 
limited to site access (driveway) and to building foundations. In all other zoning districts, grading on 
slopes of 25 percent or more shall be limited to site access only. In all cases, grading shall be designed 
to limit alteration of the visual character and topography of the hillside while permitting creation of a 
reasonable building site.
(4) Finished Cuts of Slopes. The exposed or finished cuts or slopes of any fill or excavation shall be 
smoothly graded and blended with existing contours by rounding off cut or fill edges and shall be 
screened with vegetation, and no such fill, slope, cut or inclined graded surface shall exceed a vertical 
height of thirty feet unless intercepting drains or terraces are provided. Such drains or terraces shall be 
permanently lined or protected with materials approved by the City Engineer Director of Public Works 
and accumulating surface waters shall be conducted to an approved point of discharge. Any such 
terrace or intercepting drain shall be designed to prevent overflow which may cause erosion. All 
exposed slopes of any cut or fill subject to erosion shall be protected by approved planting, crib walls, 
walls and planting, terracing, or a combination thereof. The use of visible retaining walls shall be 
minimized, and where visible, shall be screened with vegetation. Graded surfaces exceeding an area of 
five thousand square feet shall be treated as provided in Section 23.40.050(j). The City Engineer 
Director of Public Works may require that corrective measures be taken if he or she finds the material 
being cut or used for fill is unusually subject to erosion, or if other conditions affect the stability of the 
slopes.
(5) Seasonal Grading. All grading shall be limited to the dry season (April 15 through October 15) unless 
the City Engineer Director of Public Works determines adequate erosion control is provided. For 
commencement of grading during the wet season, the permittee shall demonstrate that grading is 
relatively minor and that erosion and sedimentation can be controlled. The City Engineer Director of 
Public Works shall have the ability to grant or deny permission under this Section on the basis of 
weather forecasts, experience, and other pertinent factors.
(d) Dust and Dirt. All graded surfaces of any nature shall be wetted, or otherwise suitably contained to prevent 
nuisance from dust or spillage on city streets or adjacent properties. Equipment, materials and roadways on 
the site shall be used in a manner or treated as to prevent excessive dust conditions. Dust and dirt control 
activities shall not result in any material entering the storm drain system.
(e) Fill Material. All fill shall be earth, rock or other inert mineral materials free from organic material and free 
from metal, except that topsoil spread on cut and fill surfaces may incorporate humus for desirable moisture 
retention properties.
(f) Drainage. Adequate provision shall be made to prevent any surface waters from damaging the cut face of an 
excavation or any portion of a fill. All drainage ways and structures shall carry surface waters to the nearest 
486 of 556

--- page 487 ---
street, storm drain or natural watercourse capable of receiving them without producing erosion as approved 
by the City Engineer Director of Public Works as a safe place to deposit and receive such waters. Parcels shall 
not be graded so as to direct additional water, or to alter the existing pattern of drainage, onto adjacent 
properties. The City Engineer Director of Public Works may require such drainage structures to be constructed, 
or installed, as are necessary to prevent erosion damage, or to prevent saturation of the fill or material behind 
cut slopes.
(g) Street and Driveway Grades.
(1) Maximum Grades. Maximum grades for new streets and driveways shall be as follows:
(A) Collector and Local Streets: 15%
(B) Intersections: 8%
(C) Private Roads, Driveways and Ramps that have no pedestrian access and are not 
emergency vehicle access easements: 18%
(2) Design. Streets and driveways shall be designed in accordance with standard engineering practices 
by a registered civil engineer. Design of any street or driveway shall demonstrate consideration of such 
factors as surrounding topography, drainage, pedestrian access, the presence of intersections, 
driveways, and/or bicycle lanes, vehicular volume and type, and vehicular operation. The flattest grade 
that reasonably fits the topography should be used and appropriate transitions (vertical curves) 
between changes in grade are required.
(h) Backfilling. Any pipe trench or other trenching or excavation made in any slope of an excavated or filled site 
shall be backfilled to the level of the surrounding grade. Such backfill shall be compacted to the original density 
of the excavated materials, but in no case less than ninety (90%) percent of the maximum density achieved by 
an AASHO soil compaction test method, selected by the City Engineer Director of Public Works. Suitable check 
drains to control erosion shall be installed as directed by the City Engineer Director of Public Works.
(i) Compaction of Fill. all fills intended to support buildings, structures, or where otherwise required to be 
compacted for stability of material, shall be compacted, inspected and tested in accordance with adopted 
specifications on file in the office of the City Engineer Director of Public Works.
(j) Erosion Control—Landscaping. All cut and fill surfaces created by a grading process, agricultural processes 
excepted, shall be planted with a ground cover that is acceptable to a soils engineer and compatible with 
ground covers in general use in the area, and is one that will thrive with little or no maintenance once 
established. Topsoils are to be stockpiled during rough grading and used on cut and fill slopes to a depth 
sufficient to support the proposed plant materials in a manner acceptable to a soils engineer. On slopes likely 
to be extensively disturbed by later construction, an interim ground cover may be planted or emplaced to be 
supplemented by the permanent ground cover and/or shrubs and trees when the site is finally developed and 
landscaped. When slopes have been permitted too steep to support continuous ground cover, and in lieu 
thereof niches and ledges have been provided for planting, such slopes need not be planted with a continuous 
ground cover, but may instead be screened with vines and plantings. Cuts and fills along public roads may be 
required to be landscaped and graded so as to blend into the natural surroundings. All plant materials shall be 
satisfactory to the superintendent of parks and/or City Engineer Director of Public Works.
(k) Special Precautions.
(1) If, at any stage of the grading, the City Engineer Director of Public Works determines by inspection 
that the nature of the earth formation is such that further work as authorized by an existing permit is 
likely to imperil any property, public way, watercourse or drainage structure, he or she may require, as 
a condition to allowing the work to proceed, that such reasonable safety precautions be taken as he or 
she considers advisable to avoid likelihood of such peril. "Special precautions" may include, but shall 
not be limited to, specifying a flatter exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, 
berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant materials for erosion control, or 
implementation of other relevant BMPs: and reports of a registered soils engineer and/or of a 
registered engineering geologist whose recommendations may be made requirements for further 
work.
487 of 556

--- page 488 ---
(2) Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading is not complete, work may be 
stopped and the permittee required to install temporary planting or otherwise to control erosion, 
install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be required to protect adjoining 
property or the public safety. On large operations or where unusual site conditions prevail, the City 
Engineer Director of Public Works may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion, or 
may require that the operation be conducted in specific stages so as to insure completion of protective 
measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal rains.
488 of 556

--- page 489 ---
BUILDING CODE AND DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
Reason for Proposed Change:  The Uniform Building Code (UBC) is referenced in multiple places; however, the 
last publication was in 1997 and it is no longer used. The proposed amendments include replacing all 
references to “Uniform Building Code” with “California Building Code” and references to “City Engineer” with 
“Director of Public Works” throughout the municipal code.
Proposed Change:
Throughout the municipal code, replace references to the “Uniform Building Code” with the “California 
Building Code”. 
Throughout the municipal code, replace references to the “City Engineer” with the “Director of Public Works”.
489 of 556

--- page 490 ---
Code Clean-Up 
Amendments
November 15, 2021
Julia Klein
Principal Planner
490 of 556

--- page 491 ---
Background 
• October 26, 2021 Planning Commission meeting – 5-0 vote to 
recommend amendments to the zoning code. 
• Minor edits and addition of changes to two other titles to clarify tree 
provisions.
• Amendments by topic:
• Curb level – remove definition (Chapter 27.04)
• Floor Area - clarify definition for structures and basement (Chapter 27.04)
• Loading Zone - clarify on-street loading & Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) provisions (Chapter 27.64)
• Tree – clarify tree provisions (Chapters 17.24, 23.40, 27.71 & 27.78)
• California Building Code and Director of Public Works – throughout
491 of 556

--- page 492 ---
Chapter 27.04 “Definitions” 
• Curb Level – remove antiquated definition, no longer serves a 
purpose;
• Floor Area – clarify and reorganize calculation of floor area ratio 
for basements and structures including garages, carports, covered 
structures, patios and similar structures regardless of the number 
of open sides. 
492 of 556

--- page 493 ---
Chapter 27.64 “Off-Street Parking and Loading” 
• Current code language for loading berths prohibits an applicant 
from requesting a SPAR to omit the required off-street loading 
unless it can be demonstrated that only street access to the 
building is available. 
• The prerequisite language is unclear in that every property that is 
developed or proposed for development must have access to a 
street. 
• Remove the prerequisite language and add title to clarify the 
table applies to both on-street and off-street loading berths.
493 of 556

--- page 494 ---
Chapters 17.24 “Streets and Sidewalks”, 23.40 “Site 
Development”, 27.71 “Landscape for Planning 
Applications”, 27.78 “Variance”, 
• 5/3/2021 - City Council adopted Chapter 13.40 Protected Trees 
which updated the city’s requirements in line with current best 
practices. 
• Proposed changes are intended to align with Chapter 13.40 for 
internal consistency, incorporate best practices, and provide 
clarity for applicants regarding trees.
494 of 556

--- page 495 ---
Other Changes
• Replace all references to Uniform Building Code (UBC) with the 
California Building Code throughout the municipal code. 
• Replace all references to City Engineer with Director of Public 
Works throughout the municipal code.  
495 of 556

--- page 496 ---
Next Steps
• Following the City Council introduction meeting, the code 
amendments will be brought back to City Council for adoption, 
and will then go into effect 30 days after adoption.
496 of 556

--- page 497 ---
Recommendation
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.24, 
“Streets and Sidewalks,” Chapter 23.40 “Site Development,” Chapter 27.71, 
“Landscape for Planning Applications,” and Chapter 27.78, “Variances,” to 
clarify tree provisions; Chapter 27.04, “Definitions,” to remove curb level and 
clarify floor area for structures and basement; Chapter 27.64, “Off-Street 
Parking and Loading,” to clarify on-street loading and Site Plan and 
Architectural Review provisions; update all references from “Uniform 
Building Code” to “California Building Code”; and update all references from 
“City Engineer” to “Public Works Director.”
497 of 556

--- page 498 ---
Thank You
Julia Klein
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
498 of 556

--- page 499 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5420
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Housing Element Update – Status and Adoption Process
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational update on the status of the Housing Element Update and adoption process.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo has started the process to update its Housing Element for the eight-year period from 2023-2031 
(the Sixth Cycle) as directed by the State of California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). The 
Housing Element is a “chapter” of the City’s General Plan, which is also in the process of being updated. The Housing 
Element, unlike the other elements in the General Plan, is highly regulated by State law and must be approved by HCD 
before final adoption by the City. Therefore, although the two update processes complement each other, they are on 
slightly different timelines due to the State requirements. The City’s General Plan Update is anticipated to be ready for 
adoption by the end of 2023, but in order to meet State deadline requirements, the Housing Element will need to be 
adopted by the end of 2022. 
The Housing Element is a plan to address the housing needs in the community and includes the following components:
 •    Analysis of community characteristics and housing needs
 •    Evaluation of constraints to housing production
 •    Identification of sites to meet needs 
 •    Housing plan with goals, policies, programs, and quantified objectives
 •    Special focus on fair housing and environmental justice
 •    Public engagement throughout the entire process
Staff is in process of researching, preparing demographics, and soliciting community input to prepare these sections of the 
Housing Element. 
Identification of Sites: Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) 
Local jurisdictions do not necessarily build housing, but they do create the rules and regulations for how and where it gets 
built. Each jurisdiction must ensure that there is enough land with appropriate zoning to accommodate its RHNA in its 
Housing Element. Per State law, the State of California, in conjunction with Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG), 
has projected future population figures for the nine Bay Area counties, which translates into the number of additional 
housing units that need to be accommodated during the next housing cycle. Each jurisdiction is then assigned a portion of 
the regional housing need in an equitable manner. The housing allocation for each jurisdiction was established using many 
factors, including the new requirements related to affirmatively furthering fair housing (AFFH), access to High Opportunity 
Areas, and proximity to jobs (both via automobile and transit). Additional information about the RHNA methodology can 
be found ABAG’s Draft Regional Housing Needs Allocation Plan that was published in May 2021.
499 of 556

--- page 500 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On May 25, 2021, ABAG released its official draft RHNA Allocations for the nine-county Bay Area region, with the City of 
San Mateo receiving an allocation of 7,015 units. The City of San Mateo must now establish a plan that ensures there are 
enough sites with sufficient zoning density and site development standards to accommodate this housing allocation. ABAG 
is in the process of completing its consideration of jurisdictional appeals of the draft allocations (San Mateo did not file an 
appeal), and will be issuing a final determination on each appeal in November.  The final RHNA for the Bay Area is 
scheduled to be adopted by the ABAG Executive Board in December 2021.
For reference, a breakdown of San Mateo’s draft housing allocation of 7,015 units is shown in Table 1, and a breakdown of 
the San Mateo County Area Median Income limits that correlate to the different income categories is shown in Table 2. 
 Table 1- City of San Mateo RHNA
Income Category
Very Low
Up to 50% of Area
Median Income
Low
51% to 80% of Area
Median Income
Moderate
81% to 120% of Area
Median Income
Above Moderate
Market Rate
Housing Allocation
1,777
1,023
1,175
3,040
Table 2-San Mateo County Income Limits for 2021
Income Limits by Family Size
Income Category
1
2
3
4
Very Low
  $63,950
  $73,100
  $82,250
$91,350
Low
$102,450
$117,100
$131,750
$146,350
Median
$104,700
$119,700
$134,650
$149,600
Moderate
$125,650
$143,600
$161,550
$179,500
Based on the draft housing allocation, staff conducted a city-wide sites inventory and review of existing land use densities 
and zoning regulations. A preliminary analysis indicates that the City has the ability to meet its RHNA allocation, with a 
buffer, within the existing land use and zoning designations without the need to rezone or increase densities for the 
Housing Element period of 2023-2031. This is due in large part to the fact that multifamily residential development is 
allowed in most commercial and office locations citywide. The only exception is sites zoned C-4 Service Commercial, where 
uses such as auto repair, construction materials yards, and other industrial uses are allowed.
Housing Plan: Goals, Policies, and Programs 
The bulk of the Housing Element is the description of programs and policies to encourage the development of housing. The 
plan will review the existing programs and consider additional measures along with a timetable to implement them. 
Examples of programs include the City’s requirements that market rate developments include a percentage of affordable 
units, the Commercial Linkage Fee and other local funds to support the preservation and development of affordable 
housing, and support of housing for individuals with special needs. By contrast, revisions to land use designations and 
development intensity will be evaluated in the Land Use Element of the General Plan.
Housing Element Update Timeline and Process 
The City of San Mateo, the County, and other cities and towns in San Mateo are working together through “21 Elements”, 
a collaborative focused on Housing Element preparation, to share information and best practices, and to ensure we follow 
the State mandates. From March to May of 2020, San Mateo partnered with 21 Elements to hold four workshops that 
introduced the Housing Element and the RHNA process to the community. On September 29, 2021, the Community 
Relations Commission held a public meeting to collect information about housing needs in San Mateo, and on November 
2, 2021, a Housing Policy workshop was held. 21 Elements is also holding a series of meetings to collect housing needs 
information from service providers and community members for us to use in drafting the Housing Element, as well as 
gathering community comments on fair housing issues. 
500 of 556

--- page 501 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff is attending community events and making presentations to small groups, as well as conducting on online survey to 
collect community ideas and encourage participation in the plan adoption process. The next major workshop will focus on 
fair housing and will be held on January 13, 2022. More information about community outreach and upcoming events and 
meetings related to the Housing Element Update can be found on the City’s website: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/HousingElement2023
In early 2022, a joint study session with the City Council and Planning Commission will be held prior to releasing the draft 
plan to the public. The draft plan will then be reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council prior to submitting to 
HCD. It is typical that HCD will provide comments for revisions and return to the City for amending at least one round 
before the document is finalized. The State needs to approve the final plan by January 2023, so the target is to have a final 
draft of the Housing element ready for City Council approval by the end of 2022. 
General Plan Coordination 
Due to the specific approval dates set by the State, the City of San Mateo’s Housing Element will be adopted prior to the 
completion of the General Plan update and cover a shorter period of time. The General Plan Update will guide and plan for 
growth and change over the long term, through 2040, while this Housing Element will cover 2023- 2031. Therefore, the 
General Plan will need to consider the housing needs for at least two or more Housing Element cycles as it is developed. 
Although the City’s existing zoning and accompanying densities can accommodate the housing growth needs of this next 
eight-year RHNA cycle, there does not appear to be sufficient capacity for future RHNA cycles without land use and zoning 
revisions. Thus, this should be a consideration when the Council is reviewing the land use alternatives for the General Plan 
Update in the spring of 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
501 of 556

--- page 502 ---
Housing Element 
2023-2031
City Council 11-15-21
502 of 556

--- page 503 ---
What is a Housing Element?
A Plan for the Housing Needed in a Community
• Create the rules for where housing should go and how 
much
• Includes housing policies and programs
• Required by state law and guided by target numbers
• Updated every 8 years
503 of 556

--- page 504 ---
What is a Housing Element?
• Analyze Housing Needs
• Evaluate Constraints
• Housing Plan with Goals, Policies, 
Programs, Quantified Objectives
• Identify Sites to meet needs
• Special focus on Fair Housing, 
and Hearing from the Community
504 of 556

--- page 505 ---
Housing Programs and Policies
•Existing Programs and Policies
•New Ideas
• Expansion of Existing Programs
• Revisions to Zoning Codes
• Programs to Support Affordability
• Programs to Support Equal
Access to Housing
505 of 556

--- page 506 ---
Regional Housing Need Allocation (RHNA)  
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)  Methodology 
Committee 
Target number for how much land zoned for housing
• Population Forecasts
• Access to High Opportunity Areas
• Job Proximity auto
• Job Proximity transit
506 of 556

--- page 507 ---
San Mateo RHNA /Incomes
Income Category
Very Low
50% AMI
Low
80% AMI
Moderate
120% AMI
Above
Market Rate
Total
RHNA 2023-31
1,777
1,023
1,175
3,040
7,015
Household Size
Very Low
Low 
Median
Moderate
2 persons
$73,000
$117,100
$119,700
$143,600
4 persons
$91,350
$146,350
$149,600
$179,500
507 of 556

--- page 508 ---
Affirmatively Further Fair Housing
• Address Significant Disparities in 
Housing Needs and access to 
Opportunity
• Foster and Maintain Compliance with 
Fair Housing laws
• Replace Segregated Living Patterns with 
Integrated and Living Patterns 
508 of 556

--- page 509 ---
Assessment of Fair Housing
Sites Inventory
Goals, Policies & Actions
Outreach
ID and Prioritize Contributing Factors
New Housing 
Element 
Requirements
509 of 556

--- page 510 ---
General Plan/Housing Element Timeline

2021; January to June July to December 2022: January to June July to December | 2023: January to June July to December
| Finalize 3 Evaluate Alternatives R — % 4
General Plan Draft Sand Create Profan! Goals, Draft General Plan Final General Plan
4 Policies, and EIR and Final EIR
Alternatives Scenario
and Actions
Community Outreach) 90@ee0e020000000000006080 00

HCD Certification of
| Housing Element
»

a’ “oe
h
adeteic=

Each General Plan Meeting Series will include some combination of community workshops and events, General Plan Subcommittee meetings,
Planning Commission study sessions, and City Council direction

‘ Housing Element Outreach includes stakeholder meetings, community meetings, Planning Commission hearings, and City Council hearings
%



--- page 511 ---
21 Elements
https://www.letstalkhousing.org/
511 of 556

--- page 512 ---
Housing Element Workshops
Introduction Webinars ( 21 Elements) March to May 2021
Listening Series (21 Elements) Fair Housing, Service Providers, Developers 
Housing Needs Workshop (Community Relations Commission) 9/29/21
Housing Policy Community Workshop 11/2/21
Fair Housing Workshop  January 13, 2022
512 of 556

--- page 513 ---
Community 
Engagement
Online Survey
Small Group Presentations/Focus Groups
Pop-up Events
Special outreach to Spanish speakers, renters,  
persons with special needs
513 of 556

--- page 514 ---
Adoption Process
• Joint Study Session City Council and Planning Commission
• February 7, 2022 pending
• Draft Housing Element
• Publish for 30 day Public Comment End of March 2022
• Planning Commission Review April 2022
• City Council Adoption May 2022
• Submit to State Housing and Community Development
• May 2022
514 of 556

--- page 515 ---
Stay Informed
Visit webpage at   www.cityofsanmateo.org/HousingElement2023
Join the mailing list
Take online survey
Materials from previous meetings
Background materials
Contact Housing Division
housing@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7229
515 of 556

--- page 516 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5143
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction 
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to add Chapter 7.35 “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction” to the San Mateo Municipal 
Code in compliance with Senate Bill (SB) 1383, California's Short-Lived Climate Pollutants Reduction Act (2016) and receive 
an update on SB 1383 implementation.
BACKGROUND:
Approximately 20 million tons of organic debris goes into landfills in California every year. As this material decomposes, it 
releases methane (a potent greenhouse gas), accounting for 20% of the state’s methane gas emissions.  In September 
2016, SB 1383 (Lara) titled “California's Short-Lived Climate Pollutants Reduction Act” was passed and established 
statewide methane gas emission reduction targets in a statewide effort to reduce emissions. 
Regulations to implement SB 1383 (California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 18981 et seq.) were adopted on 
November 3, 2020, with a goal of reducing the quantity of organic debris going into landfills by 75% and increasing 
recovery of disposed, edible food by 20% by 2025. SB 1383 regulations require each jurisdiction in California to provide 
organic collection services to all residents and businesses, establish an edible food recovery program, conduct education 
and outreach to the community, purchase recycled and recovered organic products, monitor compliance and conduct 
enforcement, maintain records, and report to CalRecycle. More information regarding SB 1383 regulations can be found 
online at www.calrecycle.ca.gov/organics/slcp/.
SB 1383 regulations also require jurisdictions to establish enforceable requirements for organic waste generators, haulers, 
and other entities subject to City authority by January 1, 2022. The proposed Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal 
Reduction Ordinance is included with this report as Attachment 1 and includes all components required for compliance 
with the SB 1383 regulations.  A list of significant elements of the ordinance requirements is provided below.

Single-family homes must have organics collection service and properly sort their materials. 

Businesses and multi-family buildings must have organics collection service and properly sort their materials. 

Businesses must supply, through their hauler, an adequate number of labeled, color coded containers for 
employees, contractors, tenants, and customers; provide education to new tenants; and provide access to 
jurisdictions to confirm compliance.

The largest commercial edible food generators (includes supermarkets, large groceries, food service providers, 
distributors and wholesale food vendors) must divert edible food through a written agreement with food recovery 
organizations and keep specified records by January 1, 2022. 
516 of 556

--- page 517 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Large commercial edible food generators (includes large restaurants, large hotels, large health facilities, large 
venues and events, large state agencies, and local education agencies) must divert edible food through a written 
agreement with food recovery organizations and keep specified records by January 1, 2024.

Generators have the option to self-haul source separated organic waste.

Vendors of paper products are required to meet specified recycled content requirements with certification of 
such. 

Suppliers of compost and mulch are required to provide materials that meet SB 1383 standards. 

The right to inspect and enforce the requirements are contained in the ordinance, as are penalties for violations.
SB 1383 allows the City to designate a public or private entity to fulfill some of its SB 1383 regulatory responsibilities via 
contracts or written agreements. However, the City cannot delegate responsibility for compliance with the SB 1383 
regulations and cannot delegate the authority to impose civil penalties to a private entity.  As part of implementation of 
SB 1383 compliance efforts, the City is working with the County of San Mateo (County) Office of Sustainability to serve as 
an enforcement agency to maximize flexibility and allow the County to enforce aspects of the Edible Food Recovery 
Program.  The County will be implementing the Edible Food Recovery Program on behalf of many jurisdictions within the 
County, and as a government agency, will be able to impose civil penalties.
An Edible Food Recovery Memorandum of Understanding between the County and the City is being prepared to document 
County’s responsibilities. Additionally, the City will enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the South 
Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) and delegate certain compliance responsibilities to the SBWMA, which 
includes planning, education, outreach, and compliance reporting. The MOUs with the County and SBWMA will be brought 
to City Council for approval at the December 6, 2021 City Council meeting.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Potential fiscal and rate impacts of the ordinance and other required SB 1383 implementation cost were included in the 
2022 solid waste rate review and all future associated costs, including enforcement, will be included each subsequent 
annual solid waste rate review.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City Council finds that the City’s adoption of a Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance does not 
require further environmental review because 1) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168, the activities 
described in this Ordinance are entirely within the scope of a program Environmental Impact Report prepared by 
CalRecycle concerning the SB 1383 Regulations (PEIR) and the PEIR adequately described the activities described in this 
Ordinance; and 2) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168 and 15162, no conditions exist necessitating 
supplemental or subsequent environmental review. Additionally, this action is categorically exempt from CEQA as it is an 
action taken to protect the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15308.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Roxanne Murray, Waste Management Supervisor
rmurray@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
517 of 556

--- page 518 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Adding Chapter 7.35, “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance” to Title 7, “Health, 
Sanitation, and Public Nuisances,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, the State of California passed Senate Bill 1383 (Chapter 395, Statutes of 2016), the Short-
lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016, which requires the California Department of Resources Recycling 
and Recovery (CalRecycle) to adopt regulations to reduce organic waste; and
WHEREAS, CalRecycle has finalized implementing regulations by revising Chapter 12 (Short-Lived 
Climate Pollutants) of Division 7 of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations (SB 1383 Regulations); and
WHEREAS, the SB 1383 Regulations require a 50 percent reduction of organic waste by 2020 from 2014 
baseline levels and a 75 percent reduction by 2025, and further require the recovery by 2025 of at least 20 
percent of currently disposed of edible food for human consumption; and
WHEREAS, the SB 1383 Regulations require cities, counties, and special districts providing solid waste 
collection services to adopt and enforce an implementing ordinance or other mechanism by January 1, 2022 that 
includes the regulation of waste haulers and generators of organic waste and edible food, as well as 
enforcement provisions and penalties for violations; and
WHEREAS, the South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) developed a Model Mandatory 
Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance (Model Ordinance) for its member agencies to utilize; and
WHEREAS, on July 24, 2021, SBWMA adopted Resolution No. 2021-24 recommending its member 
agencies to utilize the Model Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has tailored the Model Ordinance to comply with its policies and 
existing municipal code.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 7.35 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 7 as follows:
7.35.010 Title
This Chapter shall be known as the “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance” and may 
be so cited and commonly referred to in this Chapter as the “Ordinance.”
7.35.020 Purpose and Findings
The City finds and declares:
(a) State recycling law, Assembly Bill 939 of 1989, the California Integrated Waste Management Act of 
1989 (California Public Resources Code Section 40000, et seq., as amended, supplemented, superseded, and 
replaced from time to time), requires cities and counties to reduce, reuse, and recycle (including composting) 
518 of 556

--- page 519 ---
Solid Waste generated in their Jurisdictions to the maximum extent feasible before any incineration or landfill 
disposal of waste, to conserve water, energy, and other natural resources, and to protect the environment.
(b) State recycling law, Assembly Bill 341 of 2011 (approved by the Governor of the State of California on 
October 5, 2011, which amended Sections 41730, 41731, 41734, 41735, 41736, 41800, 42926, 44004, and 50001 
of, and added Sections 40004, 41734.5, and 41780.01 and Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 42649) to 
Part 3 of Division 30 of, and added and repealed Section 41780.02 of, the Public Resources Code, as amended, 
supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to time), places requirements on businesses and Multi-
Family property owners that generate a specified threshold amount of Solid Waste to arrange for recycling 
services and requires Jurisdictions to implement a Mandatory Commercial Recycling program. 
(c) State organics recycling law, Assembly Bill 1826 of 2014 (approved by the Governor of the State of 
California on September 28, 2014, which added Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section 42649.8) to Part 3 of 
Division 30 of the Public Resources Code, relating to Solid Waste, as amended, supplemented, superseded, and 
replaced from time to time), requires businesses and Multi-Family property owners that generate a specified 
threshold amount of Solid Waste, Recycling, and Organic Waste per week to arrange for recycling services for 
that waste, requires Jurisdictions to implement a recycling program to divert Organic Waste from businesses 
subject to the law, and requires Jurisdictions to implement a Mandatory Commercial Organics Recycling 
program. 
(d) SB 1383, the Short-lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016, requires CalRecycle to develop 
regulations to reduce organics in landfills as a source of methane. The regulations place requirements on 
multiple entities including Jurisdictions, residential households, Commercial Businesses and business owners, 
Commercial Edible Food Generators, haulers, Self-Haulers, Food Recovery Organizations, and Food Recovery 
Services to support achievement of Statewide Organic Waste disposal reduction targets. 
(e) SB 1383, the Short-lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016, requires Jurisdictions to adopt and 
enforce an ordinance or enforceable mechanism to implement relevant provisions of SB 1383 Regulations. This 
ordinance will also help reduce food insecurity by requiring Commercial Edible Food Generators to arrange to 
have the maximum amount of their Edible Food, that would otherwise be disposed, be recovered for human 
consumption. 
(f) Requirements in this Chapter are consistent with other adopted goals and policies of the City. 
(g) Even if the City delegates responsibility for enforcement to another public entity, the City remains 
ultimately responsible for compliance of this ordinance as required in 14 CCR Section 18981.2(c). 
(h) Additionally, the City will implement Recovered Organic Waste Product procurement and Recycled-
Content Paper procurement programs in furtherance of these goals.
7.35.030 Definitions
(a) For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions and those contained in 14 CCR Section 
18982 shall apply. Wherever a conflict exists between this Chapter and the definitions in the CCR, the definitions 
in the CCR shall prevail.
519 of 556

--- page 520 ---
(b) “Blue Container” has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(5) and shall be used for the 
purpose of storage and collection of Source Separated Recyclable Materials or Source Separated Blue Container 
Organic Waste. 
(c) “Black Container” has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(28) and shall be used for 
the purpose of storage and collection of Black Container Waste. 
(d) “Black Container Waste” means Solid Waste that is collected in a Black Container that is part of a 
three-container Organic Waste collection service that prohibits the placement of Organic Waste or Source 
Separated Recyclables in the Black Container as specified in 14 CCR Sections 18984.1(a) and (b), or as otherwise 
defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(6.5). 
(e)  “CalRecycle” means California's Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, which is the 
Department designated with responsibility for developing, implementing, and enforcing SB 1383 Regulations on 
Jurisdictions (and others). 
(f) “California Code of Regulations” or “CCR” means the State of California Code of Regulations. CCR 
references in this ordinance are preceded with a number that refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., “14 
CCR” refers to Title 14 of CCR).
(g) “City” means the City of San Mateo.
(h) “Commercial Business” or “Commercial” means a firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock 
company, corporation, or association, whether for-profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a 
multifamily residential dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(6). A Multi-Family 
Residential Dwelling that consists of fewer than five (5) units is not a Commercial Business for purposes of 
implementing this ordinance. 
(i) “Commercial Edible Food Generator” includes a Tier One or a Tier Two Commercial Edible Food 
Generator as defined in this ordinance. For the purposes of this definition, Food Recovery Organizations and 
Food Recovery Services are not Commercial Edible Food Generators pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
(j) “Compliance Review” means a review of records by the City, County, SBWMA, or the City’s 
designated entity to determine compliance with this ordinance.
(k) “Community Composting” means any activity that composts green material, agricultural material, 
food material, and vegetative food material, alone or in combination, and the total amount of feedstock and 
Compost on-site at any one time does not exceed 100 cubic yards and 750 square feet, as specified in 14 CCR 
Section 17855(a)(4); or, as otherwise defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(8).
(l) “Compost” has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4), which stated, as of the effective 
date of this ordinance, that “Compost” means the product resulting from the controlled biological 
decomposition of organic Solid Wastes that are Source Separated from the municipal Solid Waste stream, or 
which are separated at a centralized facility. 
(m) “Container Contamination” or “Contaminated Container” means a container, regardless of color, 
that contains Prohibited Container Contaminants, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(55). 
520 of 556

--- page 521 ---
(n) “County” means the County of San Mateo.
(o) “C&D” means construction and demolition debris.
(p) “Designated Source Separated Organic Waste Facility”, as defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(14.5), 
means a Solid Waste facility that accepts a Source Separated Organic Waste collection stream as defined in 14 
CCR Section 17402(a)(26.6) and complies with one of the following:
(1) The facility is a “transfer/processor,” as defined in 14 CCR Section 18815.2(a)(62), that is in 
compliance with the reporting requirements of 14 CCR Section 18815.5(d), and meets or exceeds an 
annual average Source Separated organic content Recovery rate of 50 percent between January 1, 2022 
and December 31, 2024 and 75 percent on and after January 1, 2025 as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR 
Section 18815.5(f) for Organic Waste received from the Source Separated Organic Waste collection 
stream.
(A) If a transfer/processor has an annual average Source Separated organic content 
Recovery rate lower than the rate required in Paragraph 1 of this definition for two (2) 
consecutive reporting periods, or three (3) reporting periods within three (3) years, the facility 
shall not qualify as a “Designated Source Separated Organic Waste Facility”.
(2) The facility is a “composting operation” or “composting facility” as defined in 14 CCR Section 
18815.2(a)(13), that pursuant to the reports submitted under 14 CCR Section 18815.7 demonstrates that 
the percent of the material removed for landfill disposal that is Organic Waste is less than the percent 
specified in 14 CCR Section 17409.5.8(c)(2) or 17409.5.8(c)(3), whichever is applicable, and, if applicable, 
complies with the digestate handling requirements specified in 14 CCR Section 17896.5. The definition 
of composting operation includes in-vessel digestion as regulated in 14 CCR Section 17896.
(A) If the percent of the material removed for landfill disposal that is Organic Waste is 
more than the percent specified in 14 CCR Section 17409.5.8(c)(2) or 17409.5.8(c)(3), for two (2) 
consecutive reporting periods, or three (3) reporting periods within three (3) years, the facility 
shall not qualify as a “Designated Source Separated Organic Waste Facility.” For the purposes of 
this ordinance, the reporting periods shall be consistent with those defined in 14 CCR Section 
18815.2(a)(49). 
(q) “Designee” means an entity that the City contracts with or otherwise arranges to carry out any of the 
City’s responsibilities within this ordinance as authorized in 14 CCR Section 18981.2. A Designee may be a 
government entity, a hauler, a private entity, or a combination of those entities. 
(r) “Designee for Edible Food Recovery” means the County of San Mateo’s Office of Sustainability with 
which the City has a Memorandum of Understanding for the purposes of Edible Food Recovery including, but 
not limited to, inspection, investigation, and enforcement of the Edible Food Recovery provisions of this 
ordinance. Contact information for the Designee for Edible Food Recovery can be found on the County of San 
Mateo’s Office of Sustainability website. 
(s) “Edible Food” means food intended for and fit for human consumption and collected or received 
from a Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator. For the purposes of this ordinance “Edible 
Food” is not Solid Waste if it is recovered and not discarded. Nothing in this ordinance or in 14 CCR, Division 7, 
521 of 556

--- page 522 ---
Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the Recovery of Edible Food that does not meet the food safety requirements 
of the California Retail Food Code.
(t) “Edible Food Recovery” means actions to collect, receive, and/or re-distribute Edible Food for human 
consumption from Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators that otherwise would be 
disposed.
(u) “Enforcement Action" means an action of the City or County of San Mateo’s Office of Sustainability 
to address non-compliance with this ordinance including, but not limited to, issuing administrative citations, 
fines, penalties, or using other remedies.
(v) “Excluded Waste” means hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste, designated waste, 
volatile, corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated radioactive waste, and toxic substances. Excluded wastes 
also includes construction materials, dirt, rock and concrete, electronic waste and batteries, fluorescent lights, 
hazardous waste, liquids and grease, medicines and sharps and treated wood. These include material that 
facility collectors and operator(s), which receive materials from the City and its generators, reasonably believe(s) 
would, as a result of or upon acceptance, transfer, processing, or disposal, be a violation of local, State, or 
Federal law, regulation, or ordinance, including: land use restrictions or conditions, waste that cannot be 
disposed of in Class III landfills or accepted at the facility by permit conditions, waste that in the City, or its 
Designee’s reasonable opinion, would present a significant risk to human health or the environment, cause a 
nuisance or otherwise create or expose the City, or its Designee, to potential liability; but not including de 
minimis volumes or concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found in Single-Family or Multi-
Family Solid Waste after implementation of programs for the safe collection, processing, recycling, treatment, 
and disposal of batteries and paint in compliance with Sections 41500 and 41802 of the California Public 
Resources Code. Excluded Waste does not include household batteries placed in a sealed clear plastic bag placed 
on top of the black can, or any other universal wastes if such materials are defined as allowable materials for 
collection through the City’s collection programs and the generator or customer has properly placed the 
materials for collection pursuant to instructions provided by the City or its Designee for collection services.
(w) “Food Distributor” means a company that distributes food to entities including, but not limited to, 
Supermarkets and Grocery Stores.
(x) “Food Facility” has the same meaning as in Section 113789 of the Health and Safety Code.
(y) “Food Recovery” means actions to collect, receive and or re-distribute edible food for human 
consumption from Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators, that otherwise would be 
disposed.
(z) “Food Recovery Organization” means an entity that engages in the collection or receipt of Edible 
Food from Commercial Edible Food Generators and distributes that Edible Food to the public for Food Recovery 
either directly or through other entities or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25), including, but 
not limited to:
(1) A food bank as defined in Section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code;
(2) A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in Section 113841 of the Health and Safety 
code; and,
522 of 556

--- page 523 ---
(3) A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in Section 113842 of the Health and 
Safety Code.
A Food Recovery Organization is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the purposes of this 
ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR Section 
18982(a)(7).
If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25) for Food Recovery Organization differs from this 
definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(25) shall apply to this ordinance.
(aa) “Food Recovery Service” means a person or entity that collects and transports Edible Food from a 
Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator to a Food Recovery Organization or other entities for 
Edible Food Recovery. A Food Recovery Service is not a Commercial Edible Food Generator for the purposes of 
this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(7).
(bb) “Food Scraps” means all food such as, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, seafood, 
shellfish, bones, rice, beans, pasta, bread, cheese, and eggshells. Food Scraps excludes fats, oils, and grease 
when such materials are Source Separated from other Food Scraps. 
(cc) “Food Service Provider” means an entity primarily engaged in providing food services to 
institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of others based on contractual arrangements 
with these types of organizations.
(dd) “Food-Soiled Paper” is compostable paper material that has come in contact with food or liquid, 
such as, but not limited to, compostable paper plates, paper coffee cups, napkins, pizza boxes, and milk cartons 
and should be placed in the green compost container with food scraps. 
(ee) “Food Waste” means Food Scraps, Food-Soiled Paper, and bio-plastics labeled “BPI Certified 
Compostable”.
(ff) “Green Container” has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982.2(a)(29) and shall be used for 
the purpose of storage and collection of Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste.
(gg) “Greenhouse gas (GHG)” means carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N20), sulfur 
hexafluoride (SF6), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and other fluorinated greenhouse gases. 
(hh) “Greenhouse gas emission reduction” or “greenhouse gas reduction” means a calculated decrease 
in greenhouse gas emissions relative to a project baseline over a specified period of time, resulting from actions 
designed to achieve such a decrease. 
(ii) “Grocery Store” means a store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food; dry goods; fresh 
fruits and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any area that is not separately owned within the store 
where the food is prepared and served, including a bakery, deli, and meat and seafood departments, or as 
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(30).
(jj) “High Diversion Organic Waste Processing Facility” means a facility that is in compliance with the 
reporting requirements of 14 CCR Section 18815.5(d) and meets or exceeds an annual average Mixed Waste 
523 of 556

--- page 524 ---
organic content Recovery rate of 50 percent between January 1, 2022 and December 31, 2024, and 75 percent 
after January 1, 2025, as calculated pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18815.5(e) for Organic Waste received from the 
“Mixed waste organic collection stream” as defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(11.5); or, as otherwise defined in 
14 CCR Section 18982(a)(33).
(kk) “Inspection” means a site visit where the City or its designee, reviews records, containers, and an 
entity’s collection, handling, recycling, or landfill disposal of Organic Waste or Edible Food handling to determine 
if the entity is complying with requirements set forth in this ordinance, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 
18982(a)(35). “Inspection” for the purposes of Edible Food Recovery, means actions to review contracts and 
other records related to the recovery of edible food and may occur off-site via email and other forms of 
electronic communication, as well as the on-site review of an entity’s records and collection, handling and other 
procedures for the recovery of edible food to determine if the entity is complying with the requirements of this 
ordinance.
(ll) “Jurisdiction” is the entity responsible for ensuring solid waste, recycling and organics service is 
provided in accordance with SB 1383 guidelines. Jurisdiction may mean City, County, SBWMA, or other designee 
who is/are partially or wholly responsible for enforcing the ordinance
(mm) “Jurisdiction Enforcement Official” means the city manager, city public works director, county 
administrative official, chief operating officer, executive director, or other executive in charge or their 
authorized Designee(s) who is/are partially or wholly responsible for enforcing the ordinance. See also 
“Designee for Edible Food Recovery.” 
(nn) “Large Event” means an event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a flea market, that 
charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency, and serves an average of more than 2,000 
individuals per day of operation of the event, at a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, 
or privately owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or other open space when being used for an 
event. If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(38) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR 
Section 18982(a)(38) shall apply to this ordinance.
(oo) “Large Venue” means a permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an average of more 
than 2,000 individuals within the grounds of the facility per day of operation of the venue facility. For purposes 
of this ordinance and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not 
limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall, amusement 
park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse track, performing arts center, 
fairground, museum, theater, or other public attraction facility. For purposes of this ordinance and 
implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership or control that includes more 
than one Large Venue that is contiguous with other Large Venues in the site, is a single Large Venue. If the 
definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(39) differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 
18982(a)(39) shall apply to this ordinance.
(pp) “Local Education Agency” means a school district, charter school, or county office of education that 
is not subject to the control of city or county regulations related to Solid Waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 
CCR Section 18982(a)(40).
(qq) “Mixed Waste Organic Collection Stream” or “Mixed Waste” means Organic Waste collected in a 
black container that is required by 14 CCR Sections 18984.1, 18984.2 or 18984.3 to be taken to a High Diversion 
524 of 556

--- page 525 ---
Organic Waste Processing Facility or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402(a)(11.5). This definition is 
only applicable to select commercial and MF customers provided with a two container collection system. Three 
container collection system customers will use the black container waste definition instead.
(rr) “Multi-Family Residential Dwelling” or “Multi-Family” means of, from, or pertaining to residential 
premises with five (5) or more dwelling units. Multi-Family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other 
transient occupancy facilities, which are considered Commercial Businesses. Under the SB 1383 Regulations and 
in this Ordinance, Multi-Family Residential Dwellings with five (5) or more units are included under the definition 
of a Commercial Business per 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(6).
(ss) “Non-Compostable Paper” includes but is not limited to paper that is coated in a plastic material 
that will not breakdown in the composting process, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(41). 
(tt) “Non-Local Entity” means the following entities that are not subject to the Jurisdiction’s 
enforcement authority, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(42):
(1) Special district(s); 
(2) Federal facilities, including military installations; 
(3) Facilities operated by the State park system; 
(4) Public universities (including community colleges);
(5) County fairgrounds; and 
(6) State agencies. 
(uu) “Non-Organic Recyclables” means non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable wastes including 
but not limited to bottles, cans, metals, plastics and glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 
18982(a)(43). 
(vv) “Notice of Violation (NOV)” means a notice that a violation has occurred that includes a compliance 
date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(45) or further 
explained in 14 CCR Section 18995.4. 
(ww) “Organic Waste” means Solid Wastes containing material originated from living organisms and 
their metabolic waste products, including but not limited to food, green material, landscape and pruning waste, 
organic textiles and carpets, lumber, wood, Paper Products, Printing and Writing Paper, manure, biosolids, 
digestate, and sludges or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as 
defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a).
(xx) “Organic Waste Generator” means a person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation of 
Organic Waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(48).
(yy) “Paper Products” include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies, cartons, wrapping, 
packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes, tissue, and toweling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR 
Section 18982(a)(51).
525 of 556

--- page 526 ---
(zz) “Printing and Writing Papers” include, but are not limited to, copy, xerographic, watermark, cotton 
fiber, offset, forms, computer printout paper, white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper, note pads, 
writing tablets, newsprint, and other uncoated writing papers, posters, index cards, calendars, brochures, 
reports, magazines, and publications, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(54).
(aaa) “Prohibited Container Contaminants”
(1) For those generators provided with a three container collection system (blue, green and 
black): “Prohibited Container Contaminants” means the following: (i) discarded materials placed in the 
Blue Container that are not identified as acceptable Source Separated Recyclable Materials for the 
Jurisdiction’s Blue Container; (ii) discarded materials placed in the Green Container that are not 
identified as acceptable Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste for the Jurisdiction’s Green 
Container; (iii) discarded materials placed in the Black Container that are acceptable Source Separated 
Recyclable Materials and/or Source Separated Green Container Organic Wastes that belong in 
Jurisdiction’s Green or Blue Container and (iv) Excluded Waste placed in any container. 
(2) For those (limited commercial and MF) generators provided with two-container (blue/black) 
collection service for Source Separated Recyclable Materials and mixed materials): “Prohibited 
Container Contaminants” means the following: (i) discarded materials placed in a Blue Container that 
are not identified as acceptable Source Separated Recyclable Materials for the Blue Container; (ii) 
discarded materials placed in the Black Container that are identified as acceptable Source Separated 
Recyclable Materials, which are to be separately collected in the Blue Container; and, (iii) Excluded 
Waste placed in any container.
(bbb) “Recovered Organic Waste Products” means products made from California, landfill-diverted 
recovered Organic Waste processed in a permitted or otherwise authorized facility, or as otherwise defined in 
14 CCR Section 18982(a)(60).
(ccc) “Recovery” means any activity or process described in 14 CCR Section 18983.1(b), or as otherwise 
defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(49).
(ddd) “Recycled-Content Paper” means Paper Products and Printing and Writing Paper that consists of 
at least 30 percent, by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(61).
(eee) “Regional Agency” means the South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) as a regional 
agency as defined in Public Resources Code Section 40181.
(fff) “Remote Monitoring” means the use of the internet of things (IoT) and/or wireless electronic 
devices to visualize the contents of Blue Containers, Green Containers, and Black Containers for purposes of 
identifying the quantity of materials in containers (level of fill) and/or presence of Prohibited Container 
Contaminants.
(ggg) “Renewable Gas” means gas derived from Organic Waste that has been diverted from a California 
landfill and processed at an in-vessel digestion facility that is permitted or otherwise authorized by 14 CCR to 
recycle Organic Waste, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(62).
526 of 556

--- page 527 ---
(hhh) “Restaurant” means an establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food and drinks for 
on-premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(64).
(iii) “SB 1383” means Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19, 2016, which 
added Sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8 to the Health and Safety Code, and added Chapter 13.1 
(commencing with Section 42652) to Part 3 of Division 30 of the Public Resources Code, establishing methane 
emissions reduction targets in a Statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants as 
amended, supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time to time. 
(jjj) “SB 1383 Eligible Mulch” means mulch eligible to meet the Annual Recovered Organic Waste 
Product Procurement Target, pursuant to 14 CCR Chapter 12 of Division 7. This SB 1383 Eligible Mulch shall meet 
the following conditions for the duration of the applicable procurement compliance year, as specified by 14 CCR 
Section 18993.1(f)(4):
(1) Produced at one of the following facilities: 
(A) A compostable material handling operation or facility as defined in 14 CCR Section 
17852(a)(12), that is permitted or authorized under 14 CCR Division 7, other than a chipping and 
grinding operation or facility as defined in 14 CCR Section 17852(a)(10).
(B) A transfer/processing facility or transfer/processing operation as defined in 14 CCR 
Sections 17402(a)(30) and (31), respectively, that is permitted or authorized under 14 CCR 
Division 7; or, 
(C) A solid waste landfill as defined in Public Resources Code Section 40195.1 that is 
permitted under 27 CCR Division 2. 
(2) Meet or exceed the physical contamination, maximum metal concentration, and pathogen 
density standards for land application specified in 14 CCR Sections 17852(a)(24.5)(A)1 through 3, as 
enforced with this ordinance. 
(kkk) “SB 1383 Regulations” or “SB 1383 Regulatory” means or refers to, for the purposes of this 
ordinance, the Short-Lived Climate Pollutants: Organic Waste Reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle 
and adopted in 2020 that created 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and amended portions of regulations of 14 CCR 
and 27 CCR.
(lll) “SBWMA” means the South Bayside Waste Management Authority, a regional agency, as defined in 
Public Resources Section 40181, serving its member agencies on recycling and waste issues.
(mmm) “Self-Hauler” means a person, who hauls Solid Waste, Organic Waste or recyclable material he 
or she has generated to another person. Self-hauler also includes a person who back-hauls waste, or as 
otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66). Back-haul means generating and transporting Organic Waste 
to a destination owned and operated by the generator using the generator’s own employees and equipment, or 
as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(66)(A). “Self-Hauler” for the purposes of Edible food recovery, 
means a commercial edible food generator who holds a contract with and hauls edible food to a Food Recovery 
Organization or other site for redistribution according to the requirements of this ordinance.
527 of 556

--- page 528 ---
(nnn) “Single-Family” means of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer than five (5) 
units.
(ooo) “Solid Waste” has the same meaning as defined in State Public Resources Code Section 40191, 
which defines Solid Waste as all putrescible and nonputrescible solid, semisolid, and liquid wastes, including 
garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned 
vehicles and parts thereof, discarded home and industrial appliances, dewatered, treated, or chemically fixed 
sewage sludge which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes, and 
other discarded solid and semisolid wastes, with the exception that Solid Waste does not include any of the 
following wastes:
(1) Hazardous waste, as defined in the State Public Resources Code Section 40141.
(2) Radioactive waste regulated pursuant to the State Radiation Control Law (Chapter 8 
(commencing with Section 114960) of Part 9 of Division 104 of the State Health and Safety Code).
(3) Medical waste regulated pursuant to the State Medical Waste Management Act (Part 14 
(commencing with Section 117600) of Division 104 of the State Health and Safety Code). Untreated 
medical waste shall not be disposed of in a Solid Waste landfill, as defined in State Public Resources 
Code Section 40195.1. Medical waste that has been treated and deemed to be Solid Waste shall be 
regulated pursuant to Division 30 of the State Public Resources Code. 
(ppp) “Source Separated” means materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that have been 
separated or kept separate from the Solid Waste stream, at the point of generation, for the purpose of 
additional sorting or processing those materials for recycling or reuse in order to return them to the economic 
mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products, which meet the quality 
standards necessary to be used in the marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 17402.5(b)(4). For 
the purposes of the ordinance, Source Separated shall include separation of materials by the generator, 
property owner, property owner’s employee, property manager, or property manager’s employee into different 
containers for the purpose of collection such that Source Separated materials are separated from Black 
container Waste or other Solid Waste for the purposes of collection and processing. 
(qqq) “Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste” means Source Separated Organic Wastes that 
can be placed in a Blue Container including clean paper and cardboard.
(rrr) “Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste” means Source Separated Organic Waste that 
can be placed in a Green Container that is specifically intended for the separate collection of Organic Waste, 
excluding Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste, carpets, Non-Compostable Paper, and textiles. 
Acceptable materials include food scraps, food soiled paper, plants and bio-plastics labeled BPI Certified 
Compostable.
(sss) “Source Separated Recyclable Materials” means Source Separated Non-Organic Recyclables and 
Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste and includes clean paper and cardboard, glass bottles, cans and 
plastic bottles, tubs and containers. 
(ttt) “State” means the State of California. 
528 of 556

--- page 529 ---
(uuu) “Supermarket” means a full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales of two million 
dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods, or nonfood items and some 
perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(71).
(vvv) “Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generator” means a Commercial Edible Food Generator that is 
one of the following:
(1) Supermarket.
(2) Grocery Store with a total facility size equal to or greater than 10,000 square feet.
(3) Food Service Provider.
(4) Food Distributor.
(5) Wholesale Food Vendor.
If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) of Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generator 
differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(73) shall apply to this 
ordinance.
(www) “Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator” means a Commercial Edible Food Generator that 
is one of the following:
(1) Restaurant with 250 or more seats, or a total facility size equal to or greater than 5,000 
square feet.
(2) Hotel with an on-site Food Facility and 200 or more rooms.
(3) Health facility with an on-site Food Facility and 100 or more beds.
(4) Large Venue.
(5) Large Event.
(6) A State agency with a cafeteria with 250 or more seats or total cafeteria facility size equal to 
or greater than 5,000 square feet.
(7) A Local Education Agency facility with an on-site Food Facility.
If the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(74) of Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator 
differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(74) shall apply to this 
ordinance.
(xxx) “Wholesale Food Vendor” means a business or establishment engaged in the merchant wholesale 
distribution of food, where food (including fruits and vegetables) is received, shipped, stored, prepared for 
distribution to a retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other destination, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 
189852(a)(76).
529 of 556

--- page 530 ---
7.35.040 Requirements for Single-Family Generators
Single-Family Organic Waste Generators shall comply with the following requirements. In addition to 
these requirements, Single-Family generators may also self-haul pursuant to the Self-Hauler requirements in 
Section 7.35.100 of this Chapter. 
(a) Shall subscribe to the City’s authorized Organic Waste collection services for all Organic Waste 
generated as described in this Section. The City, or its Designee, shall have the right to review the number and 
size of a generator’s containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection service for 
proper separation of materials and containment of materials; and, Single-Family generators shall adjust its 
service level for its collection services as requested by the City, or its Designee. Generators may additionally 
manage their Organic Waste by preventing or reducing their Organic Waste, managing Organic Waste on site, 
and/or using a Community Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c). 
(b) Shall participate in the City’s authorized three container Organic Waste collection service(s) by 
placing designated materials in designated containers as described below, and shall not place Prohibited 
Container Contaminants in collection containers. 
(c) Shall place Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste, including Food Waste, in the Green 
Container; Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste and Recyclable Materials in the Blue Container; and 
Black Container Waste in the Black Container. Generators shall not place materials designated for the Black 
Container into the Green Container or Blue Container. 
7.35.050 Requirements for Commercial Businesses
Generators that are Commercial Businesses, including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings, shall: 
(a) Subscribe to the City’s authorized three container collection services and comply with requirements 
of those services as described below in Section 7.35.050(b). In addition to these requirements, Commercial 
Businesses may also self-haul provided they meet the Self-Hauler requirements in Section 7.35.100 of this 
ordinance. The City, or its Designee, shall have the right to review the number and size of a generator’s 
containers and frequency of collection to evaluate adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection 
service for proper separation of materials and containment of materials; and, Commercial Businesses shall 
adjust their service level for their collection services as requested by the City, or its Designee, or as otherwise 
required. 
(b) Participate in the City’s Organic Waste collection service(s) by placing designated materials in 
designated containers as described below. Commercial businesses may also self-haul as a supplement to 
required collection services provided that they meet the self-hauler requirements in Section 7.35.100 of this 
ordinance. 
(1) Generator shall place Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste, including Food 
Waste, in the Green Container; Source Separated Blue Container Organic Waste and Source Separated 
Recyclable Materials in the Blue Container; and Black Container Waste in the Black Container. Generator 
shall not place materials designated for the Black Container into the Green Container or Blue Container.
530 of 556

--- page 531 ---
(2) Generators that are offered two container service  shall place only Source Separated Blue 
Container Organic Waste and Source Separated Recyclable Materials in a Blue Container and all other 
materials (mixed waste) in a Black Container. Two container service will be limited to a specified number 
of commercial and MF generators on an invitation only basis, based on waste quantities and type, and 
availability of new organics to energy processing system.
(c) Supply and allow access to an adequate number, size and location of collection containers with 
sufficient labels or colors (conforming with Sections 5(d)(1) and 5(d)(2) below) for employees, contractors, 
tenants, and customers, consistent with the City’s authorized Blue Container, Green Container, and Black 
Container collection service or, if self-hauling, per the Commercial Businesses’ instructions to support its 
compliance with its self-haul program, as a supplement, in accordance with Chapter 7.35.100. 
(d) Excluding Multi-Family Residential Dwellings, provide containers for the collection of Source 
Separated Green Container Organic Waste and Source Separated Recyclable Materials in all indoor and outdoor 
areas where disposal containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by that business. Such 
containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a Commercial Business does not generate any of the 
materials that would be collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide that 
particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR 
Section 18984.9(b), the containers provided by the business shall have either: 
(1) A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided through the collection service 
provided by the City’s authorized refuse collector, with either lids conforming to the color requirements 
or bodies conforming to the color requirements or both lids and bodies conforming to color 
requirements. A Commercial Business is not required to replace functional containers, including 
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the requirements of the 
subsection prior to the end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever 
comes first. 
(2) Container labels that include language or graphic images, or both, indicating the primary 
material accepted and the primary materials prohibited in that container, or containers with imprinted 
text or graphic images that indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in 
the container. Pursuant 14 CCR Section 18984.8, the container labeling requirements are required on 
new containers commencing January 1, 2022.
(e) Multi-Family Residential Dwellings are not required to comply with container placement 
requirements or labeling requirement in Section 7.35.050(d) pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b).
(f) To the extent practical through education, training, Inspection, and/or other measures, excluding 
Multi-Family Residential Dwellings, prohibit employees from placing materials in a container not designated for 
those materials per the City’s authorized Blue Container, Green Container, and Black Container collection service 
or, if self-hauling, per the Commercial Businesses’ instructions to support its compliance with its self-haul 
program, in accordance with Section 7.35.100.
(g) Excluding Multi-Family Residential Dwellings, at a minimum, annually inspect Blue Containers, Green 
Containers, and Black Containers for contamination and inform employees if containers are contaminated and 
of the requirements to keep contaminants out of those containers pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(b)(3).
531 of 556

--- page 532 ---
(h) Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and customers about Organic 
Waste Recovery requirements and about proper sorting of Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste 
and Source Separated Recyclable Materials. 
(i) Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of occupation of the premises to 
new tenants that describes requirements to keep Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste and Source 
Separated Recyclable Materials separate from Black Container Waste (when applicable) and the location of 
containers and the rules governing their use at each property.
(j) Provide or arrange access for the City, its agent, or its Designee to their properties during all 
Inspections conducted in accordance with Section 7.35.120 to confirm compliance with the requirements of this 
Chapter.
(k) Accommodate and cooperate with the City’s or its Designee’s Remote Monitoring program for 
Inspection of the contents of containers for Prohibited Container Contaminants, which may be implemented at a 
later date, to evaluate generator’s compliance with Section 7.35.050(b). Should a remote monitoring program 
be required by the City, it shall involve installation of Remote Monitoring equipment on or in the Blue 
Containers, Green Containers, and Black Containers.
(l) At Commercial Business’s option and subject to any approval required from the City or its Designee, 
implement a Remote Monitoring program for Inspection of the contents of its Blue Containers, Green 
Containers, and Black Containers for the purpose of monitoring the contents of containers to determine 
appropriate levels of service and to identify Prohibited Container Contaminants. Generators may install Remote 
Monitoring devices on or in the Blue Containers, Green Containers, and Black Containers subject to written 
notification to or approval by the City or its Designee. 
(m) If a Commercial Business wants to perform supplemental self hauling, meet the Self-Hauler 
requirements in Chapter 7.35.100.
(n) Nothing in this Section prohibits a generator from preventing or reducing waste generation, 
managing Organic Waste on site, or using a Community Composting site pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18984.9(c).
(o) Commercial Businesses that are Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators shall 
comply with Edible Food Recovery requirements, pursuant to the Edible Food Recovery provisions of this 
Chapter.
7.35.060 Waivers for Generators
(a) De Minimis Waivers: The City, or its Designee, may waive a Commercial Business’ obligation 
(including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings) to comply with some or all of the Organic Waste requirements of 
this ordinance if the Commercial Business provides documentation that the business generates below a certain 
amount of Organic Waste material as described in subsection (a)(2) below. Commercial Businesses requesting a 
de minimis waiver shall:
(1) Submit an application specifying the services that they are requesting a waiver from and 
provide documentation as noted below in (2) (A) or (B).
(2) Provide documentation that either:
532 of 556

--- page 533 ---
(A) The Commercial Business’ total Solid Waste collection service is two cubic yards or 
more per week and Organic Waste subject to collection in the Green Container comprises less 
than 20 gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total waste; or,
(B) The Commercial Business’ total Solid Waste collection service is less than two cubic 
yards per week and Organic Waste subject to collection in the Green Container comprises less 
than 10 gallons per week per applicable container of the business’ total waste.
(3) Notify the City, and its Designee, if circumstances change such that Commercial Business’s 
Organic Waste exceeds threshold required for waiver, in which case waiver will be rescinded.
(4) Provide written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver every 5 years, if the City or its 
Designee has approved de minimis waiver.
(b) Physical Space Waivers. The City or its Designee may waive a Commercial Business’ or property 
owner’s obligations (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings) to comply with some or all of the recyclable 
materials and/or Organic Waste collection service requirements if the City or its Designee has evidence from its 
own staff, a hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lacks adequate 
space for the collection containers required for compliance with the Organic Waste collection requirements of 
Section 7.35.050.
A Commercial Business or property owner may request a physical space waiver through the following 
process: 
(1) Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection services for which they are 
requesting a compliance waiver.
(2) Provide documentation that the premises lacks adequate space for Blue Containers and/or 
Green Containers including documentation from knowledgeable professional(s) such as an authorized 
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
(3) Provide written verification to the City or its Designee that it is still eligible for physical space 
waiver every five years, if the City or its Designee has approved application for a physical space waiver.
7.35.070 Requirements for Tier-One and Tier-Two Commercial Edible Food Generators
(a) Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply with the requirements of this Section 
commencing January 1, 2022, and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply commencing 
January 1, 2024, pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18991.3.
(b) Large Venue or Large Event operators not providing food services, but allowing for food to be 
provided by others, shall require Food Facilities operating at the Large Venue or Large Event to comply with the 
requirements of this Chapter commencing January 1, 2024.
(c) Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators shall comply with the following 
requirements.
(1) Recover the maximum amount of Edible Food that would otherwise be disposed.
533 of 556

--- page 534 ---
(2) Use the CalRecycle Model Food Recovery Agreement or the contractual elements contained 
in the Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services section of this 
Ordinance to contract with, or otherwise enter into a written agreement with Food Recovery 
Organizations or Food Recovery Services for the following:
(A) The collection of Edible Food for Edible Food Recovery from the Tier One or Tier Two 
Commercial Edible Food Generator’s premises; or
(B) The acceptance of Edible Food that the Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food 
Generator self-hauls to the Food Recovery Organization.
(3) Contract with Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services able to demonstrate 
a positive reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from their Edible Food Recovery activity. A list of Food 
Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services is available on the County of San Mateo Office of 
Sustainability website.
(4) Shall not intentionally spoil Edible Food that is capable of being recovered by a Food 
Recovery Organization or a Food Recovery Service.
(5) Allow the City’s enforcement entity or their Designee for Edible Food Recovery to access the 
premises and inspect procedures and review records related to Edible Food Recovery and/or provide 
them electronically if requested by the City or the Designee for Edible Food Recovery.
(6) Keep records that include the following information:
(A) A list of each Food Recovery Organization or a Food Recovery Service that collects or 
receives Edible Food from the Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator pursuant 
to a contract or written agreement as required by this Ordinance.
(B) A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under the provisions of this 
Ordinance.
(C) A record of the following information for each of those Food Recovery Services or 
Food Recovery Organizations:
(i) The name, address and contact information of the Food Recovery Service or 
Food Recovery Organization.
(ii) The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to the Food 
Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization.
(iii) The established schedule or frequency that food will be collected or self-
hauled.
(iv) The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month, collected 
or self-hauled to a Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery Organization for Food 
Recovery. 
534 of 556

--- page 535 ---
(D) Or any other information required by the City or its Designee.
(7) No later than June 30th of each year commencing no later than July 1, 2022 for Tier One 
Commercial Edible Food Generators and July 1, 2024 for Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators, 
they shall provide an annual Edible Food Recovery report to the Designee for Edible Food Recovery that 
includes, but is not limited to, the following information: a list of all contracts with Food Recovery 
Organizations and Food Recovery Services, the amount and type of Edible Food donated to Food 
Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services, the schedule of Edible Food pickup by Food 
Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services, a list of all types of Edible Food categories they 
generate, such as “baked goods,” that are not accepted by the Food Recovery Organizations and Food 
Recovery Services with whom they contract, the contact information for the manager and all staff 
responsible for Edible Food Recovery, and certification that all staff responsible for Edible Food 
Recovery have obtained a food handler card through an American National Standards Institute (ANSI) 
accredited training provider that meets ASTM International E2659-09 Standard Practice for Certificate 
Programs, such as ServSafe. With the exception of the food safety and handling training certification, 
Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators may coordinate with their Edible Food 
Recovery contractors to supply this information. The Designee for Edible Food Recovery will assist in the 
preparation of these reports by providing guidance and a template located on the County of San Mateo 
Office of Sustainability website.
(8) Mandate their Edible Food Recovery staff learn and follow the donation guidelines and 
attend trainings conducted by Food Recovery Organizations or Food Recovery Services with which they 
contract regarding best practices and requirements for the timely identification, selection, preparation, 
and storage of Edible Food to ensure the maximum amount of Edible Food is recovered and to avoid 
supplying food for collection that is moldy, has been improperly stored, or is otherwise unfit for human 
consumption.
(9) Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators who self-haul Edible Food shall 
require those transporting Edible Food for recovery to obtain a food handler card through an American 
National Standards Institute (ANSI) accredited training provider that meets ASTM International E2659-
09 Standard Practice for Certificate Programs, such as ServSafe and follow the best practices and 
standards for proper temperature control, methods, and procedures for the safe handling and transport 
of food.
(d) Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to limit or conflict with the protections provided by the 
California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of 2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and 
school food donation guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the State of 
California on September 25, 2017, which added Article 13 [commencing with Section 49580] to Chapter 9 of Part 
27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Education Code, and to amend Section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code, 
relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from time to time).
7.35.080 Requirements for Food Recovery Organizations and Services
(a) Food Recovery Services operating in the City and collecting or receiving Edible Food directly from Tier 
One and/or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators via a contract or written agreement established under 
the requirements of this Ordinance, shall maintain the following records:
535 of 556

--- page 536 ---
(1) The name, address, and contact information for each Tier One and Tier Two Commercial 
Edible Food Generator from which the service collects Edible Food.
(2) The quantity in pounds of Edible Food by type collected from each Tier One and Tier Two 
Commercial Edible Food Generator per month.
(3) The quantity in pounds of Edible Food by type transported to each Food Recovery 
Organization or redistribution site per month.
(4) The name, address, and contact information for each Food Recovery Organization or 
redistribution site that the Food Recovery Service transports Edible Food to for Edible Food Recovery.
(5) Or any other information required by the City, its Designee, or other agency responsible for 
compliance with this Chapter.
(b) Food Recovery Organizations operating in the City and collecting or receiving Edible Food directly 
from Tier One and/or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators via a contract or written agreement 
established under the requirements of this Ordinance, or receiving Edible Food from Food Recovery Services or 
from other Food Recovery Organizations, shall maintain the following records:
(1) The name, address, and contact information for each Tier One and Tier Two Commercial 
Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Service, or other Food Recovery Organization from which the 
organization collects or receives Edible Food.
(2) The quantity in pounds of Edible Food by type collected or received from each Tier One or 
Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Service, or other Food Recovery 
Organization per month.
(3) The name, address, and contact information for other Food Recovery Organizations or 
redistribution sites that the Food Recovery Organization transports Edible Food to for Edible Food 
Recovery.
(4) Or any other information required by the City, its Designee, or other agency responsible for 
compliance with this Chapter.
(c) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall inform Tier One 
and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators from which they collect or receive Edible Food about 
California and Federal Good Samaritan Food Donation Act protection in written communications, such as in their 
contract or agreement established as required by this Ordinance.
(d) Commencing no later than July 1, 2022, Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services 
operating in the City and collecting or receiving Edible Food from Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food 
Generators or any other source shall report to the Designee for Edible Food Recovery the following: a detailed 
Edible Food activity report of the information collected as required under this Ordinance, including weight in 
pounds by type and source of Edible Food, the schedule/frequency of pickups/drop-offs of Edible Food from/to 
each Edible Food source or redistribution site, brief analysis of any necessary process improvements or 
additional infrastructure needed to support Edible Food Recovery efforts, such as training, staffing, refrigeration, 
vehicles, etc., and an up to date list of Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators with whom 
536 of 556

--- page 537 ---
they have contracts or agreements established as required under this Ordinance. The Designee for Edible Food 
Recovery will assist in the preparation of these reports by providing guidance and a template located on the 
County of San Mateo Office of Sustainability website. This Edible Food activity report shall be submitted 
quarterly, or at the discretion of the Designee for Edible Food Recovery, less frequently, and shall cover the 
activity that occurred since the period of the last submission.
(e) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall contact the 
Designee for Edible Food Recovery to discuss the requirements of this Ordinance before establishing new 
contracts or agreements with Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators and in order to maintain 
existing contracts or agreements for the recovery of Edible Food with Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible 
Food Generators. 
(f) In order to provide the required records to the State, the City, or the Designee for Edible Food 
Recovery, and Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators, contracts between Food Recovery 
Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City and Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible 
Food Generators shall either:
(1) Use the Model Food Recovery Agreement developed by the State of California’s Department 
of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle,) and include a clause requiring the Food Recovery 
Organization or Food Recovery Service to report to the Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food 
Generators with whom they have contracts the annual amount of Edible Food recovered and to inform 
them of the tax benefits available to those who donate Edible Food to non-profits
(2) Or include in their contracts the following elements:
(A) List/description of allowable foods the Food Recovery Organization/Food Recovery 
Service will receive.
(B) List/description of foods not accepted by the Food Recovery Organization/Food 
Recovery Service.
(C) Conditions for refusal of food.
(D) Food safety requirements, training, and protocols.
(E) Transportation and storage requirements and training.
(F) A protocol for informing the Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food 
Generators of a missed or delayed pickup.
(G) Notice that donation dumping is prohibited.
(H) Provisions to collect sufficient information to meet the record-keeping requirements 
of this Ordinance.
(I) Fees/financial contributions/acknowledgement of terms for the pickup and 
redistribution of Edible Food.
537 of 556

--- page 538 ---
(J) Terms and conditions consistent with the CalRecycle Model Food Recovery 
Agreement.
(K) Information supplying the Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators 
with the annual amount of Edible Food recovered and informing them of the tax benefits that 
may be available to those who donate Edible Food to non-profits.
(L) Contact name, address, phone number, and email for both responsible parties, 
including the current on-site staff responsible for Edible Food Recovery.
(M) Food Recovery Organizations accepting self-hauling of Edible Food from Tier One 
and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators must provide a schedule, including days of the 
week and acceptable times for drop-offs, and information about any limitation on the amount 
of food accepted, and/or the packaging requirements or other conditions of transport, such as, 
but not limited to, maintaining proper temperature control, and other requirements for the safe 
handling and transport of food, the self-hauler must follow for the Edible Food to be accepted.
(g) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall demonstrate 
that all persons, including volunteers and contracted workers using their own vehicle, involved in the handling or 
transport of Edible Food, have obtained a food handler card through an American National Standards Institute 
(ANSI) accredited training provider that meets ASTM International E2659-09 Standard Practice for Certificate 
Programs, such as ServSafe.
(h) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall use the 
appropriate temperature control equipment and methods and maintain the required temperatures for the safe 
handling of Edible Food recovered from Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators for the 
duration of the transportation of the Edible Food for redistribution, including Edible Food transported by private 
vehicles.
(i) In order to ensure recovered Edible Food is eaten and to prevent donation dumping, Food Recovery 
Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall provide documentation that all 
redistribution sites which are not themselves Food Recovery Organizations to which they deliver Edible Food 
have a feeding or redistribution program in place to distribute, within a reasonable time, all the Edible Food they 
receive. Such documentation may include a website address which explains the program or 
pamphlets/brochures prepared by the redistribution site.
(j) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City unable to demonstrate 
a positive reduction in GHG emissions for their Edible Food Recovery operational model cannot contract with 
Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators in the City for the purpose of recovering Edible Food 
as defined in this Ordinance. Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services contracting to recover 
Edible Food from a Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator for redistribution shall consult 
with the City’s Designee for Edible Food Recovery to document that their overall operational model will achieve 
a greenhouse gas emissions reduction. Such review may analyze route review, miles traveled for pick-up and 
redistribution, amount of food rescued, and the likelihood of consumption after redistribution.
(k) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall visually inspect 
all Edible Food recovered or received from a Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator. If 
538 of 556

--- page 539 ---
significant spoilage is found, or if the food is otherwise found to be unfit for redistribution for human 
consumption, Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services shall immediately notify the Designee 
for Edible Food Recovery using the process found on the County of San Mateo Office of Sustainability’s website. 
The notice shall include: 
(1) The type and amount, in pounds, of spoiled food or food unfit for redistribution for human 
consumption, or provide a photographic record of the food, or both. 
(2) The date and time such food was identified.
(3) The name, address and contact information for the Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible 
Food Generator which provided the food.
(4) The date and time the food was picked up or received.
(5) A brief explanation of why the food was rejected or refused.
(l) Contracts between Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators and Food Recovery 
Organizations or Food Recovery Services shall not include any language prohibiting Tier One or Tier Two 
Commercial Edible Food Generators from contracting or holding agreements with multiple Food Recovery 
Organizations or Food Recovery Services listed on the County of San Mateo Office of Sustainability website. 
(m) Food Recovery Organizations and Food Recovery Services operating in the City shall conduct 
trainings and develop educational material such as donation guidelines and handouts to provide instruction and 
direction to Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators with whom they contract regarding best 
practices and requirements for the timely identification, selection, preparation, and storage of Edible Food to 
ensure the maximum amount of Edible Food is recovered and to avoid the collection of food that is moldy, has 
been improperly stored, or is otherwise unfit for human consumption. 
(n) Edible Food Recovery Capacity Planning
(1) Food Recovery Services and Food Recovery Organizations. In order to support Edible Food 
Recovery capacity planning assessments or other such studies, Food Recovery Services and Food 
Recovery Organizations operating in the Jurisdiction shall provide information and consultation to the 
Jurisdiction and its Designee for Edible Food Recovery upon request, regarding existing, or proposed 
new or expanded, Edible Food Recovery capacity that could be accessed by the Jurisdiction and its Tier 
One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators. A Food Recovery Service or Food Recovery 
Organization contacted by the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery shall respond to such 
requests for information within 60 days.
(o) Allow the City’s enforcement entity or their Designee for Edible Food Recovery to access the 
premises and inspect procedures and review records related to Edible Food Recovery and/or provide them 
electronically if requested by the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery.
7.35.090 Requirements for Haulers and Facility Operators
(a) Requirements for Haulers 
539 of 556

--- page 540 ---
(1) Exclusive Franchised hauler and other appropriately licensed and permitted haulers 
providing residential, Commercial, or industrial Organic Waste collection services to generators within 
the City’s boundaries shall meet the following requirements and standards as a condition of approval of 
a contract, agreement, or other authorization with the City to collect Organic Waste:
(A) Through written notice to the City annually on or before January 31, identify, for 
customers with three container collection, the facilities to which they will transport Organic 
Waste including facilities for Source Separated Recyclable Materials and Source Separated 
Green Container Organic Wastes and black container waste. 
Through written notice to the City annually on or before January 31, identify, for customers with 
two container collection system, the facilities to which they will transport Source Separated 
Recyclable Materials and black container waste. 
(B) For customers with three container collection, transport Source Separated Blue 
Container Waste to a facility that recovers those materials and Source Separated Green 
Container Organic Waste to a facility, operation, activity, or property that recovers Organic 
Waste as defined in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12, Article 2. 
For customers with two container collection, transport Source Separated Blue Container Waste 
to a facility that recovers those materials and black container waste to a high diversion organic 
waste processing facility. 
(C) Obtain approval from the City to haul Organic Waste, unless it is transporting Source 
Separated Organic Waste to a Community Composting site or lawfully transporting C&D in a 
manner that complies with 14 CCR Section 18989.1, Section 11 of this ordinance, and the City’s 
C&D ordinance and/or regulations.
(2) Franchised hauler and any permitted or licensed hauler with authorization to collect Organic 
Waste shall comply with education, equipment, signage, container labeling, container color, 
contamination monitoring, reporting, and other requirements contained within its franchise agreement, 
permit, license, or other agreement entered into with Jurisdiction. 
(b) Requirements for Facility Operators and Community Composting Operation
(1) Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover Organic Waste, including, but not 
limited to, Compost facilities, in-vessel digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works shall, 
upon request from the City or its Designee, provide information regarding available and potential new 
or expanded capacity at their facilities, operations, and activities, including information about 
throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes. Entities contacted by the City or its 
Designee shall respond within 60 days. 
(2) Community Composting operators, upon request from the City or its Designee, shall provide 
information to support Organic Waste capacity planning, including, but not limited to, an estimate of the 
amount of Organic Waste anticipated to be handled at the Community Composting operation. Entities 
contacted by the City or its Designee shall respond within 60 days.
540 of 556

--- page 541 ---
7.35.100 Self-Hauler Requirements
(a) Pursuant to Chapter 7.32, owner(s) of residential or non-residential property generating waste shall 
be responsible for the collection and removal of all solid waste from that property and shall be required to 
contract with the refuse collector(s) authorized by City for collection and removal. Owner(s), in addition to a 
contract with City-authorized refuse collectors, may self-haul in compliance with this Chapter.
(b) Self-Haulers shall source separate all recyclable materials and Organic Waste (materials that the City 
or its Designee otherwise requires generators to separate for collection in the City’s organics and recycling 
collection program) generated on-site from Solid Waste in a manner consistent with 14 CCR Sections 18984.1 
and 18984.2, or shall haul Organic Waste to a High Diversion Organic Waste Processing Facility as specified in 14 
CCR Section 18984.3.
(c) Self-Haulers shall haul their Source Separated Recyclable Materials to a facility that recovers those 
materials; and haul their Source Separated Green Container Organic Waste to a Solid Waste facility, operation, 
activity, or property that processes or recovers Source Separated Organic Waste. Alternatively, Self-Haulers may 
haul Organic Waste to a High Diversion Organic Waste Processing Facility.
(d) Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings) shall keep 
a record of the amount of Organic Waste delivered to each Solid Waste facility, operation, activity, or property 
that processes or recovers Organic Waste; this record shall be subject to Inspection by the City or its Designee. 
The records shall include the following information:
(1) Delivery receipts and weight tickets from the entity accepting the waste.
(2) The amount of material in cubic yards or tons transported by the generator to each entity.
(3) If the material is transported to an entity that does not have scales on-site, or employs scales 
incapable of weighing the Self-Hauler’s vehicle in a manner that allows it to determine the weight of 
materials received, the Self-Hauler is not required to record the weight of material but shall keep a 
record of the entities that received the Organic Waste. 
(e) Self-Haulers that are Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family Self-Haulers) shall provide 
information collected in Section 7.35.100(c) to the City or its Designee upon request. 
(f) A residential Organic Waste Generator that self hauls Organic Waste is not required to record or 
report information in Sections 7.35.100(c) and (d). 
7.35.110 Compliance with CALGreen Recycling Requirements
(a) Persons applying for a permit from the City for new construction and building additions and 
alternations shall comply with the requirements of this Section and all required components of the California 
Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11, known as CALGreen, as amended, if its project is covered by the 
scope of CALGreen. If the requirements of CALGreen are more stringent then the requirements of this Section, 
the CALGreen requirements shall apply. Project applicants shall refer to Chapter 23.70 for complete CALGreen 
requirements. 
541 of 556

--- page 542 ---
(b) For projects covered by CALGreen, the applicants must, as a condition of the City’s permit approval, 
comply with the following: 
(1) Where five (5) or more Multi-Family dwelling units are constructed on a building site, provide 
readily accessible areas that serve occupants of all buildings on the site and are identified for the storage 
and collection of Blue Container, Green Container and black container materials, consistent with the 
City’s authorized three container collection program, or comply with provision of adequate space for 
recycling for Multi-Family and Commercial premises pursuant to Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 
5.410.1 of the California Green Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended provided amended 
requirements are more stringent than the CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling space 
effective January 1, 2020.
(2) New Commercial construction or additions resulting in more than 30% of the floor area shall 
provide readily accessible areas identified for the storage and collection of Blue Container and Green 
Container materials, consistent with the City’s authorized three container collection program , or shall 
comply with provision of adequate space for recycling for Multi-Family and Commercial premises 
pursuant to Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and 5.410.1 of the California Green Building Standards 
Code, 24 CCR, Part 11 as amended provided amended requirements are more stringent than the 
CALGreen requirements for adequate recycling space effective January 1, 2020.
(3) Comply with all applicable CALGreen requirements and applicable law related to 
management of C&D, including diversion of Organic Waste in C&D from disposal. Comply with Chapter 
7.33 and all written and published City policies and/or administrative guidelines regarding the collection, 
recycling, diversion, tracking, and/or reporting of C&D. 
7.35.120 Inspections and Investigations
(a) City representatives and/or its designated entity, including the Designee for Edible Food Recovery 
are authorized to conduct Inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise, of any collection container, 
collection vehicle loads, or transfer, processing, or disposal facility for materials collected from generators, or 
Source Separated materials to confirm compliance with this Chapter by Organic Waste Generators, Commercial 
Businesses (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings), property owners, Tier One and Tier Two Commercial 
Edible Food Generators, haulers, Self-Haulers, Food Recovery Services, and Food Recovery Organizations, 
subject to applicable laws. 
(b) Inspections and investigations shall not include entry into the interior of a private residential 
property for Inspection. 
(c) For the purposes of inspecting Commercial Business containers for compliance with Section 
7.35.050(b) of this Chapter, the City or its Designee may conduct container Inspections for Prohibited Container 
Contaminants using Remote Monitoring, and Commercial Businesses shall accommodate and cooperate with 
the Remote Monitoring pursuant to Section 7.35.050(k) of this ordinance if Remote Monitoring is required by 
the City or its Designee.
(d) Organic Waste Generators, Commercial Businesses (including Multi-Family Residential Dwellings), 
property owners, Tier One and Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generators, haulers, Self-Haulers, Food 
Recovery Services, and Food Recovery Organizations shall provide or arrange for access during all Inspections 
542 of 556

--- page 543 ---
(with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall cooperate with the City or its designated entity or 
Designee for Edible Food Recovery during such Inspections and investigations. Such Inspections and 
investigations may include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers, Edible Food Recovery 
activities, records, or any other requirement of this ordinance described herein. Failure to provide or arrange 
for: (i) access to an entity’s premises; (ii) installation and operation of Remote Monitoring equipment as 
determined appropriate by the City or its Designee ; or (iii) access to records for any Inspection or investigation 
is a violation of this Chapter and may result in penalties described.
(e) Any records obtained by the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery during its Inspections, 
Remote Monitoring, and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and applicable disclosure 
exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in Government Code Section 6250 et seq. 
(f) City representatives, its designated entity, and/or Designee for Edible Food Recovery are authorized 
to conduct any Inspections, Remote Monitoring, or other investigations as reasonably necessary to further the 
goals of this ordinance, subject to applicable laws.
(g) The City and Designee for Edible Food shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an 
entity that may be potentially non-compliant with SB 1383 Regulations, including receipt of anonymous 
complaints. 
7.35.130 Enforcement
(a) Violation of any provision of this Chapter shall constitute grounds for issuance of a Notice of 
Violation and assessment of a fine by the Jurisdiction Enforcement Official, Designee for Edible Food Recovery, 
or representative. Enforcement Actions under this ordinance are issuance of an administrative citation and 
assessment of a fine. The City’s procedures on imposition of administrative fines are hereby incorporated in 
their entirety, as modified from time to time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and 
review of administrative citations issued to enforce this ordinance and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant 
to this ordinance, except as otherwise indicated in this ordinance.
(b) Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including civil action or prosecution as misdemeanor or 
infraction. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may pursue civil actions in the California courts to 
seek recovery of unpaid administrative citations. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may choose 
to delay court action until such time as a sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative size of violations 
exist such that court action is a reasonable use of the City’s or Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s staff and 
resources.
(c) Responsible Entity for Enforcement
(1) Enforcement pursuant to this ordinance may be undertaken by the Jurisdiction Enforcement 
Official, which may be the city manager, city attorney, or their designee, or combination thereof, or 
Designee for Edible Food Recovery.
(A) Jurisdiction Enforcement Official(s) and Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for 
Edible Food Recovery provisions) will interpret ordinance; determine the applicability of 
waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement Enforcement Actions; and, determine if 
compliance standards are met. 
543 of 556

--- page 544 ---
(B) Jurisdiction Enforcement Official(s) and Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for 
Edible Food Recovery provisions) may issue Notices of Violation(s). 
(d) Process for Enforcement
(1) Jurisdiction Enforcement Officials or Designee for Edible Food Recovery and/or their 
Designee will monitor compliance with the ordinance randomly and through Compliance Reviews, Route 
Reviews, investigation of complaints, and an Inspection program (that may include Remote Monitoring). 
Section 14 establishes Jurisdiction’s and Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s right to conduct 
Inspections and investigations. 
(2) The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may issue an official notification to notify 
regulated entities of its obligations under the ordinance.
(3) For incidences of Prohibited Container Contaminants found in containers, The City or its 
Designee will issue a Notice of Violation to any generator found to have Prohibited Container 
Contaminants in a container. Such notice will be provided via a cart tag or other communication 
immediately upon identification of the Prohibited Container Contaminants or within 30 days after 
determining that a violation has occurred. If the City or its Designee observes Prohibited Container 
Contaminants in a generator’s containers on more than two (2) consecutive occasion(s), the City or its 
Designee may assess contamination processing fees or contamination or other penalties on the 
generator provided by law.
The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery will issue a Notice of Violation to any Tier One or Tier 
Two Commercial Edible Food Generator found to have Edible Food in any waste container or to any 
Food Recovery Organization or Food Recovery Service found to have Edible Food recovered from a Tier 
One or Tier Two Edible Food Generator in a waste collection container which has not been documented 
by a notice of significant spoilage as required in this Ordinance. Such notice will be provided by email 
communication immediately upon identification of the violation or within three (3) calendar days after 
determining that a violation has occurred. If the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery observes 
Edible Food in a Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, or Food Recovery 
Organization, or Food Recovery Service waste container on more than two (2) consecutive occasion(s), 
the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may assess an administrative citation and fine, 
pursuant to the Edible Food Recovery penalties provisions contained in this Ordinance, on the Tier One 
or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, or Food Recovery Service.
(4) With the exception of violations of generator contamination of container contents addressed 
under Section 15(d)(3), the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery shall issue a Notice of Violation 
requiring compliance within 60 days of issuance of the notice.
(5) Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set forth in the Notice of Violation, 
the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for the Edible Food Recovery provisions) may 
commence an action to impose penalties via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to its 
Administrative citation and fine procedures. 
544 of 556

--- page 545 ---
For the purposes of Edible Food Recovery, the Designee for Edible Food Recovery may commence an 
action to impose penalties, via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to the Edible Food Recovery 
penalties provisions contained in this Ordinance and/or Title 1 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
Notices shall be sent to “owner” at the official address of the owner maintained by the tax collector for 
the City or if no such address is available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or Commercial 
property or to the party responsible for paying for the collection services, depending upon available 
information 
(e) Penalty Amounts for Types of Violations
The penalty levels for violations unrelated to the Edible Food Recovery requirement are as follows: 
(1) For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $100 per violation. 
(2) For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $200 per violation.
(3) For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $500 per 
violation.
(f) Compliance Deadline Extension Considerations
The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may extend the compliance deadlines set forth in a 
Notice of Violation issued in accordance with Section 15 if it finds that there are extenuating 
circumstances beyond the control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines 
impracticable, including the following:
(1) Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other emergencies or natural 
disasters;
(2) Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government agency approvals; or,
(3) Deficiencies in Organic Waste recycling infrastructure or Edible Food Recovery capacity and 
the City is under a corrective action plan with CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18996.2 due to 
those deficiencies.
(g) Appeals Process
Persons receiving an administrative citation containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may 
request a hearing to appeal the citation. A hearing will be held only if it is requested within the time 
prescribed and consistent with the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s procedures in the 
City’s or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s codes for appeals of administrative citations. Evidence 
may be presented at the hearing. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery will appoint a 
hearing officer who shall conduct the hearing and issue a final written order. 
(h) Education Period for Non-Compliance 
545 of 556

--- page 546 ---
Beginning January 1, 2022 and through December 31, 2023, the City or its Designee for Edible Food 
Recovery (for edible food generator and food recovery organization and service requirements) may 
conduct Inspections, Remote Monitoring, Route Reviews or waste evaluations, and Compliance Reviews, 
depending upon the type of regulated entity, to determine compliance, and if the City or its Designee for 
Edible Food Recovery determines that Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, hauler, Tier One 
Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, Food Recovery Service, or other entity 
is not in compliance, it shall provide educational materials and/or, for the purposes of Edible Food 
Recovery, training to the entity describing its obligations under this ordinance and a notice that 
compliance is required by January 1, 2022, and that violations may be subject to administrative civil 
penalties starting on January 1, 2024. 
(i) Civil Penalties for Non-Compliance
Beginning January 1, 2024, if the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery (Designee for Edible Food 
determination only for Tier 1 and Tier 2 Commercial Edible food generator and food recovery 
organization and service requirements) determines that an Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, 
hauler, Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, Food 
Recovery Service, or other entity is not in compliance with this ordinance, it shall document the 
noncompliance or violation, issue a Notice of Violation, and take Enforcement Action pursuant to 
Section 15, as needed. 
7.35.140 Effective Date
This Chapter shall be effective commencing on January 1, 2022.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. The City Council finds that the City’s adoption of a Mandatory Organic 
Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance does not require further environmental review because 1) in accordance 
with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168, the activities described in this Ordinance are entirely within the scope of a 
program Environmental Impact Report prepared by CalRecycle concerning the SB 1383 Regulations (PEIR), SCH # 
2018122023, and the PEIR adequately described the activities described in this Ordinance; and 2) in accordance 
with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168 and 15162, no conditions exist necessitating supplemental or subsequent 
environmental review. Additionally, this action is categorically exempt from CEQA as it is an action taken to 
protect the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15308.)
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
546 of 556

--- page 547 ---
iN
PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo

Introduction and Program Overview

November 15, 2021

Roxanne Murray

547 of 556



--- page 548 ---
SB 1383
Short-lived
Climate 
Pollutant 
Reduction 
Background
Ordinance
Compliance Partnerships
Next Steps
548 of 556

--- page 549 ---
Organic Waste Is the Largest Waste Stream in California
CALIFORNIA DISPOSED OF
APPROXIMATELY 27 MILLION
TONS OF ORGANIC WASTE IN
2017
California’s Waste Stream
Non-Organic 
Waste  33%
Other 
Organics 
19%
Paper 18%
Food 18%
Lumber 
12%
CALIFORNIA THROWS AWAY
MORE THAN 6 MILLION TONS
OF FOOD WASTE EVERY YEAR!
549 of 556

--- page 550 ---
SB 1383
• Reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants 
• Reduce methane from the decomposition of organic 
waste in landfill
• Expand food waste prevention, compost and edible 
food recovery programs for those in need
Goal: 
• 75% statewide reduction of disposal of organic debris 
to landfill by 2025
• 20% increase in edible food recovery by 2025
Target:
550 of 556

--- page 551 ---
Monitor Compliance 
and Conduct 
Enforcement
Secure Access to Recycling 
and Edible Food Recovery 
Capacity
Procure Recyclable and 
Recovered Organic 
Products
Conduct Education and 
Outreach to Community
Establish Edible Food 
Recovery Program
Provide Organics Collection 
Services to All Residents and 
Businesses
Jurisdiction Responsibilities
551 of 556

--- page 552 ---
Mandatory Organic Waste Reduction Ordinance
• All single-family, multi-family, and  commercial 
buildings must have organic collection services 
• Defines edible food recovery requirements for large 
scale commercial food generators which includes 
annual reporting
• Clarifies City’s intent to meet procurement 
requirements for paper/fiber and compost/mulch
• Defines enforcement actions for non-compliance
• City is ultimately responsible for compliance
• Allowed to delegate to public or private entitles 
• Exception only public agencies can impose 
penalties
552 of 556

--- page 553 ---
Compliance Partnerships 
Memorandum of Understandings (MOU)
South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA)
• Provide educational materials and community outreach 
• Assist City with SB 1383 procurement compliance planning
• Lead reporting and recordkeeping
• Provide models for ordinance, amendments, and policies as needed
• Take the lead with non-compliance complaints and violations including  investigations and 
waiver application
County of San Mateo Office of Sustainability
• Implement the Edible Food Recovery Program for the City and all jurisdictions within the 
County
• Expands on the existing program
553 of 556

--- page 554 ---
Additional Compliance Partners
• Provide organic collection services for all residential and commercial customers 
• Zero Waste staff to assist with education, outreach and training
• Identify customers without organic collection services
Recology
• State regulatory agency
• Established all  SB 1383 compliance regulations, requirements, and deadlines
• Reviews City’s annual report for compliance
CalRecycle
554 of 556

--- page 555 ---
Next Steps: Implementation
Introduction of “Mandatory 
Organic Waste Reduction 
Ordinance”
15 Nov. 2021
Council Consideration:
Adopt compliance ordinance
Approve MOU: County and 
SBWMA
6 Dec. 2021
Ordinance effective: 
Includes enforcement
1 Jan. 2022
Outreach 
Procurement compliance
Expand food recovery program
Reporting
2022–2024
Regulations requires local 
government to take 
enforcement 
1 Jan. 2024
Statewide 75% reduction of 
organic debris to landfill 
20% increase in food recovery
Penalties for violators
1 Jan. 2025
555 of 556

--- page 556 ---
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Stewards of your infrastructure 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7300
Thank you for your time.
You can reach me at: 
rmurray@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
556 of 556