'Treated like a criminal:' Witnesses testify on abuse of Flock cameras | News | kten.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Welcome, Guest Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home News Oklahoma Headlines Texas Headlines Crime U.S. News Politics Election Results Business Lifestyle Entertainment Video Watch Live Weather Weather News Braindrop Interactive Radar Surviving the Storm Sports The First and Ten Baseball-softball Basketball Football MLB NBA NCAA NFL Features Texoma's Golden Apple Community Calendar My Christmas Tree Station Meet the Team TV Listings Contact KTEN Newsletters KTEN Jobs Sales Team Advertise with Us KTEN EEO Reports Closed Captioning Watch Live Site search Search Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Site search Search 86° Clear Denison, TX (75020) Today Partly to mostly cloudy. Low 69F. Winds ESE at 5 to 10 mph.. Tonight Partly to mostly cloudy. Low 69F. Winds ESE at 5 to 10 mph. Updated: September 23, 2026 @ 8:06 pm Full Forecast Live Now Home News Oklahoma Headlines Texas Headlines Crime U.S. News Politics Election Results Business Lifestyle Entertainment Video Watch Live Weather Weather News Braindrop Interactive Radar Surviving the Storm Sports The First and Ten Baseball/Softball Basketball Football MLB NBA NCAA NFL Features Texoma's Golden Apple For Your Health Community Calendar Station Meet the Team TV Listings Contact KTEN Newsletters Jobs Sales Team Advertise with Us Closed Captioning Watch Live Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Home News News 'Treated like a criminal:' Witnesses testify on abuse of Flock cameras By Thérèse Boudreaux | The Center Square Sep 23, 2026 3 hrs ago Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save (The Center Square) – Advocates of the growing network of AI-driven surveillance cameras argue the technology can help make communities across the U.S. safer. But the controversial cameras have also wreaked havoc on the lives of innocent American citizens, including Florida resident Lindsey Isaacs, who spent 13 days in jail and received severe media attention for a crime she didn’t commit. Isaacs told her story to U.S. lawmakers during a Wednesday Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Counterterrorism hearing, revealing how an image captured and stored by a Flock Safety camera cost her seven months of unmerited hardship. “I was terrified,” a tearful Isaacs recalled. “I was facing the possibility of spending the rest of my life in prison for a crash that I knew I had not been involved in. I did not know if I would ever get out of jail. At my lowest point, I didn’t want to be alive.” The Palm Coast resident awoke around 1:45 a.m. on Oct. 5, 2025, to state troopers outside of her apartment and a tow truck confiscating her car. Police had used images captured by an Automated License Plate Reader camera operated by Flock Safety, she later learned, to misidentify her as the perpetrator of a fatal car accident the day prior. Despite crash witnesses reporting the perpetrator’s car was a different color than Isaacs’ and despite the lack of damage to her car, police issued a warrant for her arrest on April 17, 2026. For three days, Isaacs said, she was placed in solitary confinement and dressed in an ill-fitting suicide prevention gown that left her exposed on one side. After spending an additional 24 hours in a mental health unit, Isaacs was transferred to a maximum-security housing unit, where she stayed for 10 days. While there, she watched her mugshot appear on the news, endured harassment from other inmates, and was denied bond at a pre-trial detention hearing. Only when her attorney was able to present photos to the judge of her possessed vehicle — which, contrary to the claims of the troopers who possessed it, showed no damage — was Isaacs’ case reevaluated. She was granted bond after nearly two weeks in jail, and the state declined to prosecute her in May 2026. “I came here today because I want you to understand that surveillance technology does not exist in a vacuum. Information collected by technology can become part of an investigation that affects a real human being,” Isaacs told the subcommittee. “In my case, a Flock camera captured my vehicle a few miles from the scene of a terrible crash. That piece of information became part of an investigation that ultimately led to my arrest on three counts of vehicular homicide and 13 days in jail for a crash I had nothing to do with.” Flock Safety is the largest provider of AI-driven ALPR cameras, operating an estimated 120,000 cameras across 49 states that capture and store within a searchable database over 20 billion images every month. About 50% of Flock customers are law enforcement agencies, according to figures cited by a Flock representative in July , meaning that U.S. taxpayers are often paying for the very technology surveilling them. Axon Enterprise, Motorola Solutions, and Verkada are the three other major companies providing ALPR cameras, though data captured by Verkada keeps no external searchable database of the images its cameras capture. Not one of the CEOs of these four companies appeared before lawmakers at the hearing, despite subcommittee Chairman Josh Hawley, R-Mo., inviting them to attend. The Center Square’s reached out to Flock Safety, Axon Enterprise, and Motorola Solutions for comment but did not receive a response from any. The hearing spawned out of an investigation subcommittee that Hawley recently launched into the AI surveillance camera networks, which store and catalog images of all passing vehicles, as well as persons around them. Hawley pointed out users can look up vehicles in Flock’s camera footage database, which analyzes the make, model, color, plate number, location, date, and time of passing vehicles, as well as other identifying markers such as dents and bumper stickers. They can also search for images of people, Flock Safety CEO Garret Langley explicitly confirmed in his letter to Hawley. “When you harness all of these things together, you get a capability, based on the reporting, that is different in kind than anything we’ve ever seen in this country,” Hawley said at the hearing. “The Constitution of the United States is just as valuable and valid and applicable today as it was almost 250 ago when it was first penned, and that includes the right to be innocent until proven guilty — that is, not treated like a criminal and tracked like one.” Though Flock claims it does not utilize facial recognition technology in its cameras currently, the technology is available and the company has applied for a patent that would permit the tracking of individuals and allow searches of individual persons in its database. “It sounds as if, based on the reports we’ve heard, it’s treating every citizen in America…as if we are criminals, yet without any due process, without any reasonable suspicion, without any articulable suspicion whatsoever,” Hawley said. “We need to have an honest conversation about where this is leading us as a country.” Ross Teeple, sheriff of Pinal County, Arizona, also testified before lawmakers. Although ALPR cameras had sometimes helped catch criminals, the department ultimately terminated its contract with Flock after experiencing “just too much disinformation from them and dishonesty.” “I think it's remarkable that Chairman Hawley got them to admit that they now can track a person, because what I received from a Flock representative was, I was told ‘our cameras don't take a high enough resolution picture to be able to recognize a person,’” Teeple noted. Teeple believes that relying on private camera networks “as a dragnet” to surveil and log the habits of Americans without a warrant, “we are paving the way to an AI-driven surveillance state.” “If we allow government-funded private surveillance companies to push this envelope blindly, we risk a sweeping judicial correction that could strip away the legitimate, life-saving aspects of ALPR technology entirely,” Teeple added. Latest Headlines from CNN Originally published on thecentersquare.com , part of the BLOX Digital Content Exchange . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Camera Flock Safety Josh Hawley Automatic Number-plate Recognition Surveillance Car Law Enforcement National Security Crime Justice Technology Locations Illinois Chicago Recommended for you WEATHER FORECAST 2:34 Video play button Cooler but still warm over the next few days. MORE WEATHER Currently in Denison 86° Clear 94° / 73° 9 PM 84° 10 PM 82° 11 PM 81° 12 AM 79° 1 AM 78° Latest ABC: Elizabeth Holmes approved to move to halfway house next year Texas executes man for a triple killing, days after other man convicted in case was put to death Man found guilty of murder in Marshall County Congressman says Venezuelan man shot by ICE then taken into custody told he needs surgery Police investigation at a Sherman liquor store Sherman city council approves new restrooms for Hawn Park upgrades Texas executes a man for a triple killing, one week after putting to death the other man convicted in the case Sherman fire department renewing service contract with Grayson county Sections Home News Video Weather Sports Features Station Watch Live Station EEO Reports FCC Public Files Public Files Inspection Contact Closed Captioning FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use Contact Information KTEN.com 10 High Point Circle Denison, TX 75020 Phone: 903-548-4000 Email: info@kten.com Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Email iOS App Android App × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 KTEN 10 High Point Circle, Denison, TX | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Offer Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Daily Headlines Have the latest local news delivered every morning so you don't miss out on updates. Local Weather Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. News Alerts We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as they happen! CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Promo code Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Purchase detail Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card Terms of service confirmation I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close