How the American revolt against Flock cameras mirrors the Boston Tea Party of 1773 | Politics | kten.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Welcome, Guest Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home News Oklahoma Headlines Texas Headlines Crime U.S. News Politics Election Results Business Lifestyle Entertainment Video Watch Live Weather Weather News Braindrop Interactive Radar Surviving the Storm Sports The First and Ten Baseball-softball Basketball Football MLB NBA NCAA NFL Features Texoma's Golden Apple Community Calendar My Christmas Tree Station Meet the Team TV Listings Contact KTEN Newsletters KTEN Jobs Sales Team Advertise with Us KTEN EEO Reports Closed Captioning Watch Live Site search Search Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Site search Search 95° Sunny Denison, TX (75020) Today Sunny. High 97F. Winds S at 10 to 15 mph.. Tonight A few passing clouds, otherwise generally clear. Low around 75F. Winds S at 10 to 15 mph. Updated: September 19, 2026 @ 2:50 pm Full Forecast Live Now Home News Oklahoma Headlines Texas Headlines Crime U.S. News Politics Election Results Business Lifestyle Entertainment Video Watch Live Weather Weather News Braindrop Interactive Radar Surviving the Storm Sports The First and Ten Baseball/Softball Basketball Football MLB NBA NCAA NFL Features Texoma's Golden Apple For Your Health Community Calendar Station Meet the Team TV Listings Contact KTEN Newsletters Jobs Sales Team Advertise with Us Closed Captioning Watch Live Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Home News Politics Politics Prev Previous Previous Trump vows to create ‘AI Force’ and appoint czar amid calls … (CNN) — President Donald Trump said Saturday he plans to cre… Next Next Up Next Up Democrats call for investigation into faulty AI-generated intel report (CNN) — A group of top Democratic senators is calling on government watchdogs to… How the American revolt against Flock cameras mirrors the Boston Tea Party of 1773 G. Patrick O'Brien, University of Tampa Sep 16, 2026 Sep 16, 2026 Updated Sep 16, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Matthew Jonas/MediaNews Group/Boulder Daily Camera via Getty Images via The Conversation Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A grassroots revolt against automated license plate readers, or ALPRs, has gained momentum across the United States . ALPRs are AI-powered cameras that capture images of all passing vehicles . The camera systems turn details into datapoints searchable by anyone with access to the information. Today, there are more than 130,000 ALPRs on U.S. streets . And more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies use cameras produced by a single manufacturer, Flock Safety , which says its cameras have helped law enforcement agencies identify and arrest criminals and reduce crime . But some members of those police departments have abused the data gathered by ALPRs . A police officer in Kansas was sentenced to 18 months probabtion in April 2023 for using Flock camera to stalk his estranged wife. A Florida police officer was fired and arrested in March 2026 for using data gathered by ALPRs to stalk a woman he had previously harassed on a TV set . And activists filed a lawsuit against California police departments in October 2021 for illegally sharing information collected from ALPRs with out-of-state and federal agencies, including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Due to public outcry, cities across the U.S. have rejected and canceled contracts with Flock. In September 2026, Florida’s Department of Transportation revoked permits for ALPRs on its highway system. That has not been enough to quell growing backlash over the cameras. In at least 36 states, opponents of the technology have taken matters into their own hands, destroying or impairing ALPRs rather than wait for local governments to step in. As a historian of the American Revolution , I see parallels between Americans’ revolt against ALPRs and colonists’ destructive and often violent pushback to late 18th-century British rule. If this summer’s celebrations marking the 250th anniversary of the nation’s founding failed to inspire widespread patriotism , the increasingly bipartisan revolution against ALPRs suggests Americans have not entirely lost their rebellious spirit. Troublesome colonists From the start, the English colonists of North America proved to be a thorn in the side of the government. Despite British hopes that investing in American colonies would enrich England , these ventures proved to be more costly than they were profitable. Colonists bore much of the blame. When the British Parliament passed laws meant to regulate trade in the 1660s , colonists across the Eastern Seaboard turned to smuggling rather than comply . American merchants and consumers preferred to trade directly with both their fellow English colonists and merchants in the French and Dutch colonies rather than have that trade controlled by ministers in London. The British government had little ability to enforce the law. Britain pushes back That changed in 1763, after British forces vanquished the French Empire from North America at tremendous cost . A new prime minister, George Grenville, led a series of reforms aimed at making the colonists pay for their own military protection . Many Americans often believe that the Revolution began as a revolt against higher taxes. But most of the reforms coming from London actually lowered taxes to make smuggled goods less appealing. What colonists really resented was the imperial government’s growing influence in their lives . In 1767, Parliament passed a series of laws that allowed Britain to raise revenue to pay the salaries of colonial governors, attorneys general and judges. At the same time, Parliament sent troops to cities such as Boston to protect its officials. Competition for work and strained community relationships often led to violence between British soldiers and colonists . American colonists turn to violence The same year, angry colonists in Boston, New York and Philadelphia began boycotting British goods . Prominent Americans, including Benjamin Franklin and John Dickinson , endorsed these nonviolent protests. But more radical leaders believed colonists needed to take more decisive action. On the night of Dec. 16, 1773, members of the paramilitary group the Sons of Liberty dumped nearly £10,000 – almost US$2 million in today’s dollars – worth of privately owned tea into Boston Harbor . A few weeks later, the Sons of Liberty struck again. This time they attacked fellow colonist and British supporter John Malcolm , covering him in tar and feathers. For five hours, they beat him and paraded him through the streets. Similar instances of destruction and violence occurred across the colonies. Members of the Sons of Liberty tar British supporter John Malcolm in January 1774. DeAgostini/Getty Images via The Conversation The British responded harshly. In May 1774, Gen. Thomas Gage arrived at Boston as the colony’s new military governor. He implemented the so-called “ Coercive Acts ,” which closed the port of Boston and disbanded local government, among other measures. Surveillance backfires By early 1775, Boston was besieged. Around 5,000 British troops roamed the streets, directed by Gage to gather information on the Sons of Liberty and arrest leading dissidents . Gage hoped heightened surveillance would quell unrest. But it only pushed more citizens into the radicals’ camp. On the night of April 18, 1775, a discrete network of watchmen eluded British surveillance and famously hanged two lanterns from the steeple atop Christ Church. These beacons signaled that Gage’s troops were crossing the Charles River , on their way to seize colonial stores of gunpowder and ammunition, setting in motion the events that would begin the American Revolution. In response to the widespread pushback to ALPRs, Flock Safety CEO Garett Langley appealed to history. In June 2026 he authored a post on the company’s website , arguing that detractors misunderstand Ben Franklin’s famous 1755 quote , “Those who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.” Traffic flows past an Axon brand automatic license plate reader camera in the median of 16th Street near the border of Maryland and the District of Columbia on Aug. 19, 2026, in Silver Spring, Maryland. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images via The Conversation In an August 2026 interview , Langley referenced the auto industry, noting that rather than ban cars after an uptick in collision fatalities, legislatures mandated seat belts and airbags. Drawing parallels to the contemporary debate around ALPRs, Langley suggested Americans should again prioritize safety and hoped Americans would be willing to “compromise” on issues of privacy. Samuel Adams, one of the most prominent leaders of the Sons of Liberty, had his own opinion on compromise. Writing in June 1771 , he explained that although Americans had “disagreed among themselves in one mode of opposition to arbitrary measures,” they were “united in the main principles of constitutional & natural liberty.” Adams believed that, when threatened, American colonists would come together to defend their liberties. Clearly, Adams’ opinion resonates today. This article is republished from The Conversation , a nonprofit, independent news organization bringing you facts and trustworthy analysis to help you make sense of our complex world. It was written by: G. Patrick O'Brien , University of Tampa Read more: We study mass surveillance for social control, and we see Trump laying the groundwork to ‘contain’ people of color and immigrants US government ramps up mass surveillance with help of AI tech, data brokers – and your apps and devices Cameras have quietly appeared in thousands of US cities – now, their integration with AI is sounding alarms G. Patrick O'Brien does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment. Latest Headlines from CNN Originally published on theconversation.com , part of the BLOX Digital Content Exchange . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Politics + Society, Surveillance, Law Enforcement, Mass Surveillance, American Revolution, Us Constitution, Benjamin Franklin, British Colonies, American Colonists, Flock, Boston Tea Party, Sons Of Liberty Automatic Number-plate Recognition United Kingdom Flock Safety Thirteen Colonies Thomas Gage Camera United States Sons Of Liberty Police American Revolution Surveillance Boston Politics Samuel Adams Recommended for you State SWEPCO celebrates graduation of 18 journeyman lineworkers +2 U.S. News Sikh truck driver stabbed 17 times in unprovoked Wyoming attack raises fears of assaults against South Asians, officials say State Former Texarkana officer sentenced to prison for abusing teen Explorer program member State What a rebound! Pirates bounce back big against Kingsville WEATHER FORECAST 2:32 Video play button Hot and dry start to the weekend. MORE WEATHER Currently in Denison 95° Sunny 96° / 72° 3 PM 95° 4 PM 96° 5 PM 96° 6 PM 95° 7 PM 92° Latest Trump vows to create ‘AI Force’ and appoint czar amid calls to regulate technology’s development Democrats call for investigation into faulty AI-generated intel report Teen’s key role in deadly San Diego mosque shooting leads to murder charges in North Carolina, officials say. Here’s why ‘It will never be the same’: How Trump turned on the Kennedy Center and brought it to its knees Gemini hacked three companies in first known breakout by Google’s AI CNN, MS NOW and Politico denied access to White House after Trump ‘ban’ 15 tailgate appetizers that travel as well as they taste Ed Sheeran set for Philadelphia show after opening acts withdraw Trending Articles Videos Articles Gunter ISD baseball coach placed on administrative leave New deer hunting law in Oklahoma Wildfire forces evacuations in Atoka County Livestock die after cattle hauler overturns in Lone Grove collision Coleman Schools rally around one-year-old facing rare disorder Legally blind student marches in the Yellow Jacket band Sherman city manager announces retirement Two injured in chain-reaction crash on Love County freeway Fall makes its move on the Midwest and Northeast this week Ardmore commissioners respond to Flock recall petitions Videos Sections Home News Video Weather Sports Features Station Watch Live Station EEO Reports FCC Public Files Public Files Inspection Contact Closed Captioning FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use Contact Information KTEN.com 10 High Point Circle Denison, TX 75020 Phone: 903-548-4000 Email: info@kten.com Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Email iOS App Android App × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 KTEN 10 High Point Circle, Denison, TX | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Back × Offer Log In You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Mailing lists Join our mailing lists Daily Headlines Have the latest local news delivered every morning so you don't miss out on updates. Local Weather Get our expert short-term forecast, summary of the weather details and news of any severe weather. News Alerts We'll send breaking news and news alerts to you as they happen! CAPTCHA Create Account Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Remember me Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Promo code Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Purchase detail Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card Terms of service confirmation I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close