--- page 1 ---
https://www.kten.com/news/kten_news/ardmore-to-review-use-of-flock-cameras/article_52f5df08-fbff-
416b-a64a-dbff12e6029c.html
Ardmore to review use of Flock cameras
Kendall Timms, KTEN News
Sep 14, 2026
ARDMORE, Okla. (KTEN) — After Ardmore city commissioners voted last month to renew the
city's Flock camera contract, they're now considering changing course — putting the future of
this law enforcement technology in the hands of voters.
The cameras — which read and process license plates and other information — are viewed by
some as intrusions on civil liberties.
"There's a lot of people saying they want their voices to be heard,” said acting City Manager
Shawn Geurin. “Well, what better way to let people have their voices being heard than go to
the polls?"
That option will be up for consideration at the City Commission meeting on September 21.
Should the decision to keep Flock cameras in Ardmore go to a vote of the people?
"Obviously, I was a little surprised with their decision to bring this back to the council
meeting," said Commissioner At-Large Buddy Simon.
The idea for a vote comes from Mayor David Plesher.
“Rather than allow social media to determine this issue, I believe the citizens of Ardmore
should have the final say," Plesher said in a written statement.
But Simon says the commissioners have already voted twice to keep the cameras around.
"I don't understand why the mayor decided to do a complete 360 turnaround," Simon said.
"This discussion actually started before the recall was ever posted," Geurin noted.

--- page 2 ---
That recall — which has cleared phase one of necessary signatures — seeks to remove Simon's
four fellow commissioners after he said his voice and input from the public was shut down
during the Flock vote.
The city clerk confirmed all four commissioners responded to the petition.
Their responses will be included on the next petition phase, which needs 1,070 signatures
within 30 days to trigger a special election.
"Tomorrow, the new petition will be readied for signatures, and it is going to move forward,"
Simon pledged.
Geurin reminds voters that there will be no public comment allowed at next Monday’s meeting
to discuss the Flock cameras contract.
"If they want their voices to be heard beforehand, they need to reach out to their council
member and let them know how they feel," Geurin said.
While the city says considering a public vote on Flock has nothing to do with the recall drive,
Simon believes the petitions will still get plenty of signatures.
"Flock is right now the hot point, but I think that they're just tired,” Simon said. “Enough is
enough for the citizens."
Earlier this month, Carter County Sheriff DJ Long said he has opted out of using the technology
in his jurisdiction. Thackerville and Marietta recently decided to end relationships with Flock.
MORE INFORMATION

--- page 3 ---
Kendall Timms
reporter/producer
Thackerville ending use of Flock cameras
Flock camera debate turns political in Ardmore
Gunter City Council revisits license plate readers and data centers
Flock cameras unplugged in Marietta
Flock cameras raise privacy concerns
Ardmore police renew license plate camera contract
License plate readers planned for Collinsville
Ardmore commissioners respond to Flock recall petitions
Carter County Sheriff weighs in on Flock cameras

--- page 4 ---
