source: packet.pdf
sha256: b70c7e4bf5a8704ece2d77f4662ac9a82678402d202321047abf870ca5464b94
pages: 42
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
October 13, 2021
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: October 13, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 872 9682 0700
Passcode: 914019
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of September 8, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Proposed Crown Castle Master License Agreement for Use of City Owned Poles
To review the proposed Master License Agreement with Crown Castle Fiber LLC, provide comments to staff, and
make a recommendation to the City Council.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
1 of 42

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 42

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 21-5254
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
October 13, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of September 8, 2021. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the September 8, 2021 meeting
3 of 42

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
September 8, 2021 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER – Due to the State of California’s Declaration of Emergency – This meeting is being held 
pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) – City Council and Commission 
meetings are no longer open to in-person attendance.  Anyone can watch and provide comments remotely in the 
ways described at the end of the agenda. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins, Narita and Rowinski. Commissioner Reyes was absent and 
excused.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to approve the minutes of August 11, 2021, with a change to the Hillsdale spelling.  Motion passed as 
amended 4-0-1. 
 
Moved:    Robbins, Seconded:  Loraine 
Ayes:       3 - Robbins, Narita, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
Abstain:   1 - Rowinski 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – No speakers 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
OLD BUSINESS  
 
2. Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner, made a presentation to the Commission, acting as the City 
of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, to receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian 
projects. 
 
4 of 42

--- page 5 ---
Public Comment.  The following spoke to the item:  Raayan Mohtashemi, Erick Wohlford, Jennifer Plantenberg, 
Joanne Wong, David Hunt and Mike Swire  
 
No motion needed for this item but comments from Commissioners included: importance of 28th Avenue as 
access point to Hillsdale; continue to look at Hillsdale pedestrian and bicycle overcrossing; look at trade-off of 
removing parking in North Central; prioritize programming and supporting the most at-risk section of the 
population; consideration for changing how citizens use our streets and infrastructure; utilize community 
outreach from other interested parties; partnership on community engagement; be more creative at attracting 
funding for the most disadvantaged; iterations of the original masterplans instead of waiting for specific 
timeframe; and make this a fluid living document. 
 
Additional concerns from commissioners included:  1) whether the parking occupancy studies performed to date 
adequately captured the Project’s impact to the community; 2) whether additional programs can be implemented 
to help alleviate the loss of parking; and 3) whether outreach conducted was sufficient to reach the impacted 
residents. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Director Mitch announced Matt Fabry as the new Deputy Director for the Clean Water Program, data 
management, wastewater treatment plant and operations and maintenance.  He was previously the director of 
C/CAG and has many years of experience on the stormwater front. 
 
Director Mitch also updated the Commission on several items happening in Public Works:  it is the council’s 
priority to transition from using compressed natural gas and to focus on electric vehicles and charging stations 
for the City’s fleet; 31st Avenue opened, with the project almost complete, and a ribbon cutting ceremony on 
September 17; Public Works has been working on the expansion of the Wastewater Treatment Plant for over two 
years and today was the last day of pile driving, with 1960 piles driven; the next phase is vertical construction 
with this billion dollar effort on track to finish in the next four years; the Sugarloaf Traffic Action Plan will not 
be put on unscheduled items as a more data driven approach is needed. 
 
Chair Loraine reminded folks of the Bayfront Clean-up on September 18.  Registering can be done online on the 
city’s webpage.  There will be a public meeting with Council at 6PM on September 13, to hear more about 
redistricting.  There will be a meeting for commissioners on September 9 and Commissioner Rowinski 
volunteered to become an ambassador for the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. 
 
 ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:25pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 42

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 21-5299
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works
MEETING DATE:
October 13, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Proposed Crown Castle Master License Agreement for Use of City Owned Poles 
RECOMMENDATION:
To review the proposed Master License Agreement with Crown Castle Fiber LLC, provide comments to staff, and make a 
recommendation to the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo (City) owns over 5,000 streetlights throughout the City. In addition to City-owned streetlights, there 
are numerous utility poles owned by Pacific Gas and Electric. The City allows installation of wireless small cell facilities on 
utility poles and City streetlights.  Currently, installations are not allowed on City streetlights unless the wireless company 
has a master license agreement with the City that covers the terms and conditions of the use of City’s infrastructure. The 
use of streetlights provides additional locations for installation with less visually obtrusive systems and greatly reduces the 
need for wireless companies to install their own poles throughout the City.
In order for Crown Castle Fiber LLC (Crown Castle) to use the City’s streetlight poles, they must enter into a license 
agreement with the City. The attached Master License Agreement (Agreement) has been developed and reviewed by City 
staff and Crown Castle Fiber.  The Agreement is substantially the same as the Verizon, AT&T and ExteNet Systems 
agreements approved by City Council.  With an executed Agreement, Crown Castle will still be required to obtain Wireless 
Communication Facilities permits and follow all requirements of the City’s wireless telecommunications ordinance.
The term of the Agreement is ten years with fifteen one-year renewal options. The term of any telecommunications 
permit issued for a location subject to the Agreement will be the same as the Agreement term. The annual charge for each 
pole, which is dictated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), will be $270. With respect to radio frequency 
emissions, Crown Castle will be required to demonstrate compliance with FCC standards upon installation and any future 
modification.  
If the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission recommends approval and the City Council approves the Agreement, 
Crown Castle would be able to install small cell facilities on City-owned streetlight poles after obtaining a Wireless 
Communication Facilities permit for each site.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Review of the Master License Agreement will not impact the City’s operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review of the Master License Agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
6 of 42

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or
private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use.
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
Notice of this meeting was sent to individuals signed up for notification and posted on the Small Cell Infrastructure 
webpage. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Crown Castle Fiber Master License Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Trieu
mtrieu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7382
7 of 42

--- page 8 ---
Page 1 of 35 
MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY POLES 
IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY 
This MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY 
POLES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY (“Master License”) dated _____________ (the “Effective 
Date”) is between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California municipal corporation (the “City’) 
and Crown Castle Fiber LLC, a New York limited liability company (the “Licensee”). 
BACKGROUND 
A. 
WHEREAS, technology developments and demand for high-speed mobile data service 
and capacity has extended beyond the capabilities of traditional macrocell wireless 
communications facilities.  To meet this demand, wireless providers have accelerated their small 
cell and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) deployments in the public right-of-way and the City 
has a clear incentive to manage these accelerated deployments in a way that preserves local 
aesthetics and public health and safety; and 
B. 
WHEREAS, Licensee is in the business of installing, maintaining and operating wireless 
communication facilities and typically installs, maintains and operates its wireless 
communications facilities on existing vertical infrastructure in the public right-of-way; and 
C. 
WHEREAS, the City owns as its personal property a number of existing Poles (defined 
below) within the public right-of-way that are potentially suitable for installing wireless 
communications facilities within the City’s jurisdiction; and 
D. 
WHEREAS, Licensee desires to install, maintain and operate wireless communications 
facilities on the City’s Poles in the public right-of-way and Licensee is willing to compensate the 
City for the right to use the City’s Poles for wireless communications purposes; and 
E. 
WHEREAS, consistent with California state law, the City intends this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit (defined below) to be applicable only to City-owned Poles; and 
F. 
WHEREAS, consistent with all applicable Laws, the City does not intend this Master 
License to grant the Licensee any exclusive right to use or occupy the public rights-of-way 
within the City’s territorial and/or jurisdictional boundaries, and Licensee expressly 
acknowledges that the City may enter into similar or identical agreements with other entities, 
which include without limitation Licensee’s competitors; and 
G. 
WHEREAS, the City desires to authorize Licensee’s access to individual City-owned 
poles based on a comprehensive and uniform Master License according to the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Master License, any applicable Wireless Permit, and pursuant to all 
the applicable permits issued by the City to protect public health and safety; and 
H. 
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2019, the City Council of the City of San Mateo approved the 
form and material terms for a Master License for Wireless Facilities on City Poles in the right-of-
way to be used in connection with the licensing of Poles and other City-owned property for 
wireless communications facilities, and further delegated authority to the City Manager to enter 
into such agreements. 
NOW THEREFORE, for good, valuable and sufficient consideration received and 
acknowledged by the City and Licensee, the City and Licensee agree as follows: 
8 of 42

--- page 9 ---
Page 2 of 35 
AGREEMENT 
1. 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
“Agent” means agent, employee, officer, contractor, subcontractor, and representative of a party 
in relation to this Master License and the License Area. 
“Assignment” means any of the following: (a) a merger, acquisition, or other transfer of a 
controlling interest in Licensee, voluntarily or by operation of Law; (b) Licensee’s sale, 
assignment, encumbrance, pledge, or other transfer of any part of its interest in or rights with 
respect to the License Area; and (c) any action by Licensee to permit any portion of the License 
Area to be occupied by anyone other than itself, including a sublicense. 
“Common Control” means two entities that are both Controlled by the same third entity. 
“Control” means (a) as to a corporation, the ownership of stock having the right to exercise 
more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the controlled 
corporation, issued and outstanding; or (b) as to partnerships and other forms of business 
associations, ownership of more than 50% of the beneficial interest and voting control of such 
association. 
“CPUC” means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California 
Constitution, Article XII, Section 5, or its duly appointed successor agency. 
“EMF” means electromagnetic fields or radio frequency generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz 
in the electromagnetic spectrum range. 
“Environmental Laws” means any Law relating to industrial hygiene, environmental 
conditions, or Hazardous Materials. 
“Equipment” means antennas and any associated utility or equipment box, and battery backup, 
transmitters, receivers, radios, amplifiers, ancillary fiber-optic cables and wiring, and ancillary 
equipment for the transmission and reception of radio communication signals for voice and other 
data transmission, including the means and devices used to attach Equipment to, or adjacent to, a 
licensed City Pole, peripherals, and ancillary equipment and installations, including wiring, 
cabling, power feeds, and any approved signage attached to Equipment. 
“FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency. 
“FCC Order” means the Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order (WT Docket No. 17-
79; WC Docket No. 17-84) adopted by FCC on September 26, 2018, which, inter alia, clarifies 
Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act as they apply to state and local 
regulation of wireless infrastructure deployment, including identifying specific fee levels for 
small wireless facility deployments that presumably comply with the relevant standard. 
“Hazardous Material” means any material that, because of its quantity, concentration, or 
physical or chemical characteristics, is at any time now or hereafter deemed by any Regulatory 
Agency to pose a present or potential hazard to human health, welfare, or safety or to the 
environment.  Hazardous Material includes any material or substance defined as a “hazardous 
substance,” or “pollutant” or “contaminant” in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) (codified as 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.) 
9 of 42

--- page 10 ---
Page 3 of 35 
or Section 25316 of the California Health & Safety Code; and any “hazardous waste” listed 
California Health & Safety Code § 25140; and petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction 
thereof, natural gas or natural gas liquids. 
“Investigate and Remediate” means the undertaking of any activities to determine the nature 
and extent of Hazardous Material that may be located in, on, under or about the License Area or 
that has been, is being, or is in danger of being Released into the environment, and to clean up, 
remove, contain, treat, stabilize, monitor or otherwise control such Hazardous Material. 
“Invitee” means the client, customer, invitee, guest, tenant, subtenant, licensee, authorized 
assignee and authorized sublicensee of a party in relation to the License Area. 
“Laws” means any and all laws, regulations, ordinances, resolutions, judicial decisions, rules, 
permits and approvals applicable to Licensee’s use that are in force on the date of this Master 
License or as lawfully amended including, without limitation, the California Building Code, the 
City’s Municipal Code, Design and Engineering Standards, and standard Conditions of 
Approval. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or obligations of either Party are 
materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the parties agree to amend the Master 
License to reflect the change in Laws. 
“License Area” means the area and Pole identified in each Wireless Permit that Licensee may 
use for its Permitted Use.  
“Licensee’s On-Call Representative” mean the person(s) assigned by Licensee to be on-call 
and available to the City regarding the operation of Licensee’s Equipment.  Such person(s) shall 
be qualified and experienced in the operation of Equipment and shall be authorized to act on 
behalf of Licensee in any emergency and in day-to-day operations of the Equipment. 
“Permitted Use” means Licensee’s installation, operation and maintenance of Equipment for the 
transmission and reception of wireless, cellular telephone and data and related communications 
in License Areas. 
“Pole” or “City Pole” means a street light pole, traffic signal pole, utility pole or other support 
structure located in the public right-of-way within the City and owned by the City. 
 “Property” means any interest in real or personal property, including land, air and water areas, 
leasehold interests, possessory interests, easements, franchises and other appurtenances, public 
rights-of-way, physical works of improvements such as buildings, structures, infrastructure, 
utility and other facilities, and alterations, installations, fixtures, furnishings and additions to 
existing real property, personal property and improvements. 
“Regulatory Agency” means the local, regional, state or federal body with jurisdiction and 
responsibility for issuing Regulatory Approvals in accordance with applicable Laws. 
“Regulatory Approvals” means licenses, permits and other approvals necessary for Licensee to 
install, operate and maintain Equipment on the License Area. 
“Release” when used with respect to Hazardous Material includes any actual or imminent 
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, 
10 of 42

--- page 11 ---
Page 4 of 35 
leaching, dumping or disposing on, under or about the License Area, other City Property or the 
environment. 
“Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance” means the City’s ordinance regulating wireless 
telecommunications facilities, which took effect on August 16, 2018, and is codified in Chapter 
17.10 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code and subsequently amended by the City on June 
21, 2021. 
“Wireless Permit” means a permit obtained pursuant to the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance. 
“Wireless Permit Application” means the application form used by the City that will identify 
the City Pole(s) for installation of Equipment and describe the proposed Equipment, which shall 
be accompanied by other relevant information and documents as required by the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance. 
2. 
SCOPE OF LICENSE 
2.1. 
License Area 
2.1.1. 
Wireless Permit Issuance and Effect 
Subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the City will issue to Licensee 
one or more Wireless Permits for any Poles not already subject to a Wireless Permit, which will 
grant Licensee the right to use the space on the subject Pole approved for the Equipment, which 
includes any conduits, pull boxes or other items specifically identified in the Approved Plans 
attached to the Wireless Permit. 
2.1.2. 
Limitations 
This Master License applies to only Poles identified in final and fully executed Wireless 
Permits.  This Master License does not authorize Licensee or any other persons or entities to 
enter on to or use any other City Property, except the areas specified in any Wireless Permits.  
Furthermore, neither this Master License nor any Wireless Permit authorizes or confers any 
rights in Licensee or any other persons or entities to use any portions of the public rights-of-way, 
or any improvements or other personal property within the public rights-of-way owned by any 
third parties. In the event of a conflict between this Master License and a Wireless Permit, the 
terms of the Wireless Permit will govern. 
2.1.3. 
Limited Interest Created 
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) Licensee does not have any rights to 
use or possess interest or rights in any Pole for any purpose whatsoever until and unless the City 
issues a Wireless Permit for such Pole; and (2) it is the parties’ intent that neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit issued pursuant to this Master License creates or will be 
deemed to create any leasehold, easement, franchise or any other possessory interest or real 
property interest whatsoever.  In the event that there is a determination that ad valorem, privilege 
or other taxes or assessments are to be levied as a result of this Master License, Licensee shall be 
obligated to pay any such possessory interest taxes as set forth in paragraph 12 below. 
11 of 42

--- page 12 ---
Page 5 of 35 
2.1.4. 
Limited Rights Created 
Any Wireless Permit the City approves pursuant to this Master License grants to 
Licensee only a non-possessory and revocable permit to enter on to and use the permitted area 
for the Permitted Use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) neither this Master 
License or any Wireless Permit will be coupled with an interest; (2) the City retains legal 
possession and control over all Poles for the City’s operations, which will be superior to 
Licensee’s interest at all times; (3) subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the 
City may terminate a Wireless Permit in whole or in part at any time; (4) except as specifically 
provided otherwise in this Master License, the City may enter into any agreement with third 
parties in connection with use and occupancy of Poles and other City Property; (5) Licensee has 
no ownership rights in any Pole whatsoever; and (6) neither this Master License nor any 
Wireless Permit creates or will be deemed to create any partnership or joint venture between the 
City and Licensee. 
2.1.5. 
No Impediment to Municipal Uses 
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit limits, alters or waives the City’s right to use any License Area 
in whole or in part as infrastructure established and maintained for the City’s and the public’s 
benefit. 
2.2. 
Diminutions in Light, Air and Signal 
In the event that any existing or future structure diminishes any light, air or signal 
propagation, transmission or reception, whether erected by the City or not, Licensee shall not be 
entitled to any reduction in any license charge, additional fees or any other sums payable to the 
City under this Master License or any Wireless Permit, and the City shall have no liability to 
Licensee whatsoever and such diminution will not affect this Master License, any Wireless 
Permit or Licensee’s obligations except as may be expressly provided in this Master License. 
2.3. 
License Area Condition 
2.3.1. 
“As-Is and With All Faults” Condition 
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees to enter on to and use the License Area in 
its “as-is and with all faults” condition.  The City makes no representations or warranties 
whatsoever, whether express or implied, as to the License Area’s condition or suitability for 
Licensee’s use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that neither the City nor its Agents 
have made, and the City expressly disclaims, any representations or warranties whatsoever, 
whether express or implied, with respect to the physical, structural or environmental condition of 
the License Area, the present or future suitability of the License Area for the Permitted Use, or 
any other matter related to the License Area. 
2.3.2. 
Licensee’s Due Diligence 
Licensee expressly represents and warrants to the City that Licensee has conducted a 
reasonably diligent and independent investigation, either for itself or through an Agent selected 
by Licensee, into the License Area condition and suitability for Licensee’s intended use, and that 
Licensee relies solely on its due diligence for such determination.  Licensee further expressly 
12 of 42

--- page 13 ---
Page 6 of 35 
represents and warrants to the City that Licensee’s intended use is the Permitted Use as defined 
in Section 5 in this Master License. 
2.3.3. 
Certified Access Specialist Disclosure 
Pursuant to California Civil Code § 1938, and to the extent applicable to this Master 
License, the City expressly advises Licensee, and Licensee expressly acknowledges, that a 
Certified Access Specialist (as defined in California Civil Code § 55.53) has not inspected any 
License Area in whole or in part to determine whether it meets all applicable construction-related 
accessibility requirements. 
3. 
TERM 
3.1. 
Master License Term. 
The initial term under this Master License (the “Initial Term”) will commence on the Effective 
Date and will expire ten (10) years from the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated in 
accordance with this Master License. This Master License shall be automatically renewed 
annually for one-year renewal terms for up to an additional fifteen (15) years (each, a “Renewal 
Term”), unless Licensee notifies the City in writing of Licensee’s intent not to renew this Master 
License at least thirty (30) days, or City notifies Licensee in writing of City’s intent not to renew 
this Master License at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the Initial 
Term or any Renewal Term.  The Initial Term and all Renewal Terms shall be collectively 
referred to herein as the “Term.”     
3.2. 
Wireless Permit Term. 
The term of each Wireless Permit shall be for ten (10) years beginning on the 
Commencement Date, as defined in Section 4.1.1, unless earlier terminated pursuant to this 
Master License.  Unless Licensee is in material breach of this Master License beyond the 
applicable cure period or the Master License has terminated or Licensee provides written notice 
to the City prior to the expiration of the then current term that Licensee will not renew the 
Wireless Permit term, the term will automatically renew annually for one-year renewal terms for 
up to an additional fifteen (15) years , upon the same terms and conditions set forth in this 
Master License, including the termination provisions set forth above.  
4. 
LICENSE CHARGE; OTHER PAYMENTS 
4.1. 
License Charges 
4.1.1. 
Commencement Date 
Licensee shall pay an annual License Charge under each Wireless Permit beginning on its 
“Commencement Date,” which is defined as either: (1) the first anniversary of the effective date 
of the Wireless Permit or (2) the first day of the month before the date Licensee commences 
construction in the License Area necessary for the Permitted Use (whichever occurs later).  The 
parties define a “License Year” to mean any 12-month period (or shorter period in the event that 
a Wireless Permit commences less than 12 months from the next January 1 or the expiration date 
of this Master License) that begins on the Commencement Date for each Wireless Permit. 
Licensee shall provide written notice of the Commencement Date to the City. If the City does not 
13 of 42

--- page 14 ---
Page 7 of 35 
acknowledge and return or object to such notice within 10 days of receipt, the Commencement 
Date shall be deemed confirmed as the date provided on such notice. 
4.1.2. 
License Charge Amount 
Licensee shall pay to the City an annual charge of $270.00 per pole subject to a 3% 
annual increase (the “License Charge”). Payment of the initial License Charge payment shall be 
made within ninety (90) days after confirmation the Commencement Date and thereafter each 
subsequent annual License Charge payment shall be made on or before each anniversary of the 
Commencement Date.  City shall provide Licensee a completed, current Internal Revenue 
Service Form W-9 and state and local withholding forms if required. Licensee may make 
payments by check made out to the order of the City of San Mateo and sent to the following 
address or through electronic transfer subject to the City’s approval and necessary bank routing 
instructions. 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
Department of Public Works 
 
Attn:  Administration  
 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
(650) 522-7300 
 
4.2. 
Administrative Fees 
4.2.1. 
Permit Fees 
Licensee will pay the permit and processing fees set forth in the City’s Master Fee 
Schedule that is part of City’s applicable ordinance for Department Public Works permit fees and 
in conjunction with the FCC order 18-133. 
4.3. 
Late Charges 
In the event that Licensee fails to pay any fee or any other amount payable to the City 
within 30 days after the City notifies Licensee in writing that such amounts are due and unpaid, 
such amounts will be subject to a late charge equal to 2% of unpaid amounts. 
5. 
USES 
5.1. 
Permitted Use 
Licensee may use the License Area solely for the Permitted Use in compliance with all 
applicable Laws and any conditions in any Regulatory Approvals and for no other use 
whatsoever without the City’s prior written consent, which the City may withhold in its sole and 
absolute discretion pursuant to applicable law or reasonable justification as determined by the 
City. Licensee may sublicense or otherwise allow its Invitees to use capacity on Licensee’s 
Equipment; provided, however, that any such third parties shall not be permitted to perform any 
physical work on any Pole without the City’s prior written consent, which the City may 
reasonably withhold or condition as the City deems necessary to protect the Pole or public health 
safety and/or welfare. 
14 of 42

--- page 15 ---
Page 8 of 35 
5.2. 
Prohibition on “Macro Cell” Uses 
The City and Licensee intend this Master License and any Wireless Permit to cover only 
“small cell” installations, as defined in state and federal law and in the FCC Order.  Licensee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that the Permitted Use under this Master License does not 
include the right to use any Pole as a support structure for a “macro cell” or a traditional wireless 
tower typically constructed on private property. 
5.3. 
Prohibition on Illegal Uses or Nuisances 
Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in any unlawful manner or for 
any illegal purpose.  In addition, Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in 
any manner that constitutes a nuisance or hazard as determined by the City in its reasonable 
judgment.  Licensee shall take all precautions to eliminate any nuisances or hazards in 
connection with its uses and activities on or about the License Area. 
5.4. 
Signs or Advertisements 
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that its rights under this Master License and any 
Wireless Permit do not authorize Licensee to erect, post or maintain, or permit others to erect, 
post or maintain, any signs, notices, graphics or advertisements whatsoever on the License Area; 
except as required by the FCC and applicable Laws. 
6. 
WIRELESS PERMITS REQUIRED 
6.1. 
City Approval Required 
Licensee shall not have any right to use the License Area in whole or in part for any 
purpose until and unless the City approves a Wireless Permit for that License Area.  Subject to 
any express limitations in this Master License, the City will not be obligated to subordinate its 
municipal functions or proprietary interest in any manner whatsoever to Licensee’s interest under 
any Wireless Permit.  When the City considers whether to approve or disapprove any Wireless 
Permit Application, the City may consider any matter that affects its municipal functions or 
proprietary interests, which include without limitation: (1) Licensee’s proposed plans and 
Equipment specifications; (2) compliance with any applicable Laws; (3) impacts on the City’s 
street light operations; (4) any potential hazards or unsafe conditions that could result from 
Licensee’s installation, operation or maintenance; (5) any potential visual or aesthetic impacts as 
set forth in applicable Laws; (6) the additional load on the Pole the proposed Equipment would 
create; and (7) any municipal plans for the Pole or right-of-way in proximity to the Pole.  
Licensee shall file with the City a Wireless Permit Application for one or more City Poles 
where Licensee desires to install Equipment. Within the timeframes required by the FCC Order, 
which period may be extended by mutual written consent, the City shall, in writing, either 
approve the Wireless Permit Application, or reject the Wireless Permit Application by 
identifying the specific reasons why the Wireless Permit Application is not in compliance with 
this Master License, the City’s Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance, or design and 
engineering standards, otherwise the City Pole Application shall be deemed accepted. The 
review period for the Wireless Permit Application will be in compliance with FCC regulations, 
rulings, and orders. 
15 of 42

--- page 16 ---
Page 9 of 35 
6.1.1. 
City’s Right to Disapprove 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Licensee acknowledges that the City reserves 
the absolute right to disapprove any Wireless Permit Application in whole or in part when the 
City determines in its sole judgment that the subject Pole Location or proposed Equipment would 
interfere with the City’s municipal functions or create a hazardous or unsafe condition. 
7. 
EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION 
7.1. 
Approved Plans and Equipment Specifications 
Licensee must submit detailed plans and equipment specifications with Wireless Permit 
Application, which must include without limitation all equipment, mounts, hardware, utilities, 
cables, conduits, signage, concealment elements and other improvements proposed in connection 
with the License Area.  Licensee acknowledges that the exhibit to any approved Wireless Permit 
will be deemed to be the “Approved Plans” and that Licensee will be permitted to install only 
the Equipment and other improvements shown on such Approved Plans. 
7.2. 
Installation; Strict Compliance with Approved Plans 
Licensee shall not commence any work at the License Area until the licensee has 
obtained a Wireless Permit.  Licensee shall perform all work in connection with the License Area 
in strict compliance with the Approved Plans and in a diligent, skillful and workmanlike manner.  
All installed Equipment must be high quality, safe, fire resistant, modern in design and attractive 
in appearance, all as approved by the City.  After any work at the License Area concludes, 
Licensee shall restore the License Area and any other City Property to the condition that existed 
immediately prior to when the work commenced. 
7.2.1. 
Alterations to City’s Property 
Neither Licensee nor its Agents or Invitees may remove, damage or in any manner alter 
any City Property without prior written consent from the City and any other City agencies with 
jurisdiction over the subject City Property.  The City may withhold its consent in its sole and 
absolute discretion, and may reasonably condition its consent in each instance based on scope 
and nature of the proposed alterations.  Licensee shall immediately notify the City if any 
removal, damage or other alteration occurs to City Property for any reason and through any 
cause. 
7.2.2. 
Licensee’s Contractors 
Licensee shall use only qualified and trained persons and appropriately licensed 
contractors for all work performed on or about the License Area.  At least five (5) business days 
before any work commences on or about the License Area, Licensee shall provide the City with: 
(1) a schedule with all activities to be performed in connection with the work; and (2) a list with 
all the names, contractors’ license numbers, contact information, and business addresses for all 
contractors or subcontractors who will perform the work. 
16 of 42

--- page 17 ---
Page 10 of 35 
7.3. 
Labor and Materials Costs 
Licensee shall be responsible for all direct and indirect costs (labor, materials, and 
overhead or prevailing wages if required) in connection with designing, purchasing and installing 
all Equipment in accordance with the Approved Plans and all applicable Laws.  Licensee shall 
also bear all costs to obtain and maintain all Regulatory Approvals required in connection with 
the installation, which includes without limitation all direct and indirect costs to comply with any 
approval conditions or mitigation measures that arise from Licensee’s proposed installation.  
Licensee shall timely pay for all labor, materials, Equipment and all professional services related 
to the Permitted Use or furnished to the License Area at Licensee’s direction or for Licensee’s 
benefit. 
7.4. 
Prevailing Wages 
The services to be provided under this Section 7 may be subject to prevailing wage rate 
payment as set forth in California Labor Code Section 1771.  Accordingly, to the extent that such 
services are subject to the prevailing wage rate payment requirements, Licensee shall comply 
with all California Labor Code requirements pertaining to “public works,” including the payment 
of prevailing wages in connection with the services to be provided hereunder (collectively, 
“Prevailing Wage Policies”).  
Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless and its officers, officials, 
employees, volunteers, agents and representatives (collectively, “Indemnitees”) from and against 
any and all present and future liabilities, obligations, orders, claims, damages, fines, penalties 
and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) (collectively, “Claims”), arising out of or in 
any way connected with Licensee’s obligation to comply with all laws with respect to the work 
of improvements or Prevailing Wage Policies, including all Claims that may be made by 
contractors, subcontractors or other third party claimants pursuant to Labor Code sections 1726 
and 1781, as amended and added by Senate Bill 966. 
7.5. 
Title to Licensee’s Equipment and Other Improvements 
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all Equipment and other 
improvements installed, constructed or placed on or about the License Area by Licensee or its 
Agents or Invitees will be deemed and remain at all times Licensee’s personal property.  All 
structural improvements to any Pole, any replacement Pole and any underground fiber optic 
cables, all as approved by the City and shown in the Approved Plans, will become and remain 
City Property should Licensee vacate or abandon such License Area, unless the City elects in a 
written notice to Licensee that it does not wish to take title to such structural improvements.  
Subject to Section 22 (Surrender of License Area), Licensee may remove its Equipment from the 
License Area at any time after 30 days’ written notice to the City. 
8. 
PUBLIC WORKS OPERATIONS 
8.1. 
City’s Access to License Areas 
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, the City and its Agents 
have the right to access any License Area in whole or in part at any time without notice for any 
purpose.  The City will not be liable in any manner whatsoever, and Licensee expressly waives 
any claims for inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages that may 
17 of 42

--- page 18 ---
Page 11 of 35 
arise from the City’s or its Agents’ access to the License Area, which includes any Equipment 
removed in an emergency or other exigent circumstances pursuant to Section 8.4 (Emergencies), 
except to the extent that the damage arises from the negligence or willful misconduct of the City 
or its Agents. 
8.2. 
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to Poles 
The City and/or the City’s Public Works Department will: (1) maintain and repair Poles 
as needed, in its sole judgment, for its street light operations and other municipal functions; (2) 
correct any immediately hazardous condition.  Excluding conditions that arise from the City’s or 
its Agents’ negligence or willful misconduct, neither any City work on any Pole nor any 
condition on any Pole will: (a) entitle Licensee to any damages; (b) excuse or reduce any 
obligation by Licensee to pay any License Charges or additional fees or perform any covenant 
under this Master License; or (c) constitute or be construed as a constructive termination of this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit. 
8.3. 
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to License Areas 
The City may, at any time, alter, add to, repair, remove from and/or improve the License 
Area in whole or in part for any operational purpose, which includes without limitation 
maintenance and improvements in connection with street light services and compliance with 
Laws; provided (1) the City makes a good-faith effort to provide advance notice to Licensee’s 
On-Call Representative as soon as reasonably practicable; (2) the City allows Licensee’s 
representative to observe the City’s work; and (3) the City takes reasonable steps not to disrupt 
Licensee’s ordinary operations on the License Area.  The provisions in this Section 8.3 will not 
be construed to allow Licensee’s ordinary operations to impede or delay the City’s authority and 
ability to make changes to the License Areas necessary to maintain street light services. 
8.4. 
Emergencies 
In emergencies, the City’s work will take precedence over Licensee’s operations, which 
includes without limitation any Equipment operated on the License Area, and the City may 
access the License Area in whole or in part as the City deems necessary in its sole determination 
and in accordance with this Section 8.4, whether the City has notified Licensee of such 
emergency or other exigent circumstances or not.  When safe and practicable, the City will notify 
Licensee of any emergency or other exigent circumstances that requires the City to remove or 
replace any Pole and will allow Licensee to remove its Equipment before the City removes or 
replaces the Pole; provided, however, that the City will remove the Equipment from the Pole 
when in the City’s sole determination it would (1) be unsafe to wait for Licensee to perform the 
work; or (2) otherwise threaten or compromise public safety or public services.  The City will 
remove any Equipment with reasonable care and store the Equipment for retrieval by Licensee 
and the City will provide notice as soon as reasonably practicable after such emergency, but in 
no event later than 24 hours after the emergency.  Licensee shall have the right to reinstall such 
removed Equipment or equivalent Equipment at Licensee’s sole expense on the repaired or 
replaced Pole and in accordance with Section 7 (Equipment Installation).  The City’s removal of 
Licensee’s Equipment in emergencies or other exigent circumstances will not be deemed to be a 
forcible or unlawful entry onto the License Area or any interference with Licensee’s contractual 
privilege to use the License Area. 
18 of 42

--- page 19 ---
Page 12 of 35 
9. 
LICENSEE’S MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS 
9.1. 
Damage to Poles 
9.1.1. 
Notice to the City 
Licensee agrees to give the City notice of the need for any repair to a Pole promptly after 
Licensee discovers any damage from any cause.  Licensee’s agreement to provide notice is not 
an assumption of liability for any life-threatening or hazardous conditions unless caused by the 
acts, omissions or negligence of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees. 
9.1.2. 
Damage Caused by Licensee 
In the event that any use or maintenance by Licensee or its Agents or Invitees cause any 
damage to any Pole, Licensee must repair such damage within 30 days after the City provides a 
written notice to Licensee that describes such damage.  Such 30-day cure period may be 
extended to a date certain if the City agrees the cure reasonably requires more time.  In the event 
that Licensee fails to timely cure the damage, the City may repair the damage at Licensee’s 
expense.  Licensee will reimburse the City for all costs incurred to repair such damage within 30 
days after Licensee receives the City’s demand for payment, together with copies of invoices or 
other evidence to document the costs incurred. 
9.1.3. 
No Right to Repair 
Absent notice from the City with a demand to cure any damage to a Pole, or as provided 
in Section 14.1.1 below, Licensee is not authorized to make any repairs to any Pole.   
9.2. 
Equipment Maintenance 
Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, install, maintain and promptly repair any 
damage to any Equipment installed on the License Area whenever repair or maintenance may be 
required, subject to the City’s prior approval if required under Section 7 (Equipment 
Installation).  Licensee is not required to seek the City’s prior approval for any Equipment repair, 
maintenance, replacement or other installation on the License Area when such Equipment is 
shown on the Approved Plans.  Licensee must obtain the City’s prior written approval for any 
Equipment repair, maintenance, replacement or other installation that involves larger, different or 
additional Equipment than shown on the Approved Plans.  Any work on Licensee’s Equipment 
installed on Poles that is authorized or permitted under this Section 9.2 is subject to Licensee 
obtaining any required Regulatory Approvals. 
9.3. 
Graffiti Abatement 
Licensee’s repair and maintenance obligation includes the removal of any graffiti or 
similar vandalism from the License Area within 48 hours after the City notifies Licensee in 
writing of said graffiti or vandalism. 
9.4. 
Standard of Work 
All work performed by or for Licensee under this Section 9.4 shall be: (1) at Licensee’s 
sole cost and expense; (2) performed only by qualified and trained persons and appropriately 
19 of 42

--- page 20 ---
Page 13 of 35 
licensed contractors; (3) performed in a manner and with equipment and materials that will not 
interfere with or impair the City’s operations; (4) compliant with all applicable Laws; and (5) 
performed solely by Licensee and not by Licensee’s Invitees. 
10. 
LIENS 
Licensee shall keep the License Area free and clear from any and all liens in connection with any 
work performed, material furnished or obligations incurred by or for Licensee.  Licensee shall 
inform each and every contractor and material supplier that provides any work, service, 
equipment or material to Licensee in any way connected with Licensee’s use of the License Area 
that the License Area is public property and is not subject to mechanics’ liens or stop notices for 
Equipment or other materials or services provided for Licensee’s Equipment.  If Licensee does 
not cause the release of lien of a mechanic’s lien or stop notice by any contractor, service 
provider or equipment or material supplier purporting to attach to the License Area or other City 
Property arising from work done by or on behalf of Licensee within 30 days after written notice 
or discovery of the lien, the City will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to 
be released by any means it deems proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such 
lien.  Licensee must reimburse the City for all expenses it incurs in connection with any such lien 
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) within 30 days following receipt of the City’s written 
demand together with copies of invoices or other evidence to document the costs incurred.  
Licensee shall give the City at least 10 days’ prior notice of commencement of any construction 
or installation on any part of the License Area except for minor and routine repair and 
maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment.  Licensee shall not create, permit, or suffer any other 
encumbrances affecting any portion of the License Area. 
11. 
UTILITIES 
Licensee shall be solely responsible for obtaining and maintaining electric service for the 
Equipment, including, but not limited to, making payments to electric utilities and installation of 
separate electric meters, if necessary. 
12. 
TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS 
 
If City is required by law to collect any federal, state, or local tax, fee, or other 
governmental imposition (each, a “Tax”) from Licensee with respect to the transactions 
contemplated by this Master License, then City shall bill such Tax to Licensee in the manner and 
for the amount required by law, Licensee shall promptly pay such billed amount of Tax to City, 
and City shall remit such Tax to the appropriate tax authorities as required by law; provided, 
however, that City shall not bill to or otherwise attempt to collect from Licensee any Tax with 
respect to which Licensee has provided City with an exemption certificate or other reasonable 
basis for relieving City of its responsibility to collect such tax from Licensee.  Licensee shall be 
20 of 42

--- page 21 ---
Page 14 of 35 
responsible for all Taxes that are assessed against or are otherwise the legal responsibility of 
Licensee with respect to itself and its property. 
13. 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
13.1. Compliance with Current and Future Laws 
Licensee shall install, operate and maintain the Equipment, and shall perform all work in 
connection with such installation, operation and maintenance, in strict compliance with all 
applicable Laws and all conditions in any Regulatory Approvals issued in connection with the 
Equipment or its installation and operation on any Pole.   
13.2. Licensee’s Personnel 
13.2.1. Personnel Training and Certification 
Licensee shall ensure that all persons who install, operate or maintain the Equipment are 
appropriately trained and licensed by the California State Contractors Licensing Board as 
required under applicable CPUC rules and regulations.  Licensee shall ensure that such persons 
are trained in and observe all safety requirements established by the City, the CPUC and the 
California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Department of Industrial Relations or its 
duly appointed successor agency, which includes without limitation site orientation, tag-out and 
lock-out de-energization rules, ladder and lift restrictions and track and street right-of-way safety 
requirements. 
13.2.2. Licensee’s Indemnification for Personnel Injuries 
Licensee acknowledges that (1) the City has delegated to Licensee control over the 
License Area at any time in which Licensee or its Agents are installing, operating or maintaining 
the Equipment; and (2) the City is not a co-employer of any employee of Licensee or any 
employee of Licensee’s Agents.  The City shall not be liable for any Claim (defined in Section 
17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations)) by Licensee’s or its Agent’s employee(s), except 
where such Claim is directly caused by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City.  
Licensee agrees to fully indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless in the same manner as 
provided in Section 17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations) against any Claim by any 
employee of Licensee or its Agents that arises in connection with Licensee’s or its Agents’ 
activities pursuant to this License Agreement, except to the extent such Claims arise out of the 
sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City, its employees or agents.   
13.3. Compliance with CPUC GO 95 
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with CPUC 
General Order 95 and the rules and other requirements enacted by the CPUC under that General 
Order, as applicable and as amended. 
13.4. Compliance with Building and Electric Codes 
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with the 
requirements of the California Building Code, the California Electric Code, National Electric 
Safety Code IEEE C2 (the “NESC”), to the extent such requirements apply to Licensee’s 
21 of 42

--- page 22 ---
Page 15 of 35 
Permitted Use, and any applicable local building electrical code, as those codes exist now or may 
be amended in the future.  To the extent that CPUC General Order 95 does not address cellular 
telephone antenna installations on Poles carrying electrical lines, Licensee shall apply, if 
applicable, provisions of the NESC, with particular attention to paragraphs 224, 235C, 235F, 
238, 239 and 239H and sections 22, 41 and 44.  Where any conflict exists between the California 
Building Code, the NESC, the California Electric Code, any local code and CPUC General Order 
128, the more stringent requirements will apply, as determined by the City. 
13.5. Compliance with EMF Exposure Regulations 
Licensee’s obligation to comply with all Laws includes all Laws related to maximum 
permissible exposure to EMF emissions on or about the License Area, which includes all 
applicable FCC standards, applicable to Licensee’s Equipment. Prior to submitting, or 
concurrently with, a Wireless Permit Application, Licensee must comply with the City’s 
telecommunications ordinance and current Design and Engineering Standards, for each proposed 
Pole on which the Licensee desires to install or operate its Equipment. In the event any 
subsequent EMF Compliance Report submitted by Licensee or other permittee determines that 
the EMF levels at the License Area exceed FCC standards for the maximum permissible 
exposure to EMF emissions, Licensee must promptly demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City 
compliance with the requirements of 47 Code of Federal Regulations Section 1.1307 or any other 
then-applicable Laws related to EMF levels from Licensee’s equipment.   
14. 
DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION 
14.1. City’s Rights After Damage or Destruction 
In the event the License Area in whole or in part becomes damaged due to any cause 
other than the negligence or willful misconduct of City, its Agents or Invitees, the City (1) will 
have no obligation whatsoever to repair or replace the damaged License Area or Licensee’s 
Equipment; and (2) may, in the City’s sole and absolute discretion, elect to take any of the 
following actions: 
14.1.1. Election to Repair or Replace Damaged Pole 
Within 30 days after the date on which the City discovers damage or destruction of a Pole 
that was not caused by Licensee, the City will give Licensee notice of the City’s decision 
whether to repair or replace the damaged Pole and its good faith estimate of the amount of time 
the City will need to complete the work.  If the City cannot complete the work within 30 days 
after the date that the City specifies in its notice, or if the City elects not to perform the work, 
then Licensee will have the right to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 days’ notice to 
the City. However, if City elects not to perform such work, Licensee may perform such work at 
its sole cost and expense, subject to City approval of Licensee’s plans and specifications and 
Licensee’s compliance with City permit requirements. In such case, the affected Wireless Permit 
will remain in full force and effect. 
14.1.2. Election to Remove Damaged Pole 
If the City elects to remove, rather than repair or replace, a damaged Pole, and Licensee 
does not elect to repair the Pole at its sole cost and expense, and the City has no other viable pole 
22 of 42

--- page 23 ---
Page 16 of 35 
options for relocation of the Equipment, then the applicable Wireless Permit will automatically 
terminate on the last day of the month in which the removal occurs. 
14.1.3. Election to Remove Equipment from Damaged Pole 
If the acts of third parties or an act of nature or other force majeure circumstance outside 
the control of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees destroys or damages any Pole to such an extent 
that, in the City’s reasonable determination after consultation with Licensee, the Equipment on 
the Pole cannot be operated, the City may decide to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 
days’ notice to Licensee and require Licensee to remove the Equipment from the damaged Pole 
before the termination date specified in the City’s notice, provided, however such removal date 
shall not be any earlier than 60 days following the City’s notice.  Notwithstanding anything in 
this Master License or any Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City will have the right to remove 
any damaged Pole when deemed necessary, in the City’s sole determination, to protect the public 
or property from imminent (whether threatened or actual) harm. 
14.2. Licensee’s Rights upon Termination 
After the City terminates a Wireless Permit pursuant to Section 14.1 (City’s Rights After 
Damage or Destruction), the City will: (1) refund any pre-paid License Charge in connection 
with the terminated Wireless Permit on a pro-rata basis determined by the number of months left 
in the current License Year at the time such termination occurs; and (2)prioritize Licensee’s 
Wireless Permit Application for one replacement Pole.  However, nothing in this provision shall 
require the City to replace any Pole or Wireless Permit that has been terminated. 
15. 
CONDEMNATION 
15.1. Permanent Takings 
In the event that any entity with the power to condemn permanently takes any License 
Area in whole or in part, or in the event that the City transfers any License Area in whole or in 
part to such entity in lieu of eminent domain, the following provisions will apply: 
15.1.1. Termination 
Any affected Wireless Permit will automatically terminate as to the part taken or 
transferred on the date the permanent taking or transfer occurs, and the License Charge under the 
affected Wireless Permit will be ratably reduced to account for the reduction in License Area. 
15.1.2. Award 
The City will be entitled to any award paid or made in connection with the taking or any 
sums paid in lieu of such taking.  Licensee will have no claim against the City for the value of 
any unexpired Term of any Wireless Permit or otherwise except that Licensee may claim any 
portion of the award that is specifically allocable to Licensee’s loss or damage to Licensee’s 
Equipment. 
23 of 42

--- page 24 ---
Page 17 of 35 
15.1.3. No Statutory Right to Terminate 
The parties understand, acknowledge and agree that this Section 15.1 (Permanent 
Takings) is intended to fully govern the parties’ rights and obligations in the event of a 
permanent taking.  Licensee and the City each hereby waives and releases any right to terminate 
this Master License in whole or in part under California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1265.120 
and 1265.130 and under any similar Laws to the extent applicable to this Master License. 
15.2. Temporary Takings 
Any taking that affects any License Area in whole or in part for less than 90 days will 
have no effect on the affected Wireless Permit, except that Licensee will be entitled to a pro-rata 
abatement in the applicable License Charge to the extent that such temporary taking materially 
impairs Licensee’s use of the License Area.  Furthermore, in the event that the City receives an 
award, if any, in connection with such temporary taking, Licensee will receive the portion from 
the award that represents compensation for the use or occupancy of the License Area during the 
Term but not to exceed the License Charges and additional fees payable by Licensee for the 
period of the taking, and the City will retain the balance of the award. 
16. 
ASSIGNMENT AND OTHER TRANSFERS 
16.1. General Restriction 
Except as specifically provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), Licensee shall not 
directly or indirectly assign its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with 
this Master License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area without the City’s prior written 
consent, except that no such consent shall be required in the event of an assignment by Licensee 
to a “Related Party.”  For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Related Party” shall be defined 
as (a) a surviving or successor company to Licensee in the event of a merger or consolidation; 
(b) a company owned by Licensee; (c) a company that owns Licensee; or (d) a company that is 
owned by the same company as Licensee.  In clauses (b), (c) and (d), the terms “owned” and 
“owns” include direct or indirect ownership.  Notice only is required for an assignment by 
Licensee to a Related Party.  Where notice only is required, Licensee shall notify City of any 
assignment, transfer of the privileges contained in this Agreement within sixty (60) days of 
occurrence.  The City shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to any 
proposed Assignment; provided, however, that the parties acknowledge that the City may 
reasonably withhold its consent to any proposed Assignment at any time in which any monetary 
or other material default by Licensee under this Master License remains uncured.  
 
Licensor acknowledges that Licensee may enter into financing arrangements including 
promissory notes and financial and security agreements for the financing of the Licensee 
Attachments (the “Collateral”) with third party financing entities.  In connection therewith, 
Licensor (i) consents to the installation of the Collateral consistent with the other terms of this 
Agreement; (ii) disclaims any interest in the Collateral, as fixtures or otherwise; and (iii) agrees 
that the Collateral shall be exempt from execution, foreclosure, sale, levy, attachment, or distress 
for any rent due or to become due and that such Collateral may be removed at any time 
consistent with the other terms of this Agreement without recourse to legal proceedings. 
 
24 of 42

--- page 25 ---
Page 18 of 35 
16.2. Proposed Assignment Procedures 
16.2.1. Proposed Assignment Notice 
Other than with respect to a Permitted Assignment, in the event that Licensee desires to 
Assign this its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with this Master 
License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area, Licensee shall first send written notice (the 
“Proposed Assignment Notice”) to the City, which states in detail the proposed terms and 
conditions for the Assignment and financial information sufficient to show that the proposed 
assignee (the “Proposed Assignee”) has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of 
Licensee under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  In addition, upon 
a written request from the City, Licensee or the Proposed Assignee shall provide additional 
information, which includes without limitation financial statements, business track records, 
references and other information about the Proposed Assignee that the City reasonably requires 
to fully evaluate Licensee’s request and render an informed decision.  In the event that Licensee 
does not provide all such information simultaneously with the Proposed Assignment Notice, the 
Proposed Assignment Notice shall not be deemed effective until Licensee delivers all such 
information as the City may reasonably require. 
16.2.2. City Response 
The City shall approve or disapprove any request for consent to an Assignment within 30 
days after the City receives a complete Proposed Assignment Notice, or 45 days after the 
deemed-effective date if Licensee delivers an incomplete Proposed Assignment Notice as 
described in Section 16.2.1 (Proposed Assignment Notice) (in either case, the “Assignment 
Response Period”).  The City shall not unreasonably withhold approval if the proposed assignee 
has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of Licensee under this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  If the City fails to respond within the Assignment 
Response Period, Licensee will provide a second notice with a clear heading in bold and all 
capital letters indicating it is the second notice and if City does not respond with approval or 
written reasons for disapproval within 30 days from receipt of the second notice, the request for 
assignment shall be deemed approved.  Notwithstanding anything in this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City may, in its sole and absolute discretion, refuse consent 
to any assignment to a Proposed Assignee with (i) liquid assets or other immediately available 
funds less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000); (ii) any history of discrimination or other 
employment practices that conflict with the City’s non-discrimination policies; or (iii) any 
pending or past criminal convictions or civil judgements that would impugn or damage the City’s 
reputation by association with said Proposed Assignee. 
16.3. Permitted Assignments 
16.3.1. Definition 
The City agrees that Licensee will be permitted to enter into an Assignment of this 
Master License and Wireless Permits issued under it (a “Permitted Assignment”), without the 
City’s prior consent but with notice to the City as provided below, to: (i) Licensee’s parent; (ii) a 
Licensee’s subsidiary; (iii) an entity that acquires all or substantially all of Licensee’s assets in 
the market in which the License Area is located (as the market is defined by the FCC under an 
order or directive of the FCC); (iv) an entity that acquires Licensee by a change of stock 
25 of 42

--- page 26 ---
Page 19 of 35 
ownership or partnership interest; or (v) an entity that Controls Licensee, is Controlled by 
Licensee or that, with Licensee, is under the Common Control of a third party. 
16.3.2. Conditions 
A Permitted Assignment is subject to all the following conditions: (a) the Assignee uses 
the License Area only for the Permitted Use and holds all Regulatory Approvals necessary to 
lawfully install, operate, and maintain Equipment on the License Area; (b) Licensee provides the 
City with notice 30 days before the effective date of Permitted Assignment, stating the contact 
information for the proposed Assignee and providing financial information establishing that the 
proposed Assignee has the capital and fiscal qualifications greater than or equal to Licensee’s; 
and (c) Licensee is in good standing under this Master License. 
16.4. Effect of Assignment 
No Assignment by Licensee, consent to Assignment by the City, or Permitted 
Assignment under Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments) to any Assignee or other third party 
will relieve Licensee of any obligation on its part under this Master License, until and unless the 
Assignee signs a written agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to the City to 
unconditionally assume all Licensee’s obligations under this Master License and any Wireless 
Permit issued hereunder.  Any Assignment that is not in compliance with this Section 16 will be 
void ab initio and be a material default by Licensee under this Master License without a 
requirement for notice and a right to cure.  The City’s acceptance of any License Charge, 
Additional Fee, or other payments from a proposed Assignee will not be deemed to be the City’s 
consent to such Assignment, recognition of any Assignee, or waiver of any failure of Licensee or 
other transferor to comply with this Section. 
16.5. Assumption by Transferee 
Each Assignee shall assume all obligations of Licensee under this Master License and 
each assigned Wireless Permit and will be and remain liable jointly and severally with Licensee 
for all obligations to be performed by Licensee until and unless the Assignee signs a written 
agreement, in a form reasonably acceptable to the City, to unconditionally assume all Licensee’s 
obligations under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  No 
Assignment will be binding on the City unless Licensee or the Assignee delivers to the City 
evidence reasonably satisfactory to the City that the Assignee has obtained all required 
Regulatory Approvals necessary to install, maintain and operate the Equipment and any other 
associated improvements or personal property, a copy of the Assignment agreement (or other 
document reasonably satisfactory to the City in the event of a Permitted Assignment under 
Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), and an instrument in recordable form that contains a 
covenant of assumption by such Assignee satisfactory in substance and form to the City, 
consistent with the requirements of this Article.  However, the failure or refusal of an Assignee 
to execute such instrument of assumption will not release such Assignee from its liability as set 
forth in this Section.  Except for a Permitted Assignment as provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted 
Assignments), Licensee shall reimburse the City on demand for any reasonable costs that the 
City incurs in connection with any proposed Assignment, including the costs of investigating the 
acceptability of the proposed Assignee and legal costs incurred in connection with considering 
any requested consent, which amount shall not exceed $5,000. 
26 of 42

--- page 27 ---
Page 20 of 35 
16.6. Carriers. 
 
 The Parties acknowledge that Equipment deployed by Licensee in the License Areas 
pursuant to this Agreement may be owned and/or remotely operated by third-party wireless 
carrier customer (“Carriers”) and installed and maintained by Licensee pursuant to existing 
agreements between Licensee and a Carrier.  Such Equipment shall be treated as Licensee’s 
Equipment for all purposes under this Master License and any applicable Pole License.  A 
Carrier’s ownership and/or operation of such Equipment shall not constitute an Assignment 
under this Master License, provided that Licensee shall not actually or purport to sell, assign, 
encumber, pledge, or otherwise transfer any part of its interest in the License Area to a Carrier, 
or otherwise permit any portion of the License Area to be occupied by anyone other than itself.  
Licensee shall remain solely responsible and liable for the performance of all obligations under 
this Master License and applicable Pole Licenses with respect to any Equipment owned and/or 
remotely operated by a Carrier. 
 
17. 
LICENSEE’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS 
Licensee, for itself and its successors and assigns, shall indemnify, defend and hold the 
City, its officials, employees, Agents, Invitees and their respective heirs, legal representatives, 
successors and assigns (the “Indemnified Parties”), harmless from and against any and all 
liabilities, losses, costs, claims, judgments, settlements, damages, liens, fines, penalties and 
expenses, whether direct or indirect (each a “Claim”), to the extent incurred in connection with 
or arising in whole or in part from Licensee’s performance of this Master License. 
18. 
INSURANCE 
As a condition of Wireless Permit issuance, Licensee will obtain insurance specified in 
Exhibit A to this Master License. 
19. 
LIMITATIONS ON THE CITY’S LIABILITY 
19.1. General Limitations on the City’s Liability 
Except where otherwise provided in this Master License, the City is not responsible or 
liable to Licensee for, and Licensee hereby waives all claims against the City and its Agents and 
releases the City and its Agents from, all claims from any cause (except to the extent caused by 
the negligence or willful misconduct of the City other than Licensee or any third parties acting 
for Licensee or at Licensee’s direction), including acts or omissions of persons using the 
sidewalk or street adjoining or adjacent to or connected with the License Area; utility 
interruption; theft; burst, stopped or leaking water, gas, sewer or steam pipes; or gas, fire, oil, or 
electricity in, flood, or vehicle collision on or about the License Area or other City Property. 
19.2. Consequential Damages 
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the License Charges and additional fees 
payable under this Master License do not take into account any potential liability of the City for 
consequential or incidental damages.  The City would not be willing to enter into this Master 
27 of 42

--- page 28 ---
Page 21 of 35 
License or issue any Wireless Permits in the absence of a complete waiver of liability, to the 
fullest extent permitted by Law, for consequential or incidental damages due to the acts or 
omissions of the City, and Licensee expressly assumes the risk with respect thereto.  
Accordingly, without limiting any indemnification obligations of Licensee or other waivers 
contained in this Master License and as a material part of the consideration for this Master 
License, the parties agree that neither party will be liable to the other in connection with this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit for any consequential, special, indirect or incidental or 
punitive damages (including lost revenues, loss of equipment, interference, interruption or loss of 
service, or loss of data, inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages) for 
any cause of action, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, even if the party was or should have 
been aware of the possibility of these damages, whether under theory of contract, tort (including 
negligence), strict liability or otherwise. 
19.3. No Relocation Assistance 
This Master License creates no right in Licensee to receive any relocation assistance or 
payment for any reason under the California Relocation Assistance Law (Cal.  Gov.  Code §§ 
7260 et seq.), the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 
U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.) or similar Law upon any termination of occupancy except as provided in 
Section 15 (Condemnation).  To the extent that any relocation law may apply, Licensee waives, 
releases and relinquishes forever any and all claims that it may have against the City for any 
compensation from the City except as specifically provided in this Master License upon 
termination of its occupancy of all or any part of the License Area. 
19.4. Non-Liability for City Officials, Employees and Agents 
No elective or appointive board, agency, member, officer, official, employee or other 
Agent of the City will be personally liable to Licensee, its successors and assigns, in the event of 
any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become due to Licensee, its 
successors and assigns, or for any obligation of the City under this Master License. 
20. 
RECORDS 
20.1. Accounting Records 
Licensee shall maintain throughout the Term and for at least four years after this Master 
License expires or terminates the following records in physical format at Licensee’s place of 
business within the State of California and in an electronic format: (1) site identification and 
location for all Poles under active Wireless Permits; (2) the amount and payment date for all 
License Charges paid to the City pursuant to this Master License; (3) all Regulatory Approvals 
issued in connection with the Equipment on Poles; and (4) all correspondence with the City in 
connection with any matter covered under this Master License.  The City, or its designee, will 
have the right to inspect and audit Licensee’s records at Licensee’s place of business or a 
mutually convenient location during regular business hours on 30 days’ notice to Licensee. 
21. 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
At all times throughout the Term, Licensee shall faithfully comply with any and all 
reasonable rules, regulations and instructions that the City may from time-to-time establish 
and/or amend with respect to the License Area. 
28 of 42

--- page 29 ---
Page 22 of 35 
22. 
SURRENDER OF LICENSE AREA 
22.1. Surrender 
No later than 60 days after the expiration date of this Master License or other termination 
of this Master License or any Wireless Permit, Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, 
peaceably remove its Equipment from the License Area except for any other Equipment or 
improvements that the City agrees in writing to accept, repair any damages caused by the 
removal work and surrender the License Area to the City in good order and condition, normal 
wear and tear and casualty excepted, free of debris and hazards, and free and clear of all liens 
and encumbrances to the extent arising out of work done by or on behalf of Licensee.  Licensee’s 
obligations under this Section 22.1 will survive the expiration date of this Master License or 
other termination of this Master License. 
23. 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
23.1. Hazardous Materials in License Area 
Licensee covenants and agrees that neither Licensee nor any of its Agents or Invitees 
shall cause or permit any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, used, stored, generated, 
disposed of or Released in, on, under or about the License Area or any other part of City 
Property, or transported to or from any City Property in violation of Environmental Laws, except 
that Licensee may use small quantities of Hazardous Materials as needed for routine operation, 
cleaning and maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment that are customarily used for routine 
operation, cleaning and maintenance of such equipment and so long as all such Hazardous 
Materials are contained, handled and used in compliance with Environmental Laws.  Licensee 
shall immediately notify the City if and when Licensee learns or has reason to believe any 
Release of Hazardous Material has occurred in, on, under or about the License Area or other City 
Property. 
23.2. Licensee’s Environmental Indemnity 
If Licensee breaches any of its obligations contained in this Section, or if any act, 
omission, or negligence of Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees results in any contamination 
of the License Area or other City Property, or in a Release of Hazardous Material from, on, 
about, in or beneath any part of the License Area or other City Property, or the violation of any 
Environmental Law, then Licensee, on behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, shall 
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, including its Agents, and their respective 
successors and assigns from and against any and all claims (including damages for decrease in 
value of the License Area or other City Property, the loss or restriction of the use of usable space 
in the License Area or other City Property and sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys’ fees, 
consultants’ fees, and experts’ fees and related costs) arising during or after the Term of this 
Master License to the extent arising out of such Release or violation of Environmental Laws; 
provided, however, Licensee shall not be liable for any claims to the extent such Release was 
caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  Licensee’s 
indemnification obligation includes costs incurred in connection with any activities required to 
Investigate and Remediate any Hazardous Material brought onto the License Area or other City 
Property by Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees in violation of Law and to restore the 
License Area or other City Property to its condition prior to Licensee’s introduction of such 
29 of 42

--- page 30 ---
Page 23 of 35 
Hazardous Material or to correct any violation of Environmental Laws by Licensee.  Licensee 
specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to 
defend the City and the other Indemnified Parties from any claim that actually or potentially falls 
within this Indemnity provision even if the allegations supporting the claim are or may be 
groundless, fraudulent, or false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to 
Licensee by the Indemnified Party and continues until the claim is finally resolved, or it is 
determined that this Indemnity provision does not apply.  Without limiting the foregoing, if 
Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees causes the Release of any Hazardous Material on, 
about, in, or beneath the License Area or other City Property, then in any such event Licensee 
shall, immediately, at no expense to any Indemnified Party, take any and all necessary actions to 
return the License Area or other City Property, as applicable, to the condition existing prior to 
the Release of any such Hazardous Materials on the License Area or other City Property or 
otherwise abate the Release in accordance with all Environmental Laws, except to the extent 
such Release was caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  
Licensee shall afford the City a full opportunity to participate in any discussions with Regulatory 
Agencies regarding any settlement agreement, cleanup or abatement agreement, consent decree 
or other compromise or proceeding involving Hazardous Material. 
24. 
DEFAULT 
24.1. Events of Default by Licensee 
Any of the following will constitute an event of default under this Master License and 
any Wireless Permits issued under it: (1) Licensee fails to pay any License Charge or additional 
fees as and when due if the failure continues for 30 days after notice from the City; (2) Licensee 
fails to perform or comply with any other material obligation or representation made under this 
Master License, if the failure continues for 30 days after the date of notice from the City, or, if 
such default is not capable of cure within the 30- day period, Licensee fails to promptly 
undertake action to cure such default within such 30-day period and thereafter fails to use its best 
efforts to complete such cure within 60 days after the City’s notice; (3) Licensee, except where 
otherwise permitted under this Master License, removes its Equipment or abandons the License 
Area for a continuous period of more than 60 days, such that the License Area is no longer being 
used for the Permitted Use; or (4) any of the following occurs: (i) the appointment of a receiver 
due to Licensee’s insolvency to take possession of all or substantially all of the assets of 
Licensee; (ii) an assignment by Licensee for the benefit of creditors; or (iii) any action taken by 
or against Licensee under any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, moratorium, or other 
debtor relief Laws, if any such receiver, assignment, or action is not released, discharged, 
dismissed, or vacated within 60 days. 
24.2. City’s Remedies 
In addition to all other rights and remedies available to the City at law or in equity, the 
City will have the following remedies following the occurrence of an event of default by 
Licensee. 
24.2.1. License Continuation 
Without prejudice to its right to other remedies, the City may continue this Master 
License and applicable Wireless Permits in effect, with the right to enforce all of its rights and 
30 of 42

--- page 31 ---
Page 24 of 35 
remedies, including the right to payment of License Charges, additional fees, and other charges 
as they become due. 
24.2.2. Wireless Permit Termination 
If a default specific to one or more Wireless Permits is not cured by Licensee within the 
applicable cure period, the City may terminate each Wireless Permit in default. 
24.2.3. Master License Termination 
If Licensee’s default is of such a serious nature in the City’s reasonable judgment that the 
default threatens public health or safety on a majority of the Poles licensed to Licensee, and the 
default or threatened danger to the public is likely to occur again in the future such that the City’s 
Poles are no longer appropriate support structures for the Equipment or the Permitted Use, the 
City may terminate this Master License in whole or in part.  Examples of reasons for termination 
may include, but are not limited to, malfunctions in the City’s streetlights caused by or 
attributable to the Equipment and/or structural damage caused to the Poles such that the Poles 
would need to be replaced to be deemed safe.  Termination of this Master License in whole will 
terminate all Wireless Permits issued under it automatically and without the need for any further 
action by the City. In either case, the City will deliver written notice to Licensee providing 30 
days’ notice of termination and specify the reason or reasons for the termination and whether the 
termination affects the entire Master License or only certain Wireless Permits in the notice. 
Licensee shall remove its Equipment from any affected Pole in compliance with Section 22 
above. The City will have the right to make any terminated portion of the License Area available 
for license to other parties as of the effective date of the termination, even if Licensee’s 
Equipment is still on the Pole. 
24.3. Licensee’s Remedies 
Licensee’s sole remedy for the City’s breach or threatened breach of this Master License 
or any Wireless Permit issued under it will be an action for damages, subject to Section 19 
(Limitations on the City’s Liability), and except as otherwise stated in this Master License. 
24.4. Cumulative Rights and Remedies 
All rights and remedies under this Master License are cumulative, except as otherwise 
provided. 
25. 
TERMINATION 
25.1. Licensee’s Rights 
25.1.1. Master License and Wireless Permit Termination Rights 
Licensee may, in Licensee’s sole discretion, terminate this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit on  90 days’ written notice to the City.  In addition, Licensee may terminate this 
Master License on 30 days’ written notice after any uncured default of this Master License by the 
City, after all applicable cure periods have expired. 
31 of 42

--- page 32 ---
Page 25 of 35 
25.1.2. Termination Rights after Pole Replacement 
In the event that the City exercises its absolute right to replace or relocate any Pole, the 
City shall make a reasonable effort to provide Licensee with at least 60 days’ notice.  The City’s 
failure to provide at least 60 days’ notice prior to any Pole replacement shall not affect the City’s 
rights under this Master License.  Within 90 days after Licensee receives notice from the City, 
Licensee may elect to either (1) install Licensee’s Equipment on the replacement or relocated 
Pole at Licensee’s sole cost and expense or (2) terminate the applicable Wireless Permit as to the 
replacement or relocated Pole. 
25.2. City’s Absolute Right to Terminate Wireless Permits 
The City has the absolute right to terminate any Wireless Permit on 30 days’ written 
notice to Licensee when the City determines, in the City’s sole discretion, that Licensee’s 
continued use of the License Area materially and adversely affects or threatens public health and 
safety, constitutes a nuisance, or materially interferes with the City’s municipal functions. 
25.3. Licensee’s Rights after Termination 
In the event that the City terminates any Wireless Permit for reasons unrelated to 
Licensee’s failure to perform its obligations under this Master License, the City shall refund any 
pre-paid Licensee Charge on a pro-rata basis, and Licensee shall not have any further liability for 
the License Charge.  In addition, the City shall prioritize Licensee’s Wireless Permit Application 
for any Wireless Permit to replace the terminated Wireless Permit; provided, however, that (1) 
the City shall prioritize only as many Wireless Permit Applications as Wireless Permits 
terminated by the City and (2) the City’s prioritization will not affect Licensee’s obligations 
under this Master License. 
26. 
INTERFERENCE 
26.1. Obligation Not to Cause Interference 
Licensee will not operate or maintain its Equipment in a manner that interferes with or 
impairs other communication (radio, telephone and other transmission or reception) or computer 
equipment lawfully used by the City or any of its Agents and that existed on the Commencement 
Date of the Wireless Permit associated with the Equipment causing interference.  Such 
interference will be an event of default under this Master License by Licensee, and upon notice 
from the City, Licensee shall be responsible for eliminating such interference promptly and at no 
cost to the City.  Licensee will be required to use its best efforts to remedy and cure such 
interference with or impairment of City operations.  If Licensee does not cure the default 
promptly, the parties acknowledge that continuing interference may cause irreparable injury and, 
therefore, the City will have the right to bring an action against Licensee to enjoin such 
interference or to terminate the Wireless Permit where the Equipment is causing interference or 
impairment, at the City’s election.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Master License, 
City agrees that City will use reasonable efforts to install, or allow City Invitees to install, only 
such equipment that is of the type and frequency which will not cause interference to the 
Equipment actually installed by Licensee.  In the event that Licensee discovers any such 
interference caused by the City or a City Invitee, the City shall reasonably cooperate with 
Licensee to identify the source and mitigate the interference; provided, however, that the City’s 
cooperation shall not obligate the City to change, alter or power off any City-owned or controlled 
32 of 42

--- page 33 ---
Page 26 of 35 
equipment used for public health and safety or other municipal functions, unless such equipment 
is malfunctioning.  The parties acknowledge that the Licensee possesses technical expertise that 
puts Licensee in the best position to identify and mitigate interference sources, and Licensee 
shall be primarily responsible for identification and mitigation work. 
26.2. Impairment Caused by Change in City Use 
Subject to the City’s obligations under of this Master License, if any change in the nature 
of the City’s use of the License Area during the Term results in measurable material adverse 
impairment to Licensee’s normal operation of its Equipment making it necessary to alter the 
Equipment to mitigate the adverse effect, Licensee shall notify the City and provide evidence of 
the claimed impairment.  Upon receipt of such notice, the City will have the right to make its 
own reasonable determination and, if it agrees with Licensee, investigate whether it can 
reasonably and economically mitigate that interference.  The City will provide notice to Licensee 
of the City’s determination within 15 days of receiving Licensee’s notice hereunder. 
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is feasible and can be 
achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, the City’s notice will specify 
when the City will mitigate the adverse effect.  The City’s mitigation will effect a cure, and the 
City will not be liable to Licensee in any other way or be required to take any other measures 
with respect to the Equipment. 
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is not feasible or cannot 
be achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, Licensee may elect either to: 
(1) terminate the Wireless Permit as to the affected City Pole and receive a ratable reduction in 
the License Charge; or (2) take steps itself at its own cost to mitigate the adverse effect and 
continue to operate the Equipment on the City Pole, and setoff the cost of mitigating the adverse 
effect against the License Charge for the immediately following year under the affected Wireless 
Permit. 
Licensee agrees that the City’s temporary and partial abatement or waiver of the License 
Charge under this Section 26.2 will be the only compensation due to Licensee for costs incurred 
or otherwise arising from the adverse effect as liquidated damages fully compensating Licensee 
for all claims that may arise or be related to the adverse effects.  Under no circumstances may the 
City be required to alter its operations at the identified City Pole or provide a replacement City 
Pole to Licensee. 
26.3. Impairment Caused by City Access 
Licensee agrees that it will not be entitled to any abatement of License Charges if the 
City exercises its rights of access under Section 8.1 (City’s Access to License Areas) unless the 
City’s activities cause Licensee to be unable to operate Equipment on the License Area for its 
permitted use for a period of more than 24 hours, in which case, subject to proof, License 
Charges will be abated ratably for the entire period that Licensee is unable to operate any 
Equipment on any affected City Pole. 
33 of 42

--- page 34 ---
Page 27 of 35 
27. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
27.1. Notices 
Except as may be specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all notices, 
demands or other correspondence required to be given under this Master License must written 
and delivered through (1) an established national courier service that maintains delivery records 
and confirmations; (2) hand delivery; or (3) certified or registered U.S.  Mail with prepaid 
postage and return receipt requested, and addressed as follows: 
To CITY: 
City of San Mateo 
 
Department of Public Works 
 
Attn:  Director of Public Works 
 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
(650) 522-7300 
 
 
 
To LICENSEE: 
 
 
Crown Castle Fiber LLC 
 
c/o Crown Castle 
 
2000 Corporate Drive 
 
Canonsburg, PA 15317 
 
Attn: Ken Simon, General Counsel 
  
 
With a copy to: 
  
 
Crown Castle Fiber LLC 
 
c/o Crown Castle 
 
2000 Corporate Drive 
 
Canonsburg, PA 15317 
 
Attn: SCN Contracts Management    
 
 
With a copy to General Counsel at same address 
 
All notices under this Master License will be deemed to have been delivered: (i) five days 
after deposit if delivered by first class mail; (ii) two days after deposit if delivered by certified 
mail; (iii) the date delivery is made by personal delivery or overnight delivery; or (iv) the date an 
attempt to make delivery fails because a party has failed to provide notice of a change of address 
or refuses to accept delivery.  Telephone, facsimile and email information are provided for 
convenience and for couriers who may require such information, and any notice given solely 
through electronic means will not be deemed to be effective notice.  Any copies required to be 
given constitute an administrative step and not actual notice.  The parties may change the notice 
addresses above from time-to- time through written notice to the addresses above or the then-
current notice address. 
27.2. Waiver; No Implied Waivers 
No failure by either party to insist upon the strict performance of any obligation of the 
other under this Master License or to exercise any right, power or remedy arising out of a breach 
34 of 42

--- page 35 ---
Page 28 of 35 
thereof, irrespective of the length of time for which such failure continues, will constitute a 
waiver of such breach.  No acceptance by the City or any of its Agents of full or partial payment 
of License Charges or additional fees during the continuance of any such breach will constitute a 
waiver of such breach or of the City’s right to demand material compliance with such term, 
covenant or condition, or operate as a waiver of any requirement of this Master License.  No 
express waiver by either party of any default or the performance of any provision hereof will 
affect any other default or performance, or cover any other period of time, other than the default, 
performance or period of time specified in such express waiver.  One or more waivers of a 
default or the performance of any provision hereof by either party will not be deemed to be a 
waiver of a subsequent default or performance.  The City’s consent given in any instance under 
the terms of this Master License will not relieve Licensee of any obligation to secure the City’s 
consent in any other or future instance under the terms of this Master License. 
27.3. Amendments 
No part of this Master License (including all Wireless Permits) may be changed, waived, 
discharged or terminated orally, nor may any breach thereof be waived, altered or modified, 
except by a written instrument signed by both parties. 
27.4. Interpretation 
The following rules of interpretation apply to this Master License. 
27.4.1. General 
Whenever required by the context, the singular includes the plural and vice versa; the 
masculine gender includes the feminine or neuter genders and vice versa; and defined terms 
encompass all correlating forms of the terms (e.g., the definition of “indemnify” applies to 
“indemnity,” “indemnification,” etc.). 
27.4.2. Joint and Several Liability 
In the event that the City provides consent, which the City may withhold for any or no 
reason, to enter into this Master License with more than one Licensee, the obligations and 
liabilities under this Master License imposed on Licensee will be joint and several among them. 
27.4.3. Captions 
The captions preceding the sections of this Master License and in the table of contents, if 
any, have been inserted for convenience of reference and such captions in no way define or limit 
the scope or intent of any provision of this Master License. 
27.4.4. City Actions 
All approvals, consents or other determinations permitted or required by the City under 
this Master License will be made by or through the Public Works Director or his or her designee, 
unless otherwise provided in this Master License or by the City Charter or any City ordinance. 
35 of 42

--- page 36 ---
Page 29 of 35 
27.4.5. Words of Inclusion 
The use of the term “including,” “such as,” or words of similar import when following 
any general or specific term, statement or matter may not be construed to limit the term, 
statement or matter to the stated terms, statements or matters, whether or not language of non-
limitation, such as “including, but not limited to” and “including without limitation” are used.  
Rather, the stated term, statement or matter will be interpreted to refer to all other items or 
matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest scope of the term, statement or matter. 
27.4.6. Laws 
References to all “Laws,” including specific statutes, relating to the rights and obligations 
of either party mean the Laws in effect on the Effective Date and as they are amended, replaced, 
supplemented, clarified, corrected or superseded at any time while any obligations under this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit are outstanding, whether or not foreseen or contemplated 
by the parties. Licensee shall comply with all Laws with respect to Licensee’s Permitted 
Use.  This Master License does not limit any rights Licensee may have in accordance with Laws 
to install its own poles in the right of way or to attach Licensee’s equipment to third-party poles 
located in the right of way. This Master License shall in no way limit or waive either party’s 
present or future rights under Laws. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or 
obligations of either Party are materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the 
parties agree to amend the Master License to reflect the change in Laws. 
27.5. Successors and Assigns 
The terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Master License bind and inure to 
the benefit of the City and Licensee and, except as otherwise provided herein, their successors 
and assigns. 
27.6. Brokers 
Neither party has had any contact or dealings regarding the license of the License Area, 
or any communication in connection therewith, through any licensed real estate broker or other 
person who could claim a right to a commission or finder’s fee in connection with the license 
contemplated herein (“Broker”), whose commission, if any is due, is to be paid pursuant to a 
separate written agreement between such Broker and the party through which such Broker 
contracted.  In the event that any Broker claiming to be retained by Licensee perfects a claim for 
a commission or finder’s fee based upon any such contact, dealings or communication, Licensee 
shall indemnify the City from all Claims brought by the Broker.  This Section 27.6 will survive 
expiration or earlier termination of this Master License. 
27.7. Severability 
If any provision of this Master License or the application thereof to any person, entity or 
circumstance is invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Master License, or the application 
of such provision to persons, entities or circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or 
unenforceable, will not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Master License will be 
valid and be enforced to the full extent permitted by Law. If any provision in this Master License 
is found to be invalid, illegal or otherwise unenforceable, the parties shall negotiate in good faith 
to modify this Master License so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as 
36 of 42

--- page 37 ---
Page 30 of 35 
possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be 
consummated as originally intended by the parties. 
27.8. Governing Law; Venue 
This Master License must be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the 
State of California.  This Master License is made, entered and will be performed in the City of 
San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California.  Any action concerning this Master 
License must be brought and heard in Superior Court for the County of San Mateo or the United 
States District Court for the Northern District of California. 
27.9. Time for Performance 
Provisions in this Master License relating to number of days mean calendar days, unless 
otherwise specified.  “Business day” means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a bank or 
City holiday.  If the last day of any period to give notice, reply to a notice, or to undertake any 
other action occurs on a day that is not a business day, then the last day for undertaking the 
action or giving or replying to the notice will be the next succeeding business day.  Time is of the 
essence with respect to all provisions of this Master License in which a definite time for 
performance is specified. 
27.10. Survival 
Expiration or earlier termination of this Master License will not affect the right of either 
party to enforce any and all indemnities and representations and warranties given or made to the 
other party under this Master License, or any provision of this Master License that expressly 
survives termination. 
27.11. Recording 
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that Licensee shall not have the right to record this 
Master License, any Wireless Permit or any memorandum or short form of any of them in the 
Official Records of the County of San Mateo. 
27.12. Intentionally Omitted. 
27.13. Attachments and Exhibits.  
All attachments and exhibits to this Master License are hereby made a part hereof as if 
fully set out herein. 
27.14. Approval Authority 
Each person signing this Master License and any Wireless Permit on behalf of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, warrants and represents that: (i) he or she has the full right, power 
and capacity to act on behalf of the City and Licensee, respectively, and has the authority to bind 
the City and Licensee, respectively, to the performance of its obligations under those agreements 
without the subsequent approval or consent of any other person or entity; (ii) each of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, is a duly authorized and existing entity; (iii) Licensee is qualified to 
37 of 42

--- page 38 ---
Page 31 of 35 
do business in California; and each of the City and Licensee, respectively, has full right and 
authority to enter into this Master License and Wireless Permits.   
[END OF MASTER LICENSE — SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE] 
 
 
 
 
38 of 42

--- page 39 ---
Page 32 of 35 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Crown Castle Fiber LLC have caused 
this Master License to be executed as of the Effective Date by their duly authorized 
representatives, and hereto have accepted the terms, conditions, and provisions set forth above. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
LICENSEE 
Crown Castle Fiber LLC. 
 
By:  
 
 
 
 
 
Drew Corbett  
 
 
City Manager   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh P. Nguyen   
 
 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 of 42

--- page 40 ---
Page 33 of 35 
EXHIBIT A 
Insurance Requirements for Licensees 
Licensee shall maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for injuries to 
persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the Licensee’s 
operation and use of the leased premises.  The cost of such insurance shall be borne by the 
Licensee. 
SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 
01 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed 
operations, property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury and 
limited pollution liability endorsement, with limits of $2,000,000 per occurrence 
and $4,000,000 general aggregate.  If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 
03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit. The limits of this requirement may be satisfied by any combination of 
underlying and excess/umbrella insurance to the extent the excess/umbrella 
policies will provide similar coverage as the primary CGL policy with no new 
exclusions. The excess/umbrella policy must also be written on a primary and 
noncontributory basis for an additional insured, and that it will apply before any 
other insurance that is available to such additional insured which covers that 
person or organization as a named insured, and we will not share with that other 
insurance.  
2. 
Limited Pollution Liability Coverage. Insurance in the amount of $5,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim and $10,000,000 in the aggregate covering third party claims 
for bodily injury, property damage or cleanup costs relating to this Agreement  and 
for Licensee’s products and completed operations. (This may satisfy the 
requirement for a limited pollution liability endorsement on the Commercial 
General Liability insurance policy.) 
 
3. 
Automobile Liability: coverage must be at least as broad as ISO Form CA 00 01 
covering all owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles with limit of $1,000,000 
combined single limit each occurrence /per accident  for bodily injury and 
property damage. 
4. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease/disease per employee/policy 
limit-disease.  (This applies to Licensees with employees). The Worker’s 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
City (and its officials, officers, and employees). The insurers shall agree to waive 
40 of 42

--- page 41 ---
Page 34 of 35 
all rights of subrogation against City and its officials, officers, and employees for 
all work performed by Licensee and its employees, agents, and contractors. 
5.. 
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or 
betterments, personal property, trade fixtures, equipment located in, on, at, under, 
above, or about the City’s ROW, License Area, and/or City Pole(s) (including, but 
not limited to, loss resulting from fire, windstorm, hail, lightning, vandalism, 
malicious mischief, and such other perils ordinarily at full replacement cost with 
no coinsurance penalty provision which requirement may be partially or wholly 
self-insured. 
6. 
Professional Liability: (Applicable to all contractors and subcontractors of any tier 
performing any professional services including engineers, surveyors, or 
consultants relating to this agreement) with limits of $2,000,000 per claim, and 
$2,000,000 policy aggregate.  
7. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability: (Applicable to all contractors and subcontractors 
of any tier performing any removal, remediation, abatement, transportation or 
disposal of any hazardous materials and/or projects involving environmental 
hazards relating to this agreement) with limits of $2,000,000 per occurrence and 
$2,000,000 policy aggregate.   
Other Insurance Provisions: 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds as their interests may appear under this Master License on the CGL policy with respect 
to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee including 
materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations.   
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Licensee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers.  Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees, or 
volunteers shall be excess of the Licensee’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Upon notice from Licensee’s insurers, Licensee shall use commercially reasonable efforts to 
provide thirty (30) days advance written notice to City of cancellation except for non-payment of 
premium. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Licensee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
Licensee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any worker’s compensation or 
41 of 42

--- page 42 ---
Page 35 of 35 
employer’s liability loss under such insurance.  Licensee agrees to obtain any endorsement that 
may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M.  Best’s rating of no less than A-: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, 
either:  the Licensee shall obtain coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as 
respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Licensee shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses.   
Insurance Limits  
The fact that insurance is obtained by Licensee, or subcontractor on behalf of Licensee, shall not 
be deemed to release or diminish the liability of Licensee or subcontractor, including, without 
limitation, liability under the indemnity provisions of this agreement. Damages recoverable by 
the City shall not be limited by the amount of the required insurance coverage. Any available 
insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Licensee shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance and required additional 
insured endorsements to City before work begins.  However, failure to obtain the required 
documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Licensee’s obligation to provide 
them. We strongly recommend obtaining a copy of the policy declarations and endorsement 
page (make this a requirement in your Contract) to facilitate verification of coverages and spot 
any undesirable policy limitations or exclusions 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
The limits of liability may be increased or decreased by mutual consent of the parties, which 
consent will not be unreasonably withheld by either party, in the event of any factors or 
occurrences, including substantial increases in the level of jury verdicts or judgments or the 
passage of state, federal, or other governmental compensation plans, or laws that would 
materially increase or decrease City’s exposure to risk. 
42 of 42