DPS provides guidance on ALPR to law enforcement agencies Open in Our App Get the best experience and stay connected to your community with our Spectrum News app. Learn More Open in Spectrum News App Continue in Browser 71° Toggle navigation Kansas City (CHANGE) | October 3, 2026 | 5:17PM undefined 71° EDIT WATCH LIVE | Recent Activity Log Out Recent Activity Log In Latest News Weather Today's Forecast 7 Day Forecast Interactive Radar Watches and Warnings Politics Local and National Politics Washington, D.C. Bureau In Focus The Big Deal with Errol Louis Around Kansas City Traffic & Transportation Sports Our Journalists WATCH LIVE ACCOUNT Log Out Recent Activity WATCH LIVE ACCOUNT Log In Recent Activity Latest News Weather Today's Forecast 7 Day Forecast Interactive Radar Watches and Warnings Politics Local and National Politics Washington, D.C. Bureau In Focus The Big Deal with Errol Louis Around Kansas City Traffic & Transportation Sports Our Journalists × Set Weather Location Get hyperlocal forecasts, radar and weather alerts. Please enter a valid zipcode. Save Confirm Your Location We automatically picked a Spectrum News market that we believe is most relevant to you. Kansas City News and information that matter to your community Local weather forecasts Confirm Change Location You can change your news source and language at any time. Choose News Source & Language Select your news source and language for Spectrum News. Local news coverage, weather forecasts, and developing stories impacting the Kansas City community. Continue You can change your news source and language at any time. Change Location You can change your news source or language here at any time NEWS An automated license plate reader in Frisco, Texas. (Spectrum News) NEWS DPS provides guidance on ALPR usage to law en­forcement agencies BY Josephfer Williams Kansas City PUBLISHED 2:58 PM CT Oct. 01, 2026 PUBLISHED October 1, 2026 @2:58 PM SHARE After Gov. Mike Kehoe signed Executive Order 26-18 , the Department of Public Safety (DPS) ‌published guidance for Missouri law enforcement agencies on the best practices related to the use of automated license plate readers (ALPR). Executive Order 26-18, signed on Sep. 18, was an order that looked to protect the safety and security of Missourians and target technology like ALPR and Flock Cameras. It also orders DPS to make its APLR guidance available within 10 business days and distribute it to all state and local enforcement agencies on record with the DPS. “We’ve spent the last two weeks reviewing a wide range of law enforcement agency ALPRs policies, including from Missouri police departments and county sheriffs’ offices, as well as the work of national law enforcement associations,” Department of Public Safety Director Mark James said. “What stood out from my individual discussions with Missouri chiefs, sheriffs and the Missouri State Highway Patrol was that many agencies have proactively instituted very significant guardrails to protect privacy, the overwhelming desire to protect constitutional rights, and support for strong penalties for any violation of constitutional rights." James added he's heard countless cases in which ALPRs were crucial in making arrests and crimes being solved – ranging from child abductions to highly organized national retail theft operations to homicides. “Automatic license plate readers have proven to be an incredibly effective crime-fighting tool at a time when many law enforcement agencies are experiencing very significant officer shortages,” Gov. Kehoe said. “However, comprehensive legislation must be enacted to guarantee ALPRs are only used for legitimate law enforcement purposes, privacy is protected, and there are very serious consequences for those that break the rules regarding any ALPR restrictions that are adopted." DPS guidance is designed to ensure strict safeguards on the use of ALPR technology, including Flock Safety cameras, and recommendations for best practices related to ensuring: a legitimate law enforcement purpose for any ALPR data search; individual accountability for anyone with access to ALPR data; independent verification of ALPR alerts before enforcement; limited (30 days in most cases) retention of ALPR data; routine auditing (at least monthly) and targeted reviews of ALPR use; and prohibiting the integration of artificial intelligence facial recognition technology with ALPR systems You May Also Be Interested In NEWS NEWS NEWS Olathe Public Schools now focuses on the transition after they approve to close 6 schools Olathe Public Schools now focuses on the transition after they approve to close 6 schools Kansas City 20 hours ago NEWS NEWS NEWS KC voters to decide about future city-funded stadium projects It will be on the April 6, 2027 ballot Kansas City 1 day ago NEWS NEWS NEWS Two polling places for the 2026 election have changed in Johnson County Two polling places for the 2026 election have changed in Johnson County Kansas City 4 days ago WEATHER 2:47 WEATHER WEATHER Beyond the Damage: The Trauma that Lingers after the Storm Mental health concerns can arise during extreme events and even years later. Nationwide 5 days ago 2:47 NEWS NEWS NEWS Andrew Bailey, co-deputy director at FBI, leaving to return to Missouri Bailey won his election as Missouri attorney general in 2024 and left for a leadership post at the FBI last fall. St. Louis 5 days ago POLITICS POLITICS POLITICS Supreme Court rejects a Trump-backed Missouri congressional map for the third time Absentee voting for the November election began earlier this week. St. Louis 1 week ago Spectrum News Contact About Us Careers Advertise With Us TERMS Your Privacy Rights California Consumer Privacy Rights California Consumer Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information/Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising © 2026, Charter Communications, all rights reserved.