source: packet.pdf
sha256: 6940637c0ed5d273f3a5d07fe056ce15a53eedc2b675fbcd1ca7893ff127fc2f
pages: 32
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
March 18, 2024
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber 330 W.
20th Avenue San Mateo CA 94403
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee
Lisa Diaz Nash
Rob Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: [insert meeting date and link to proper meeting] Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: [insert #]      Passcode: [insert #]
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Complete Streets North Central Plan – Introduction
Receive an introduction and overview of the Complete Streets North Central Plan and provide feedback on
progress to date.
CEQA: This project introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).) An environmental analysis of the final Complete Streets North Central Plan will be completed prior
to adoption.
2.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force Accomplishments – Update
Recognize the accomplishments of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Task Force and direct staff on next
steps to reach the City’s external DEI objectives.
CEQA: This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 32

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 32

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-4666
File ID: 24-8482
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Complete Streets North Central Plan – Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an introduction and overview of the Complete Streets North Central Plan and provide feedback on progress to 
date.
BACKGROUND:
Staff began the Citywide San Mateo Complete Streets Plan in early 2023 and introduced the project to Council on March 
20, 2023. During the meeting, residents from the North Central neighborhood requested a specific focus on complete 
streets in their neighborhood to evaluate the recent installation of bicycle lanes, parking availability, circulation, and safety 
needs. As a result, Council directed staff to develop a separate scope of work and budget to create a North Central focused 
plan that would be developed concurrently with the Citywide San Mateo Complete Streets Plan. 
The Complete Streets North Central Plan (the Plan) is aimed at improving transportation access, mobility, and safety for all 
those who call North Central home. The Plan seeks to collaboratively develop a sustainable mobility plan that integrates 
the diversity of voices represented in North Central via a comprehensive community engagement process. By practicing 
deep listening with residents and community leaders, staff aims to gain a comprehensive understanding of neighborhood-
specific mobility challenges, leading to a more inclusive and effective transportation network that reflects the community's 
values and enhances the overall quality of life.
Project Scope and Timeline
Immediately after the March 2023 Council meeting, staff worked with Fehr & Peers to develop a scope of work for the 
Plan. The agreement was awarded by City Council in May 2023. The Plan is expected to take just over one year to 
complete, with finalization expected by Fall 2024.
•
Lived Experience Group – Staff and the consultant team invited active Community Based Organizations (CBOs) to 
learn about the effort through a series of stakeholder interviews. CBO and community representatives were asked 
to be part of the small Lived Experience Group (LEG) to assist the team in hosting workshops, focus groups, and 
other outreach activities to gain feedback from the community. LEG members are being provided a small stipend 
for their efforts and assistance. 
•
Defining Needs and Goal Setting – This task first focused on a community listening process, to gain an 
understanding of mobility and access needs, and components of a successful plan from the community’s 
perspective. This phase included stakeholder interviews, pop-up outreach events, and focus groups. The second 
phase of this task will use feedback from the community and data analysis to document existing needs and 
summarize the goals for the Complete Streets North Central Plan. This summary is attached to the staff report. 
•
Community-Led and Data-Supported Recommendations – Staff and the consultant team will confirm the needs 
3 of 32

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and goals for the Complete Streets North Central Plan with the LEG, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, 
and City Council, and then utilize workshops to define needed improvements and projects. This will include hands-
on charette style workshops, prioritization of needs, discussion of trade-offs, and then mapping and evaluation of 
recommended improvement projects, policies, and programs. 
•
Prioritization and Priority Project Development – This task builds on the development of the list of needs and 
improvements by prioritizing each based on the goals of the Complete Streets North Central Plan and community 
needs. Under this task, the consultant will develop cut sheets for up to five priority projects identifying 
improvements in priority locations in a graphic format. Pop-up demonstration events or community walks for up 
to three projects may be included to collect input on key projects from residents by utilizing recommended 
improvements. A door-knocking outreach strategy will be employed during this task to directly outreach to 
residents on corridors near high-priority projects that are being proposed.
•
Plan Development – A draft Complete Streets North Central Plan will be presented to the Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission and Council for review and feedback. Feedback provided will be folded into the final 
document that will be presented to Council for adoption.
Community Engagement and Key Community Feedback
The Plan efforts to date have focused on community engagement, and critical listening in the community to understand 
needs, concerns, and goals related to transportation. Staff and the consultant team have engaged with nearly 200 
community residents over the course of seven engagement efforts.
•
Pop-Up Events: Staff and the consultant team met the community at four events: National Night Out, Movies in 
the Park, a food distribution session, and at the elementary and middle school morning bus stop (the latter two 
coordinated by LEG members). At these events, the team engaged with residents in English and Spanish, and 
gained insight on concerns and needs throughout the neighborhood. 
•
Focus Groups: Staff and the consultant team hosted three focus groups with residents at a Home Association of 
North Central San Mateo (HANCSM) meeting and at a resident’s home, both coordinated with LEG members. 
These smaller settings allowed for more in-depth conversation about resident needs and concerns.
The project team collated the information heard through these interactions to highlight several key themes. While not all 
feedback is correlated to issues that can be addressed through a transportation plan, documentation of all feedback is 
critical to holistically presenting the community’s needs and concerns.
1.
Traffic Safety Concerns: This is a recurring theme across events, with residents expressing concerns about 
speeding and narrow streets posing risks for both drivers and pedestrians. 
2.
Limited Right of Way: Residents often commented on the narrow streets of North Central creating safety 
concerns, congestion, and issues around parking. Many residents specifically mentioned the addition of bike lanes 
created a parking deficit for a neighborhood already burdened with limited parking. 
3.
Safety Infrastructure Improvements: Residents consistently called for safety infrastructure improvements, such as 
speed bumps, stop signs, and flashing beacon crosswalks, to enhance safety in their neighborhood. 
4.
Neighborhood Aesthetics and Identity: Residents mentioned that they have noticed an increase in residents 
parking on lawns and unpaved sections of residential properties throughout North Central, creating neighborhood 
aesthetics concerns and a decrease in pride in their overall community identity. 
5.
Visibility and Turning Safety: Many residents emphasized the need for better visibility through safe vehicle turning 
movements and tree trimming. 
6.
Public Transit Improvements: There were demands for improved public transit options, including more frequent 
weekend bus services, extended routes, and better access to Caltrain. 
7.
Community Center and Park: Positive feedback and appreciation for the MLK Community Center and MLK Park 
were common highlights, with residents valuing these community assets. 
8.
Enforcement of Regulations: Residents mentioned the need for enforcement of regulations related to speeding, 
no parking zones, and littering to address safety and cleanliness concerns. 
9.
Illegal Activities and Enforcement: Concerns about illegal dumping, fireworks, gunshots, and street racing 
activities in the neighborhood were raised, emphasizing the need for law enforcement. 
4 of 32

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
10. Pride in the Neighborhood: Despite the challenges, residents expressed a desire to feel proud of their 
neighborhood and cited poor street conditions and public spaces as hindrances to achieving this goal. 
Following this informational update, staff and the consultant team will be hosting a community workshop in collaboration 
with HANCSM to share the key themes, goals, and initial thoughts on potential types of safety improvements for 
consideration. The project team will then begin to identify recommendations for specific context-sensitive improvement 
recommendations and will begin another community engagement effort focused on priority improvements. Staff expects 
to bring the Plan to City Council later this year for review and adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with the recommendation of this agenda report. The funding for the work for the 
plan is budgeted in the Complete Streets North Central Plan Project (46R015). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) An 
environmental analysis of the final Complete Streets North Central Plan will be completed prior to adoption.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Defining Community Needs and Goals
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
5 of 32

--- page 6 ---
DRAFT
DRAFT
COMPLETE 
COMPLETE 
STREETS PLAN
STREETS PLAN
NORTH CENTRAL
NORTH CENTRAL
6 of 32

--- page 7 ---
01  San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
Photo: Winter Consulting, 2023
DRAFT
DRAFT
7 of 32

--- page 8 ---
Community Needs and Goals:
A Local Vision
METHODOLOGY
Over the course of the initial phase of community 
engagement, the City and the project team 
met with dozens of community leaders and 
stakeholders. The community engagement plan 
included structured meetings like focus groups 
and one-on-one interviews, as well as informal 
engagement activities like tabling at community 
events. 
The objectives of community engagement 
for the Complete Streets North Central Plan 
were to understand North Central community 
leaders’ and stakeholders’ lived experience 
of the neighborhood as it relates to mobility 
and transportation, how individuals travel 
within and through the neighborhood, and to 
identify community needs to improve overall 
safety, comfort, and function of neighborhood 
streets. Through the initial phase of community 
engagement, over 500 unique comments were 
collected. The purpose of this document is to: 
(1) document the existing needs through the 
community’s eyes; and (2) summarize data 
typically needed by funding agencies to justify 
funding for the key projects coming out of later 
phases of the plan.
KEY THEMES
Each comment collected during the first phase 
of community engagement were reviewed by 
the project team and categorized into a Key 
Theme: Design and Infrastructure, Community 
Accountability, Public Transit and Transportation, 
Parking, Traffic Flow and Traffic Congestion, 
and Context. The overarching narrative of each 
key theme is to improve the overall public 
safety, security, comfort, confidence, and pride 
individuals have traveling through and within the 
community by foot, bike, car, or other mode. 
The Key Themes organize and facilitate a more 
holistic understanding of the needs and priority 
concerns of the North Central community based 
on their lived experiences. Each section includes 
a summary of the Key Theme and selections 
of direct community feedback. Additionally, 
each Key Theme is visually summarized using a 
variety of data sources – both qualitative (e.g. 
lived experiences of community members) and 
qualitative (e.g. collision data, traffic volume, and 
speed) to support and lift up the community-
identified needs. 
In subsequent phases of community 
engagement, the Key Themes will guide 
community leaders and stakeholders in 
identifying the appropriate physical and 
programmatic interventions they would like to 
see implemented in North Central to address its 
unique needs and concerns.
02
It Takes a Village. A Lived Experience 
Group (LEG) member welcomes 
neighbors and community stakeholders 
into their home to discuss North 
Central’s transportation-related 
challenges and potential solutions. 
DRAFT
DRAFT
8 of 32

--- page 9 ---
Design and Infrastructure
Design and Infrastructure includes comments 
on the overall design and programming of 
streets and above-ground infrastructure in 
North Central, including their deficiencies. This 
encompasses feedback on physical street and 
roadway improvements and interventions, 
street lighting, street signage, and other non-
physical traffic calming measures. 
Community members frequently cited having 
witnessed near-collisions or collisions they 
believe were a result of the existing design 
and constraints of the streets (e.g. narrow 
lanes, larger vehicles, on-street parking). To 
address these issues, community members 
have suggested additional traffic calming 
features be implemented like controlled 
pedestrian crossings, safer bike routes and 
lanes, and adequate pedestrian and auto-scale 
lighting. The design of roadway environments 
can mitigate human mistakes, encourage safer 
behaviors, and facilitate safe travel by the 
most vulnerable users.
To support these claims, data was 
collected from the University of California’s 
Transportation Injury Mapping System (TIMS) 
for bicycle and pedestrian collisions between 
2018-2022. Over this period, a total of 67 
collisions involving pedestrians or cyclists 
were reported in North Central, 43 involving 
pedestrians and 24 involving cyclists (see 
Figure 1).
Along the North Humboldt Street corridor, 
10 collisions occurred between Peninsula and 
Third Avenues. Within a one block radius of 
the intersection of North Humboldt Street and 
E Poplar Avenue, a critical intersection that 
borders San Mateo High School and College 
Park Elementary/Turnbull Children’s Center, 12 
total collisions involving pedestrian or cyclists 
occurred.1
1 UC Regents; Transportaiton Injury Mapping System
Along the North Delaware Street corridor, 
a total of 7 collisions occurred between 
Peninsula and Third Avenues, including a 
collision involving a pedestrian that resulted 
in severe injury near the intersection of North 
Delaware Street and East Poplar Avenue.2
In 2023, the City initiated the preparation 
of a Local Roadway Safety Plan (LRSP) 
to establish a framework and process for 
identifying, analyzing, and prioritizing 
roadway safety improvements throughout 
the City including North Central, which has 
been partially funded through a grant from 
the California Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans). 
The LRSP aims to identify and analyze traffic 
safety performance, crash patterns and 
recommended strategic and proven solutions 
to improve safety performance at priority 
locations throughout the City. The plan will 
include focus areas and identify high-priority 
locations based on crash history, stakeholder 
collaboration and community feedback. 
Findings from both the Complete Streets 
North Central community engagement 
process and the LRSP will help inform 
community members and City stakeholders of 
North Central’s needs and priorities.
2 ibid.
“There should be a four-
way stop at the intersection 
of Tilton Avenue and North 
Claremont Street. It’s a 
safety concern for bicyclists 
and pedestrians – drivers 
don’t stop and some drive 
fast.” 
Community Member                              
Food Distribution Pop Up 
11/07/23
03 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
DRAFT
DRAFT
9 of 32

--- page 10 ---
“The intersection of Poplar 
and Humboldt is a zoo. Many 
drivers are coming on and 
off the freeway. We need to 
prioritize this intersection 
for kids -- there are so many 
children going to schools 
nearby.”
Community Member                             
HANCSM Pop-In 11/09/23
Community Needs and Goals
04
Figure 1:  Collisions
Source: UC Regents, Transportation Injury Mapping System
DRAFT
DRAFT
10 of 32

--- page 11 ---
Community Accountability
The umbrella of Community Accountability 
includes the desire to encourage and enforce 
safe, and responsible behavior by residents, 
workers, and visitors of North Central, and 
create conditions that prioritize their ability 
to reach their destination comfortably and 
unharmed. This includes the overall aesthetics 
and quality of North Central’s public realm. 
While there is an overall sense of pride and 
ownership of the neighborhood, community 
members acknowledge that the cleanliness 
and deferred maintenance of its streetscape 
need to be addressed. This includes 
community members’ comments on the need 
for road resurfacing, fixing potholes, sidewalk 
repairs, and landscape maintenance. Frequent 
comments received involved the need to clean 
and discourage illegal dumping and littering. 
In 2023, 318 maintenance-related requests 
were entered into San Mateo Public Works’ 
workorder database for North Central. 
Roughly a third of all requests (32%) were 
for debris pickup or cleaning, which validates 
what was heard during engagement. 
Additionally, 24% of requests were related 
to sewer, storm, and flooding-related issues, 
including backups and overflows which illegal 
dumping and littering may be contributing to. 
Roughly 22% of requests were directly related 
to street maintenance or hazards, including 
pothole, streetlight, and traffic signal repairs 
(see Figure 2).
Additionally, community members made 
several suggestions for individuals’ roles 
and responsibilities in improving the 
neighborhood’s public safety, security, 
and comfort, including increased driver 
accountability and education. It was 
suggested that individual responsibility is 
needed to supplement City enforcement of 
traffic laws and municipal codes in a joint, 
collaborative effort to achieve the goals for 
improving conditions in North Central.
05 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
FIGURE 2: SAN MATEO PUBLIC WORKS WORK ORDERS (2023)
Source: City of San Mateo
DRAFT
DRAFT
Colored Curbs 2%
Trees / Vegatation 3%
Traffic Signals 3%
Street Light Repair 8%
Street Cleaning 1%
Storm Drain System 13%
Signage Repair 7%
Sidewalk Repair 2%
Sewer System 9%
Potholes 3%
Manholes 1%
Flooding 2%
Facilities 15%
Debris Pick Up 31%
11 of 32

--- page 12 ---
Community members frequently observed 
what they perceive to be vehicles being driven 
at high speeds. To substantiate and better 
understand concerns of congestion, average 
vehicle speed estimates were derived from 
StreetLight Data for June 2022-May 2023. 
Figures 3-5 visualize the average speeds 
during Weekday PM Peak, Saturday Midday 
Peak, and Sunday Midday Peak periods.
The posted speed limit throughout North 
Central is 25 MPH. During Weekday PM Peak 
Hour, average speed estimates were at or 
below the posted speed limit (see Figure 3), 
which is likely a result of the higher volume of 
traffic observed during commute time periods. 
However, during this period, speeds exceeding 
25 MPH were observed along Amphlett 
Boulevard, likely attributed to its proximity to 
access points to and from US Highway 101.
During Saturday and Sunday Midday Peak 
Hours, average speed estimates were at or 
below the posted speed limit on local streets 
(see Figures 4 and 5). However, during this 
same period average speeds exceeding 
25 MPH were observed on major arterials 
that border and go through North Central, 
including Peninsula, East Poplar, and East 
Third avenues, and North Humboldt and 
Delaware streets.
Community Needs and Goals
06
FIGURE 3: WEEKDAY PM PEAK HOUR 
SPEEDS (3 PM - 4 PM)
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
12 of 32

--- page 13 ---
07 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
FIGURE 4: SATURDAY MIDDAY 
PEAK HOUR SPEEDS 
(NOON - 1 PM)
FIGURE 5: SUNDAY MIDDAY 
PEAK HOUR SPEEDS 
(NOON - 1 PM)
Source: StreetLight Data
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
13 of 32

--- page 14 ---
Community Needs and Goals
08
FIGURE 6: TRANSIT ACCESS
“There are no shelters at 
bus stops. During winter 
people do not want 
to wait and use public 
transit.”
Community Member 
LEG Interview 07/31/23
Source: SamTrans
Public Transit and Transportation
Community members cited the need for improved access to public 
transit and transportation options, and improved safety, function, 
and comfortable transit facilities. This includes considerations for 
individuals with disabilities and seniors, ensuring that all transportation 
services and facilities are safe for all users, including those with 
mobility, vision, hearing, or cognitive impairments. It also refers to the 
overall inclusiveness of transportation systems, including affordability, 
the availability and frequency of service, and comfortable and 
convenient access.
TABLE 1: COMMUTE MODE SHARE
Source: US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2019 American Community 
Survey 5-Year Estimates.
DRAFT
DRAFT
For public transit, the North Central neighborhood is served by 
SamTrans Bus Routes 53, 59, 292, and 250. SamTrans provides bus 
service throughout San Mateo County and into portions of San 
Francisco and Palo Alto. Routes 292 and 53 are the only routes serving 
the core of North Central and the routes travel primarily along North 
Delaware Street, with stops serving major activity centers including 
Woodlake Shopping Center, San Mateo High School, College Park 
Elementary, Martin Luther King Jr. Park and Community Center, and 
Downtown. North Central is also served by Caltrain, a commuter rail 
line serving the San Francisco Peninsula and Santa Clara Valley, with 
one San Mateo station located on the border of North Central and 
Downtown (see Figure 6).
14 of 32

--- page 15 ---
“There is a need for more 
parking on N Idaho Street. 
Bike lanes are nice, but there 
is limited parking in the 
neighborhood for an area 
that needs more parking 
for multiple families living 
in one household. People 
are just parking their cars 
in their front yards which 
disrupts the neighborhood 
character. Parking has been 
a problem for many years.” 
Community Member                          
Focus Group 11/09/23
In terms of commute mode, North Central 
workers carpool, take public transportation, 
walk, and bike to work at higher rates than 
workers in the city, but driving alone is the 
main commute mode in both geographies 
(see Table 1).3
Parking
A consistent theme in community feedback 
was that the availability of parking is a 
constant challenge for residents and visitors of 
North Central. The community implied several 
factors contribute to this challenge, including 
multi-family and generational housing and 
resulting increased parking demand, as well as 
limited alternative transportation options.
Another factor that has impacted parking 
availability on Humboldt Street is the North 
Central Bike Lanes project, which resulted in 
the removal of approximately 270 on-street 
parking spaces. After its implementation in 
Summer 2022, community members began 
finding it increasingly difficult for themselves 
and visitors to find parking.
Prior to implementation of the bike lanes 
project, the City began exploring options 
to mitigate the anticipated loss in parking 
by establishing a residential parking permit 
program (RPPP), which has been implemented 
in several neighborhoods across the City. 
An RPPP survey was sent to 3,000 North 
Central households and had a response rate 
of ~5%. Though the survey had a relatively 
low response rate, the survey produced useful 
metrics to evaluate the need and parameters 
for a North Central RPPP. 
Of the survey responses, most households 
indicated owning 1-2 vehicles and 
approximately 1/3 of responses indicated 
it was difficult to find on-street parking 
3 US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2019 
American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.
near where they live. About 30% of survey 
responses indicated parking at least one car 
on the street. Further, while 81% of survey 
responses indicated having access to a 
parking garage, only 57% reported parking in 
their garage.
As part of the survey, the City collected 
parking inventory and occupancy data. 
Parking inventory and occupancy data were 
collected over a two-week period in November 
2022 on two Thursdays and two Saturdays. 
There are approximately 5,882 on-street 
parking spaces in North Central (see Figure 
7). There are no public off-street parking lots 
or structures within the parking study area. 
On-street parking is generally available on at 
least one side of the street throughout North 
Central. On all days observed during the hours 
of 8AM and 5PM, parking occupancy ranged 
from 50-60%. After 5PM on all days, parking 
occupancy steadily increases through the 
evening to a maximum observed occupancy 
of approximately 75% (see Figure 9). To be 
considered for a RPPP in the City of San 
Mateo, streets must have a parking utilization 
greater than 60%. As part of its evaluation, the 
City looks at parking occupancy at the street 
level in addition to several other factors.
To better understand the people who 
make up North Central and their parking 
habits, demographic information for the 
neighborhood was pulled from ACS 2019 
5-year estimates on data.census.gov 
and analyzed in Excel. The North Central 
neighborhood was defined as Census Tracts 
6059, 6060, and 6062, which roughly aligns 
with the neighborhood boundaries. A small 
portion of the neighborhood lies in Census 
Tract 6063 (bounded by Tilton Avenue, North 
B Street, South Railroad Avenue, and First 
Avenue, and the area bounded by South 
Delaware Street, Fifth Avenue, Ninth Avenue, 
and US Highway 101). For this analysis, Census 
Tract 6063 was excluded. Multigenerational 
09 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
DRAFT
DRAFT
15 of 32

--- page 16 ---
FIGURE 7: PARKING INVENTORY
Source: City of San Mateo, IDAX
Community Needs and Goals
10
DRAFT
DRAFT
16 of 32

--- page 17 ---
11 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
FIGURE 8: PARKING OCCUPANCY, WEEKDAY 3PM
Source: City of San Mateo, IDAX
DRAFT
DRAFT
17 of 32

--- page 18 ---
Community Needs and Goals
12
FIGURE 9: PARKING OCCUPANCY, WEEKDAY 7PM
Source: City of San Mateo, IDAX
DRAFT
DRAFT
18 of 32

--- page 19 ---
13 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
TABLE 2: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP
TABLE 3: HOUSEHOLD SIZE
“Overcrowding is a big 
issue. Multiple families are 
required to live together to 
make ends meet because 
rent is very expensive.” 
Community Member                          
LEG 10/05/23 
Source: US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.
Source: US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates.
DRAFT
DRAFT
19 of 32

--- page 20 ---
Community Needs and Goals
14
TABLE 4: HOUSEHOLD OVERCROWDING
TABLE 5: MULTIGENERATIONAL HOUSEHOLDS
Source: US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates 
(Census Tracts 6059, 6060, and 6062) 
Source: US Census Bureau; American Community Survey, 2010 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates (San 
Mateo County). Note: Multigenerational household data is not available on the census tract level data or in the 2019 
5-year estimates. 
household data was not available at the 
neighborhood level or from 2019 5-year 
estimates, so ACS 2010 1-year estimates from 
San Mateo County were used instead.
Vehicle Ownership. Despite the high cost of 
vehicle ownership and lower median income, 
most North Central residents have access to 
a vehicle for their commute (see Table 2). 
Almost two-thirds of North Central workers 
have access to two or more vehicles. North 
Central has nearly double the percentage (4%) 
of workers without access to a car compared 
to the City of San Mateo (2%). North Central 
also has fewer workers who have access to 
multiple vehicles (64%) compared to the City 
of San Mateo (76%). 
Household Size. Over one-third of North 
Central households are one-person 
households. In comparison, only 27% 
of households citywide are one-person 
households (see Table 3).
Household Overcrowding. About 16% of North 
Central households house more than one 
occupant per room. North Central households 
are significantly more overcrowded than in 
San Mateo, where only 2% of households have 
over one occupant per room (See Table 4).
Multigenerational Households. Approximately 
6% of households in San Mateo County are 
multigenerational. Financial relief is a common 
reason for living in a multi-generational 
household, especially for low-income families. 
However, low-income multigenerational 
households are more likely to experience 
overcrowding than two-generation households 
(see Table 5).4 
4 Pew Research (https://www.pewresearch.org/social-
trends/2022/03/24/the-experiences-of-adults-in-
multigenerational-households/)
DRAFT
DRAFT
20 of 32

--- page 21 ---
15 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
“The small and narrow 
streets in North Central—like 
Grant, Monte Diablo, and 
Tilton—contribute to traffic 
congestion and accidents.” 
Community Member                                        
LEG Interview, 07/31/23
FIGURE 10: WEEKDAY PM PEAK HOUR 
TRAFFIC (3 PM - 4 PM) 
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
21 of 32

--- page 22 ---
Traffic Flow and Traffic Congestion
Given North Central’s neighborhood activity 
centers, proximity to US Highway 101 and El 
Camino Real (SR-82), the San Mateo Caltrain 
Station, and Downtown San Mateo, the 
community experiences congestion travelling 
within and through the neighborhood. Traffic 
congestion refers to the volume of vehicular 
traffic on roads at a point in time, which the 
community indicates has resulted in slower 
speeds, longer trip durations, and increased 
frequency of vehicular queueing. Traffic flow 
refers more broadly to the overall movement 
of vehicles and trucks, including speed and 
volume, and driver behavior.
To substantiate and better understand 
concerns of congestion, vehicle volume 
estimates were derived from StreetLight Data 
for the period between June 2022-May 2023. 
Figures 10-12 visualize the average volumes 
during Weekday PM Peak, Saturday Midday 
Peak, and Sunday Midday Peak periods.
During the Weekday PM Peak, Saturday 
Midday Peak, and Sunday Midday Peak 
periods observed, the highest volumes of 
traffic occurred on the major north-south 
arterials North Humboldt and North Delaware 
streets. The major east-west arterials of East 
Peninsula, East Poplar, and East Third avenues 
were also observed to have high volumes of 
traffic. Each of the east-west arterials provide 
access to and from US Highway 101 and San 
Mateo neighborhoods beyond North Central, 
including Downtown. 
These data-supported findings are consistent 
with the comments on peak traffic congestion 
periods from community leaders. During the 
afternoon and evening commute periods, 
community members cited increased 
pedestrian presence including significant 
student presence along East Poplar, North 
Humboldt, and North Delaware Streets, 
contributing to congestion. Additionally, 
Community Needs and Goals
16
FIGURE 11: SATURDAY MIDDAY PEAK HOUR 
TRAFFIC (NOON - 1 PM) 
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
22 of 32

--- page 23 ---
17 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
FIGURE 12: SUNDAY MIDDAY PEAK HOUR 
TRAFFIC (NOON - 1 PM) 
“I really dislike it when 
people park their cars on 
their lawns; it’s against City 
code and looks ugly.”
Community Member                             
Focus Group 11/30/23
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
23 of 32

--- page 24 ---
the number of religious institutions in North 
Central likely contributes to increased 
pedestrian presence during the observed 
Sunday Midday Peak period. 
Context and Neighborhood Pride
The Context Key Theme includes responses 
and comments that celebrate the North 
Central neighborhood including its diversity, 
community assets and activity centers 
(see Figure 13). There were also comments 
providing historical context of previous 
planning efforts and community engagement, 
recommendations for best practices, and 
lessons learned. While some comments did 
not directly address traffic or transportation 
issues or solutions, they help inform where 
and how improvements could benefit the most 
people of North Central.
Several community members identified 
Martin Luther King Jr Park and Community 
Center as the social heart of North Central; 
and the routes taken to the park and 
community center are critical elements of 
the neighborhood’s pedestrian infrastructure 
and experience. Community members have 
a sense of pride in the neighborhood and 
its assets, but also recognize that existing 
conditions, lack of ownership, and aesthetics 
of the neighborhood sometimes diminish 
the feeling of pride. Overall aesthetics was 
a frequent comment made by community 
members and is threaded throughout 
the Key Themes, particularly Community 
Accountability and Parking.
Improved aesthetics can be a co-
benefit to implementing community-led 
recommendations, including improved 
maintenance and debris collection, and 
increased enforcement of municipal codes. 
Community Needs and Goals
18
FIGURE 13: COMMUNITY ASSETS
Source: StreetLight Data
DRAFT
DRAFT
24 of 32

--- page 25 ---
19 San Mateo Complete Streets North Central
Photo: Winter Consulting, 2023
DRAFT
DRAFT
25 of 32

--- page 26 ---
20
Next Steps
As part of the next phase of community 
engagement, the City and the project team will 
seek concurrence on the community needs and 
goals identified in this document. The City and 
project team will meet with community leaders 
and stakeholders through a series of additional 
LEG meetings and community-centered 
workshops/charrettes. Based on this Community 
Needs and Goals document, community 
members will have an additional guide to aid in 
determining and defining what transportation 
improvements are critical to improving mobility 
and access in the next five years. 
In determining and defining transportation 
improvements, community leaders and 
stakeholders will need to reconcile and 
address conflicting outcomes desired by 
the community. This includes maintaining or 
increasing the availability of on-street parking 
while also daylighting intersections to increase 
pedestrian visibility and facilitate safer crossings, 
which typically would require the removal of 
parking. Additionally, community leaders and 
stakeholders will need to evaluate the trade-
offs with the traffic calming interventions or 
programs they select. This includes recognizing 
speed tables or raised crosswalks are effective at 
slowing traffic, but they can result in increased 
traffic noise or interfere with above-ground 
stormwater conveyance systems.
Community-Based. Lived Experience 
Group (LEG) members meet in North 
Central’s Martin Luther King Jr. Center  to 
kick-off the community-led work on the 
Complete Streets North Central plan.
DRAFT
DRAFT
26 of 32

--- page 27 ---
From:
Rick Ballard
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Public comment, council special meeting item 1, Complete Streets North Central Plan
Date:
Monday, March 18, 2024 2:22:50 PM
Dear city council,
We need to improve bike and pedestrian infrastructure in North Central and implement measures to calm traffic.
Increasing the use of biking, walking, and public transit as transportation is critical to meeting necessary climate
goals. It also leads to a more livable city, with many benefits for health, small business, neighborhood cohesion,
child-friend urban design, and resident happiness.
In the complete streets study session, please give special focus to these issues, and in particular to cycling and
pedestrian infrastructure.
I’d also like to highlight Delaware street near downtown as an example that exemplifies our current problems. As a
road so close to downtown it should be a good transit corridor for walkable and bikable transit, but instead it is a
very wide road with high-speed traffic. I have nearly been hit multiple times as a pedestrian crossing legally at N.
Delaware and Tilton. I’ve witnessed multiple near-misses at S. Delaware and Cypress (plus an accident with two
autos). And I regularly see residents biking down the sidewalks, despite the explicit marking of Delaware as a bike
route. Bikers on the sidewalks indicate pent-up demand for biking infrastructure; people want to bike, but our streets
feel too unsafe for them.
As a confident cyclist I am able to do nearly everything here without the use of a car, but most people aren’t as
confident. We need the infrastructure to make it possible, and there needs to be a critical mass of that infrastructure
before people will feel safe to adopt it; not just one or two bike lanes and a mostly-unsafe city.
Thank you very much,
- Richard Ballard
San Mateo Resident
27 of 32

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-8488
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force Accomplishments – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Recognize the accomplishments of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Task Force and direct staff on next steps to 
reach the City’s external DEI objectives. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo prides itself on being a vibrant and diverse community that is committed to equity and inclusivity. 
To formalize this commitment, in its fiscal year 2021-22 Strategic Plan, the Council directed staff to form a Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion Task Force (“DEITF”) and staff obtained direction from the Council on the proposed composition and 
initial focus of the DEITF. During a study session on July 19, 2021, the Council directed staff to bring together 
representatives from a variety of local community organizations, including non-profits, neighborhood associations, faith-
based coalitions, and partner government entities. Rather than appoint members, the Council opted to have staff identify 
the participating organizations who would then each designate their own representatives. The purpose of the DEITF, once 
convened, would be to focus on building partnerships, sharing resources, and identifying ways to increase community 
participation and engagement in hard-to-reach sectors of the community. After completing extensive outreach to local 
community organizations, staff convened the DEITF in January 2022, with the participating organizations listed below: 
•
San Mateo Pride Center 
•
Samaritan House 
•
PAL Board 
•
Self Help for the Elderly 
•
Home Association of North Central San Mateo
•
Peninsula Family Services 
•
Chamber of Commerce 
•
San Mateo Foster City School Board
•
Bay Area Community Health Advisory Council
The DEITF expressed an interest in City Council providing clearer direction on their intended objectives and was directed to 
participate in developing an Internal DEI Strategic Plan. The Council later delegated specific work intended to meet the 
engagement objective, such as reviewing and making recommendations about Boards and Commissions and advising 
Council on its equity art project, to the DEITF. The DEITF met monthly from January 2022 to May 2023 and then 
transitioned to meeting bi-monthly until its last meeting on January 19, 2024.  The DEITF’s completed accomplishments 
include: 
•
Suggested and provided guidance on the development of a DEI Strategic Plan & Implementation Framework 
28 of 32

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Recommended key considerations to diversify the Boards & Commissions, which included an increase in 
compensation for City Council, a stipend for those on Boards & Commissions, and removing the citizenship/voter 
registration requirements to participate on a Board or Commission.
•
Provided key input on the designs and community outreach conducted for the Racial Equity Art Project.
•
Reviewed and provided input for consideration on policy documents such as the draft Housing Element and 
General Plan.
These accomplishments demonstrate how the DEITF was able to successfully complete the objectives directed by Council 
and set forth in the DEITF charter. With this, the City Council’s 2021/22 priority has been completed and removed from 
their list. However, staff believes, based on input from the DEITF, community, and Council, there is still a need to continue 
to impart a DEI lens in the City’s work. Therefore, staff is seeking Council direction on how to achieve this.
To identify best practices, staff collected information from different jurisdictions about their equity boards, commissions, 
subcommittees, etc. (Attachment 1). What we found is that this topic is new for local government and there is not yet a 
best practice, or any real pattern. Rather, cities have taken a highly varied approach to meeting their DEI goals, which are 
also varied. Below is an overview of some insights we heard about DEI-focused entities and examining their structures, 
membership, challenges, successes, and overall impacts that could add value to this discussion. 
 
Overview of DEI Entities in Other Cities:
Structures:
Cities adopted a range of structures from subcommittees focused on equity and social justice to full-fledged human rights 
commissions. The scope, membership, and objectives of these entities vary widely, influenced by local needs, 
demographics, and political landscapes.
 
Membership:
Membership typically includes City Council members, community members, and at times, city staff or external consultants 
with DEI expertise. Members are often appointed by Mayors or City Councils, with terms varying from one year to 
permanent appointments. Successful models emphasize diversity in committee composition, including race, profession, 
and lived experience.
 
Challenges:
Common challenges include defining clear goals and objectives, scheduling and member availability, budget constraints, 
political resistance, and the need for DEI training for members. Additionally, defining the scope of work, balancing event 
planning, policy advisement, and community engagement all pose significant challenges.
 
Successes and Impact:
Despite challenges, many committees have positively impacted their cities by guiding DEI efforts, influencing policy, 
enhancing community engagement, and promoting cultural events. Key successes include the restructuring of culturally 
insensitive events, establishment of DEI-focused training and policies, and improved community-police relations.
 
Based on the information provided above, staff recommends the City Council consider the following three options: 
Option 1: 
Appoint a subcommittee of the City Council to review and advise on DEI matters and make recommendations to the City 
Council.
Option 2: 
Assign social impact and DEI initiatives to the Community Relations Commission (CRC). If current DEITF members are 
invited to apply to become commissioners, then residency requirements (within the City) and citizenship requirements 
(unless the City Charter is amended) will limit who can and will apply. This option provides a more structured and 
transparent way of addressing equity concerns than an ad hoc committee. Cultural competency training could be provided 
for commissioners and staff. This option will require additional staff resources to staff and prepare for the meetings, which 
29 of 32

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
would be anticipated to be held more regularly, and to arrange and participate in trainings. Trainings may also incur some 
added expense. If Council chooses this option, staff would return and seek direction on CRC membership and changes in 
their scope of work for the next two years.
Option 3: 
Take no additional action and allow DEI work to be embedded in the regular work of staff and standing boards and 
commissions.
Staff Recommendation: 
Staff suggests the Council discuss the three options and provide direction on how to move forward, noting Option 2, with 
direction from Council at the onset and at two-year intervals, is staff’s recommended option.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact for this discussion. If Council wishes to move forward with one of the options mentioned above, staff 
will bring forward a more defined action plan with budget impacts, if applicable. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – DEI Research Matrix
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7277
30 of 32

--- page 31 ---
DEI Research - Cities and their Advisory Panels
City
Type of Panel
# of Members
Details about the Board
Challenges
Successes
Notes
Redwood City
Subcommitttee - Equity 
and Social Justice 
Subcommittee 
established 3/8/21
3 Council members
 Assigned by Mayor. Serve one-
year terms. No consecutive 
terms, but can serve after one-
year break 
1. Scheduling meetings for busy Council 
members. Now meet 4 times a year rather 
than 6. 2. Ensuring new members are trained 
on this issue - Briana trains
The Commisioners have proven 
very helpful to guide department 
staff on issues, escpecially before 
going to full Council
Work with two community groups Redwood City Together: https://www.rwctogether.org/ 
and Community Coordinating Activities Team: 
https://www.redwoodcity.org/departments/police-department/police-divisions/patrol-
division/community-policing-ccat  - They also have an internal committee made of staff 
from each department. The Police Advisory Committee - also looks at equity in police 
activities. Recommend asking for input from the San Mateo-Santa Clara Equity Leaders 
Group
Irvine
DEI Ad-Hoc Committee 
established 1/26/21
7 committee 
members
All must either work or reside in 
the city
1. The committee was set up without clear 
goals. They are bored and are now getting 
into City processes and operations, which is 
not good. They should have written the goals 
of the committee more tightly and perhaps 
had a 2-year pilot program. 2. The 
commission wants more than the budget 
allows (events). 3. They also want DEI 
training, which staff doesn't have. Need an 
expert consultant or on staff
Have influenced the holding of 
more diverse events
Staff liasion is assigned. Need more expertise either on staff or a consultant. HR should be 
involved with setting up the committee to ensure that staff are considered as it is 
demanding on staff. More events. More work. Keep scope and goals of committee tight - 
must be reasonable with resources the City has. Consider a temporary solution before 
committing to a permanent one. The committee members have begun to get into the City's 
processes, like purchasing, and don't understand public agency rules
Pacific Grove
First Task Force 
established 4/9/21 for 
18 months but Council 
decided to continue the 
work
5 members - just 4 
right now - Council 
has not approved 
the Mayor's recent 
nominee
Mayor nominates and Council 
approves. One opening has not 
been filled. Thinks 
(confidentially ) it may be 
political-some in community are 
concerned about the need and 
the cost. The delay can also be 
attritubted to staff changes. 
Recruiting a new CM now
Task Force Focus. Work Plan is narrow, 
Ordinance is more general. Active group in 
town doesn't think a DEI task force is needed 
and is critical of everything it does. Say that 
having a DEI is more devisive. Consultant 
hiring is being held up and they need the 
support. They are complaining it is too costly -
looking at an a la carte option now
Started during COVID. Catalyst - 
Feast of Laterns - an annual event 
that needed restructuring due to 
cultural appropriation (Chinese). 
They were able to make the needed 
changes. The task force provides 
education and has the support of 
most community members
One Council member really wanted to explore DEI. The first Task Force developed a Work 
Plan that prompted Council to make it permanent. Need help now with consulting and 
creating a website
Brisbane
Inclusion, Diversity, 
Equity & Accountability 
(IDEA) Committee 
established 9/23/21
5-7 committee 
members
Appointed by City Council and 
serve for staggered terms of 1 
or 2 years and can be appointed 
again without interview. 
Unlimited terms. Members 
must work or live in the city
1. How to balance event planning and 
execution among staff. Want to focus on 
community-led events to help staff. 2. Lack 
of policies. 3. Want IDEA involved in various 
outside groups and tasks. 4. Not much data 
yet. 5. Budgeting an issue
1. Increased multi-cultural events, 
2. developed administrative 
procedures, 3. created a diversity 
calendar, 4. estalished flag 
procedures, 5. support community-
led cultural events
Arose from Black Lives Matter movement. Still very new & a budget is needed. Need 
enthusiastic members to do the work, but is rewarding. Creating a work plan for Council 
approval in the next few months. Been surveying the community to see what it wants. 
Temecula
Race, Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion (RDEI) 
Commission established 
8/25/20
7 commissioners
Commisioners for all 
commissions are recruited 
annually. Serve for 3 years, 
Council appoints.  
1. Input from the community should have 
been obtained before the commission was 
formed, and not just from the Council. 2. The 
goal of DEI should be Othering and 
Belonging, not race, justice, equity and 
inclusion. These concepts are more 
acceptable to the community.Lanugage 
matters. 3. Race is a controversial terms and 
shouldn't be in the title 4. The 
commissioners must understand their role - 
advise Council and connect with community - 
don't have an agenda. 5. If there is a staff 
person supporting either a commission or 
the policy itself, they need help. 
1. Culture Fest event. 2. DEI lens on 
housing, art, parks, and 
homeownership for younger 
community members. 
This City's commission has been questioned by the community. It was established during 
volitile times - a better approach is slow, thoughtful and suited for your community, not 
some other community.  Whoever is on staff needs to either have a Director be the face of 
the City's effort. Person should have direct access to the CM for effectiveness. Position is 
political and an expert (she is a Certified Diversity Executive) so she can do both. If staff has 
few folks of color or are marginalized, don't put the burden on them to represent the 
community.  Persson needs to be seen as authentic to be able to build trust. Demographics 
of the community should dictate who should be in this position. You don't need a 
commission for community credibility, but you do need visibility. The commissioners also 
absorb the burden of attending all of the various meetings, events, etc. in the community. 
Create space to let fear go and show vulnerability as you work with staff and the 
community. Small victories. This position is hard, many DEI's get burned out. She got death 
threats so had to move out of the community. Budget. A lot of costs can be absorbed into 
operating budgets. If you have an event, think of requiring vendors to show how they are 
tied to DEI. Community of Equity Officers and League of Cities are good resources.
31 of 32

--- page 32 ---
South San Francisco
The South San Francisco 
Commission on Racial 
and Social Equity - one 
year initiative
Commission below a goal of this initiative's Action Plan. Goal1 hire a staff person and Goal 2 
the Commission 
South San Francisco
Equity and Public Safety 
Commission - developed 
from a recommendation 
of the above 
commission
7 commissioners and 
an alternate
5 commissioners are appointed 
by each Council member (5) 
from their districts and 3 are at 
large. Currently, there is one 
vacancy that will be advertised. 
Term is 2 years
Staff tries to keep meetings focused so they 
are efficient
A good link between the community 
and the City. Listen to community 
and educate them
Ongoing advisory board to add perspective to staff and educate the community. The 
commission is 1.5 years old and growing. Meet monthly. Receive presentations on a theme. 
This year's goal is community education to families with young kids and seniors. There is a 
lot of enthusiasm. Meet every third monday at 6 pm. Commissioners also go to public 
events to share information. Prepares report and recommendations on various topics for 
Council action. 
Santa Clara
Task Force on Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion 
established 9/29/2020, 
on hiatus since 2022
 Up to 7 members
Not active
Related to Police 
Los Gatos 
Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion Commission 
established 10/3/2023
11 commissioners
Getting a work plan established.
 Challenges to recruit members with specific 
designations like a business owner who is 
also a resident
Just starting
Has a small project budget, like other commissions. Town Manager is the liasion. Had a 
consultant help plan for the commission
Palo Alto
Human Relations 
Commission established 
1969
5  (was 7 but 
recruitting was hard - 
but having fewer 
places a lot of work 
on a few, so impacts 
effectiveness)
Members are not Council 
Members, officers, or 
employees of the city. Must be 
residents. Terms are for three 
years and commence on May 1. 
See PAMC 
Sections 2.16 and 2.22
Needs more diversity on the commission 
itself. Needs to do better recruiting. Should 
be bigger to share the work - especially to go 
out to the community. Budget is tight, 
$1,200/yr., so usually find from other City 
sources. They do look at internal policies and 
there is some education that occurs so they 
understand the laws we have to follow. Vet 
candidates well to ensure they are a one 
issue person or anti-government. They need 
to understand the goals and scope of their 
powers. Having a manual helps
Pre-COVID they did a lot of 
education with the community - lots 
of workshops. No large scale events 
until two listening sessions. When 
they are studying a topic they are 
good about getting information on 
the topic so they can make better 
policy recommendations to the 
Council (Israel/Gaza). Bring people 
together to dialogue
How well it works is determined by the members. Has a wide mandate and charter - more 
than other commissions. They can opine on anything. Make recommendations to Council all 
the time on policies and other matters. Hold events based on themes. Even worked on 
international issues that Council didn't want to deal with. So keep them focused locally. 
Several issues that the Council had that sent to the commission to look at. Looked at how to 
honor a diverse community. They explore new topics. Interest in serving goes up and down  
Mt. View
Ad-Hoc Council 
Subcommittee on Race, 
Equity, and Inclusion 
established 6/9/2020 for 
3 members 
Assigned by Mayor, who was 
chair, and two other Council 
members
Recommended the establishment of a Public Safety Advisory Board, which was established 
in 2020 to act as community liasion to the PD
Mill Valley
DEI Task Force 
(disbanded)
20 community 
members 
Developed by the community 
and facilitated by a hired DEI 
Coordinator
Only met for 4 months and have not continue
Created a final report and 
presented to City Council with 40+ 
recommendations
Has a well organized website where you can find past documents concerning DEI easily. 
Group was formed and appointed in 2020. Hired an independent DEI Coordinator to faciliate 
discussions. They worked for 4 months. They were asked to conduct a DEI audit. Members 
of the community. Broke up in smaller groups and focused on different areas. Convened in 
sept 2020 and final report was provided to council by dec 2020. 2 key recommendations: 
Appoint a DEI Board/Commission and the other was to hire a DEI Consultant or a Chief 
Equity Officier. 64 recommendations in their report. 20% of the recommendations were 
things they felt like the City couldn't do it. The other items they felt wre part of their scope 
of their work. 
Sacramento
Racial Equity Committee
9 members (Mayor 
and all 8 City Council 
members)
Meets quarterly. Reporting body 
thus far. Create accountability 
and center community. 
Do not make decisions. The committee's 
purpose it to hear how the City is doing in 
terms of DEI. 
Leadership buy-in with City Council 
and City Management
They hired a faciliator from the organization, Race Forward, to facilitate their coalition 
building meetings, which is separate from the Racial Equity (RE) committee. They have a RE 
coalition that is for a volunteer based group as well, but they also have one that is paid (via 
stipend). The paid group is made up of community groups that have worked on this type of 
work but never as a group and have changed to learn how to work with each other and with 
the city. 
32 of 32