source: packet.pdf
sha256: e5d50c693745ad1df08941cd4e7a6df4b8b9bbc55b2ddbc3508b2a07fbe20cce
pages: 220
ocr_pages: 24
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
August 8, 2023
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 8, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 816 4410 9023      Passcode: 897780
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
Zoning Code Amendment for Planning Approval Extensions - Ordinance Recommendation
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section
27.08.087 (Planning Approval Extension) to allow for extensions of up to two years for approved planning
application; and determine the amendment is exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3).

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption
of this ordinance amendment is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects
which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Developments (PA-2019-016)
Review the Draft Objective Design Standards, receive public comments and provide input and direction to staff
on the draft standards, specifically with regards to massing and transitions, colors and materials, the Downtown,
open space and flexibility.
CEQA: In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this item is not subject to CEQA, because it is an
informational study session item that the Planning Commission is not taking action on at this time. Additional CEQA
review will be conducted upon the adoption of the objective design standards and associated code amendments. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7776
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 8, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Zoning Code Amendment for Planning Approval Extensions - Ordinance Recommendation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.087 
(Planning Approval Extension) to allow for extensions of up to two years for approved planning application; and determine 
the amendment is exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Section 15061(b)(3). 
BACKGROUND:
As part of the Community Development Department’s ongoing effort to update the City’s Zoning Code to address 
deficiencies, improve clarity and streamline the review process, the following amendment is proposed to provide a path to 
extend the term for planning approvals by up to two years. Amendments to the Zoning Code require a recommendation 
from the Planning Commission and approval by City Council. The proposed amendments are described in more detail 
below, with the Draft Ordinance included as Attachment 1. To help explain existing and proposed language, a track-
changes version of the proposed amendment is included as Attachment 2. 
Government Code Section 65400 provides the City’s legislative body with the authority to implement the City’s adopted 
General Plan, so that it will serve as an effective guide for orderly growth and development. To implement the General 
Plan, Government Code Section 65860 provides the City Council the authority to review and update the City’s Zoning Code 
to ensure that the review processes and requirements are compatible with the objectives, policies, and programs specified 
in the General Plan. The City’s Zoning Code (SMMC 27.060.040(c)) authorizes the Planning Commission to review 
amendments to the Zoning Code and make a recommendation to the City Council. 
DISCUSSION:
Currently, Planning Application approvals are valid for two years and require that “a completed building permit application 
is filed before the expiration date and a building permit is issued prior to or within six months after the two-year expiration 
date.” However, due to circumstances beyond a project’s control, such as an economic downturn, the two and a half year 
period is not always insufficient, particularly when there are national or global issues that affect an applicant’s ability to 
finance a project such as supply chain delays or changes in banking industry requirements for commercial loans.  
Zoning Code provisions pertaining to Planning Approval Extensions were last updated in 2011 due to economy conditions 
(the Great Recession). Different options were explored and discussed; and the City Council approved an ordinance that 
included a provision allowing applicants the ability to apply for two-year extensions of planning approvals through July 1, 
2015. This provision has since sunset. Under current Zoning Code provisions, applicants do not have an option to extend 
planning approvals for development projects that do not include a subdivision map. For development projects that include

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a subdivision map, pursuant to the City’s Subdivision Ordinance (SMMC Title 26), applicants have the option to apply for 
up to three two-year extensions.  
City staff has received multiple extension requests from applicants, including those with subdivision maps, citing changes 
in commercial loan requirements and increasing construction costs that make it more difficult to secure financing. These 
external factors affect applicants’ ability to pay architects, engineers, and other technical professionals to create detailed 
construction plans that are needed for building permit applications. Funding is also needed to obtain permits once they 
are ready for issuance, and additional funds are needed to commence and complete construction. The current two-year 
entitlement period may not be sufficient for applicants to secure the financing needed to move forward through the 
building permit and construction phases. This code amendment is intended to provide flexibility for all development 
projects to avoid expiration of Planning Approvals due to external factors, such as changing economic conditions. The 
proposed amendment would provide an option for applicants to request an extension of their planning entitlements for up 
to two years, beyond the initial two-year term, for a total of four years from the date of original planning application 
approval, which will provide flexibility and a reasonable amount of additional time when needed to give projects the ability 
to remain viable.
Next Steps
Following the Planning Commission public hearing, the City Council will hold a public hearing to consider the proposed 
Zoning Code amendment. If the Council approves the Ordinance at the public hearing, it would be brought back for 
adoption at a subsequent City Council meeting. The Ordinance would become effective 30 days after adoption. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
Appropriate notification required for code amendments was completed and information about this initiative was sent out 
through the Department’s e-newsletter. Staff has not received any public comments prior to publication of the agenda 
report. Any public comments received after publication of this agenda report will be forwarded to the Planning 
Commission for consideration at the public hearing and will be posted to this item online as “Post Packet Public 
Comments.” 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Updates to the City’s Zoning Code are fully funded in the Community Development Department’s annual budget with no 
additional impact to the General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance 
amendment is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential 
to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance which updates the 
process for considering a planning application extension, will not have a significant effect on the environment per 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3). Furthermore, this amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen 
with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code sections 65090 and 65091, and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing 
requirements, the notice for this public hearing was published in a local newspaper of general circulation, the San Mateo 
Daily Journal, posted at three public facilities (City Hall, Main Library and King Center), and noticed to the following parties 
at least ten (10) days in advance of Planning Commission meeting: 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Ordinance
Att 2 - Draft Ordinance (track changes)

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7216

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amendment to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.087 Regarding the Planning Approval Extension 
Process
WHEREAS, the Zoning Code contains limited provisions for planning approval extensions; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to provide additional flexibility for development projects to avoid expiration 
of planning entitlement approvals to account for external factors, such as changing economic conditions; and 
WHEREAS, the City desires to modify the Zoning Code to allow for planning approval extensions of up to 
two years, when certain findings can be made; and
WHEREAS, on August 8, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly and properly noticed public hearing, 
received all written and oral public comments, and voted ___ to recommend that the City Council _______ the 
proposed ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.
At a duly noticed public hearing on ______________, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed
and considered the staff report dated ________________, and attachments thereto, the exemption from 
environmental review, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
successful completion of projects that implement and achieve the General Plan’s stated goals and policies.
Section 2. Section 27.08.087 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a 
planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator shall approve an extension if they find that the 
project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general plan regulations and conditions.
(b) City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one extension of a planning approval for up 
to two years, subject to the following provisions:  
(1) Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit 
the application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide 
the reason(s) for the extension request.
(2) Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of the 
following:
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and

--- page 7 ---
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
(C) The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an increase in 
severity of previously identified environmental impacts.
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood 
by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning 
Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision.
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within 
ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Division and payment 
of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of a planning approval is tolled until a final action 
is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision 
maps.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that 
it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance, which updates the process for considering a planning 
application extension, will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amendment to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.087 Regarding the Planning Approval Extension 
Process
WHEREAS, the Zoning Code contains limited provisions for planning approval extensions; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to provide additional flexibility for development projects to avoid expiration 
of planning entitlement approvals to account for external factors, such as changing economic conditions; and 
WHEREAS, the City desires to modify the Zoning Code to allow for planning approval extensions of up to 
two years, when certain findings can be made; and
WHEREAS, on August 8, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly and properly noticed public hearing, 
received all written and oral public comments, and voted ___ to recommend that the City Council ___ the 
proposed ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.
At a duly noticed public hearing on ______________, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed
and considered the staff report dated ________________, and attachments thereto, the exemption from 
environmental review, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
successful completion of projects that implement and achieve the General Plan’s stated goals and policies.
Section 2. Section 27.08.087 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a 
planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator willshall approve an extension if he or shethey finds 
that the project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general plan regulations and conditions.
(b) City extensions applied for prior to July 1, 2015. The Zoning Administrator may approve applications 
filed prior to July 1, 2015, for extensions of planning approvals, as a minor modification to a planning approval, 
for extensions of two years each. No applications for extensions may be considered on or after July 1, 2015.City 
Extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one extension of a planning approval for up to two years, 
subject to the following provisions:
(1) Application required. In order to apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must pay the 
extension application fee and submit a copy of the project plans as originally approved. Application Required. To 
apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit the application prior to the expiration date of 
the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide the reason(s) for the extension request.

--- page 9 ---
(2) Findings rRequired. In order toTo approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of 
the following:
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
(C) The project site and its environs are in substantially the same condition as when the project was 
initially approved.The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an increase in severity of 
previously identified environmental impacts.
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator dDecision on eExtension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood 
by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning 
Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision.
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within 
ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Secretary. With 
regard to the extension of subdivision maps, the provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.72 govern.Planning 
Division and payment of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of the planning approval is 
tolled until a final action is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 27.48 govern for all projects with 
associated subdivision maps. 
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that 
it can be seen with certainty that the ordinance, which updates the process for considering a planning 
application extension, will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 10 ---
From: Amy Jussel, Shaping Youth 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 2:55 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 8/8 Planning Commission agenda item inquiry 
 
Can't attend this eve due to an HOA Board meeting so will submit my query concerning this: 
 
"Ordinance Recommendation Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.087 (Planning Approval Extension) to allow for extensions of up to 
two years for approved planning application; and determine the amendment is exempt from further 
environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3)" 
This is disconcerting and raised my eyebrows as it reads as if this would be a 'precedent'  ordinance? 
Altering codes future forward in perpetuity by allowing being them to be exempt from CEQA is alarming, 
I am totally against this being a Municipal code change...how is this even legal? 
Also, I'm not sure what this planning extension refers to but it sure sounds like Block 21.  
Many in our community are totally against leaving a barren, chain linked hole in the ground with all 
trees cut down and wrapped in plastic as the 'welcome to San Mateo' view...At the very list, the city 
should consider mandating that the developer adhere to their timeline or default to a "community use" 
in the interim, rolling out sod for a park or play area or something more visibly appealing than the 
destruction of all the trees to put up yet another unnecessary office building the community doesn't 
need or desire. sigh.  
As usual, public has very little say in this steamrolling and over-reach, but we are certainly watching. 
Please include my comments in your 'packet' if that's an option. 
Thank you, Amy Jussel Bedard 
MGA#1, District 4

--- page 11 ---
Planning Commission
Proposed Ordinance
Planning Approval Extensions
August 8, 2023
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development

--- page 12 ---
Recommendation
Recommend to the City Council to:
• Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to amend San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.087 (Planning Approval Extension) 
to allow for extensions of up to two years for approved planning 
application; and determine the amendment is exempt from further 
environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Section 15061(b)(3). 
Next Step:
• Subject to review by City Council, effective 30-days after adoption 
2

--- page 13 ---
3
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a)  Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a planning approval be considered, the 
Zoning Administrator shall approve an extension if they find that the project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general plan 
regulations and conditions.
(b)  City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one extension of a planning approval for up to two years, subject to the following 
provisions:  
 
(1)  Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit the application prior to the expiration date of 
the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide the reason(s) for the extension request.
 
(2)  Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of the following:
 
 
(A)  The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and
 
 
(B)  The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
 
 
(C)  The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an increase in severity of previously identified environmental 
impacts.
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood by the same process followed for the 
original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision.
(d)  Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Division and payment of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of a 
planning approval is tolled until a final action is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated 
subdivision maps.

--- page 14 ---
4
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a planning approval be considered, the 
Zoning Administrator willshall approve an extension if he or shethey finds that the project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general 
plan regulations and conditions.
(b) City extensions applied for prior to July 1, 2015. The Zoning Administrator may approve applications filed prior to July 1, 2015, for 
extensions of planning approvals, as a minor modification to a planning approval, for extensions of two years each. No applications for extensions 
may be considered on or after July 1, 2015.City Extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one extension of a planning approval for up to 
two years, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Application required. In order to apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must pay the extension application fee and submit 
a copy of the project plans as originally approved. Application Required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit the 
application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide the reason(s) for the extension request. 
(2) Findings rRequired. In order toTo approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of the following:
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
(C) The project site and its environs are in substantially the same condition as when the project was initially approved. The extension will not result 
in any new environmental impacts or an increase in severity of previously identified environmental impacts.
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator dDecision on eExtension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood by the same process followed for the 
original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision.
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Secretary. With regard to the extension of subdivision maps, the provisions of Municipal 
Code Chapter 26.72 govern. Planning Division and payment of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of the planning approval 
is tolled until a final action is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision maps.

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7305
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Interim Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 8, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Developments (PA-2019-016)
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the Draft Objective Design Standards, receive public comments and provide input and direction to staff on the 
draft standards, specifically with regards to massing and transitions, colors and materials, the Downtown, open space and 
flexibility.
BACKGROUND:
Overview 
The City of San Mateo is developing Objective Design Standards (ODS) for new multi-family and residential mixed-use 
development projects in response to State legislation focused on streamlining the approval process for housing 
production. Currently, many local jurisdictions, including San Mateo, largely rely on discretionary design review processes 
when considering development applications. State law now requires jurisdictions to apply clear and objective design and 
zoning standards to the review of housing project applications involving two or more units, with the overarching goal of 
streamlined review and approval for qualified housing projects to ensure that local housing production targets are 
achieved. 
The City initially began its effort to develop Objective Design Standards (ODS) for multi-family and mixed-use residential 
development in 2018. However, due to a change in consultants and the COVID-19 epidemic, the project did not 
meaningfully get underway until the beginning of 2021 when design consultant MIG, Inc. was retained. A status report on 
the ODS was provided to the Planning Commission on August 24, 2021. Over the past two years, staff has been actively 
working with the MIG team to prepare objective design standards based on the City’s existing design guidelines, policies, 
and other standards in the Zoning Code and specific plans. On April 6, 2023, staff held a community workshop and a 
developers’ roundtable on ODS, with the community’s feedback being incorporated into the current draft ODS. On July 26, 
2023, the Draft ODS were released for public review and input (Attachment 1). Staff is now seeking Planning Commission 
input on key topics prior to preparing a complete draft for public review and adoption. 
Adoption of local ODS will provide the community and developers with a predictable development process that does not 
require interpretation or personal judgement. Once the document is fully developed, staff proposes that the Zoning Code 
be amended to adopt the ODS by reference, but that the actual ODS be adopted as a policy by resolution rather than by 
ordinance. This would allow for refinements of the ODS during implementation and make it easier to respond to evolving 
building practices and community goals and objectives.
State Housing Legislation 
Approved in 2017, Senate Bill 35 allows developers to apply for streamlined review and approval for multi-family and

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
residential mixed-use development projects in jurisdictions where production of new housing has not met the State-
mandated Regional Housing Needs Allocation targets. Under this law, the City is required to review qualifying applications 
under a ministerial process without any discretionary review or local guidance on design and standards.
The Housing Crisis Act, Senate Bill 330 (2019) amended and expanded the scope of the existing Housing Accountability Act 
and included more streamlining requirements, limiting a local agency’s ability to deny a housing project, and requiring 
housing development projects to be reviewed against objective design standards. This law defines “objective standards” as 
“standards that involve no personal or subjective judgement by a public official and are uniformly verifiable by reference 
to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by both the development applicant or 
proponent and the public official before submittal.”
State density bonus law, most recently amended in January 2023, also allows for concessions to offset the cost of 
affordable housing development and waivers from local standards that could preclude the construction of affordable 
housing projects as proposed. The City’s objective design standards could be subject to such requests, therefore staff 
attempted to make the standards as flexible as possible to meet design intent, while allowing for a broad range of 
affordable housing projects.   
Existing Development Review Process 
The City currently has multiple design guidelines for specific building types and neighborhood areas, most of which require 
subjective interpretation and judgement by staff and Commissioners. Historically, the City has referred large multi-family 
and residential mixed-use projects to the Planning Commission to provide early design feedback through study sessions. 
The Planning Commission also had discretion to ultimately determine if multi-family or residential mixed-use projects 
conform to the City’s design guidelines. A shift to ODS would be a departure from the City’s typical review process for 
multi-family and residential mixed-use projects, and could also provide an opportunity for smaller housing projects to be 
reviewed at the staff level, if consistent with ODS. The table below outlines possible changes to City processes upon 
adoption of the ODS. 
Current Discretionary Review Process without 
ODS
Streamlined Review Process with ODS
City staff reviews project using Multi-Family Design 
guidelines, zoning code, building code, specific 
plan(s), and other applicable documents. 
City staff reviews project using Objective Design 
Standards, zoning code, building code, specific 
plan(s), and other applicable documents.
A design report from the City’s design consultant is 
required.
A design report may not be required.
Applicant revises plans to incorporate design 
comments and demonstrate conformance to code 
requirements. 
Applicant revises plans to demonstrate 
conformance to Objective Design Standards and 
code requirements.
The Planning Commission reviews the project and 
has discretion to require design changes and 
whether or not to approve the project. 
City staff or the Planning Commission reviews the 
project.  If the project is deemed to comply with 
code requirements, environmental review, and the 
ODS, then the project is approved.
Proposed Objective Design Standards 
Applicability
Per State law, ODS shall be applied to projects that include multi-family and residential mixed-use projects. This includes 
duplexes, townhomes, high-rise developments, and mixed-use housing projects where at least two-thirds of the building’s 
square footage is reserved for residential uses. In San Mateo, the ODS would apply to all sites that can support multi-family 
and/or residential mixed-use projects. This includes the following zoning districts: Multi-Family Residential (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
and R5-D), Commercial (C1, C2, C3, C4, and CBD), Transit-Oriented Development (TOD), Executive Park (E1 and E2), and all 
other zoning districts with a residential or downtown overlay. The ODS would also apply to lots zoned for single-family 
residential development of two or more units (i.e. primary unit plus ADU or duplex under SB 9), or a SB 9 urban lot split.

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Commercial-only buildings would not be subject to the ODS or the streamlined approval process.  
Approach
City staff and the MIG team have drawn from community input, the City’s current Multi-family Design Guidelines, the 
many specific plans that apply to focused areas of San Mateo, and best practices utilized in other communities similar to 
San Mateo to create the draft ODS (Attachment 1). The proposed ODS aim to clearly establish the City’s objectives for 
quality multi-family residential and mixed-use development projects, while providing flexibility that accommodates 
emerging development trends and building techniques. The ODS would be additive to all other standards that already 
apply to development projects, such as base zoning requirements including setbacks, height, coverage, density, open 
space, and landscaping requirements. The proposed ODS focus on private property and provide a minimum standard that 
projects must meet. If a project does not meet the ODS, applicants may elect to go through the city’s standard 
discretionary review process. 
ODS Content Outline
Recognizing the varying scales of development in the City, the ODS address three distinct building typologies:
•
Low-rise Buildings: 1-3 stories and up to 35 feet in height
•
Mid-rise Buildings: 4-7 stories and up to 90 feet in height (currently possible under state Density Bonus laws)
•
High-rise Buildings: 8+ stories or more than 90 feet in height (currently possible under state Density Bonus laws)
For many of the standards, the draft ODS present a menu approach. For flexibility of design and project needs, developers 
are directed to select a minimum number of design components from a list. For example: Mid-rise buildings on corners 
would be required to provide at least one (1) of the following treatment options to accentuate the corner areas:
1)
A tower element which extends between three (3) and six (6) feet in height from the building ridge
2)
Special treatment of either different exterior materials, paint colors, or recesses or projections relative to the 
adjacent units, or combination of these features.
3)
A cupola
4)
Quoin treatment
5)
Rooftop sculpture
6)
Spire
The following summarizes the chapters of draft ODS document:
Section 1: Organization. Outlines the organization of the document. 
Section 2: Purpose, Applicability, and Building Types. This section states that the standards are intended to streamline 
housing project review, ensure new development fits into existing neighborhoods’ architectural style, building massing 
and articulation, and materials/colors, and ensures that pedestrians and pedestrian movement drive the site and 
building design of new development. The building typologies are introduced.
Section 3: Site Planning. Proposed site planning address:
•
Standards for building siting along primary street frontages
•
Pedestrian access, accommodations, and connections, including paseo standards
•
Location and screening of parking facilities
Section 4: Building Design and Architecture. A significant portion of the ODS focus on the appearance, design, and 
architecture of buildings (see below for further discussion). The standards divide these requirements into:
•
Massing and articulation
•
Transitions and screening
•
Roof form
•
Windows, doors, entry design, and security

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Materials and colors
•
Additions to existing structures 
Section 5: Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting. Generation of open space and required landscape areas is 
contained within the zoning code and will not be changed with the ODS document. This section does not create new 
open space or landscape generation standards but it does provide a menu of options for features that must be 
included in common and private open spaces to ensure variety in landscaping, hardscape and amenities, such as 
materials, entrance design, access, seating, and shade. Common open spaces are required to be fully accessible for all 
units, and could be provided through green roofs, decks, community gardens, and dog runs. Shadow requirements for 
mid- and high-rise buildings, based on the spring and fall equinox unless an existing building already shades the open 
space, and no other opportunities exist on the site to provide access to sunlight have also been included. 
Section 6: Other Site Features. This section addresses accessory structures, enclosures, utility and mechanical 
equipment. Screening standards are introduced to reduce visual impacts and better integrate these features into the 
site design. 
Section 7: Specific Plan Area Standards. Several key areas of the City, including Downtown, Hillsdale Caltrain station 
area, and various sections of El Camino Real, are subject to additional standards contained in specific plans. There are 
currently seven specific plan areas within the City. A map of these specific plan areas is included in Attachment 2. The 
private development subjective standards contained within these specific plan area documents have been made into 
objective standards and are included in this section. These standards are additive to the standards contained in 
Sections 2-6 of the ODS document. Subjective standards related to the public right-of-way have not been translated 
into the ODS but remain in the specific plan document(s). Developers can still meet these standards to enhance their 
project. 
ODS, Downtown and the Downtown Historic District
Recently approved and currently proposed projects in and around Downtown have sparked community discussions 
regarding design styles and requirements within the downtown area. The Downtown Area Plan, adopted in 2009, and the 
Downtown Guidelines, adopted in 1993, are mostly subjective with regard to design requirements and do not dictate or 
exclude any specific architectural styles. The ODS for the Downtown do not seek to establish new standards but rather 
clarify existing private property subjective standards. The Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines subjective standards 
include relating height of structures to adjacent structures, encouraging vertical changes in street facades, pedestrian 
entry ways, achieving compatibility of building styles, provide architectural detailing, creating distinct ground floors, and 
providing visual interest at the public realm. These standards have been translated into the ODS and include: transitional 
requirements to step down to adjacent building heights and to align architectural features, wall plane break standards, 
pedestrian entryway and awning requirements, minimum depth requirements for recesses/reveals and architectural 
details, standards for a distinct building base, a blank wall prohibition, ground floor glazing requirements, and a 
requirement for the provision of plazas or public seating along street frontages. 
The standards of the Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines relate to retaining and preserving storefronts of historic 
buildings, retaining the character of historic buildings during alterations, aligning historic architectural features, 
incorporating common historic elements and materials into building designs, and acknowledging the architectural rhythm 
of historic buildings. These standards are subjective, contextual, based on site specific considerations, and will be 
addressed in the Secretary of Interior Standards and the environmental review of a project. 
Once the City’s General Plan Update effort is completed, the Downtown Area Plan is planned for a comprehensive update 
and will include appropriate outreach and community conversations. This update of the Downtown Area Plan will provide 
the best opportunity to review the downtown area in a holistic manner, conduct the necessary historic reviews and 
surveys, and include robust public and community outreach if further refinement of the existing downtown area standards 
are needed or if specific architectural styles are desired for the downtown area.

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Community Workshops
City Staff and MIG led two online workshops to provide information on the new State laws and gather community input on 
what constitutes good design in San Mateo. The first ODS workshop was held on June 1, 2021, where approximately 30 
members of the public attended. The second event consisted of a remote daytime developers’ roundtable discussion and 
evening community workshop conducted via Zoom on April 6, 2023, with approximately 15 people attending each 
meeting.
Community Workshop #1 (2021) 
This workshop discussed eight key design elements: site design, massing, articulation, materials, transitional design, 
streetscape relationship, open space, and lighting and site security. Members of the public spoke about appropriate 
building articulation and materials, the importance of balancing competing needs between large windows to provide 
natural lighting and adequate wall space to accommodate furniture particularly for small multi-family units, and more. The 
visuals and public comments are included as Attachment 3 and questions during the workshop can be found in Attachment 
4.
Community Workshop #2 and Developers Roundtable (2023) 
In the second workshop series, City staff and MIG shared progress on the City’s ODS effort and sought feedback in four key 
areas: massing, building transitions, open space, and pedestrian connections. Community members supported flexibility in 
the ODS based on development size and type, publicly accessible open and green space, and reduced reliance on cars 
through improved pedestrian spaces. Participants further spoke on the importance of coherence between architectural 
styles and aesthetics, especially in transitional areas that border different densities or uses. Community visuals and 
comments are included in Attachment 5. The developers’ roundtable discussion provided a more technical perspective on 
the feasibility of implementing ODS. Developers also highlighted the importance of flexibility in addition to consistent and 
specific standards that facilitate construction and development while maintaining project affordability. Developers’ 
comments are included in Attachment 6.
Community and Developers’ Input:
1.
Massing. 
Community members raised concerns about large-scale developments in San Mateo that could cast shadows on 
adjacent buildings and create wind tunnel effects in the City. These concerns can also be linked to a potential 
reduction in the use of public open spaces due to less pleasant outdoor conditions. 
Developers noted that stepbacks may become cost-intensive, as they may require greater structural and material 
requirements. With respect to inset or breaks in massing, developers highlighted the importance of providing a 
realistic range for requiring such breaks to reduce interruption to the internal building configuration and external 
aesthetics.
Response: Shadow requirements for mid-and-high-rise buildings were added to the ODS document. No additional 
standards related to wind tunnel effects were added as existing ODS requirements for small articulations and 
massing breaks would collectively reduce wind tunnel effects. Stepback requirements were retained in the ODS, 
however, State Density Bonus Law may allow developers to waive or reduce stepback standards if cost-savings can 
be demonstrated by the developer. Existing wall plane break standards are based on a range that allows flexibility 
for developers and allows for feasible internal building configurations. 
2.
Building Transitions. 
Community members supported transitional ODS elements such as stepbacks, offsets, and landscaping as buffers 
for projects adjacent to single-family areas and suggested using townhomes as a buffer and transition between 
areas of intensifying densities. They also recognized that the City has a variety of neighborhoods, each with 
different characters, and cautioned against regulations that create a “cookie-cutter effect” in projects.

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Developers indicated that setback and stepback requirements may result in reduced residential square footage 
and/or the number of units which may reduce the financial feasibility of a project. Legacy non-conforming land 
uses that differ from their current surroundings or zoning also pose a challenge as developers design their 
project(s).
Response: No additional transitional elements beyond stepbacks, offsets, and landscaping were added. The menu 
option approach of the ODS document along with not requiring certain architectural styles has built enough 
flexibility into reduce the risk of a “cookie-cutter effect” in projects. Stepbacks for the top floor(s) of a structure 
were made an optional as one of many ways to provide a distinct building top. Except for in the downtown area, 
building transitions are only required if adjacent to R1 or R2 zoned parcels. 
3.
Open Space. 
There was strong support for open space for a variety of passive and active uses, a desire to have more features 
such as community roof top gardens contribute to a project’s open space requirements, and an emphasis on the 
importance of maintaining open space and landscaping to ensure a pleasant outdoor experience for all. 
Developers stated that site constraints coupled with open space requirements reduce unit yields and that 
providing at-grade open space may be difficult as it limits the opportunities for housing above grade.
Response: Zoning code standards for the generation for open space have remained unchanged. Standards that 
provide a menu list of features (such as fixed seating, shade structures, limits on hardscape, etc.) that must be 
included in landscaped/open space areas as well as clarification that dog runs and roof top gardens may now 
contribute to required open space have been incorporated in to the ODS document. 
4.
Pedestrian Connections. 
Community members supported paseos and pedestrian-only right-of-ways that are unique, contextual, and that 
are furnished with pedestrian amenities such as planters, trees, public art, and cafes. They suggested paseos be 
used as connections between transit nodes to reduce car reliance and improve the public transit experience in San 
Mateo. 
Developers shared that the practicality of implementing paseos largely depends on the size of the site itself as they 
may also reduce unit yield, and may not be a feasible tool unless connecting appropriate public circulation 
networks. 
Response: ODS has incorporated standards that require mid-block paseos for larger block developments and menu 
option approaches for developers to choose from a list of public amenities to provide within a paseo. Paseo 
requirements for larger block development projects would all developers to adequately connect with surrounding 
circulation networks.  
5.
Additional Comments. 
Developers also stated that they would welcome a streamlined entitlement process from application to 
construction. 
Response: ODS is an effort towards streamlining the overall entitlement process by providing predictability of 
requirements. As either part of the ODS effort or Housing Element program implementation, the City is looking to 
improve project streamlining by increasing projects that can be approved by the Zoning Administrator from 5 units 
(currently) to 25 units as part of a future code amendment. The City is also exploring options to eliminate the pre-
application process in its current form or make it optional. 
DISCUSSION:
To help guide the discussion around the draft ODS and to focus on the areas that can best support high-quality, attractive 
multi-family residential and mixed-use development, staff has provided a list of general questions to frame and support

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Commission’s discussion. However, this list is not intended to be exhaustive and there may be other topics and areas 
that the Commission and the public want to address with the ODS.
1.
Massing and Transitions. The ODS provides options to reduce massing and increase visual interest through 
articulation. This includes standards for façade breaks (horizontal and vertical massing breaks), stepbacks, and use 
of detailing (windows, balconies, awning etc.). Question 1: Are there articulation options that may be overlooked, 
need refinement, or are unnecessary? Current transitional elements for projects adjacent to R1 or R2 zoned 
parcels include increased stepbacks above the second story for all building types or increased setbacks and 
landscaping screening requirements. Question 2: Are these appropriate transition treatments adjacent to R-1 and 
R-2 districts? Should other transitional elements be considered? 
2.
Colors and Materials. Is the proposed approach of requiring a combination of at least four and a maximum of six 
different colors and/or materials and prohibiting neon colors too constraining? 
3.
Downtown. Have the existing subjective standards of the Downtown Retail Core and Historic District Design 
Guidelines been effectively translated into objective standards? Are there other architectural options that may 
have been overlooked that should be included in the ODS to meet the intent of the Downtown Design Guidelines? 
4.
Open Space. Community members and developers shared a similar interest in using stepback space as open space 
opportunities. The ODS includes provisions for green roofs, decks, and community gardens in such spaces. Are 
there other design features that could be counted towards open space requirements?  
5.
Flexibility. Flexibility was a key theme that emerged in both the community workshop and the developers’ 
roundtable. The ODS aims to provide flexibility to implement required standards by differentiating standards for 
different scales of development and providing a menu of options for compliance. Does the ODS provide adequate 
flexibility to address community concerns? 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Public comments received related to the Draft ODS are included in Attachment 7 and included concerns and 
recommendations for development within the downtown and downtown historic district. Any additional public comments 
received after the publication of this report will be provided to the Planning Commission as a post publication attachment. 
NEXT STEPS:
Following the study session, staff will work with MIG to refine the draft objective design standards based on public and 
Commission input. Revised draft language will then be presented to the Commission at a public hearing for a 
recommendation prior to bringing the ODS to City Council for review and adoption. Based on the current project timeline, 
staff anticipates that the objective design standards will be ready for City Council consideration in late 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact on the City. The development of Objective Design Standards is funded by the State’s SB 2 Planning 
Grants Program, and accounted for in the Community Development Department budget. However, to receive this grant 
funding, the City must adopt the ODS by the State’s deadline of December 31, 2023.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this item is not subject to CEQA, because it is an informational 
study session item that the Planning Commission is not taking action on at this time. Additional CEQA review will be 
conducted upon the adoption of the objective design standards and associated code amendments. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 1 – Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family Residential Development 
Att 2 – Map of Specific Plan Areas 
Att 3 – June 2021 Workshop Mural Board
Att 4 – June 2021 Workshop Questions and Answers
Att 5 – April 2023 Community Workshop Mural Board
Att 6 – April 2023 Developers’ Roundtable Mural Board 
Att 7 – Public Comments on Draft ODS
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
MSandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7203

--- page 23 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
1 
DRAFT OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PRELIMINARY DISCUSSION WITH THE PLANNING 
COMMISSION 
JULY 31, 2023 
This is a working draft document for discussion at the Planning Commission study session on August 8, 
2023.  Graphics have not been prepared pending input received at the study session.  A few 
representative images have been included as “place savers” to aid discussion at the study session. The 
document will be reformatted into a highly graphic version for formal public review and hearings. 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Organization 
2. Purpose and Applicability  
 
2.1 
Purpose 
2.2 
Applicability 
2.3 
Types of Buildings Regulated 
3. Site Planning  
3.1 
Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features 
3.2 
Pedestrian Access and Accommodations 
3.3 
Parking, Access, and Driveways 
4. Building Design and Architecture  
4.1 
Massing and Articulation 
4.2 
Ground Floor Requirements 
4.3 
Additional Standards for Mixed-use Buildings 
4.4 
Transitions and Screening 
4.5 
Roof Form 
4.6 
Windows, Doors, Entry Design, and Security 
4.7 
Materials and Colors 
4.8 
Additions to Existing Structures  
5. Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting  
5.1 
Landscaping and Open Space 
5.2 
Exterior Lighting

--- page 24 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
2 
6. Other Site Features 
6.1 
Accessory Structures and Enclosures  
6.2 
Utilities and Mechanical Equipment 
6.3 
Required Screening 
7. Specific Plan Area Standards 
7.1 Mid and South El Camino Real 
7.2 El Camino Real Master Plan Area 
7.3 Downtown Retail Core and Historic District 
7.4 Vision of the Gateway 
7.5 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan Area 
7.6 Hillsdale Station Area 
7.7 Mariner’s Island Specific Plan Area 
8. Definitions

--- page 25 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
3 
1. 
ORGANIZATION 
These Objective Design Standards for the City of San Mateo are organized into the following sections: 
This Section 1 outlines the organization of the document. 
Section 2 describes the purpose and applicability of these Objective Design Standards for qualifying 
residential and mixed-use development projects in the City of San Mateo. 
Sections 3, 4, 5, and 6 work together and set forth standards that apply to projects at the site 
planning, building design, and site detail levels. General standards applicable to all development are 
provided at the beginning of each section, followed by specific standards based on building type 
(low-rise, mid-rise, and high-rise). 
Section 7 establishes additive standards applicable within adopted specific plan areas. 
Section 8 provides supplementary definitions to those contained in San Mateo Municipal Code 
(SMMC) Chapter 27.04 (Zoning – Definitions).

--- page 26 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
4 
2. 
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY 
2.1 
Purpose 
These Objective Design Standards (ODS) are established to: 
A. Streamline the review of qualifying multi-family and mixed-use development projects to 
address housing needs of all income levels; 
B. Ensure new development fits contextually into surrounding neighborhoods and districts by 
incorporating quality design in architectural styles, building massing, detailing, articulation, 
and materials/colors that contribute to established character; and 
C. Ensure that pedestrians and pedestrian movement are considered foremost in the massing, 
placement, and design of new development. 
2.2 
Applicability 
A. The ODS set forth in this document apply to new multi-family residential development, 
residential mixed-use development, and additions to multi-family and mixed-use 
development pursuant to any provision of state law which references objective design 
standards, including but not limited to Government Code Section 65589.5 (Housing 
Accountability Act) and Section 65913.4, as may be amended from time to time.  
B. These ODS apply to private development projects on private property.  The ODS may work 
in conjunction with any adopted City of San Mateo documents that regulate use of and 
required improvements to public property abutting a development site. 
C. These ODS are additive to the requirements of the zoning district in which a development 
site is located, as specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Title 27 (Zoning Code). In the event 
of a conflict between the provisions of this document and the Zoning Code, the latter shall 
apply. 
D. In the event of any conflict within this document between citywide standards and standards 
applicable to a specific plan area, the specific plan area standards shall apply. Also with 
regard to specific plans, in the event of any conflict between the standards contained in this 
document and provisions of a particular specific plan, the standards in the specific plan shall 
apply. 
2.3 
Types of Buildings Regulated 
A. These standards establish regulations for three general building types: low-rise, mid-rise, 
and high-rise buildings.  As used in these regulations:  
B. Low-rise shall mean buildings up to three (3) stories but no more than thirty-five (35) feet in 
height.

--- page 27 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
5 
 
 
 
C. Mid-rise shall mean buildings between four (4) and seven (7) stories but not more than 
ninety (90) feet in height.  
 
 
 
Low-rise Development Examples 
Mid-rise 
Development 
Examples

--- page 28 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
6 
D. High-rise shall mean buildings eight (8) or more stories or more than ninety (90) feet in 
height. 
E. Where these regulations do not state which particular standards apply to a particular 
building type, the standards shall apply to all building types.  In other instances, the 
regulations may indicate that additional standards apply to mid-rise and high-rise buildings. 
 
 
High-rise Development Examples

--- page 29 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
7 
3. 
SITE PLANNING 
3.1 
Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features  
3.1.1 
Frontage Elements in CBD Zoning District 
In the CBD zoning district, the building’s primary street frontage shall include at least one (1) of 
the following:  
A. A publicly accessible plaza, subject to the following:  
A. For each one hundred fifty (150) feet of horizontal building frontage or portion thereof, 
at least one hundred (100) square feet of plaza area shall be provided.  
B. Each plaza shall have a minimum depth and width of ten (10) feet.  
C. Where more than one (1) plaza area is required based on building frontage, plaza areas 
may be combined into one large plaza or provided as separate plaza areas.  
D. For buildings with a horizontal length of less than one hundred (150) feet, no plaza is 
required.  However, public seating shall be provided along the building frontage as 
required by subsection b, below. 
B. Publicly accessible seating on private property, subject to the following:  
A. One seating unit shall be provided for each fifty (50) horizontal feet of building frontage, 
with a seating unit defined to be a seating area at least two (2) feet in width.  
B. Public seating shall either be distributed along the street frontage or provided in 
groupings within plazas and open spaces.  
C. At least fifty (50) percent of provided public seats shall have backs and armrests. 
3.2 
Pedestrian Access and Accommodations  
3.2.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development 
A. Pedestrian Paths. Onsite pedestrian paths shall comply with the following:  
A. The minimum width of a public pedestrian path shall be six (6) feet. 
B. All pedestrian paths on private property shall be clearly delineated using at least one of 
the following: 
a. Colored and/or textured concrete 
b. Paving blocks or stones

--- page 30 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
8 
c. Grasscrete 
d. Tile 
e. Brick 
f. Masonry 
3.2.2 
Mid-block Paseos  
A. For a development site that involves more than six hundred (600) feet of continuous street 
frontage, at least one (1) mid-block pedestrian paseo open to the sky and connecting to 
public sidewalks shall be provided. 
B. For low-rise buildings, paseos shall have a minimum twelve (12)-foot width, as measured 
from building face to adjacent building face.  For mid-rise and high-rise buildings, paseos 
shall have a minimum twenty (20)-foot width, as measured from building face to adjacent 
building face. 
C. Within the required minimum paseo width, a minimum eight (8)-foot-wide public access 
easement shall be provided for pedestrian access.  
D. Pedestrian-scale lighting shall be provided along the length of the paseo.  Such lighting shall 
be mounted not higher than twelve (12) feet, meet the latest Illuminating Engineering 
Society (IES) recommended values, and shall be directed downward or have a light cap.  
E. Pedestrian paseos shall include at least three of the following pedestrian amenities every 
twenty (20) linear feet: 
A. Bench(es) 
B. Landscape planter 
C. Shade structure 
D. Tree consistent with the City Landscape Ordinance 
E. Water feature or water fountain 
F. Café tables and chairs 
G. Textured, multi-colored, or patterned pavement 
H. Public art 
I. 
Decorative overhead lighting

--- page 31 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
9 
3.3 
Parking, Access, and Driveways  
3.3.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development 
A. Vehicle and Parking Area Screening. Where vehicles are visible from a public right-of-way 
(i.e., surface parking lots or rooftop garages), the following standards shall apply: 
a. Shall not be established within any required front setback area. 
b. Surface parking areas, including driveways, shall not occupy more than twenty-five 
(25) percent or sixty (60) feet of the project frontage, whichever is greater.  
c. Shall be screened from view from the adjacent primary street with a three-foot-high 
textured or patterned block wall that is capped, or a landscape hedge, or 
combination of the two. If a wall is used, the wall shall be treated with a graffiti-
resistant coating.  
d. Chain link or vinyl fencing shall be prohibited as a screening material. 
B. Roof-top Parking.  Roof-top parking shall be screened by a parapet wall of a minimum 
three-foot height and made of the same material(s) as the building on which it is 
located. 
C. Parking Entrances and Curb Cuts.  
a. For developments that front more than one (1) street, driveways, and entrances to 
parking facilities (surface parking or parking structures) shall be located on the 
secondary street frontage, side street, or alley unless access is only provided from 
Paseo Examples

--- page 32 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
10 
the primary street frontage or if the City traffic engineer requires access to occur 
from a primary street for traffic flow purposes. In circumstances in which a 
development site fronts two (2) primary streets, the developer may select the street 
to be used for the parking entrance. 
D. Parking Structures.  
a. For mixed-use buildings, any structured parking facility integrated into the building 
and located along a street shall not have more than fifty (50) percent of that 
frontage consisting of non-active uses, as defined in this document.  Any portion of 
the frontage used for parking shall either be enclosed or shall have ground-level 
screening consisting of decorative metal grates, evergreen landscaping, or 
combination of the two.  
Graphic pending 
b. For multi-family residential buildings, any structured parking facility integrated into 
the building and located along or facing a public street shall either be enclosed or 
shall have ground-level screening consisting of decorative metal grates, evergreen 
landscaping, or combination of the two.  
c. For any stand-alone parking structure located along or facing a public right-of-way 
shall include at least one (1) of the following treatments:  
i. 
Landscape screening consisting of evergreen species covering at least the 
first two lower stories of the parking structure 
ii. 
Public murals or art 
iii. 
Decorative screening elements attached to the structure, such as grills or 
vertical slats.

--- page 33 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
11 
4. 
BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE  
4.1 
Massing and Articulation 
4.1.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development  
A. Blank Walls. Blank walls shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) feet in length on all 
stories.  
B. Articulations Details. On each building, detailed façade articulation of a minimum depth 
eighteen (18) inches shall be created. These shall be in addition to requirements for wall 
plane breaks identified below for each building type.  For low-rise and mid-rise buildings, at 
least two (2) of the following shall be provided.  For high-rise buildings, at least three (3) of 
the following shall be provided.  
A. Architectural projections such as roof eaves, overhangs, cornices, pergolas, or metal, 
wood, or glass awnings 
B. Window recesses 
C. Balconies per unit  
D. Box or bay windows per unit 
E. Projecting rooms or units for ten (10) percent of the units along the building façade for 
low-rise development or thirty (30) percent of the units for mid and high-rise 
development.   
F. Window edges, including moldings and reveals with at least three (3)-inch depth 
G. Horizontal moldings 
C. Building Facade Materials and Color. Buildings shall not be monochromatic in color scheme 
and use of materials.  The following approaches shall be used.  
A. Utilize a combination of at least four (4) different colors and materials on each building 
façade, exclusive of trim and roof. For example, the combination could be two (2) 
different colors and two (2) different materials, three (3) different colors and one (1) 
material, or three (3) different materials and one (1) color. No more than six (6) colors 
and/or materials may be utilized on each building façade. 
B. Each color or material shall constitute at least fifteen (15) percent of the building 
façade.  
C. A change in color or material shall be characterized by a minimum six (6)-inch offset 
from the adjacent building façade.

--- page 34 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
12 
D. Veneers shall be returned at least two (2) feet from exterior corners.  
4.1.2 
Low-rise Buildings - Wall Plane Breaks.  A minimum two (2)-foot-deep wall plane offset shall be 
provided for every fifteen (15) to thirty (30) feet of horizontal wall length. 
 
 [Additional graphic pending] 
4.1.3 
Mid-rise Buildings  
A. Building Corner Treatment.  Building corner treatments are required to accentuate the end 
of a building.  Building corners shall incorporate at least one (1) of the following:  
A. A tower element which extends between three (3) and six (6) feet in height from the 
building ridge 
B. Special treatment of either different exterior materials, paint colors, or recesses or 
projections relative to the adjacent units, or combination of these features. 
C. A cupola 
D. Quoin treatment 
E. Rooftop sculpture 
F. Spire 
 
Wall Plane Offset

--- page 35 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
13 
Graphic pending 
B. Building Composition. Mid-rise buildings of four (4) or five (5) stories in height shall be 
divided into at least two (2) sections: either a base and a top or a body and top. Mid-rise 
buildings of six (6) or seven (7) stories in height shall have a base, body, and building top. 
A. Base 
a. If provided, the base shall be expressed with the same material or same material 
and color over one (1) to two (2) floors for buildings four (4) to five (5) stories.  
b. The base shall be expressed with the same material or same material and color over 
two (2) to three (3) floors for buildings six (6) to seven (7) stories.  
B. Body. The body shall be a minimum of three (3) floors in height. 
C. Top 
a. If provided, the top shall not exceed one (1) story. 
b. If provided, the top shall be differentiated from the base and/or body by either its 
building material, wall plane or stepback, color, projected roof overhangs (minimum 
eighteen [18] inches), stepped parapets, lighting, roof cornice, or a combination 
thereof. 
Graphic pending 
C. Horizontal Wall Plane Breaks. Along all building frontages, a wall plane offset shall occur at 
least every twenty (20) to forty (40) feet of horizontal building length, with the offset being 
a minimum of two (2) feet in depth and five (5) feet in length.

--- page 36 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
14 
 
D. Vertical Wall Plane Breaks. There shall be a change in the depth of the wall plane along the 
length of all building facades, unless stated otherwise. This shall be accomplished by 
incorporating at least two (2) of the following:  
A. Roof cornice on the top floor. 
B. A wall plane offset of a minimum of five (5) feet in depth between the base and the 
body of the building, meaning the body can be recessed or projected relative to the 
base. Along the primary and secondary frontages, projections from the base may occur 
on all stories above the base. No wall plane shall extend into the required setback or 
public right-of-way. 
C. Change in building material or color between the base and body characterized by a 
twelve (12)-inch minimum offset from the surrounding building wall.  
D. A minimum ten (10)-foot stepback immediately above the building base or for the top 
floor.

--- page 37 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
15

--- page 38 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
16 
E. Corners. Buildings on corner parcels shall incorporate at least one (1) of the following at the 
intersection(s) of primary and secondary streets: 
A. Corner cuts of at least ten (10) feet at the base of the building 
B. Tower element which differs four (4) feet minimum in height from building ridge. 
C. A cupola 
D. Quoin treatment 
E. Rooftop sculpture 
F. Spire 
Graphic pending 
 
4.1.4 
High-rise Buildings.   
A. High-rise buildings shall incorporate the same wall plane, building materials, articulation, 
and corner standards as mid-rise buildings, in addition to the following: 
B. Building Composition. High-rise buildings shall be divided into three (3) sections: base, body, 
and top. 
A. Base.  The base shall be two (2) to three (3) floors in height. 
B. Body  
a. The body shall be the floors above the base of the building, up to the top as defined 
below. 
b. The body shall be a minimum of one and one-half (1.5) times the sum of the base 
and the top stories. 
C. Top 
a. The top shall be a maximum of two (2) stories. 
b. The top shall be differentiated from the base and body by its building material, wall 
plane, color, eaves, or roof cornice on the uppermost floor. 
Graphic pending

--- page 39 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
17 
C. Horizontal Wall Plane Breaks. Along all building frontages, a wall plane offset shall occur at 
least every twenty-five (25) to fifty (50) feet of horizontal building length, with the offset 
being a minimum of two (2) feet in depth and five (5) feet in length. 
D. Wall Plane Breaks. There shall be articulation on all building facades. This shall be 
accomplished through at least three (3) of the following: 
A. Roof cornice on the top floor. 
B. A wall plane offset of a minimum of five (5) feet in depth between the base and the 
body of the building, meaning the body can be recessed or projected relative to the 
base. Along the primary and secondary frontages, projections from the base shall only 
occur on the body of the building.  No wall plane shall extend into the required setback 
or public right-of-way. 
C. Change in building material or color between the base and body characterized by a 
twelve (12)-inch minimum offset from the surrounding building wall.  
D. A minimum ten (10)-foot stepback immediately above the building base or for the top 
floor.  
Graphic pending  
  
4.2 
Ground Floor Requirements 
4.2.1 
Mixed-Use  
A. At least seventy-five (75) percent of the ground floor wall area shall be glazed. The use of 
reflective or dark tinted glass is prohibited except for residential units.  
B. The ground floor plate height for retail/commercial use and office shall be at least fifteen 
(15) feet, measured from grade to interior ceiling height. 
4.2.2 
Residential 
Entries to ground-floor residential uses shall be located eighteen (18) to forty-two (42) inches above the 
grade of the adjacent public sidewalk.  
4.3 
Additional Standards for Mixed-Use Buildings. 
4.3.1 
Consistent Design. 
Mixed-use buildings shall carry the same theme on all elevations using at least two (2) of the following 
approaches:

--- page 40 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
18 
A. Primary (non-accent) material(s)  
B. Primary (non-accent) color(s) 
C. Window detail (sills, frame) and proportions 
D. Similar treatment of either top, body, and/or base 
E. Repeating recess depth 
4.3.2 
Differentiate between Residential and Commercial Uses  
Mixed-use buildings shall incorporate at least two (2) of the following to differentiate between 
residential and commercial uses. 
A. Distinct awning or entry treatments shall be used for commercial/retail or office uses.  
B. A change in the wall plane of a minimum depth of two (2) feet. 
C. Change in building material or color. 
4.4 
Transitions and Screening 
4.4.1 
Neighborhood Transitions.  
For proposed development projects that have a density of thirty-five (35) dwelling units per acre or 
greater and where the side or rear property line abuts a property in the R1 or R2 zoning districts, the 
following standards shall apply. 
A. Stepback – Low-rise Buildings.  For low-rise buildings within ten (10) feet of the abutting R1 
or R2 zoning districts, the second and third stories shall step back at least five (5) feet from 
the first story when the first story is built to the minimum setback line.  Alternatively, the 
entire building may be set back at least twelve (12) feet from the abutting property line. 
Graphics pending

--- page 41 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
19 
 
B. Stepback – Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings.   
A. For mid-rise and high-rise buildings within thirty (30) feet of the abutting R1 or R2 
zoning districts, a minimum ten (10)-foot stepback shall be provided for every story 
above the second story.  Alternatively, the entire building may be set back at least forty 
(40) feet from the property line. 
B. For mid-rise and high-rise buildings located across a secondary or lower classification 
roadway from an R-1 or R-2 zoning district, a minimum ten (10)-foot stepback shall be 
provided for every story above the second story.  Alternatively, the entire building may 
be set back at least twenty (20) feet from the property line. 
C. Landscape Screening. Evergreen screening trees shall be: 
A. Planted at a minimum interval of fifteen (15) feet along interior property lines abutting 
an R1 or R2 zoning district 
B. Consist of species that attains a twenty (20)-foot minimum height at maturity 
C. Minimum fifteen (15)-gallon size at time of planting 
4.5 
Roof Form  
4.5.1 
Variation 
All buildings shall provide variations of roof height and/or form as follows: 
A. Low-rise: Thirty (30) percent minimum of the roofline  
Transition from 4 stories to 
adjacent 1 story

--- page 42 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
20 
B. Mid-rise: Twenty (20) percent of the roofline  
C. High-rise: No requirement 
Graphic pending

--- page 43 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
21 
 
4.5.2 
Additional Requirements. 
A. A building shall have no more than two (2) variations in roof form. 
B. Roof pitch and eave treatment shall be consistent on a building. 
C. Flat roofs shall provide a capped, two (2)-foot high minimum parapet. 
D. Roof Form. Roof parapets shall include the following elements: coping on the top, and a drip 
edge.  
4.6 
Windows, Doors, Entry Design, and Security  
4.6.1 
Windows – Depth 
Windows shall be recessed a minimum of six (6) inches from the exterior wall surface, unless the 
architectural style dictates flush (curtain wall) or protruding windows. Where a curtain wall is used, no 
recess or protrusion is required.  Wainscoting, sills, and/or reveals shall be incorporated into deep-set 
windows.   
4.6.2 
Windows - Details 
All windows shall include detailing using at least two (2) of the following approaches consistent with the 
selected architectural style.  
A. Window trim 
B. Projected lintel 
C. Projected sill

--- page 44 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
22 
D. Sashes 
4.6.3 
Windows - Mixed-use Buildings.  
The street-level façade for retail/commercial ground floors shall have windows with a minimum seventy 
(70) percent transparency between a height of three (3) and twelve (12) feet, measured above sidewalk 
grade. 
4.6.4 
Entries, Doors, and Stairways 
A. Entry Locations. Building entries shall adhere to the following standards.  
A. Each façade adjacent to a street shall have at least one pedestrian or main entry 
fronting the primary or secondary street frontage or, where public paseo exists, to that 
paseo.    
B. Low-rise Buildings 
a. When fronting a public right-of-way, each ground-floor residential unit shall provide 
a main entry oriented toward a primary or secondary street frontage.  
b. When adjacent to an internal courtyard or common space, each residential ground 
floor unit shall provide direct access via an entry door to this area.  
C. Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings.  Individual residential ground floor entries shall be 
oriented toward a street, internal courtyard, or a lobby entrance serving several units. 
D. Mixed-Use Buildings  
a. Pedestrian access to the residential uses shall be via a lobby or individual entries 
that are separate from commercial use access. 
b. At least one access to residential uses shall be located at a primary frontage or 
secondary frontage. 
B. Residential Entry Design. Ground-floor residential entries fronting a public right-of-way or 
common space shall have at least one (1) fenestration element and one (1) entry element 
from the lists below.  The entry element shall be at least three (3) feet in depth.

--- page 45 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
23 
 
Fenestration Elements 
Entry Elements 
Transom window 
Covered front porch 
Sidelight window 
Stoop 
Awning with a minimum 3-foot projection (but not 
extending into any public right-of-way) 
Recessed entry 
Forecourt 
 
C. Retail/Commercial or Other Non-residential Entry Design. Non-residential ground-floor uses 
shall adhere to the following: 
A. Each tenant space shall have an individual entry.  
B. Each entry shall have direct at-grade access from any adjacent sidewalk. 
C. Each entry shall be inset or offset no more than twenty-four (24) inches from the 
adjacent building façade. 
D. Each entry shall have at least two (2) of the following features:  
a. Awning or canopy (glass, wood, or metal only) 
b. Contrasting color relative to adjacent building wall  
c. Transom or sidelight windows  
d. Double doors  
e. An entrance enhanced with decorative hardware (wrought iron, brass), decorative 
framing (cornice), and/or artwork (mural, stained glass, tiling) 
Graphic pending 
D. Garage Doors.  
A. For projects with ten (10) or more residential units, individual garage doors shall not 
face a public street but may be oriented towards an alley or private street/driveway 
internal to the project.

--- page 46 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
24 
B. All individual garage doors shall be recessed a minimum of six (6) inches from the 
surrounding building wall.   
E. Utility Room Entries.  
A. Exterior-facing utility rooms and emergency exit corridor doors shall not be located on 
the primary street frontage.  
B. When visible from a public right-of-way, utility room doors and emergency exits shall be 
the same materials, colors, and style as the main entry doors.  
C. These standards shall not apply if they conflict with the rules and regulations of PG&E or 
another private or public utility conveyor. 
F. Loading Dock Doors.  
A. Loading dock doors shall fully screen the interior loading dock area.  
B. Doors shall use materials that limit visibility, such as translucent glass or decorative 
metal, and included in the material palette specified for the building. 
G. Exterior Stairways. Exterior stairways/stairwells shall face interior spaces such as plazas, 
gathering areas, and parking areas. This standard shall not apply if it conflicts with the Fire 
Code or Building Code.  
4.6.5 
Design for Security  
All exterior walls fronting shared areas, interior courts, parking areas, open space, and walkways shall 
feature at least one viewpoint through a window, door, balcony, or patio at least every thirty (30) feet 
on each building story. 
4.7 
Materials and Colors  
4.7.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development 
A. Colors: Neon colors shall be prohibited. Colors of the same color palette shall be 
differentiated by at least three shades. 
B. Allowable Materials. Materials used throughout on exterior walls, as trim, for windows and 
doors, and as roofing material shall be allowed according to the following Materials Table.

--- page 47 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
25 
C.  
MATERIAL 
NOTES 
Exterior Walls, Including Trim and Accent 
Brick 
Including brick veneer  
Concrete 
 
Stone 
 
Stucco 
True stucco only (Lime or Portland 
Cement).  Excluding synthetic stucco 
and Exterior Insulation Finishing System 
(EIFS).  
Plaster 
Verified for exterior use only 
Glass 
 
Tile 
 
Rammed Earth 
Low-rise only  
Wood Siding 
Shingle, Clapboard, Panel 
Fiber Cement Board 
Clapboard, Panel 
Metal 
Excluding corrugated metal 
Wood 
Excluding plywood

--- page 48 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
26 
MATERIAL 
NOTES 
Building Base 
 
Brick 
 
Concrete 
 
Stone 
 
Metal  
 
Ceramic Tile 
 
Metal 
Excluding aluminum and corrugated 
metal 
Wood 
Excluding plywood 
Fiberglass composite 
 
Glass 
 
Window Frames 
Wood  
Excluding plywood 
Metal 
Excluding corrugated metal 
Fiberglass 
 
Composite

--- page 49 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
27 
MATERIAL 
NOTES 
Vinyl 
 
Roofing Materials 
Composite, asphalt, and fiberglass 
shingle 
 
Clay and concrete tile 
 
Slate 
 
Green roofs 
 
Solar shingles 
 
Colored metal/natural copper 
 
 
D. Sustainable Materials. Sustainable materials shall be used for a minimum of twenty-five (25) 
percent of the building exterior and shall consist of a minimum of one (1) of the following 
properties:  
A. Certified as zero of low volatile organic compounds (VOS) pursuant to State Green 
Building Code 
B. Qualified as rapidly renewable by being harvested within ten (10) years  
C. Salvaged from the existing site 
D. Produced within northern California 
E. Containing a recycled content of eighty (80) percent or above 
E. Prohibited Materials. The following materials shall be prohibited on exterior walls, as trim, 
as doors and windows, and as roofing materials: chain link, corrugated metal, foam molding, 
plywood, synthetic stucco/EIFS, mirrored glass, and vinyl.

--- page 50 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
28 
F. Quality. Durable architectural materials and finishes with a minimum life expectancy of 50 
years and roofing with a minimum life expectancy of thirty (30) years shall be used on the 
exterior of the buildings. 
4.8 
Additions to Existing Structures 
Additions to existing structures shall:  
A. Be of the same architectural style as the existing building(s) 
B. Incorporate and match all the following features if they are present in the existing 
building(s). 
A. Roof form 
B. Window and door type, materials, proportions, and details such as recesses, 
mullion/muntin width and pattern etc. 
C. Colors/materials 
D. Articulation patterns 
E. Cornice 
F. Balconies

--- page 51 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
29 
5. 
LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING  
5.1 
Landscaping and Open Space  
5.1.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development  
A. Landscaping. Landscaped areas and open spaces shall incorporate at least three (3) of the 
following:  
A. Use of hardscape materials up to fifty (50) percent of surfaces, with hardscape defined 
to include paving materials, gravel, and stone and tile work 
B. Interior building entrance with direct access to open space(s) 
C. Building paseo with direct access to open space(s) 
D. Fixed seating elements with shade structures which face open space  
E. In a mixed-use project, commercial patio and/or pedestrian order window/bar facing 
the open space  
B. Private Open Space for Individual Units 
A. Balcony fronts and sides shall consist of obscured glass, slats, or partially transparent 
grating or railing that is at least fifty (50) percent open.  
B. Enclosed private ground-floor open spaces fronting a public street and/or sidewalk shall 
have an enclosure between three (3) and four (4) feet in height. Enclosure materials 
shall be limited to the following:  
a. Walls of a color and material(s) that match those used for the main building(s) 
b. Wrought-iron fencing 
c. Glass  
d. Wood 
 
Graphic pending 
C. Common Open Space 
A. Common open space areas and amenities shall be located to be physically accessible to 
all residents.

--- page 52 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
30 
B. Green roofs and decks accessible to all units and where all residents have the right to 
use such space can fulfill common open space requirements.  
C. Dog run areas and community gardens in developments exceeding fifty (50) units can 
count towards the open space requirement. 
D. Tree Wells. New tree wells shall be located in line with adjacent, existing tree wells when 
those locations are compliant with the City’s pedestrian and tree master plans. 
5.1.2 
Shadow Requirements – Mid-rise and High-rise Buildings 
Fifty (50) percent of required open space on the subject property shall be unshaded between 12:00 pm 
to 2:00 pm at the spring and fall equinox. This standard shall not apply where the open space is already 
shaded by an existing building and no other opportunities for access to sunlight exist on the site.  
5.2 
Exterior Lighting 
5.2.1 
General Standards Applicable to All Development 
A. Exterior Lighting for Private Property 
A. All exterior lighting fixtures shall include top covers to direct light downward unless it is 
landscape or public art/building wall uplighting that does not cause glare. Shielding shall 
match the style of the lighting fixtures. 
B. Security lighting shall be provided consistent with the requirements of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 23.54.060 (Exterior Security Lighting). 
C. No portion of a lighting fixture shall be mounted above the roof of the building.

--- page 53 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
31 
6. 
OTHER SITE FEATURES  
6.1 
Accessory Structures and Enclosures - General Standards Applicable to All 
Development  
6.1.1 
Accessory Structures. Accessory structures that require a building permit shall be designed with 
the same finishes, materials, and details as the primary building(s) and shall include the same 
roof pitch(es).  
6.1.2 
Solid Waste Enclosures. Solid waste enclosure shall comply with all the following:  
A. Solid waste, recyclable materials, and green waste disposal areas shall be located wholly 
within a building or enclosure.  
B. Exterior waste collection and disposal areas shall not be located in a required front yard, 
street side yard, parking space, landscaped area, or required open space areas. 
C. Exterior waste collection and disposal areas shall not be located within twenty (20) feet of 
an adjacent lot developed with a residential use unless such areas are fully enclosed within a 
building.  
D. Solid waste enclosures shall be fully enclosed with masonry walls on three (3) sides, one (1) 
solid decorative metal gate for access, and a roof to prevent precipitation from entering the 
enclosure. 
E. Solid waste enclosures shall not be visible from public streets or shall be screened with 
landscaping. Visibility from alley locations is acceptable. 
F. Signage to inform what materials are appropriate and prohibited for each receptacle/area 
shall be posted inside each solid waste enclosure. 
G. Driveways or aisles shall provide unobstructed access for collection vehicles and personnel 
with at least the minimum clearance required by the collection methods and vehicles 
utilized by the designated collector. 
6.1.3 
Transit Stops. Proposed or required transit stops located on public or private property shall 
include all the following: shelter, bench, lighting, and trash receptacles. 
6.2 
Utilities and Mechanical Equipment - General Standards Applicable to All 
Development 
6.2.1 
Transformers.  
A. Transformers shall be located within a structure or placed underground.

--- page 54 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
32 
B. If (a) above is not feasible, an above-ground transformer shall be permitted but shall be 
located outside of any required setbacks and open space and shall be screened from public 
view with landscaping and fencing/walls.  
6.2.2 
Solar Equipment.  
A. All rooftop solar equipment and fixtures other than solar collection panels shall be installed 
in the attic or flush mounted.    
B. Any ground-mounted solar equipment: 
A. Shall comply with the setback requirements of the zone in which it is located. 
B. Shall not be visible from a public right-of-way. 
C. Shall not be located within any required open space area. 
D. Shall not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian travel ways. 
6.2.3 
Allowable Locations. Ground-mounted utilities and mechanical equipment that directly serve 
the development shall be located within the private property outside any required open space 
area or any required landscape area, with the exception of irrigation control valves. 
6.3 
Required Screening  
All above-ground onsite ancillary features shall be screened using at least one (1) of the following 
methods:  
A. Evergreen landscape materials or a landscaped berm of the same height as the ancillary 
feature.  
B. Low fencing or a wall consisting of the same color or materials as the buildings they serve.  
C. Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened so it is not visible from the adjacent 
public right-of-way using either rooftop parapet walls or rooftop enclosures.

--- page 55 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
33 
7. 
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA STANDARDS 
This Section establishes additional Objective Design Standards for which a specific plan or area plan has 
been adopted as identified in Figure XX below. These standards are in addition to the standards outlined 
in the previous sections. Where there is a conflict within this document between the general standards 
and specific plan area standards, the specific plan area standards shall apply. Where a project is located 
within the sphere of multiple specific plan areas all specific plan standards shall be followed.

--- page 56 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
34 
7.1 
Mid and South El Camino Real  
7.1.1 
Site Planning - Building Siting, Orientation, And Frontage Features 
A. Massing and Articulation.  
A. Stepbacks. All structures shall provide a four (4)-foot stepback above the second story 
facing El Camino Real for at least seventy-five (75) percent of the street façade.  
B. Top Floors. Upper floors shall include at least two (2) of the following, but not two (2) of 
any single approach. 
a. Projecting roof overhangs of at least eighteen (18) inches 
b. Varied parapet profile 
c. Stepback with a minimum of three (3) feet for low-rise development and ten (10) 
feet for mid- and high-rise development.  
d. Balconies 
e. Horizontal moldings 
f. A change in materials and colors  
C. Transitions and Screening Elements. Buildings taller by five (5) feet than their immediate 
neighbors along the El Camino Real frontage shall relate to the neighboring structures 
by incorporating at least one (1) of the following: 
a. Building roofline that steps down to adjacent building’s height 
b. Building setbacks at the height of the adjacent building’s height 
c. Windows, ground floor awning and canopies at the same height as the neighboring 
buildings (plus or minus one (1)-foot in height unless ground floor elevation is more 
than plus or minus one (1)-foot from adjacent buildings. 
d. Projecting cornices at the same height as major horizontal elements on adjacent 
buildings 
B. Windows, Doors, and Entry Design. Distinctive entries to the building and individual uses 
that front El Camino Real shall be provided and incorporate at least two (2) of the following: 
1. Primary entrance that is at least fifteen (15) percent larger than other entrances  
2. Utilize colors and materials that are different than the primary materials and colors used 
on the building(s)

--- page 57 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
35 
3. At least one (1) unique entry detail on the building entry façade or door, through 
detailed moldings, ornamental door handle and hinges, or decorative handrails 
C. Residential Entries. Residential ground floor units fronting El Camino Real shall incorporate 
at least one (1) of the following:  
1. Additional three (3)-foot landscaped setback 
2. Ground-floor level elevated at least two (2) feet above sidewalk level.

--- page 58 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
36 
 
7.2 
El Camino Real Master Plan Area  
7.2.1 
Site Planning - Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features  
A. Setbacks.  
A. All buildings shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet along El Camino Real to satisfy 
and provide for the “effective sidewalk” standard. 
B. Buildings taller than two (2) stories shall be set back ten (10) feet from the property line 
along El Camino Real.  
B. Build-to-Lines.  
A. A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the total property line frontage along El Camino Real 
shall be occupied by buildings built to the required setback line. Building(s) may be 
setback up to a maximum of twenty (20) feet behind the build to line to provide a public 
amenity such as a wider sidewalk, plaza, outdoor seating, outdoor dining, or landscape 
area or any combination thereof.  
B. For corner parcels, the building shall be built to the required street side setback for a 
minimum of fifty (50) percent of the side street property frontage. 
C. Frontage Features. For each twenty-five (25) feet of building frontage along El Camino Real, 
include at least one of the following ground floor elements (can be multiple instances of one 
(1) element):  
1. Arcades 
2. Awnings (no wider than a structural bay) 
3. Trellises  
4. Residential entry porch 
7.2.2 
Parking, Access, and Driveways 
A. Curb Cuts. Curb cuts along El Camino Real shall be prohibited if alley or secondary frontage 
is available. A maximum of one (1) curb cut along El Camino per development is permitted.  
B. Pedestrian Access. Access between surface parking areas and the public sidewalk shall be 
provided at forty (40)-foot minimum intervals along the parking frontage. 
7.2.3 
Building Design and Architecture 
A. Massing and Articulation  
A. Stepbacks: A minimum four (4)-foot stepback along all building facades shall be 
provided above the second story.

--- page 59 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
37 
B. Blank Walls. Side walls visible from El Camino Real shall not be blank walls. The visible 
portion shall be architecturally treated beginning at the building corner of the façade 
with the continuation of the same colors and materials, including a matching width and 
depth of structural bays used on the building facade. 
C. Structural Bays. The building façade shall be articulated (either recessed or projected) at 
every structural bay. The minimum depth of articulation along the façade shall be two 
(2) feet. 
B. Windows, Doors, and Entry Design.  
A. Recesses and Reveals. Windows shall have a recess or reveal of at least six (6) inches. 
Doors and eaves shall have a recess or reveal of at least eighteen (18) inches. 
B. Entry Design. Storefront entries shall be directly accessible from El Camino Real.  
C. Materials and Colors.  
A. For the portion of the façade above the ground floor, all of the following are prohibited: 
a. Glass curtain walls exceeding the width of the structural bays 
b. Horizontal ribbon windows 
B. Material changes shall occur at interior corners or major reveals. 
7.2.4 
LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING 
A. Landscaping. 
A. Areas between structures and the effective sidewalk shall be landscaped. Areas within 
three (3)-feet of building entries and display windows shall be designed as a hardscape 
area for gathering and outdoor commercial activity with at least one (1) of the following  
a. Accent planters  
b. Raised beds  
c. Benches  
d. Other types of pedestrian amenities.  
B. For buildings over two (2) stories, the ten (10)-foot setback area beyond the space 
required to create a ten (10)-foot effective sidewalk width shall be landscaped 
consistent with the El Camino Real Streetscape Plan.

--- page 60 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
38 
7.3 
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE AND HISTORIC DISTRICT  
7.3.1 
Site Planning - Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features  
A. Massing and Articulation. At least two (2) of the following shall be incorporated into building 
design: 
1. Ground floor is at least seventy-five (75) percent transparent (including windows and 
doors). 
2. On the ground floor, use of large areas (minimum dimension of six (6) feet) of clear 
glass. 
3. On upper floors, use of windows such that only one (1) bank of windows horizontally 
defines each floor. 
B. Building facade design shall include a change in the street fronting façade through the use of 
vertical recesses or projections, building height, and/or colors and materials at intervals 
between twenty-five (25)-foot to fifty (50)-foot intervals. 
C. Transitions and Screening Elements. Buildings proposed taller than those immediately 
adjacent shall provide at least two (2) of the following: 
1. Building roofline that steps down to adjacent building’s height 
2. Carry the same horizontal lines from adjacent buildings to align roof cornices, cornices 
above retail windows and sign bands 
3. Vertically shaped window openings at the same height as the neighboring buildings 
above the ground floor 
4. Ground floor awnings, canopies and/or transom windows at the same height as the 
neighboring buildings over large retail display windows 
5. Building base and/or kick plates to match adjacent buildings on either side 
7.3.2 
Building Design and Architecture   
A. Windows, Doors, and Entries. Building and storefront entries shall include at least one (1) of 
the following design features: 
1. Canopy or awning in conformance with any permitting or limitations of public right-of-
way encroachment requirements 
2. Architectural detailing such as a transom window, storefront window, kick plate, 
exterior columns, or mid-cornice 
3. Landscaping portions of the width of the storefront under display windows, or flanking a 
building entry 
B. Awning Materials and Colors. Awnings shall have the following characteristics:  
1. A minimum of five (5) percent larger than the width of the storefront openings to 
emphasize building proportions 
2. Placed above windows and doors to maintain views of important architectural details.

--- page 61 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
39 
3. Aligned with adjacent awnings (plus or minus one (1) foot in height) unless ground floor 
elevation is more than that plus or minus one (1) foot from other buildings  
4. From the same color palette as the overall building color scheme 
5. In addition to materials listed under general standards, may be fabricated of canvas 
C. Architectural Features. Buildings shall place the following features at the same height as 
adjacent buildings  
1. Cornices 
2. Cornice above the second-floor awnings 
3. Windowsills 
7.3.3 
Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting 
Publicly accessible outdoor areas shall not be concealed from public frontages through 
fence/gates, insets, recesses, and setbacks.

--- page 62 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
40 
7.4 
Vision of the Gateway 
7.4.1 
Massing and Articulation  
A. Setbacks. The following setbacks shall supersede those required for the zoning district in 
which the project is located: 
1. Along the north side of Third Avenue: Twenty (20) feet from the Third Avenue property 
line  
2. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: fifteen (15) to twenty 
(20) feet from the property line  
3. Along neighborhood streets: fifteen (15) to twenty (20) feet from the property line  
B. Stepbacks. 
1. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: Above thirty (30) feet 
building height, an additional eight (8)-foot minimum stepback shall be provided.  
2. Along neighborhood streets: Above twenty-five (25) feet building height, an additional 
eight (8)-foot minimum stepback shall be provided. 
C. Height. 
1. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: Height at the front 
setback shall be twenty (20) feet minimum and thirty (30) feet maximum.  
2. Along neighborhood streets: Height at the front setback line shall not exceed twenty-
five (25) feet maximum.  
D. Architectural Styles and Materials. Buildings shall incorporate at least one (1) of the 
following per unit on all street-facing facades:  
1. Porch(es) 
2. Bay window(s) 
3. Decorative wall(s) up to a maximum height of three (3) feet 
4. Window box(es) 
7.4.2 
Windows, Doors, and Entry Design  
A. Residential Entries.  
A. On south side of Third Avenue, all of Fourth Avenue, and neighborhood streets, front 
door entries shall be located at intervals of at least every twenty-five (25) to thirty (30) 
feet. 
B. On neighborhood streets: 
a. Entries shall include a porch or stoop.  
b. Open porches may extend into the front setback area up to within ten (10) feet of 
the property line.

--- page 63 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
41 
C. Along the south side of Third Avenue and all of Fourth Avenue: 
a. Porches shall be allowed within the front setback area up to within ten (10) feet of 
the property line. 
b. A buffer shall be provided between a residence entry and the public sidewalk with 
one (1) or more of the following: 
i. 
Three (3)-foot-high architectural walls within two (2) feet of the sidewalk 
ii. 
First-level living area one-and -one-half (1.5) to four (4) feet above sidewalk 
grade 
D. Garage Entries. Garage entrances shall be designed so that backing out onto Third and 
Fourth Avenues is not allowed.

--- page 64 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
42 
7.5 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan Area 
7.5.1 
Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features 
A. Block Size. All new blocks shall be no more than three hundred (300) feet by six hundred 
(600) feet. A block can be bounded by streets or pedestrian paseos.  
B. Setbacks. 
A. Mixed-use buildings with ground-floor commercial uses shall: 
a. Be built adjacent to the sidewalk except where space to accommodate seating, 
outdoor dining, and retail display areas are provided. 
b. Such setback areas shall not exceed ten (10) feet in depth for more than thirty (30) 
percent of the building’s frontage. 
B. Residential-only or office-only buildings:  
a. Up to fifteen (15)-foot setback from sidewalk(s) to accommodate building entries 
and landscaped areas  
b. Residential setback areas shall include at least one (1) of the following for every unit 
that fronts the sidewalk:  
i. Porch or stoop 
ii. Landscaped areas, with a minimum of thirty (30) square-feet in area and 
minimum dimension of four (4) feet for any side 
iii. Small private gardens behind maximum three (3)-foot-high architectural wall  
C. Entries. All  primary building entries shall face the public street and sidewalk.  
7.5.2 
Building Design and Architecture 
A. Articulation.  
A. All upper-floor residential units facing local streets shall include one (1) of the following: 
a. Occupiable outdoor deck designed as usable open space 
b. Balcony 
c. Bay window 
B. All building facades visible from a public street or public area shall include at least three 
(3) of the following across the entire façade: 
a. Trellises 
b. Arcades 
c. Awnings 
d. Balconies 
e. Belt courses along sill lines  
f. Capped parapets

--- page 65 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
43 
B. Mixed-use Buildings. 
A. Ground-floor retail and commercial uses shall have a façade area that consist of a 
minimum of seventy-five (75) percent windows and doors. 
B. Individual shops shall have a maximum storefront length of fifty (50) feet. 
7.5.3 
Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting.  
For mixed-use developments of at least three acres of site area or an entire block, a publicly 
accessible park or plaza of at least 10,000 square-feet and a minimum dimension of 50 feet for 
any side shall be developed within the central portion of the site.

--- page 66 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
44 
7.6 
Hillsdale Station Area  
7.6.1 
Site Planning – Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features 
A. Setbacks.  
A. Transit Center Area 
a. Buildings shall be set back from the back of curb along El Camino Real to create at 
least twenty (20) feet of combined effective sidewalk.  
b. Buildings adjacent to the train station platform shall include a ten (10)-foot rear 
yard setback, which shall be designed to provide at least one (1) of the following: 
i. 
Ramp compliant with ADA standards 
ii. 
Stairs with flat incline areas that allow bicycles to be pushed up/down, 
compliant with ADA standards. 
B. Parcels Adjacent to Laurel Creek 
a. Buildings shall be set back from Laurel Creek consistent with the City’s General Plan 
and SMMC Section 7.39.130. 
b. The Required setback area from Laurel Creek shall be publicly accessible, include at 
least fifty (50) percent landscaped open space, and include a pedestrian trail 
constructed to City standards. 
C. Key Intersections.  Buildings located on parcels that surround the intersections of 28th 
and 31st Avenues and Hillsdale Boulevard at El Camino Real shall provide at least a ten 
(10)-foot setback at building corners on the ground floor facing intersections for a 
minimum of fifteen (15) feet along the intersecting frontages, or shall incorporate at 
least two (2) of the following elements: 
a. Tower  
b. Corner entry plazas  
c. Fountains or water features 
d. Public art installations 
7.6.2 
Pedestrian Access and Accommodations - Pedestrian/Mid-block Paseos for Mixed-Use and 
Residential. 
A minimum twenty (20)-foot wide north/west pedestrian/mid-block paseo shall be provided on 
parcels three-hundred feet deep or greater for projects located along the east side of El Camino 
Real.  
7.6.3 
Parking, Access, And Driveways 
A. Parking 
A. Surface Parking. Surface parking shall adhere to the following:

--- page 67 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
45 
a. Not located within twenty-five (25) feet of the El Camino Real-facing property line. 
b. Not occupy more than twenty-five (25) percent of a property for parcels, existing or 
combined, with more than two hundred (200) feet of El Camino Real frontage.  
c. Existing surface parking may be retained when improvements do not exceed fifty 
(50) percent of the replacement value of the existing development. 
B. Vehicle parking shall be prohibited in front setback areas and along primary and 
secondary street frontages. 
a. If a parking garage is an individual building part of a project, retail or other active 
uses shall occupy the ground-floor space of that parking garage along at least ninety 
(90) percent of the frontage of El Camino Real, at a minimum depth of forty (40) 
feet. 
b. If structured parking is within a mixed-use building, a maximum of fifty (50) percent 
of the ground floor may be dedicated to parking. 
B. Screening. Surface parking lots shall be screened from public streets as following: 
a. Minimum height of three (3) feet; maximum height of six (6) feet 
b. Comprised of wood, metal, or landscape wall 
c. Shall be perforated (i.e., transparent) to a maximum of thirty (30) percent. 
7.6.4 
Building Design and Architecture – Stepback.   
A minimum six (6)-foot stepback above the third floor for buildings over three (3) stories. 
Balconies are permitted within the step-back area above the third floor.  
7.6.5 
Windows.  
All residential units and residential units of mixed-use development shall have at least one (1) 
window that faces the creek. 
7.6.6 
Windows, Doors, and Entry Design 
A. Pedestrian Entries. Buildings shall have at least one (1) pedestrian entrance facing El Camino 
Real, the Transit Center, or the Caltrain right-of-way. 
B. Key Intersection Entries. Buildings located on parcels that surround the intersections of 28th 
and 31st Avenues and Hillsdale Boulevard at El Camino Real shall have a primary building 
entry oriented towards the corner that is visible from the intersection. 
7.6.7 
Landscaping, Open Space, Exterior Lighting, and Fencing 
A. Landscaping 
A. At least fifty (50) percent of the open space shall consist of a plaza with a combination 
of hardscape, benches, tables, pedestrian amenities, and lighting.

--- page 68 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
46 
B. Retaining walls below the train tracks shall be treated with at least two (2) of the 
following design elements for at least seventy-five (75) percent of the wall surface: 
a. Mural (no commercial messages allowed) 
b. Architectural features of building exterior wall downward directed lighting  
c. Landscaping 
B. Frontage Features - Parcels Adjacent to Laurel Creek – Fencing. 
1. Solid and chain link fencing are prohibited along the creek. Existing chain link fences 
shall be removed in association with any new development or redevelopment. 
2. Where fencing is provided, it shall be transparent and be a maximum of four (4) feet in 
height.   
7.6.8 
Development Along Palm Place.  
A. Mixed-use developments shall have at least two (2) of the following:  
1. Building entrances facing Palm Place 
2. Awnings at least (ten) 10 feet in length 
3. Outdoor seating areas of at least one hundred (100) square feet in area provided with 
benches and/or chairs and tables 
B. Ground-floor retail and restaurant uses facing pedestrian paseos shall include at least two 
(2) of the following elements: 
1. Entrances 
2. Awnings 
3. Outdoor seating areas of at least one hundred (100) square feet in area provided with 
benches and/or chairs and tables 
C. East -West Avenues. For buildings with primary frontage along east-west avenues, the 
following shall apply: 
1. The area within five (5) feet of an entrance or display window shall be at least fifty (50) 
percent hardscape. 
2. A building edge along the primary and secondary frontage shall be set back to create at 
least fifty (50) square feet of outdoor space, in addition to any setback required for a ten 
(10)-foot effective sidewalk. This space shall include at least one (1) of the following: 
a. Landscape planters that provide seating 
b. Seating wall (maximum two-and-one-half (2.5) feet tall)

--- page 69 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
47 
7.7 
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan Area  
7.7.1 
Building Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features - Massing and Articulation 
Height Limit. Maximum two (2)-story height limit within one hundred (100) feet of the main 
lagoon channel or any residential construction fronting SR-92.  
7.7.2 
Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting 
A. All landscaped setbacks or buffers shall consist of a berm at least one (1) foot in height that 
is planted so that at least eighty (80) percent of the berm is covered by vegetation (mature 
plant size) to provide screening of parking lots and interior roadways. 
B. Exterior Water Features. All developments shall include at least one (1) of the following: 
1. Pond 
2. Reflecting pool 
3. Fountain

--- page 70 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
48 
8. 
DEFINITIONS 
Building Silhouette:  The top and edges of upper floor or floors of a building. 
Building Types:  
▪ 
Low-rise: Multiple-unit dwellings in attached, semi-detached, or detached structures 
that range between one to three stories and do not exceed thirty-five (35) feet in 
height. These buildings are characterized by features such as private yard areas for 
individual residences and individual parking facilities, such as attached or separate 
garages or carports accessible by an internal private driveway and/or alley. Such 
building types can include duplexes, triplexes, and quadplexes; tuck-under housing; row 
housing; bungalow courts; courtyard housing; live/work units; and townhomes. 
▪ 
Mid-rise: A single building or collection of buildings containing multiple dwellings, 
ranging from four (4) to seven (7) stories and not exceeding ninety (90) feet in height. 
Mid-rise multi-family building type dwellings may also be combined with nonresidential 
uses as part of a mixed-use development. 
▪ 
High-rise: A single building or collection of buildings containing multiple dwellings, with 
buildings of eight (8) stories or more or ninety (90) feet or higher in height.  High-rise 
building typically include a shared pedestrian entry feature, such as an entry lobby, 
along a public street frontage and access hallways to individual dwelling units. High-rise 
multi-family building type dwellings may include mixed-use developments.  
Corner Building: A building located at the intersection of two (2) streets, intersection of a street 
and a pedestrian paseo, or intersection of a street and public open space. 
Cupola:  A small dome-like structure on top of a building included to add visual interest. 
Effective Sidewalk Width:  The width of a paved pedestrian walking surface measured from the 
curb face to the building face, inclusive of both the public right-of-way sidewalk and any 
adjacent private property that extends the sidewalk width. 
Exterior columns: Vertical elements used to establish a visually prominent part of a storefront 
or building facade.  
Frontage Types:  
▪ 
Primary Street Frontage: The interface between the building frontage and street along 
arterial roadways that link residential and commercial districts and serve through traffic 
needs.  
▪ 
Secondary Street Frontage: The interface between the buildings and the streets along 
collector roads and local streets that link neighborhoods to arterial street(s) and are not 
intended for through traffic or are designed to serve only adjacent land uses.   
Graphic pending

--- page 71 ---
San Mateo Draft ODS – For Planning Commission Study Session August 8, 2023 
49 
Ground floor (dwelling) Unit: A unit where any habitable space (such as living, sleeping, eating, 
or cooking areas) is located on the ground level. 
Non-active Use:  A use of a building or portion of a building used for parking, storage, or housing 
of mechanical equipment. 
Parapet: A low wall built up above the level of a roof to hide the roof or to provide protection 
against falling, and similar structures associated with balconies, etc. 
Public Use Path:  A public use trail or similar connection other than a sidewalk.  
Reveal: The inner surface of an opening or recess in a wall, typically in relation to a window or 
door. 
Roof Deck: An open area located atop a building story that is open to the sky and is designed 
and used for passive open space by building tenants. May be located on any flat roof on or 
above the second building story.  
Roof Line: The top edge of a roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line of a 
building silhouette. 
Stoop: A porch, platform, or stairway at the entrance of a house or other building. 
Tower: A structure that is at least twice as tall as the dimension of the base width. Can be 
freestanding or part of a building. 
Transom Window: A band of upper story windows typically above the top of door height to 
provide additional light and air into the interior of a residence or storefront. 
Tuck-under Parking: Covered parking spaces constructed at the same ground level as the 
building(s) they serve, are covered by the upper floor(s) of the building(s) and are open on at 
least one side.     
Underground Parking: Parking located partially or fully below grade. Includes ramping 
structures.  
Utilities and Mechanical Equipment: Includes, but is not limited to, air conditioners; heaters; 
utility meters; cable and similar telecommunications equipment; backflow preventions; 
irrigation control valves; electrical transformers; pull boxes; all ducting for air conditioning, 
heating, and blower systems; fire protection equipment; transformers; and all roof-mounted 
equipment. These provisions do not apply to wireless telecommunications facilities. 
Window trim: The moldings covering the jambs and head of a window.

--- page 72 ---
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
CITY OF BURLINGAME
CITY OF BURLINGAME
CITY OF BURLINGAME
TOWN OF
HILLSBOROUGH
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
TOWN OF
HILLSBOROUGH
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
(UNINCORP.)
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
(UNINCORP.)
CITY OF
BELMONT
TOWN OF
HILLSBOROUGH
CITY OF
BELMONT
CITY OF
BELMONT
CITY OF
FOSTER CITY
CITY OF
FOSTER CITY
(/
101
(/
101
(/
101
%
&
'
(
280
|ÿ
92
|ÿ
92
COYOTE POINT DR
PENINSULA GOLF &
COUNTRY CLUB
(COUNTY OF SAN MATEO)
|ÿ
92
El Camino
Hillsdale
Station Area
(/
101
%
&
'
(
280
SCOTT
BYRON AVE
EVERGREEN
CLEVELAND
QUEENS
STANFORD
OXFORD
SPEERS
HANCOCK
WELLESLEY AVE
HALSEY
PERSHING
KLAMATH AVE
HARDING
SEXTANT CT
NEPTUNE CT
DARLENE
CIRO
CLAUDIA
FLINT
SPRINGFIELD
SALISBURY
SOUTHAMPTON
PORTSMOUTH
PADDOCK WY
S DELAWARE ST
EL PARQUE CT
MULRYAN CT
LANSDALE ST
VAILWOOD WY
VAILWOOD PL
LOS GATOS
WY
MARGARET
CURTISS ST
SAN BENITO ST
DUMONT
OLYMPIC
44TH AVE
HILLBARN
41ST AVE
HICKORY
LN
CHESTNUT LN
LOUISE LN
MURRAY CT
DE ANZA BLVD
LANDFAIR
MICHAEL DR
HILLSIDE
CT
LOLA ST
LEONA
ST
MARSHALL
AVE
DALEHURST
AVE
CONDON CT
EL SOBRANTE ST
ALANHILL LN
FAIROAKS
CT
EMERALD
CT
VERANO CT
OAK ST
BUENA VISTA
W HILLSDALE BLVD
CAMPUS DR
MADRONE CT
POPPY CT
LIVE OAK DR
SARATOGA DR
O'FARRELL ST
ELKHORN CT
EDINBURGH ST
MACARTHUR
WILMINGTON
NADINA ST
ABERDEEN
CAPISTRANO WY
SEVILLE WY
ARAGON BLVD
KENTUCKY
AMHERST
HAWTHORNE
9TH AVE
EATON RD
OCEAN VIEW AVE
BRADLEY
S ROCHESTER
POWELL
ONTARIO
LORRAINE AVE
PRAGUE ST
ROGELL
STATE ST
SAN ANTONIO AVE
MOUNDS RD
ERICSON RD
ST JOHNS
OTAY AVE
N ELDORADO ST
PALM AVE
LA SALLE DR
HIGHVIEW DR
CAMDEN AVE
++
1. Oakhill Ct
2. Leafwood Ct
3. Allison Ct
4. Cheryl Ct
5. Chris Ln
6. Westwood Ct
7. Douglas Ct
See ++ below for
street names
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
7.
S EL CAMINO REAL
W
SA
NTA INE
Z
AVE
NORTH RD
E 3RD AVE
KEHOE AVE
SUNNYBRAE BLVD
2ND A
V
E
DE
A
N
ZA
BLVD
BARNESON AVE
MONTE DIABLO AVE
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
VAN BUREN ST
41ST AVE
HACIENDA ST
2ND AVE
CSM DR
W 3RD AVE
28TH AVE
E POPLAR AVE
COLEGROVE ST
9TH AVE
CYPRESS AVE
BAHIA
C
R
E
S
CE
N
T A
V
E
N A
MPH
LET
T B
LVD
GREENFI
ELD AV
E
E 4TH AVE
E 3RD AVE
S NORFOLK ST
N KINGSTO
N
S
T
W 39TH AVE
BOREL AVE
TILTON AVE
12TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
F
A
T
H
O
M
DR
PENINS
U
L
A
A
V
E
LANDING AV
E
DERBY AVE
W
HIL
LSDALE
BLVD
E 28TH
AVE
KING LN
EISENHOWER ST
BORDEN S
T
LA S
E
LVA
CIR
EDINBURGH ST
B
AY
RID
GE
W
AY
PARROT
T
DR
BERESFORD ST
W P
OPL
A
R
A
VE
F
A
TH
O
M
DR
YALE DR
ORINDA DR
M
URPHY DR
42ND AVE
LA
SELVA ST
16TH AVE
N HUMBOLDT ST
DE
NALI
D
R
43RD AVE
HACIENDA ST
PARRO
T
TDR
TROLLMAN AVE
CSM DR
N NORFOLK ST
PORTO
L
A
DR
HARVARD RD
CUESTA AVE
TRINITY ST
BERMUD
A
DR
DOLORES ST
CLI
P
PE
R ST
LAUREL AVE
BARROILHET AVE
W
O
O
D
BR
I
D
G
E
C
I
R
S DELAWARE ST
REGAN DR
GILLIS DR
W 2
0TH AVE
JUNIPER ST
EDISON ST
DORE AVE
NO
RTON
ST
22ND AVE
N
EL CAMINO REAL
24TH AVE
E 25TH AVE
GINNEVER ST
16TH AVE
DALE AVE
FLORES ST
OREGON AVE
SARATOGA DR
W 38TH AVE
7TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
BUCKNELL DR
CARY AVE
B
E
A
CO
N
A
VE
MAPLE ST
SAN
MIGUEL WAY
CL
EA
RV
I
EW
W
AY
PALM PL
S B ST
E 39TH AVE
PALM AVE
COLLEGE AVE
VIRGINIA AVE
E 40TH AVE
IRVI
N
G S
T
MONTE DIABLO AVE
CASANOVA DR
CURTISS ST
E
DGE
W
OO
D
RD
PARROTT DR
P
A
R
K
WOOD DR
NEWBRIDGE AVE
PACIFIC
BLVD
CLAR
K
D
R
CS
M DR
10TH AVE
LESLIE ST
S SAN MATEO DR
37TH AVE
30TH AVE
24TH AVE
23RD AVE
10TH AVE
DAKOTA AVE
31ST AVE
YORK AVE
CLEARVIE
W WAY
BALDW
IN AVE
N BAYSHORE BLVD
S FREMONT ST
W 5TH AVE
I
S
ABELLE AVE
C
OTTAGE GROVE AVE
F
E
RN
W
OOD ST
MID
VALE AVE
N IDAHO ST
MONTEREY ST
WO
O
DSIDE W
A
Y
EASTWOOD DR
PROS
PECT ROW
C
E
D
ARW
O
O
D D
R
W BE
LLEVUE A
VE
2
7
T
H AVE
DARCY AVE
W 38TH AVE
DONNER ST
EDISON ST
HOLLAND ST
WILSHIRE
AVE
PARK LN
S GRANT ST
42ND AVE
AS
H
W
O
OD DR
ELEANOR DR
PORT
DR
E HILLSDALE BLVD
PARROTT DR
PACIFIC BLVD
W
INW
A
Y
CIR
H
E
RSC
H
EL ST
HURON AVE
P
ALO
S
V
E
R
D
ES DR
KI
M
BERLY
W
A
Y
GUM ST
36TH AVE
FOLKSTONE AVE
26TH AVE
PENINSULA AVE
MISSION DR
E KYNE ST
W
OLF
E
DR
SOUTH BL
V
D
6TH AVE
7TH AVE
8TH AVE
ROBERTA DR
S QUEBEC ST
INDIAN AVE
LOS PRADOS
BIRCH ST
HAR
R
O
W DR
ANNAPOLIS DR
N ELLSWORTH AVE
1ST AVE
KENT ST
C
ON
NIE AV
E
C
OSTA
RICA
AVE
FIESTA DR
OTTAWA ST
A
DAMS ST
ENSENADA AVE
ANTIOCH DR
PASADENA DR
FILLMORE AVE
DAISY ST
LAFAYET
TE ST
HAML
ET ST
WASHINGTON ST
S
A
NTI
AGO ST
SANTA CLARA WAY
SHOREVIEW AVE
N KINGSTON ST
Y
EW ST
L
A
K
E
W
O
OD CIR
17TH AVE
LODI AVE
VANN
ESSA DR
FO
O
T
HILL DR
SULLIVAN ST
E POPLAR AVE
MASON LN
ROSILIE
ST
HOBART AVE
ROYAL
A
V
E
S
HASTA
D
R
BARNESON AVE
G
RAM
ERC
YD
R
HOBART AVE
PECK AVE
ECHO AVE
PLAYA ST
DOLAN AVE
W
AR
REN R
D
E 4TH
AVE
O
C
EAN VIEW AVE
N RAILROAD AVE
WO
ODLAND DR
LAURIE M
E
A
D
O
WS DR
N CLAREMONT ST
OAKW
OOD DR
TAYLOR ST
RY
D
E
R ST
L
O
S
ALTO
S DR
SP
A
RDR
S IDAHO ST
D
E
T
R
OIT DR
BRANSON DR
CAX
T
ON CT
NOTRE DAME AVE
2ND AVE
FERNWOOD ST
A
R
M
ADA WAY
K
IN
GR
I
DGE DR
E BELLEVUE AVE
PARKSIDE
W
AY
ALTA AVE
HILLSBOROUG
H
BLVD
F
R
A
NK
LIN ST
S RAILROAD AVE
NEVADA AVE
CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
TUL
A
N
E RD
RAND ST
E HILLSDALE
C
T
S HUMBOLDT ST
S ELDORADO ST
TIC
O
N
D
E
RO
G
A
D
R
CYPRESS AVE
S ELLSWORTH AVE
MULBER
R
Y DR
PATRICIA AVE
CASA
D
E C
A
M
PO
E HILLSDALE BLVD
DE
SA
B
L
A
RD
GR
AN
D BL
VD
GLEND
ORA
DR
JA
C
KS
ON
ST
E 38TH AVE
FAIRF
A
X
A
VE
HAYWARD AVE
OV
E
R
LAN
D
D
R
29TH AVE
OVE
R
LOOK CT
N DELAWARE ST
DEL MONTE
ST
ED
NA
W
A
Y
ROLLING HILLS AVE
N SAN MATEO DR
31ST AVE
N RAILROAD AVE
EL
C
ERRITO A
V
E
PIKE LN
STATE ST
OTAY AVE
OCCIDENTAL AVE
WOO
DBER
RY AV
E
N B ST
VISTA AVE
PALM PL
STATE ST
N CLAREMONT ST
LESLIE ST
29TH AVE
HIGHLAND AVE
S AMPHLETT BLVD
ARBOR LN
43RD AVE
D
ARTMO
UTH RD
MAIN ST
CO
NCA
R DR
SHOA
L DR
DERBY AVE
BRIAR LN
N ELDORADO ST
A
R
K ST
POLHE
M
US RD
DAVID CT
FASHIO
N ISLA
N
D
BLVD
W 40TH AVE
29TH AVE
26TH PL
SUZI
E
ST
TR
E
ETOP LN
CATALPA AVE
MC AKER CT
PICO AVE
W 25TH AVE
31S
T
A
VE
KINGS LN
SUNSET TER
HUR
LING
H
AM
A
VE
MARINA
CT
CR
EST
WO
OD DR
BAZE RD
LA CASA AVE
GREE
N
O
A
K
C
T
B
RI
D
G
E
PO
INT
E
C
I
R
MA
R
INER
S IS
L
AND
B
LVD
CARLISLE DR
L
I
NDA CT
FRANKLIN PKWY
A
R
R
O
Y
O
C
T
CSM DR
D
OR
CHE
ST
E
R RD
CROW
N
CT
FRA
NK
LIN
PKWY
BAHIA
R
ANDA
L
L R
D
MADERA DR
Q
U
E
E
N
S LN
YATE
S
WAY
HEATHER LN
ALDER LN
F
UL
T
O
N
RD
NASH DR
S IDAHO ST
N RAILROAD AV
E
AVILA RD
C
O
L
UM
BIA D
R
PARK PL
21ST AVE
PIONEER CT
B
OR
E
L
P
L
VILLA
TER
N GRANT ST
N FREMONT ST
IVY ST
SYLVAN AVE
T
OYON CT
SONORA DR
H
EMLOCK AVE
LOUISE LN
E 41ST PL
BEVERLY ST
DEL RAY ST
LOD
A
TO AVE
27TH AVE
13TH AVE
15TH AVE
14TH AVE
11TH AVE
SEVILLE WAY
MARTIN DR
S BAY
S
HORE BLVD
IVY ST
S RAILROAD AVE
SHARON PL
POLK AVE
RA
MONA ST
ELM ST
N FREMONT ST
N GRANT ST
SUN
S
E
T
T
E
R
COBB ST
N IDAHO ST
DIX ST
PRAGUE ST
N QUEBEC ST
OS
O
ST
G
A
RFIELD CT
LAURELWOOD DR
VOELKER DR
MELISSA
CT
LA JOLLA AVE
W 38TH AVE
RHUS ST
TILIA ST
QUINCE ST
SHAFTER ST
MEFFERD AVE
W 4TH AVE
CASTILIAN WAY
TURN
E
R T
E
R
RE
X
ST
ELLIOTT CT
HADD
ON DR
CHESTER WAY
VENTURA AVE
L
L
A
NO ST
C
A
R
I
B
B
EA
N
W
AY
FOSTER
S
T
ANNA ST
CHES
S
D
R
ALMADEN WAY
TEXAS WAY
ARAGON BLVD
POTOMAC WAY
DUBLIN WAY
STEPHE
N
R
D
MC KINLEY ST
MEA
D
O
W
VIEW PL
PIERCE ST
MCCOWN
AVE
MARY LU LN
L
ULA BELLE LN
WISNOM AVE
S KINGSTON ST
LINDBERGH ST
S GRANT ST
B
AY
VIE
W
AVE
BURBANK AVE
NADINA ST
OAK ST
19TH AVE
R
O
S
S
I W
A
Y
HOBART AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
FLEETWOOD DR
B
AK
E
R
W
AY
COLGATE WAY
LAKE ST
PRINCETON DR
O
AK
V
A
L
L
E
Y
RD
CUPERTINO WAY
GAR
V
EY WAY
BAY LANDING
FRAN
KLIN PKWY
DURAND DR
JEFF
E
RSON CT
SEQUOIA AVE
ADA ST
NO
E
AVE
HOWE ST
HILL
CR
EST AVE
DELMAR WAY
DAY A
V
E
IOWA DR
DEWEY ST
MONROE AVE
KALMIA ST
JASMINE ST
LOCUST ST
S
Y
C
A
MORE
D
R
DEL ROSA WAY
N RAILROAD AVE
CORNELL AVE
R
O
S
EWOO
D
D
R
PARK LN
PARK LN
V
E
R
N
O
N T
ER
STRATF
O
RD WAY
K
A
T
H
RYNE AVE
W 25TH AVE
MC LELLAN AVE
MID
W
AY
AVE
KE
NW
OOD
AVE
ISABELLE AVE
BROOKS ST
ESTRELLA WAY
CE
LES
T
E D
R
KELLY ST
GEORGETOWN AVE
JOA
NNE DR
SO
U
THW
OO
D
AVE
WOODLAND DR
POINSETTIA AVE
DAVID ST
MADISON AVE
YOUNG ST
MAGNOLI
A
D
R
N ROCHESTER ST
VERDUN AV
E
FORDHAM RD
W
G
R
A
NT PL
H
O
S
M
E
R ST
CAVANAUGH ST
B
A
Y
W
O
O
D
AVE
STUDI
O
CIR
ONEILL DR
E GRANT
P
L
YATES
WAY
C
HURCH AVE
ALHAMBRA RD
GUILDFORD AVE
D
ETROIT DR
SPURA
W
AY DR
FALLON AVE
E 3RD AVE
LAGO ST
MAXINE AVE
B
R
IDG
EPOINTE PKWY
BOVET RD
FAIRMONT DR
VIE
W
RI
D
GE
D
R
COUNTRY
SIDE DR
S AMPHLETT BLVD
GE
O
R
G
E
A
V
E
CSM DR
WA
YNE WAY
J HART CLINTON DR
CHE
R
R
YW
OOD DR
CAMPUS DR
PALOMA
AVE
COMSTOCK
CIR
CARMELITA AVE
ELMER ST
PILGRIM DR
C
ATAMARAN S
T
C
O
RO
NET BLV
D
T
A
RTAN T
RL
ORION LN
FOSTER CITY BLVD
HARBOR BLVD
T
I
M
B
E
R
L
ANE
W
A
Y
VERNON WAY
TER
RACE D
R
HILLER ST
MON
SER
AT
AVE
AVO
N
D
A
L
E
RD
ONEILL AVE
WILLOW RD
HILL ST
POLARIS AVE
EXB
O
U
R
NE AVE
CONCOURSE DR
LORI
CT
LIVE OAK
WAY
BLA
C
K
MOUNTAIN
RD
ONEILL AVE
REA
D
AVE
PRIMROSE RD
C
RYSTA
L S
P
RI
N
GS
RD
BISHO
P
R
D
E
L
CERRI
T
O
A
V
E
COLUMBA LN
POLHEMUS
RD
DORADO LN
PORT ROYAL AVE
RALST
ON AVE
H
ILLMAN
AVE
V
IST
A
RD
NORT
H RD
S
H
ELFORD AVE
LYNX LN
M
ONT
ER
EY
AV
E
R
A
LSTON A
VE
LEXINGTON AVE
LAKESIDE DR
MIDDLE
R
D
L
INCO
L
N
A
VE
T
AL
B
RYN
D
R
C
HULA VIS
TA DR
H
I
GHL
A
N
D AV
E
BURLINGAME AVE
C
A
RINA
L
N
HAYNE
RD
L
AK
ES
H
ORE D
R
M
ADER
A
D
R
S
T
J
A
ME
S
R
D
V
INE ST
ALA
M
E
D
A
DE
LAS
PULGAS
PARK AVE
HULL DR
CEL
E
S
TIA
L
LN
LINDEN
AVE
LAURE
L
ST
LY
ALL
W
AY
HALLMARK DR
L
E
O
D
R
A
R
TH
U
R AVE
D
ARTMOUTH AVE
RIG
E
L
LN
SOUTH
RD
R
AL
S
T
O
N RANCH
R
D
V
A
LLE
Y VIE
W
D
R
BELLEV
U
E A
VE
PALOMA AVE
O
X
F
O
RD
WAY
CHANNING RD
S
H
O
R
EWAYRD
F
LO
RIB
UND
A
A
V
E
C
SM DR
EDG
EHIL
L DR
N
O
T
R
E
D
A
M
E
A
V
E
OAK GROVE AVE
W
S
A
N
TA
I
NEZ
A
V
E
VILLAGE DR
LA CU
MBRE
R
D
NOR
T
HAM
A
V
E
SEM
E
RIA
AVE
F
O
R
ES
T
AVE
PI
ZAR
R
O
LN
P
OR
T
O FINO
LN
LOS AL
T
O
S
DR
HOWARD AVE
S
T
ONEH
EDG
E
R
D
GRANADA ST
MOUNTA
I
N VIEW AVE
SUNN
YS
LO
PE A
VE
I
SL
AND PKWY
SAN
J
UAN
BLVD
COB
B
LEHILL
P
L
V
A
LERGA DR
P
A
UL
S
C
A
N
N
ELL D
R
LI
D
O LN
EUCAL
Y
PTUS
AVE
CIP
R
I
A
NIB
L
VD
HARBOR BLVD
BROADWAY
HILLSBOROUGH BLVD
BURLINGAME AVE
W
OO
S
TER AVE
LYON AVE
CALIFORNIA DR
PARK RD
O
R
I
S
KA
N
YDR
L
O
N
G
V
IE
W
R
D
B
E
L
A
IRE R
D
CAROLAN AVE
SAN RAYMUN
D
O
RD
SEAGATE
W
AY
M
A
RL
BOR
O
U
GH
RD
BE
L
M
O
NT C
A
NY
ON RD
CA
S
A
BONA
A
VE
BILL
I
N
G
S
GA
T
E LN
N
EWL
A
N
DS AVE
D
E
SOT
O
L
N
PLYM
O
UT
H
L
N
TRINI
D
A
D
LN
ROLLINS RD
ALA
MEDA
DE LAS PULGAS
H
ILLM
AN AVE
PALM DR
C
ARMELI
T
A
A
V
E
OLD COUNTY RD
CLIPPER D
R
RALSTON
AVE
WINDEMERE RD
MALCOLM AV
E
E
L VE
R
A
N
O
W
A
Y
C
R
A
N
F
IEL
D
AV
E
MO
U
NT
A
I
N
WOOD L
N
W
A
VOND
A
LE
R
D
HIL
LCR
EST
D
R
ARBOR AVE
DALE VIEW
AVE
J
U
NO LN
BE
L
A
IRE CT
EAST LN
CLI
FFS
IDE
C
T
E
L
P
O
RT
AL A
VE
O
AK CT
LASSEN D
R
B
A
LB
OA ST
TAHOE
DR
RI
D
GE RD
L
YNDH
U
R
S
T AVE
MAYWOO
D
D
R
PARROTT DR
A
V
A
LO
N
A
VE
BUCKLAND AVE
OLD COU
NTYRD
TICONDEROGA DR
ELM S
T
LO
W
E
R
L
O
CK
A
V
E
RALSTON
AVE
CH
APIN
LN
N
A
UGHTON AVE
B
E
A
C
H
PARK BLVD
SO
L
ANA
DR
LORTON AVE
LIDO
S
T
BR
O
M
FIE
L
D
R
D
MA
RST
E
N A
V
E
M
O
NT
E
CR
E
S
TA
DR
M
ILLE
R
A
VE
BUCKINGHA
M WA
Y
BUNKER
HILL DR
ALTAIR AVE
WINDSOR DR
SAN C
ARLOS AVE
HAY
NE RD
W
ILLOW A
VE
IN
V
ERN
ESS
W
A
Y
SYCAMOR
E S
T
WEDGEWOOD DR
R
OBLAR
A
VE
M
A
N
ZANIT
A
AVE
6TH AVE
ANITA AVE
MARINE VIEW AVE
CHESTERTON AVE
V
E
S
P
UC
C
IL
N
DOLA
N
AVE
ASCENSIO
N
DR
CLUB DR
OA
K
K
NO
L
L
D
R
CAMBRIDGE ST
WELLINGTON DR
MA
R
LBO
R
OUGH
RD
BRIDLE WAY
RALSTON AVE
BARROILHET AVE
RID
GE
WA
Y
RD
C
HE
L
MFO
RD RD
METRO CENTER BLVD
MASONI
C W
AY
CHILTERN
R
D
RO
C
K
RIDG
E RD
TOYON DR
BISCAYNE AV
E
TA
M
ARA
CK
D
R
W PARKWAY LN
CH
ESTNU
T
ST
FA
I
RFIEL
D RD
V
EGA CI
R
GALV
E
S
T
ON ST
S
U
G
AR HI
L
L DR
DWIGHT RD
PORTAL LN
BOO
THBAY
A
VE
ALDE
N
A
VE
M
EZ
ES
AVE
LA
KEVIE
W
D
R
BELBURN DR
BODEGA
ST
BLOOMFIELD RD
HO
M
S CT
UPLAND
S DR
HOLLY
RD
CHES
APEAKE AVE
WOODSTOCK
RD
PULL
M
A
N AVE
CLARENDON RD
B
A
TES
R
D
WAK
E
F
I
E
L
D
D
R
EL
M AVE
PI
N
E
K
NOLL DR
SHELL BLVD
NOTRE DAME AVE
EXE
T
E
R
A
VE
CHEVY ST
WALTERMIRE ST
FORGE RD
BAI
R
N
D
R
YOR
KTOWN
RD
SKY
M
O
NT D
R
WI
NCHE
STER
CT
ENCHAN
TED
W
A
Y
YOSEMITE DR
SE
N
E
C
A
LN
C
HILTERN
R
D
PLYMOUTH WAY
A
C
ADEMYA
VE
WINCHESTER DR
WILLIA
M
S AVE
BER
ES
F
O
RD A
VE
BAYSWATER AVE
CED
AR
ST
W SAN
TA INE
Z AVE
6TH AVE
V
I
S
TA R
D
B
RA
N
D
Y
W
INE
RD
BRE
N
T
W
O
O
D
RD
VINTAGE
P
AR
K D
R
PENSACOLA
S
T
OCCIDENTAL AVE
VAL
LEY R
D
NEW BRUNSWICK DR
CRE
SCE
NT AVE
VI
R
GI
N
IA AV
E
C
O
NTINENTA
L
S
WAY
CLAREMON
T
D
R
OAK RIM DR
BUENA VI
STA AV
E
KENIL
W
O
R
T
H
RD
TOURNAMENT DR
DEVON DR
CLYDESDALE DR
PAR
KSIDE
AVE
TOUR
NAMENT DR
S
HAR
O
N A
V
E
RIZ
A
L
D
R
SKYLI
N
E BL
VD
EDGEWATER BLVD
R
AINBOW DR
REEF DR
UPPE
R LO
C
K A
V
E
E HILLSDALE BL
VD
L
ADERA
W
A
Y
HIGHLAND AVE
MISTY
LN
CHULA VISTA AVE
NORTH CT
JO
Y
C
E RD
POETT RD
M
A
R
SH
D
R
VELOCITY WAY
C
O
U
NT
RY
CLU
B
D
R
LYDIA CT
THU
RM AVE
E ST
GATEWAY
DR
FERNW
O
O
D
W
A
Y
PEPPE
R
LN
TARRYTOW
N ST
TOBIN CL
AR
K DR
A
C
A
CIA CT
F ST
FOREST VIEW AVE
E
L
AURE
L
CRE
E
K
R
D
CONCORD WAY
FAIRWAY DR
SEABURY RD
BAYVIE
W PL
TOWER LN
B
R
A
E
M
A
R
D
R
P
R
IN
D
LE
R
D
T
A
U
RUS D
R
CHAPIN A
VE
V
A
LLEYVIE
W CT
MONROE AVE
K
ING S
T
BROOK
E C
T
CO
VINGT
O
N
R
D
VILLA AVE
W
E
S
SEX WA
Y
B
ELMO
NT
CA
N
YO
N
R
D
L
A
U
R
E
L HIL
L
D
R
ROBIN WHIPPLE W
A
Y
AR
C
H
LN
5
T
H AVE
TERRIER
PL
MARIN DR
CHESS DR
COTTAGE LN
CAPUCHINO AVE
VIA
D
E
LIZIA
KINGS L
N
R
EDW
OOD DR
VELOCITY WAY
PEP
PER A
V
E
KIMMIE CT
AIRPORT BLVD
T
R
ENTONPL
S
O
U
THDO
WN
R
D
NEWLANDS AVE
FARM
L
N
TRITON DR
AN
G
UIDO CT
MOLITOR
RD
HIL
LC
R
EST
R
D
AN
C
H
O
R
LN
MANOR DR
L
O
M
B
A
R
D
I LN
WEST LN
M
ER
R
Y
M
O
PPET LN
CLIF
T
O
N
AVE
BRIDGE
RD
DEL RE
Y
CT
ELMWOOD CT
CYPRESS AVE
B
O
W
H
IL
L
R
D
QUEENS LN
W
I
N
DING
WAY
NEW
HA
L
L
RD
L
AKE
RD
ARGU
S
CT
E 3RD AVE
A
S
C
O
T
R
D
MAPLE AVE
LEXINGTON WAY
R
E
S
E
R
V
O
IR
R
D
NOTR
E
DAME PL
IRENE CT
B
ELMO
N
T
AVE
READ
A
VE
UR
S
A LN
EMMETT AVE
HATTERAS CT
ERICS
O
N RD
W
IL
L
O
W
L
N
LAUREL AVE
LINK RD
FIR ST
SHAD
Y
LN
ALME
R
RD
BANCROFT RD
VICTORIA RD
STANLEY RD
ARUNDEL RD
ANITA RD
BREW
ER
D
R
MYRTLE RD
HATCH LN
KAREN WAY
AVON ST
S
EQ
UOIA
WAY
EL
SIERRA DR
ROEHAMPTON RD
DAIRY LN
CROSSWAY RD
RUTH AVE
E
W
ELL
RD
H
A
S
TIN
GS DR
A
R
D
EN LN
S
T
O
N
EPINE
R
D
WILL
AR
D
L
N
TAM
P
A
C
T
BEACH RD
AC
ACIA DR
C
A
S
TOR ST
G
L
E
N
GARRYWAY
FRANCISCO DR
PLATEA
U
DR
ROXBURY
W
AY
D
O
UGL
AS AVE
S
A
N
AR
D
O
W
AY
CHATHAM RD
SOU
T
HDO
WN
CT
CARLMO
NT
DR
WOODLAND DR
R
O
B
I
N
R
D
D
E
K
O
VEN
AVE
COS
T
A R
ICA AVE
G
ENEVRA
R
D
SE
A
SPR
A
Y LN
A
L
O
M
AR W
A
Y
VER
B
AL
EE
L
N
LANG RD
DONNELLY AVE
G
L
EN
DALE RD
COURTLAN
D
R
D
BAY
WO
O
D A
VE
LAUREL AVE
LINDEN AVE
RAN
D
A
L
L
RD
A
S
TER AV
E
ELDER
D
R
R
O
C
K
H
A
RBOR LN
BENSON W
AY
FURLONG ST
JUDSON ST
IRWIN ST
KEDITH ST
E
N
S
E
N
A
D
A RD
F
ARM
L
N
BE
R
R
Y
ESS
A
C
T
FARRI
NGDON LN
RE
GUL
US
S
T
R
A
NEL
A
GH
RD
S
A
N
D
RA RD
CULEBR
A RD
MIRAMAR TER
BAYVIEW AVE
OAK
KN
OLL DR
QUARRY RD
WALNUT AVE
H
A
R
TFORD AVE
V
ANI
E
R
D
R
STA
RLITE D
R
CARL
T
O
N
R
D
D
E
SAB
L
A
R
D
ERLIN DR
H
A
TC
H D
R
LINCOL
N
C
ENTERDR
LE
S
S
IN
G
I
A
CT
L
A
U
R
E
L
H
I
LL DR
VAL
DEZ AVE
LOOKO
U
T R
D
N
A
N
TUCKET S
T
B
RANDT
RD
A
LLEGHENY
W
AY
WE
MBE
RLEY
DR
K
I
N
GSWOOD DR
M
E
R
N
ER RD
BELLE MONT
I AVE
LA S
E
N
D
A
R
D
RAVEN
S
CO
U
R
T R
D
W
H
IT
E
WELL RD
DAVIS DR
B
I
S
H
O
P
R
D
M
IRA
ST
GLEN
B
R
O
O
K
D
R
KINGSWOO
D
D
R
LO
D
G
E DR
CO
RNELIA DR
EL
ARROYO RD
ANZ
A
BLV
D
CIVIC CENTER DR
L
A
C
ANA
DA
R
D
BLACK M
OUNTAIN RD
EL
C
E
N
T
R
O
R
D
MAN
ZA
N
IT
A
A
VE
FALLE
NLE
A
F D
R
BROOKVAL
E RD
WALTHAM CROSS
F
AL
K
I
R
K
L
N
L
A
C
UESTA RD
JAMAICA ST
WOO
DBRI
D
GE RD
CORONADO L
N
P
H
E
LPS
R
D
FAIRW
A
Y
C
I
R
M
O
NTICELLO
RD
OLD CANAD
A
RD
ESCO
NDIDO
W
A
Y
AL
H
A
M
B
R
A
D
R
A
DELAIDE WAY
MAR
B
UR
G
E
R
A
V
E
ARCTU
R
U
S
C
I
R
BR
IDG
E R
D
TO
W
ER
RD
BA
YWOOD
A
V
E
D
AVEY GL
EN RD
B
RO
MFIEL
D
R
D
BI
KE TRAIL
SHE
L
D
O
N
AV
E
CANAD
A RD
O
L
D
L
A
KE
R
D
LAKE
R
D
BARTL
E
TT W
A
Y
Mariner's
Island
Sugarloaf
Bay
Meadows
Downtown
Detroit
Drive
Central
Park
Station
Park Green
San Mateo Rail
Corridor TOD
Bridgepointe
Shoreline
Park
City of
San Mateo
Specific Area &
Master Plans
LEGEND
Q:\it\GIS
Prepared by
Planning Division
SCALE
1" = 1,000'
Specific Plan Area
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD/
Bay Meadows
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD/
El Camino
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD/
Hillsdale
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD/
El Camino/Hillsdale
El Camino/Hillsdale
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD/
Station Park Green
Central Park/Downtown
Bridgepointe/Mariner's Island
Bay Meadows
Bridgepointe
Central Park
Detroit Drive
Downtown
El Camino
Hillsdale Station Area
Mariner's Island
San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD
Shoreline Park
Station Park Green
Sugarloaf
San Francisco Bay & Lagoon
Assessor Parcels
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
San Mateo City Limits
Mariner's Island/Shoreline Park

--- page 73 ---
Bike racks?
Store
inside?
Keeping
things
simple
Interactive Discussion
San Mateo Multi-Family Objective Design Standards | Workshop June 1, 2021
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 1
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 2
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 3
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 4
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 6
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 5
Other Comments
missing
common
area
maintenance
overtime
problematic
nice modern
take on
traditional
design 
elegant
design of
modern
housing
good job of
using
restraint
A multifamily
that could pass
as a single
family home. 
incorporate
similar
materials to
existing
neighborhood
find front
door
easily
define balance
for different
neighborhoods
does not tell
much - post-
modern
look
appropriate in
low density
neighborhood
how garage,
driveway,
parking
element(s) are
handled 
bird strikes
on glass
ultraviolet
glass
Garage
doors too
prominent
Seems very
boxy,
imposing
Slanted
roofs clunky
Hardscape and
garage doors
dominate the
street facade at
ground level 
 pretty busy with
the number of
materials, colors
and planes 
articulation
need to be
purposeful,
not overly
arbitrary 
Massing is
not problem,
it is the
design.
ODS - take a
facade
developed
before 1940
and recreate
Built before
war, ODS can
reference
traditional
forms
fit in with a
residential
neighborhood,
it just needs to
be less busy
Not a lot of
enablement
of outdoor
activity
encourage
balconies,
patios,
central
courtyards
SM has many great
examples of multi-
family, large units.
Look around main
library on 4th ave.
not functional
for residents
(furniture), too
much window
frontage
Streetscape
unappealing
Too much
glass.  I don’t
get the
stucco zig-
zags.
Not elevating
sense of
community,
call attention
to itself
claymation
face
more landscaping
and fine grained
elements to make
ped friendly,
human scale
More shared
spaces,
appears cold
Blocky,
glassy,
inhumane,
does not fit
into context
Lit glass
attracts birds,
perfect target
for birds
Too busy.
Articulation and
color is not
working for it. 
I don't like
lighted center
stairwell that
impacts non-
residents.  Too
much glass.
Flexibility for
many
different
types of retail
protected bicycle/
walking lane,
greenery, tables &
chairs if there’s F&B
on that first floor 
gardens/vertical
gardens to
provide softness
at pedestrian
scales
continuous,
interesting
lower level
for
pedestrians
Massing is clunky and
top heavy; feels like
the upper 5 floors are
crushing the ground
floor, which is visually
receeding.
Really like
glass, light is
important 
More
greenery,
plants trained
to grow up the
wall
Lack of ingress/
egress
Balance
security with
ground floor
access
allow people to
take advantage
of tradeoffs, not
every single box
check, menu of
items
implies balcony,
but does not exist.
Encourage real
ones. Do not
imply functionality.
highlight
entrance
more. 
Articulation is
good, massing
is okay, color
palette needs
more work.
window placement
works
psychologically -
symmetrically
located, vertically
oriented
Door
difficult to
find
Street level
- flat and
plain
need more
detail and
visual
interest
Streetscape
is minimal
Top of building
could use more
articulation at
the long flat wall
sections
Pedestrian
entry needs to
celebrated and
easy to find.
The relationship
of window size
to solid building
elements will be
important.
Details here will be
critical.  This
example has large
windows but
doesn't feel like an
all glass building.
See first floor be
completely
different from
other floors. TLC
on blankness of
walls.
Chance to see
someone you
know, social
collision 
Over-
articulated
on the
bottom.
The lighted
center
stairwell
looks great.
The green space in
the final product
turned out much
nicer than in the
render. The mature
trees really help.
You can see
bike racks 
Balcony space -
overdue space
where it is not
used, focus more
on communal
space
Don't overdue
balcony space
requirements
not as
inviting, or
functional, on
the corner
the wrap around
balconies seems to
“weaken” the
corner.  Perhaps
less balcony would
enhance the
massing.
The color palette
works well together
(not a ton of
contrasting colors),
it’s light and bright,
lots of balconies for
people to enjoy the
outdoors
Street facing
element more
important
Not crazy about how
far the building is set
back from the street,
taking valuable space
away from adding
more units.  Feels a
little over-articulated.
I really like the
balconies here;
ideally, they’d
be allowed, but
not required.
Materials and
colors use more
adjustment in
balance of
proportions
If you could
walk up to that
first floor corner
balcony, that
would be nice.
call to attention
uniqueness
instead of
evenly
distributing
everything
More primary,
identify
secodary and
terttiary colors
and materials,
more contrast
Wonderful if
people use
balcony to enjoy
outdoor & maybe
have plants.  But
too often used as a
closet.
Generous setback and
nice relationship
between the building
and the public walkway.
Feels like all the design
effort and money was
spent on the corner
element.
material
differentiation is
not working,
overdesigned. 
Setback at third
and fourth levels
too much, not
mandating
cascading effect.
his aesthetic (too
many colors,
materials,
setbacks) will
become dated
pretty quickly
Suffers from
exuberance
of materials
flexible
zoning for
activated
pedestrian
realm
Allow uses that
truly activate a
space (coffee
kiosk, outdoor
seating)
Human scale
uses that does
not require
license like
traditional retail
Articulation needs
to be more uniform:
less at the upper
levels and more at
the ground level. 
Color
palette in
not very
exciting
Greater
setback width
at ground floor
retail frontages.
Setbacks
overused
Setbacks for
setback's
sake is
absurd
Windows too
receded, have
windows and
doors get most
design elemnt
Cascading setbacks
and building
articulation give the
building an
appealing texture,
but may have gone a
bit too far.
Windows are more
expensive than
facade, meet
daylighting
standards but not
overly exceed,
discourage bigger
Windows - not so
much bigger; trim.
Architectural
detailing focused
on windows.
make windows
FEEL bigger
with trim and
other detailing,
get better
aesthetic 
Not
addressing
signage
requirements
no examples of
4 -6 story range
- additional
elements to
consider
how we can enable
good way finding
through design and
ensure that retail has the
ability to customize in a
way that is cohesive with
the look and feel of the
building.

--- page 74 ---
City of San Mateo 
Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family 
Projects Community Workshop #1 
Questions and Answers 
 
The following is a compilation of questions received from the virtual “Objective Design Standards for 
Multi-Family Projects” community workshop, held on June 1, 2021 as a Zoom meeting. These questions 
were asked by participants during the “Questions + Answer Session” following the main presentation. 
Several questions were submitted via chat during this session as well. All questions and responses are 
listed below: 
 
 
From Questions and Answer session: 
1. What differentiates “large projects” and what qualifies this? 
• 
This will be defined through the objective design standards process. State law only addresses “multi-
family” through the law.  
2. Will there be objective design standards for large projects? 
• 
There will be objective design standards for anything that is not a single-family home. 
3. How detailed can objective design standards be in regulating design? 
• 
It varies. The level of detail a city or county deemed appropriate for the standards to apply depends on 
how they want to implement them and regulate design. Some jurisdictions may require detailed 
standards while others may opt to keep them more flexible. 
• 
Another important detail to consider is how these standards are applied. Per State law, standards shall 
be written to where two reasonable people must agree to what a standard says. 
4. Will this process cover standards for projects that are five stories or greater? 
• 
Yes. Objective standards will be created for all multi-family residential and mixed-use type develop with 
residential uses proposed.  
5. Is the discretionary review track still a choice for projects? 
• 
Yes. Anything larger than a single-family project that does not comply with the objective design 
standards may opt to follow a discretionary track.  
 
 
From chat: 
1. What is the definition of mid-rises (heights) in San Mateo? 
• 
In the context of this discussion, mid-rise projects are loosely defined as apartments or mixed-use 
developments that are four (4) or more floors. The upper threshold of the range typically describing mid-
rise projects is 12 stories, though this is not applicable to this applicable to the context of San Mateo as 
height limits currently prevent developments of this height.  
2. How is design quality and architectural compatibility maintained in the Downtown Historic District if qualitative 
standards do not apply? 
a. Objective Standards will not apply to anything within planning areas that provide objective standards 
through their provisions (e.g., a specific plan).  
3. What does the State law allow for addressing neighborhood concerns since council and planning commission are 
not included in the approval?  
a. Concerns could include adequate parking, adequate composting/recycling processes, construction too 
large for a lot and thus too close to a neighbors' homes.

--- page 75 ---
• The objective design standards aim to create and implement standards that address these a 
variety of contexts. Part of this process is to seek out what some concerns are in order to tailor 
the objective design standards in a way that leads to development that is compatible with the 
community.  
• Objective design standards are “on top” of other existing standards, including parking and floor 
area ratio (FAR), which are in the City’s zoning code. This project does not aim to modify these 
existing standards.

--- page 76 ---


--- page 77 ---
With housing going
up on 5th Street, how
does design
incorporate train
noise, open spaces,
and residential areas?
With the Housing
Element and General
Plan, spaces will be
different years from now -
how can we design now
as the community grows
and develops?
Community Meeting
There are varying degrees of
flexibility in ODS - how will this
be considered and how can
developers meet those
parameters?
Ex: Palo Alto has two different
ways of evaluating projects
GENERAL COMMENTS 
Some ODS for smaller
developments can be
cost prohibitive.
Developments of 5-6
units should have
different requirements
than large developments
How can all of San
Mateo have a sense of
place, and not just the
Downtown?
Flexibility is key,
especially for smaller
developments!
San Mateo is missing
middle housing
Standards should not
be one-size-fits-all
Allow option for
alternate design/
approval process
Example: Palo Alto, San
Carlos 
Overall
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Would like to see projects
that can coexist with
existing neighborhoods -
more compatibility
(especially with windows -
right now there is a lot of
glazing in contemporary
windows/developments)
Like:
stepbacks
stoops
eyes to the streets
parking in back of
projects
Want standards that
address how building
aesthetics relate to other
surrounding buildings, for
example, we have art deco
buildings Downtown that
surrounded by "modern"
designs
How can massing
breaks be applied
 to duplexes and
fourplexes? Can
they be simplified
to address
affordability?
Incorporate
traditional
neighborhood
elements into
new
developments
Mixed-use buildings in
Downtown are seeing a
push to 5 story buildings,
concerned about massing,
losing the sun and
increased shading
because of larger buildings
Incorporate solar/
roof gardens/
community gardens
on roofs
Environmental
aspects of
construction
should be
considered
Need setbacks in
Downtown area.
Use other cities
that have done
this well as
examples.
wall offsets
break up
massing
For roof area of
stebacks: would
like to utilize that
space for decks/
patios/open space
Want bolder, braver
design (especially in
Downtown). San
Mateo should be a
world class city.
More
allowance for
flexibility in
architectural
styles 
Upper story setbacks
that face adjacent low
rise residential buildings
can be problematic,
adjacent residents may
feel they are being
observed from above
and losing privacy.
Don't like big
box feel of
new
developments
Some articulation/color/
design elements can get
out of control, let's avoid
that
Use the Duplex
Design
Guidelines as a
guide
1. Reducing Massing
Recent projects are large
compared to single-family/
duplex neighborhoods. There
is currently no buffering
between them and there is a
lack of transition from single-
family homes to larger
developments
A buffer area
between town homes
would be great.
Example of this: Bay
Meadows
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Currently a lack of
transition between
existing and new
developments.  
Could townhomes
act as a transition?
Don't lean on
landscaping as a
transitional element for
smaller developments
because the
landscaping doesn't
always happen
Like: Stepping
down and
transitioning
through building
itself rather than
landscaping 
More transitional
architecture in
Downtown. For example, 
180 E 3rd Street has a
balance between new
construction and
maintaining historic
architecture
Incorporate historic
architecture into new
developments, including
classic design and
decorative elements that
reflect the historic nature
of development in San
Mateo
Need design
standards related
to landscaping
maintenance
Take cues from
existing buildings
(especially in
downtown) to
maintain
neighborhood
compatibility 
2. Good Transitions
1. Should certain types of open
space – passive vs. active – be
required?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What kinds of open space
should be prioritized, such as
communal space (common) or
individual (private)?
OPEN SPACE
Would like to see
more open space
where people of
different ages can
gather
I live next door to a single
family home that squished a
ADU in the back yard leaving
approx. a 5ft x 15ft yard for
each resident (front and
back). I wish they had pulled
down the whole lot and done
a 2-4 townhome with a
permeable paving driveway
and nice balconies
How can open space
be most usable? A
high quality shared
space vs. small
individual yards?
Blue bottle coffee in Bay
Meadows is a good example of
looking good on paper for
people mingling - but in reality it
is a real wind tunnel.  Not a very
pleasant place to hang out,
which is a shame.  Some wind
studies beforehand might have
helped (however Climate
change may be upending that!)
More trees! San
Mateo is losing a lot
of trees through
densification and
storms. Can San
Mateo become a
Tree City?
More porous paving and
storm swales on-site to
soak up water and offer
planting areas for the
residents (community
gardens or even raised
beds) to promote self
sufficiency
Look
internationally
for inspiration 
more common
open space 
Separate
children's play
areas from open
space areas for
adults
concerned about
construction of only
new buildings and
no open space
Incorporate as much
green space/nature
into projects as
possible, and don't
just build buildings
right to the street!
all residential
landscaping
should be
setback and
publicly visible
Wind tunnel effect
is real, especially
downtown -
design for this
and perform wind
studies
3. Open Space
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
Paseos can help
break down mass
of building. Have
them be more
integrated
Keep pedestrian
access on B
street in
Downtown
Pedestrian access
from Caltrain
node to 3rd street
and Central Park
are key design
areas
Paseos act as a way to
get back and forth
between buildings/
places, and can reduce
reliance on cars. Even
better if they connect to
transit.
More emphasis
on the public/
pedestrian realm
and public/
pedestrian
spaces
Paseos are
helpful 
Let’s look at other
cities that do well
with wide
sidewalks,
landscaping, and
building frontages 
I have this crazy idea
that North Central could
have cars on the
perimeter with trees and
walking in the streets...
little buses to get us into
the City and to our cars...
Prioritize
accessibility
without cars 
Paseos sound great, but “Main
Street” seems to have fallen
flat. Nice in photos, sad in
reality.
Would it be possible to have
more alleys and walkways that
have delight and discovery,
greenery, cafes, seating areas,
small scale retail etc...
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 78 ---
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Would like to see projects
that can coexist with
existing neighborhoods -
more compatibility
(especially with windows -
right now there is a lot of
glazing in contemporary
windows/developments)
Like:
stepbacks
stoops
eyes to the streets
parking in back of
projects
Want standards that
address how building
aesthetics relate to other
surrounding buildings, for
example, we have art deco
buildings Downtown that
surrounded by "modern"
designs
How can massing
breaks be applied
 to duplexes and
fourplexes? Can
they be simplified
to address
affordability?
Incorporate
traditional
neighborhood
elements into
new
developments
Mixed-use buildings in
Downtown are seeing a
push to 5 story buildings,
concerned about massing,
losing the sun and
increased shading
because of larger buildings
Incorporate solar/
roof gardens/
community gardens
on roofs
Environmental
aspects of
construction
should be
considered
Need setbacks in
Downtown area.
Use other cities
that have done
this well as
examples.
wall offsets
break up
massing
For roof area of
stebacks: would
like to utilize that
space for decks/
patios/open space
Want bolder, braver
design (especially in
Downtown). San
Mateo should be a
world class city.
More
allowance for
flexibility in
architectural
styles 
Upper story setbacks
that face adjacent low
rise residential buildings
can be problematic,
adjacent residents may
feel they are being
observed from above
and losing privacy.
Don't like big
box feel of
new
developments
Some articulation/color/
design elements can get
out of control, let's avoid
that
Use the Duplex
Design
Guidelines as a
guide
1. Reducing Massing

--- page 79 ---
Recent projects are large
compared to single-family/
duplex neighborhoods. There
is currently no buffering
between them and there is a
lack of transition from single-
family homes to larger
developments
A buffer area
between town homes
would be great.
Example of this: Bay
Meadows
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Currently a lack of
transition between
existing and new
developments.  
Could townhomes
act as a transition?
Don't lean on
landscaping as a
transitional element for
smaller developments
because the
landscaping doesn't
always happen
Like: Stepping
down and
transitioning
through building
itself rather than
landscaping 
More transitional
architecture in
Downtown. For example, 
180 E 3rd Street has a
balance between new
construction and
maintaining historic
architecture
Incorporate historic
architecture into new
developments, including
classic design and
decorative elements that
reflect the historic nature
of development in San
Mateo
Need design
standards related
to landscaping
maintenance
Take cues from
existing buildings
(especially in
downtown) to
maintain
neighborhood
compatibility 
2. Good Transitions

--- page 80 ---
1. Should certain types of open
space – passive vs. active – be
required?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What kinds of open space
should be prioritized, such as
communal space (common) or
individual (private)?
OPEN SPACE
Would like to see
more open space
where people of
different ages can
gather
I live next door to a single
family home that squished a
ADU in the back yard leaving
approx. a 5ft x 15ft yard for
each resident (front and
back). I wish they had pulled
down the whole lot and done
a 2-4 townhome with a
permeable paving driveway
and nice balconies
How can open space
be most usable? A
high quality shared
space vs. small
individual yards?
Blue bottle coffee in Bay
Meadows is a good example of
looking good on paper for
people mingling - but in reality it
is a real wind tunnel.  Not a very
pleasant place to hang out,
which is a shame.  Some wind
studies beforehand might have
helped (however Climate
change may be upending that!)
More trees! San
Mateo is losing a lot
of trees through
densification and
storms. Can San
Mateo become a
Tree City?
More porous paving and
storm swales on-site to
soak up water and offer
planting areas for the
residents (community
gardens or even raised
beds) to promote self
sufficiency
Look
internationally
for inspiration 
more common
open space 
Separate
children's play
areas from open
space areas for
adults
concerned about
construction of only
new buildings and
no open space
Incorporate as much
green space/nature
into projects as
possible, and don't
just build buildings
right to the street!
all residential
landscaping
should be
setback and
publicly visible
Wind tunnel effect
is real, especially
downtown -
design for this
and perform wind
studies
3. Open Space

--- page 81 ---
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
Paseos can help
break down mass
of building. Have
them be more
integrated
Keep pedestrian
access on B
street in
Downtown
Pedestrian access
from Caltrain
node to 3rd street
and Central Park
are key design
areas
Paseos act as a way to
get back and forth
between buildings/
places, and can reduce
reliance on cars. Even
better if they connect to
transit.
More emphasis
on the public/
pedestrian realm
and public/
pedestrian
spaces
Paseos are
helpful 
Let’s look at other
cities that do well
with wide
sidewalks,
landscaping, and
building frontages 
I have this crazy idea
that North Central could
have cars on the
perimeter with trees and
walking in the streets...
little buses to get us into
the City and to our cars...
Prioritize
accessibility
without cars 
Paseos sound great, but “Main
Street” seems to have fallen
flat. Nice in photos, sad in
reality.
Would it be possible to have
more alleys and walkways that
have delight and discovery,
greenery, cafes, seating areas,
small scale retail etc...
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 82 ---
Developer's Roundtable
Improvements can
be made to the plan
submittal process
-streamlined process
for public vs. private
improvements
FLEXIBILITY = KEY
Sites have unique qualities that
you want to celebrate, certain
sites have various aspects and
adjacencies - finding where
everything meshes in terms of
affordability, construction,
development is key.
Standards need to
be consistent with
each other 
When density
bonus law is
implemented -
there will still need
to be room for
flexibility
GENERAL COMMENTS 
Have to be careful to
not go overboard ->
when requirements look
good on paper they
don't always work when
you design a site, ex: 3
different rules that don't
mesh
If a project can't meet
enough of the
standards then a
developer might have
to drop a project, ODS
should not constrain
projects.
Overall
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Relate density to
design
standards
Standards for
single-family
homes should be
different from
standards for a
type 3 building
There should be
height limits for
parking and single-
family homes 
To reduce massing there
needs to be a rhythm to the
building. Something needs
to catch your eye when you
approach the building, ex:
Positive or negative space,
roof deck highlighted with
lighting so you can see from
a distance
Balconies can
achieve rhythm
(not when
adjacent to
freeway)
The best place for
transitions is at the
podium level when you
transition from concrete
to wood, depending on
site. This  might be 3
levels/2/1 level of
concrete.
Best not to prescribe
at what level to have a
stepback in order to
maintain flexibility
Break the massing
where it makes sense
depending on
construction type and
site
Roofs: flat roof with
parapet around it makes
the most sense - you can
get as many units as
possible and are able to
put solar and equipment
on roof, without adding
mass (like pitched roof)
Challenge with legacy
properties: single-
family home zoned in
higher density, how do
you marry those two?
Reconciliation needs
to happen
Use all the space you
have for transitions to
be successful, and to
be able to control the
property
-sensitivity to plazas/
transitions
-height transitions
Upper level
stepbacks are
harder to achieve
and require
alternative
structural systems
Something that has
worked well: specifying
that unit balconies are
able to count as wall
breaks
For wall breaks, giving a
realistic range of when the
breaks or wall plane
stepbacks need to happen is
helpful. Realistically you can't
have a stepback every unit 
(or every two units)
You should not
incorporate
balconies next to
train tracks as they
are not desirable
for residents
1. Reducing Massing
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Transitions (that
reduce number of
units) can be a
direct conflict with
Density Bonus law
With setback
requirements/wedding
cake, developments
can't always meet
residential square
footage requirements
Transitions can
sometimes
reconfigure the
space and open up
more open space
2. Good Transitions
1. What does the market prefer -
passive vs. active? How does it
differ between mixed-use vs.
residential and for sale vs.
rental?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What would make it easier to
provide open space in a project -
location, size, other factors?
OPEN SPACE
Amenities:
pool, hot tub,
bbq space
For small sites, less
than 2-acres, you
usually need to use
all the space
leaving little room
for open space 
Flexibility is
required to achieve
a mix of Internal
active recreation
space and quiet
open space 
Public open space is
always hardest to
provide, always at grade
level and this really
reduces what you're able
to do in terms of
providing housing above.
Limits the site and can be
very problematic
Avoid dictating
the exact number
of square feet for
private and
common space
Mix of public and
private space
depends on site
constraints
Different sites/
developments
require different
amenities:
apartments may
have pool, condos
have lower density
Recommend against
requiring every unit
to have private open
space - can't always
meet indoor
requirements with
patio doors
How can communal
space create great
places rather than
creating more
project constraints?
Prescribed at grade
open spaces/plazas
are very difficult to
achieve and can't
always be
accommodated
At grade level open
space reduces what
you're able to do in
terms of providing
housing above
3. Open Space
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
If paseos don't
connect to anything
they don't really
make sense - they
need to connect to
something
Stoops and
overhangs
where sidewalks
are walkable
Paseos don't
always make
sense because
they reduce
yield for site
Paseo makes
sense on site that
needs more than
one podium -
paseo between
buildings 
Maintain the urban
fabric of the
existing area 
Residential entries
are site/
neighborhood
specific and will
vary what you can
do with sidewalks
and street trees
Entries on corners
maximize visibility.
There should be
something to
highlight the
second floor as well
Anything that's
one acre
needs a paseo
going through
it
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 83 ---
1. Does building wall variation result in a
building feeling appearing less massive?
What is the right amount? Can there be too
much?
2. What is the best way for the roof form to
reduce the apparent massing? What forms
are most effective?
3. What other techniques can reduce
massing? Are colors/materials effective?
Other?
REDUCING MASSING
Relate density to
design
standards
Standards for
single-family
homes should be
different from
standards for a
type 3 building
There should be
height limits for
parking and single-
family homes 
To reduce massing there
needs to be a rhythm to the
building. Something needs
to catch your eye when you
approach the building, ex:
Positive or negative space,
roof deck highlighted with
lighting so you can see from
a distance
Balconies can
achieve rhythm
(not when
adjacent to
freeway)
The best place for
transitions is at the
podium level when you
transition from concrete
to wood, depending on
site. This  might be 3
levels/2/1 level of
concrete.
Best not to prescribe
at what level to have a
stepback in order to
maintain flexibility
Break the massing
where it makes sense
depending on
construction type and
site
Roofs: flat roof with
parapet around it makes
the most sense - you can
get as many units as
possible and are able to
put solar and equipment
on roof, without adding
mass (like pitched roof)
Challenge with legacy
properties: single-
family home zoned in
higher density, how do
you marry those two?
Reconciliation needs
to happen
Use all the space you
have for transitions to
be successful, and to
be able to control the
property
-sensitivity to plazas/
transitions
-height transitions
Upper level
stepbacks are
harder to achieve
and require
alternative
structural systems
Something that has
worked well: specifying
that unit balconies are
able to count as wall
breaks
For wall breaks, giving a
realistic range of when the
breaks or wall plane
stepbacks need to happen is
helpful. Realistically you can't
have a stepback every unit 
(or every two units)
You should not
incorporate
balconies next to
train tracks as they
are not desirable
for residents
1. Reducing Massing

--- page 84 ---
What creates a good transition to
an immediately adjacent building?  
-Step backs?
-Greater setbacks for all stories?
 -Landscape screening?
 -Other?
GOOD TRANSITIONS
Transitions (that
reduce number of
units) can be a
direct conflict with
Density Bonus law
With setback
requirements/wedding
cake, developments
can't always meet
residential square
footage requirements
Transitions can
sometimes
reconfigure the
space and open up
more open space
2. Good Transitions

--- page 85 ---
1. What does the market prefer -
passive vs. active? How does it
differ between mixed-use vs.
residential and for sale vs.
rental?
2. What amenities are desired?
3. What would make it easier to
provide open space in a project -
location, size, other factors?
OPEN SPACE
Amenities:
pool, hot tub,
bbq space
For small sites, less
than 2-acres, you
usually need to use
all the space
leaving little room
for open space 
Flexibility is
required to achieve
a mix of Internal
active recreation
space and quiet
open space 
Public open space is
always hardest to
provide, always at grade
level and this really
reduces what you're able
to do in terms of
providing housing above.
Limits the site and can be
very problematic
Avoid dictating
the exact number
of square feet for
private and
common space
Mix of public and
private space
depends on site
constraints
Different sites/
developments
require different
amenities:
apartments may
have pool, condos
have lower density
Recommend against
requiring every unit
to have private open
space - can't always
meet indoor
requirements with
patio doors
How can communal
space create great
places rather than
creating more
project constraints?
Prescribed at grade
open spaces/plazas
are very difficult to
achieve and can't
always be
accommodated
At grade level open
space reduces what
you're able to do in
terms of providing
housing above
3. Open Space

--- page 86 ---
1. What makes an entry residential in
character?
   Stoop, porch, landscaping, meeting the
   street, overhead projection, window,
   door type?
2. Should paseos be used to break down
the size/scale of blocks and provide
pedestrian walkways? Do we like them and
if so, would we like to see more?
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
If paseos don't
connect to anything
they don't really
make sense - they
need to connect to
something
Stoops and
overhangs
where sidewalks
are walkable
Paseos don't
always make
sense because
they reduce
yield for site
Paseo makes
sense on site that
needs more than
one podium -
paseo between
buildings 
Maintain the urban
fabric of the
existing area 
Residential entries
are site/
neighborhood
specific and will
vary what you can
do with sidewalks
and street trees
Entries on corners
maximize visibility.
There should be
something to
highlight the
second floor as well
Anything that's
one acre
needs a paseo
going through
it
4. Pedestrian Connections

--- page 87 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
TO:  
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
CC:  
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director 
 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
 
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager 
 
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney 
 
Planning Commission 
FROM:  San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
SUBJECT: Objective Design Strategies - New development projects in and around Downtown 
Dear Ms. Sandhir, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance understands Planning staff will begin working on revising historic 
preservation related documents, ordinances and design standards in 2024. It is a process that may take 
several years to complete.  In the meantime, there are a large number of planning applications  in the 
entitlement process that will be approved without benefit of those revised documents.   
It is this interim period before the historic preservation and infill guiding documents are completed that is 
of much concern to us.  As we stated in our letter to you of June 6, 2023, we are concerned that if the 
current review process continues without intervention the result, according to the City’s’ GP Alternative 
Analysis, “could affect the integrity of the buildings and historic district, and result in development 
incompatible with the existing historic fabric.”  
It is for this reason that the San Mateo Heritage Alliance is suggesting incorporating timeless design 
principles as objective design standards for project review.  The timeless design principles outlined on 
the following pages are objective in that they are measurable, verifiable and knowable to all parties.  We 
believe these timeless design principles are consistent with the City’s existing General Plan, Zoning 
Code, Downtown Design Guidelines and the new Multifamily/Mixed-use Objective Design Standards.  
We also believe that if implemented immediately they will result in infill projects of higher quality design.   
As always, San Mateo Heritage Alliance stands ready to work with the City of San Mateo to make our 
Downtown and our City a better place in which to live and work.  Thank you for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
Keith Weber, Aragon 
Dianne Whitaker, North Central 
Laurie Watanuki, Central 
Attachments: 
Appendix A: Objective Design Principles 
Appendix B: Urban Design Considerations 
Appendix C: Searching for Visual Delight 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
1
10

--- page 88 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Appendix A 
Suggested Objective Downtown Design Principles 
Timeless Design Principles 
Timeless design principles have been around for over 4,000 years, since the time of Roman architect 
Vitruvius.  One of the great things about timeless design principles is that they are flexible and scaleable.  
The basic way of composing a building facade is applied as successfully on a one story building as it is 
on a 12 story building. It is an organizational composition flexible enough to accommodate any 
architectural style. 
Timeless design principles have four simple elements of composition: 
•
Simple, Tripartite Facade 
•
Base/Middle/Top 
•
Vertically Aligned Openings 
•
Window Height and Width 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
2
10

--- page 89 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Rule of Thirds 
The rule of thirds in building composition can be traced as far back as Vitruvius. The idea is that the best 
way to insert breaks in form and plane is to  divide the building into three primary masses. Each element 
on a facade should be about a third of the size of the bigger element it’s nested in. Here are three ways 
to break a horizontal mass into three segments: 
Vertical composition also has three elements - a base, a middle and a top. Much like a column has a 
base, a shaft and a capital. In this way it is anthropomorphic and composed like the human body.  The 
three elements can be distinguished using bands, cornices, or with changes in materials and/or colors. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
3
10

--- page 90 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Windows 
Traditionally, windows are inset somewhat from the surface of the wall, allowing us to see the depth of 
the wall. The more thickness we can see, the sturdier the wall looks. Many contemporary buildings look 
like they’re only an inch or two thick.  A window reveal of at least 4” is recommended.  
The aspect ratio of the windows is important. Windows should be taller than they are wide. Structurally, 
it’s easier to span a short distance than a long one.  Humans are taller than we are wide, so there’s an 
anthropomorphic element as well.  A 6 foot high by 3 foot wide window gives us a sense of scale: when 
we look at a wall and see a pattern of objects that roughly scale to ourselves, we can easily understand 
the proportion of the building. 
 
Lastly, the windows should be aligned vertically, acknowledging the natural force of gravity and allowing 
the load of a building to transfer on to the floor or wall below. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
4
10

--- page 91 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Putting it all Together 
Here’s what you get when you put all these elements together: 1) building mass divided into thirds, both 
vertically and horizontally, and 2) windows that are taller than wide and stacked vertically.  Simple and 
elegant.  Appendix C includes some examples of recently completed buildings in San Mateo and other 
communities that demonstrate how these principles work when applied to real buildings. 
Overall Best Practices: 
1.
Timeless forms that avoid ‘fast fashion’ trendy design themes. 
2.
Quiet background buildings that don’t scream for attention. 
3.
Simple massing that doesn’t try to replicate a city skyline in a single structure. 
4.
Uniform application of quality cladding material such as brick. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
5
10

--- page 92 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Appendix B 
Urban Design Considerations 
Downtown San Mateo 
Building Setbacks, Daylight Planes and Street Walls 
Upper floor setbacks determined by daylight planes can be very useful if used properly and judiciously.  
In San Mateo, as elsewhere, the idea is to maintain the prevailing street wall height in the historic district.  
This is a worthwhile and appealing goal.  But in San Mateo, it limits the street wall to 35 - 40 feet in most 
of downtown.  We also have a maximum building height allowance of 55 feet in most of downtown that 
can grow to 75 feet with state density bonuses. Accommodating a street wall height of 35 feet and a 
building height of 55 -75 feet in the same building envelope inevitably results in an awkward and clumsy 
architectural composition.     
SMHeritage suggests that Planning reexamine the current daylight plane policy in terms of its 
applicability and flexibility, specifically with regard to infill development (see Redwood City’s 2011 
Downtown Plan as one example).  We believe there are more than a few instances where a full height 
street wall would result in more elegant architecture and better urban design.  
There are other ways to address higher building heights in and around the Downtown.  One might be to 
allow the street wall of infill buildings to be 1/1/2 - 2 times the average street wall height of nearby 
buildings.  Another might be to step-down building height towards lower height buildings, rather than 
setting back upper floors away from the street.  The bottom line is that the current daylight plane policy 
should be reevaluated and revised to better serve our urban design and historic preservation goals. 
Special Corner Treatments - Plazas and Towers 
Plazas, if done right, can be magical places.  They can be quiet and dignified or grand and dazzling.  But 
not every building corner needs one.  “Busy or calm, functional or symbolic, there is one thing a plaza 
should never be: an urban non-event,” urban planner Richard Hedman warns. “Yet, all too many of the 
so-called plazas built are just that.  Instead of contributing to the enrichment 
of the city, unsuccessful plazas add to its fragmentation and dilution and 
rather than enlarging the opportunities for public enjoyment they merely 
consume space.”  You may notice that the two newest corner plazas in San 
Mateo (at 5th & Claremont and 4th & Railroad) are always empty.  No one 
sits there, no one gathers, they are functionally dead spaces.   
Now that two full blocks of B Street are closed to traffic, San Mateo has 
created a large public plaza and gathering place. Sacrificing more building 
corners for tiny plazas that are likely to go unused seems unnecessary. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
6
10

--- page 93 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
SMHeritage believes a much better urban design solution are corner towers, 
a traditional corner treatment that has been used for centuries.  Corner 
towers signal important corners, call attention to important buildings, and 
direct our eyes upward to the ornamentation and architectural detailing of 
the upper building floors.  The corner towers on the Merkel Building and the 
Wursthall restaurant building are visual delights to be appreciated and 
admired by all who pass by.  Let’s start looking up and use corner towers as 
an important urban design element.  
Other Considerations 
Project Design Review 
During this interim phase it is more critical than ever to engage the services of a qualified historic 
preservation architectural firm to review all proposed Downtown development projects for compatibility, 
visual continuity, and the application of timeless design principles. 
 
Demolition Permits 
The premature demolition of Block 21 and the project applicant’s request for 
a 2-year extension of project approval highlights a critical flaw in San 
Mateo’s permitting process.  Although procedural and not directly 
associated with urban design, demolition without assurance of project 
completion has a very negative effect on our urban environment.  
Destruction without construction damages the fabric of our community. 
If demolition permits were issued at the same time as building permits, it 
would avoid unsightly weed filled vacant lots.  In these uncertain times, there is no assurance that even 
with an extension, that the project will ever move forward.  Block 21 could be vacant for many years, 
much like the vacant parcel and former gas station at Third and El Camino. It would benefit the 
community if demolition permits were tied to building permits. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
7
10

--- page 94 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Appendix C 
Searching for Visual Delight 
Vitruvius identified three elements necessary for a well designed building: firmness, commodity and 
delight.  Firmness or physical strength secured the building's structural integrity. Commodity or utility 
provided an efficient arrangement of spaces and mechanical systems to meet the functional needs of its 
occupants. And delight, the aesthetic quality associated with the goddess Venus, imparted style, 
proportion, and visual beauty. 
Which of the following 18 recently constructed or proposed buildings do you think embody all three 
elements?  Which impart a feeling of delight or visual beauty? What design qualities do you find most 
and least attractive?  Can you identify which buildings use timeless design principles?  Which buildings 
do you think might have the most compatibility and visual continuity with Downtown San Mateo?  Which 
buildings seem to demonstrate a cohesive architectural composition and quality design?   
And lastly, how do you think we can ensure these qualities of firmness, commodity and delight are part 
of every new building proposed for San Mateo? 
Column A
Column B 
San Mateo, built
San Mateo, approved
San Mateo, proposed
San Mateo, proposed
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
8
10

--- page 95 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Charleston, NC, built
San Mateo, approved
Redwood City, built
San Mateo, proposed
Redwood City, built
San Mateo, proposed
Portland, OR, built
San Mateo, under construction
Column A
Column B 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
9
10

--- page 96 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
July 13, 2023 
Mountain View, built
San Mateo, built
Los Angeles, built
San Mateo, proposed
Portland, OR, built
San Mateo, proposed
Column A
Column B 
www.smheritage.org
Page 
 of 
10
10

--- page 97 ---
From: Keith Weber 
  
Sent: Thursday, August 3, 2023 10:55 AM 
To: Adam Nugent <anugent@cityofsanmateo.org>; John Ebneter <jebneter@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Margaret Williams <mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org>; Seema Patel <spatel@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Martin Wiggins <mwiggins@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Manira Sandhir <msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Laura 
Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger 
<chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
 
Subject: Objective Design Standards - Comments 
 
Planning Commissioners and Planning Staff, 
Please include the attached comment letter regarding the Draft Objective Design Standards in the 
8/8/23 Planning Commission meeting packet. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to submit our comments on this important topic. 
 
Keith Weber, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance

--- page 98 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
TO:  
Planning Commission 
CC: 
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager 
 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
 
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner 
 
Christina Horrisberger, Interim City Manager 
 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager 
 
 
FROM:  San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
SUBJECT: Objective Design Standards - Comments 
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Draft Objective Design 
Standards (ODS).  Our comments specifically address what is omitted from the Draft ODS, rather than 
what is included.   
There are many cities in California in the process of completing their objective design standards, some of 
which may be good models for San Mateo.  We have found the City of Santa Barbara has a particularly 
good Draft ODS published for public review on June 23, 2023.  We encourage the Planning Commission 
and City Planning staff to review Santa Barbara’s Draft ODS (https://santabarbaraca.gov/government/
priorities-policies/housing-initiatives/design-standards).  Scroll down to the green dot on the left for a 
link to the actual document. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance believes Santa Barbara’s recently published ODS can be an appropriate 
model for San Mateo because it appears to be thoughtful in its intent, comprehensive in its breadth, and 
detailed and specific in its content.  It appears to us that they created the ODS with the intention of 
enhancing their community, its livability, and its sense of place while making it clear and predictable for 
developers.  We can do the same. 
This letter highlights four key components - intent, zones, building types and architectural design - which 
are not currently included in San Mateo’s Draft ODS, but which we believe are necessary for a 
successful Objective Design Standard.  SMHeritage urges the City of San Mateo to incorporate these 
four components in a revised Draft ODS, using the comprehensive approach taken by Santa Barbara. 
Intent.  Santa Barbara is clear on the intent of their ODS. Every chapter in the Santa Barbara ODS has a 
statement about intent.  Intention statements emphasize compatibility with the physical character of 
individual neighborhoods, diversity of housing types, pedestrian scale and walkable neighborhoods.   
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
1
8

--- page 99 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
One section of the Architectural Design chapter states its intent as: “Santa Barbara's architecture 
reflects traditional design principles that contribute to a pleasant, human-scale environment. These 
include a clear representation of each building's relationship to the ground and sky, as well as how 
openings such as doors and windows establish an interface between the inside, the outside, and the 
building structure itself.” 
Zones. San Mateo is a diverse and distinct community with diverse and distinct neighborhoods and 
activity zones that warrant different design considerations.  Section 7 of the San Mateo ODS (Specific 
Plan and Area Standards) begins to address the idea of zones, but seemingly as an afterthought, and 
only applicable to the areas identified for the highest intensity development.  Residential and transitional 
zones are not identified, despite the fact that the ODS appears to apply city-wide. 
Building Types.  The San Mateo Draft ODS doesn’t appear to consider the many existing examples of 
2-24 unit ‘middle housing’ that can be found in a variety of San Mateo neighborhoods where they 
provide a gradual transition between single family residential and higher density areas.  Instead - and 
without acknowledging these building types - it lumps the various configurations of duplex and 
courtyard housing into a single Mid-rise category, limiting the diversity and compatibility of new infill. 
Architectural Design.  The San Mateo Draft ODS is oddly silent on architectural styles, discussing only 
massing, articulation, roof form, windows, doors, materials and color.  A case can be made that 
architectural style is perhaps the most important component of an objective design standard.   
San Mateo is very fortunate to have such a vast collection of architectural styles in both residential and 
commercial settings.  The 1989 Historic Survey Report devoted 28 pages to a discussion of architectural 
styles prevalent in San Mateo, information which can be used in a revised draft ODS.  SMHeritage 
Alliance believes it is critically important to acknowledge and respect the many diverse historical styles 
and to also welcome well designed contemporary styles.  Without the inclusion in the ODS of our diverse 
legacy of architectural styles which define the character and substance of San Mateo, the document 
becomes a bland recipe for generic building design.  San Mateo can do better. 
A more complete discussion of three of these items, contrasting the difference between the San Mateo 
and Santa Barbara Draft ODS follows in Appendix A.   Again, we encourage you to please take the time 
to review the June 23, 2023 Draft Santa Barbara Objective Design Standards and consider using it as a 
model for San Mateo’s ODS. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. 
Sincerely, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
Keith Weber, Aragon 
Dianne Whitaker, North Central 
Laurie Watanuki, Central 
Attachments 
Appendix A: Key Components Suggested for Inclusion in San Mateo’s Draft Objective Design Standards 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
2
8

--- page 100 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
Appendix A 
Key Components Suggested for Inclusion 
In San Mateo’s Draft Objective Design Standards 
Zones 
Like most cities, San Mateo has distinctly different land use zones with distinctly different visual and 
architectural character.  Downtown is different from its surrounding neighborhoods of older, historic 
homes, which are different from neighborhood commercial areas.  Successful development standards 
reflect these character differences and the transitions between them. 
The purpose of establishing different zones is to generate and support the variety and physical 
characteristics of existing and new pedestrian oriented, walkable neighborhoods.  Santa Barbara has 
established five distinct zones: Neighborhood Medium, Neighborhood Large, Mixed-Use Corridor, 
Downtown Edge, and Downtown Core. 
Within each zone, there are specific requirements about intent, building types, building form, building 
placement, parking, frontage, and open yards.   
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
3
8

--- page 101 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
Building Type 
The purpose of building types is to provide standards for development of individual building types while 
maintaining the existing and intended physical character of each zone.  Building types are used to 
articulate size, scale and intensity according to the intent of each zone.  
San Mateo identifies three building types: Low-Rise, Mid-Rise & High-Rise. By lumping San Mateo’s 
many distinct and diverse building types into one Low-rise category, and then lumping them together 
with Mid-rise and High-Rise in the Building Design and Architecture section, we are unnecessarily 
limiting the types of infill that can be built. Architectural variety is lost and harmonious design 
discouraged. 
Santa Barbara has identified ten specific allowable building types, which are also applicable to San 
Mateo.  House-scale building types include: Duplex Side-bySide, Duplex Stacked, Cottage Court, 
Medium Multiplex, Duplex Court, Side Court, Medium Courtyard.   
Block-scale building types include: Large Multiplex, Large Courtyard, Downtown Building. Each building 
type contains a description and specific requirements for number of units, building site and massing, 
pedestrian access, vehicle access and parking, and open yard.  
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
4
8
Neighborhood Medium and Downtown Edge Zones

--- page 102 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
San Mateo has a very diverse collection of building types that include all ten named above.  But San 
Mateo has not acknowledged or identified the vast array of existing examples of ‘middle housing’ that 
can serve as appropriate models and can help guide new development of 2, 3, 4, 6, 12, and 24 unit infill.  
Excellent examples of courtyard housing compatible with their surroundings can be found in North 
Central, Central, Baywood and Aragon neighborhoods.  Below are two visually delightful examples that 
fit in with their single family neighbors respectfully and seamlessly.  We should take advantage of the 
best of our existing housing stock and structure our ODS around their best qualities. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
5
8
San Mateo examples of Duplex-Stacked (3 units) and Medium Courtyard building types (24 units), Spanish Revival Style

--- page 103 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
Architectural Design 
What is style?  “Style is more than the presence of a red tile roof or a row of classical columns,” notes 
San Mateo’s 1989 Historic Building Survey Report, “It includes the building’s proportions, how its 
volumes are put together, the treatment of its wall surfaces—the totality of how the building is 
assembled—plus the details of its structure and ornamentation.  Underlying this is a consistent system 
of proportions…Specific ornamental details may assist in identifying a style, but the way they are used 
and how they are combined with other elements distinguishes one style from another.  Classical columns 
appear on Italianate, Colonial Revival, and Neoclassical buildings, but in each case how they are used 
and the context in which they appear is completely different.” 
Architectural design standards further refine intended building form and physical character.  Santa 
Barbara is often thought of as having only one style - Spanish Colonial Revival - but the city has more 
architectural diversity than it would appear  They have identified six architectural styles that are 
harmonious with their distinctive built environment and represent the most prevalent existing 
architectural styles in Santa Barbara.  There are three primary style categories - Craftsman, 
Mediterranean and Contemporary - each with two sub-styles. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
6
8

--- page 104 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
San Mateo has a much wider diversity of existing architectural styles.  The 1989 Historic Building Survey 
Report devotes 28 pages to a discussion of San Mateo’s many architectural styles. The report identifies 
the following styles prevalent in San Mateo in both residential and commercial settings.   
Queen Anne Victorian / Gothic Revival 
Colonial Revival / Monterey Colonial 
Classical Revival 
Craftsman / Cottage 
Spanish Colonial Revival / Mission Revival 
Tudor Revival / French Provincial 
Art Deco / Streamline Moderne 
Contemporary / Industrial 
 
 
In the Santa Barbara ODS, each one of the styles identified is followed by a description of the style, 
typical characteristics, dimensions and illustrations for walls, roofs, eaves, parapets, windows, dormers, 
entry doors, porches, balconies, storefronts, canopies, trellises, and materials. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
7
8

--- page 105 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
August 3, 2023 
 
Conclusion 
San Mateo deserves the best Objective Design Standards possible.  The City has a rich history and wide 
diversity of building types and architectural styles which can be drawn upon for inspiration and which 
should be reflected and expressed in the City’s ODS.  San Mateo also has many distinct neighborhood 
zones with their own individual visual and physical character that deserve to be respected.   
The intent of the ODS should be clearly expressed as promoting new infill building design that respects 
existing community character; uses established building types found in San Mateo; affirms and 
compliments the wealth of varied architectural styles; and encourages new development to be 
compatible and harmonious with the building types and architectural styles prevalent in San Mateo.  
San Mateo Heritage Alliance strongly encourages the City of San Mateo to incorporate the above 
mentioned components in a revised draft ODS and seriously consider using the City of Santa Barbara’s 
ODS as a model for San Mateo.
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
8
8
San Mateo example of Large Courtyard Building Type, Craftsman

--- page 106 ---
From: Dashiell Leeds 
 
Sent: Friday, August 4, 2023 12:04 PM 
To: Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; James Eggers 
; Barbara 
Kelsey 
; Gita Dev 
 Mike Ferreira 
; Gladwyn D'Souza 
 
Subject: SCLP letter Re: Objective Design Standards  
  
Ms Richstone,  
 
We have reviewed the draft objective Design Standards and are disappointed by Section 3- Site Planning 
and Section 5 - Landscaping.  On March 6, 2023, we sent the Planning Commission a letter outlining our 
concern that the approach to ODS in most Peninsula cities, including San Mateo, seems to be heavy on 
how "attractive" and "articulated" the buildings are and how much they will contribute to the Regional 
Housing Needs Assessment (RHNA) goals, but short on strong requirements for green open spaces.  We 
asked that the letter be forwarded to the planning staff members working on the ODS requirements so 
you should have received a copy.  We apologize if you did not. Our March 6th letter is attached to this 
email. 
 
Please read the attached August 4th, 2023 letter for our full comments. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-Chair Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
 
 
 
 
 
email sent from account of 
Dashiell Leeds 
Conservation Coordinator  
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter

--- page 107 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 1 of 6 
 
 
SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA & SAN BENITO COUNTIES           
March 6, 2023 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Planning Commission Chair and Members 
                   Via: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org  
Cc: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org 
(Please forward the attached Sierra Club letter to the Planning Staff Members working on Objective Designs 
Standards) 
 
Subject: Residential Objective Design Standards for Public and Common Open Spaces and Landscaping 
The Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter's Sustainable Land Use Committee (SLU) advocates on land use 
issues in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties.   
The current RHNA numbers are pushing most cities to greatly increase the housing densities in their 
cities.  We have reviewed several draft Housing Elements to date and are concerned that under 
pressure to increase density, cities are minimizing the importance of well designed public and 
common open spaces as an essential ingredient in the livability of higher density residential 
developments.  Many European cities are quite dense, but also include many large and small green 
parks, public gathering places, and well landscaped roads and promenades. These green spaces not only 
offer open air relief from tightly stacked units, they also provide access to open social space and 
nature, mitigate noise, provide natural site drainage, and absorb air pollutants.   
It seems that most Housing Elements are not addressing this issue, so we are asking all cities to include 
very specific green open space design requirements in their Objective Design Standards or possibly in 
their Zoning Codes to compliment their Housing Element.  
To that end, we have developed a checklist1 of items which we would like to see all cities adopt as they 
finalize their Objective Design Standards for 2022/23.  Please review the checklist to see how your city 
compares and whether there are items in the list that should be incorporated into your standards.   
 
1This checklist is limited only to promoting the inclusion of green landscaping into the design of dense residential 
developments, sidewalks, and parking.  It does not address Objective Design Standards for more fine-grain building design 
and articulation such as decks, windows, material, colors, etc.  Those features should be decided on a city by city basis with 
emphasis on the design of ground floors, which have a significant influence on the pedestrian environment and the overall 
public realm.

--- page 108 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 2 of 6 
 
 
1. Common Open Space 
1) Exterior courtyards, roof terraces, and other common areas shall be provided within all 
residential developments of ten2 or more units in order to provide needed amenities that 
improve livability and public health. 
2) At least 15% of the total gross development area shall be common open space.  
3) At least 50% of ground level common open space shall be open and visible to the public as a 
public amenity. 
4) Common open spaces, such as courtyards and gardens, shall have a minimum dimension of 30 
feet from back of sidewalk and from building face to building face in each direction. 
5) Common open spaces must be at ground level and include a minimum 50% of landscaped area 
planted in turf, trees, or plants that are water-wise and preferably native species.  Private green 
roofs and deck areas are acceptable if they do not exceed 50% of the required common open 
space, meet the standards for vegetation and irrigation, and if 50% of the remaining common 
open space is provided at ground level. 
6) A minimum of 15% of shrub size plants should be 15 gallon or larger to provide a more mature 
appearance and provide a more effective carbon sink upon completion of planting. 
7) Provide greenscape with vegetation (not hardscape) on 30% minimum of outdoor space 
sufficient to mitigate noise, heat, wind, and feel park-like.  
8) Preserve all mature existing trees (10" diameter trunk at 3' above grade or larger) on site3. 
9) If provided, exterior lighting at all common open spaces with lighting focused downward, no 
more than 2500 Kelvin, with bi-level lighting with motion sensor.4 
10)  A minimum of three of the following activating features shall be incorporated into common   
open spaces:  
a. Fixed or movable seating 
b. Picnic style tables 
c. Shade trees or shaded canopy 
d. Outdoor kitchen equipment 
e. Children’s play equipment 
f. Public art or interactive art, such as life-size chess game  
g. Water feature 
h. Other unique people-centered features  
11)  Provide 30' minimum setback from freeway right of ways in order to provide a vegetative barrier 
that preserves existing trees and shrubbery and adds a minimum of 24" box trees at 30 foot 
minimum spacing and large 15 gallon shrubs, preferably native plants.  The goal is to reduce 
highway pollution and noise in order to reduce adverse health impacts on the neighborhood. 
 
2Exact number to be determined by each city 
3Mature trees are more effective carbon sinks, provide shade, reduce the heat island effect, and provide more health and 
ecological benefits than smaller, newly planted trees. 
4Bi-level lighting maintains lighting at a low level unless motion activated.  This is beneficial for energy conservation, 
biological diversity, and dark sky at night.

--- page 109 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 3 of 6 
12)  Where a property abuts a creek or shoreline, the minimum setback from the historic high water 
level should be 25 feet2, larger is preferred. Landscaped swales shall be placed to retain runoff 
and no drainage shall be directed into the waterway. 
 
2. Sidewalks 
1) Minimum sidewalk width shall be 10 feet along building frontages. 
2) Plant street trees in tree wells5 at least 3 feet in diameter, with pedestrian gratings to protect 
roots. 
3) Sidewalks shall include street furniture, artwork, and other amenities to activate the pedestrian 
realm. 
 
3. Building and Block Size 
 
1) Block sizes establish the scale and character of the community and can help break the visual 
impact of long building walls, create connected pedestrian-oriented neighborhoods, and 
contribute to urban greening.   
2) Blocks greater than 400 feet in length shall be broken midblock with a landscaped publicly 
accessible deep courtyard, pocket park, street, arcade, or paseo.  
3) The minimum width of a midblock break shall be 20 feet and shall include landscaping and 
lighting, and activating features (as described above) where appropriate.  
4) No individual building shall be greater than 200 feet in length. 
5) Lot coverage for higher density buildings (40 units per acre or larger) shall not exceed 75%, with 
the remainder allotted to open space.   
6) Building facades facing streets or public open spaces shall have landscaped entrances to 
residential units or street-facing retail to enliven the streetscape.  No blank walls shall be allowed 
at ground level.   
7) Building facades for residential buildings shall be setback a minimum 10' from property line or 
back of sidewalk, whichever is closest to the building facade, to allow adequate space to plant 
trees and landscaping to visually buffer the building facade and reduce noise impacts from the 
street. 
4. Parking 
1) A minimum of 15% of all surface parking lots shall be landscaped. 
2) Parking stalls shall include shade elements such as trees, vine-covered trellises or overhead solar 
panels.   
 
5Soil at tree wells needs to be loosened where subgrade has been compacted so tree roots have good amended soil to grow. 
They also need to have a watering tube that goes down about 3 feet to provide water lower down to encourage deep root 
growth.  Include a condition of approval requiring monitoring of trees for 5 years, and rehab of the site with a replacement 
tree for those that are not thriving after 5 years.

--- page 110 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 4 of 6 
3) Parking lots shall be located to the rear or interior of the block and shall not be located between 
the sidewalk and the building frontage facing the street. 
4) Access to parking lots or structures shall be located along side streets or alleys. 
5) Parking lots should be made of permeable pavement where subsoil conditions permit. 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
 
 
 
 
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-Chair Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
Cc:  James Eggers, Chapter Director 
Gladwyn d’Souza, Chapter Conservation Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
     EXAMPLE: LANDSCAPED  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PEDESTRIAN STREET

--- page 111 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 5 of 6 
       EXAMPLE:  LANDSCAPED PASEO 
 
    EXAMPLE: LANDSCAPED  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIDEWALK SETBACK

--- page 112 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 6 of 6 
 EXAMPLE: LANDSCAPED  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COURTYARD 
 
 
  
 EXAMPLE: BUILDING SETBACK FROM SIDEWALK WITH LANDSCAPED MID-BLOCK COURTYARD

--- page 113 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA & SAN BENITO COUNTIES           
August 4, 2023 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Attn:  Laura Richstone 
Associate Planner | Community Development Department 
lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
Re:  Draft Objective Design Standards 
Ms Richstone, 
We have reviewed the draft objective Design Standards and are disappointed by Section 3- Site Planning and 
Section 5 - Landscaping.  On March 6, 2023, we sent the Planning Commission a letter outlining our concern that 
the approach to ODS in most Peninsula cities, including San Mateo, seems to be heavy on how "attractive" and 
"articulated" the buildings are and how much they will contribute to the Regional Housing Needs Assessment 
(RHNA) goals, but short on strong requirements for green open spaces.  We asked that the letter be forwarded to 
the planning staff members working on the ODS requirements so you should have received a copy.  We apologize 
if you did not. 
We have attached a copy of our March 6, 2023 letter. 
While we recognize that there are conflicting needs for open space versus space for housing, quality of life for 
residents, as well as the City, are critical in designing these Standards. Urban trees and greenery have been 
shown to be important for mental health for all ages as well as for biodiversity. Where space is tight, trees 
provide welcome relief and high density areas should not be shortchanged on urban canopy. 
Our concerns are listed here: 
Section 3 - Site Planning 
• 
Para. 3.1.1,A,A & A,B.  the minimum size of the public "plazas" in the draft are much too small.  A 10'X10' 
space is not a plaza.  We recommended in our letter that there be a minimum of 15% of the total gross 
development as common open space and that 50% of that be accessible to the public, and the minimum 
dimension of a plaza or courtyard be 30' with 50% of the area to be green landscaping.  We also 
recommend trees in as many locations as feasible because they add so much beauty, shade, and 
environmental benefits to an outdoor space. 
• 
Para. A,D.  The draft states that if building is < 150', no plaza is required.  If a plaza is not required, we 
would like to see at least a landscaped 10' deep building front setback to include greenery to soften the 
look of the building from the street and provide relief for the sidewalk and possibly space for public

--- page 114 ---
sierraclub.org/loma-prieta ~ 3921 East Bayshore Road, Suite 204, Palo Alto, CA 94303    
Page 2 of 2 
seating in a landscaped area (except in the downtown core where retail faces the sidewalk, the new 
facade should align with adjacent facades). 
Section 5 - Landscaping, Open Space, and Exterior Lighting 
• 
Para. 5.1.1,A,A-E. It's not clear that any mix of the three alternatives would still require 50% minimum 
green landscaping.  For example:  Alternative B, D, and E could all be met with just hardscaping.  Please 
clarify to ensure that green space is included. 
• 
Para. 5.1.1,C, Common Open Space. The character of the open space is not defined (except for dog runs).  
How much should be green?  How much hardscape?  Please refer to our letter, Para. 1. 
• 
5.2.1.  Lighting in the City has become a source of increased concern as biodiversity plummets as a result 
of light at night. The lighting requirements are good as far as they go, but please refer to Para. 1,9) in our 
letter where we also include further criteria that would be helpful to include.  
 
The details that you are putting into these Objective Design Standards are of seminal importance and 
will shape the City and its quality of life for many decades. We look forward to your considering our 
suggestions as you finalize these very important guidelines. 
Respectfully yours, 
 
 
 
 
 
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-Chair Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
Cc:   
San Mateo Planning Commission 
James Eggers, Chapter Director 
Gladwyn d’Souza, Chapter Conservation Chair 
Ken Abreu, Sustainable Land Use Committee 
 
 
Attachment: Sierra Club letter on Objective Design Standards, dated March 6, 2023

--- page 115 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
TO:  
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator 
CC:  
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director 
 
Zachary Dahl, Deputy Community Development Director 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager 
 
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney 
FROM:  San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
SUBJECT: New development projects in and around Downtown 
Dear Ms. Sandhir, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance would like to schedule a meeting with Planning and Community 
Development to discuss the following concerns regarding development projects in Downtown: 
1.
We have noticed that most projects proposed in and around Downtown appear to share similar 
design characteristics that diverge from established building patterns.  
2.
We have noticed that developers appear confused and conflicted by the design guidance and their 
muddled design proposals reflect that confusion and conflict. 
3.
We are concerned that the truly important issues of contextual responsibility and urban continuity 
are not being addressed.   
4.
We are concerned that absent traditional characteristics and consistent patterns that define urban 
commercial architecture, the intended compatibility with the historic Downtown core will not be 
achieved.  
5.
We ask that development projects proposed for the greater Downtown area be reviewed by qualified 
historic preservation architects for design compatibility and contextual continuity. 
6.
We ask that qualified historic preservation architects experienced in writing design guidelines for 
Downtowns and historic districts, be engaged to prepare new design guidelines for Downtown San 
Mateo.  
7.
We ask that planning staff consult Redwood City’s 2011 Downtown Plan which provides a good 
model for appropriate architectural character types and styles. 
8.
We are concerned that if the current process continues without intervention, the result will be - as 
the city’s Alternative Analysis warned - “development incompatible with the existing historic fabric 
surrounding the Downtown Historic District.”  It is an outcome no one wants. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
1
8

--- page 116 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Downtown possesses a diversity of building types and architectural styles spanning over a hundred 
years.  Yet the myriad of buildings proposed for Downtown lack the necessary style references to the 
rich architectural context of the Downtown environment.  All share a disconcertingly similar appearance 
that challenges the very meaning of compatibility with the established Downtown character, predominant 
building typology, and architectural pattern of development.   
San Mateo Heritage Alliance remains committed to working with the City of San Mateo to ensure and 
encourage new development that is compatible and complimentary to the Downtown Historic District.    
We would welcome the opportunity to meet soon, perhaps in the next couple of weeks, to discuss our 
concerns and offer our input and assistance in helping to craft regulations that meet contemporary 
needs while strengthening Downtown’s historic sense of place.   
We will call you in a few days to set a meeting date.  Thank you. 
Sincerely, 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
Keith Weber, Aragon  
Dianne Whitaker, North Central 
Laurie Watanuki, Central 
Mike Nash, Baywood 
Attachments: 
Appendix A: Issues of Concern 
Appendix B: Proposed New Construction in a Historic Context 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
2
8
Designing in context 
means providing 
enough visual 
linkages between 
existing buildings 
and a proposed 
project so as to 
create a cohesive 
overall effect.  The 
new building should 
strengthen and 
enhance the 
characteristics of its 
setting.
- Richard Hedman,
Fundamentals of Urban 
Design

--- page 117 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Appendix A 
Issues of Concern 
Compatibility and Typology 
Downtown San Mateo has a wide variety of architectural styles and building typologies that provide the 
setting and establish the context for new development.  The Downtown Specific Plan and Downtown 
Design Guidelines direct new development to be “compatible” with the existing building fabric. 
Main Streets and commercial Downtowns nationwide are all recognizable and familiar to us because 
they share a set of common typological characteristics and compositional vocabulary. They are formally 
consistent, stylistically diverse, and able to accommodate functional change. In his seminal book, The 
Buildings of Main Street: A Guide to American Commercial Architecture, noted architectural historian 
Richard Longstreth traces the evolution of the compositional vocabulary used in every American Main 
Street over the past two centuries and presents a method of identifying building characteristics 
commonly found in central commercial districts up to the mid-20th century. In so doing, Longstreth 
helps us understand how to make planning decisions shaped by historical perspective rather than 
current aesthetic preference. 
Architectural Style and Unified Design 
Successful and enduring buildings generally have one unified architectural style that integrates the entire 
building in one harmonious composition. The proposed projects, however, disregard this practice, giving 
the upper floors a completely different design appearance than the lower floors.  The effect is one of 
confused discord rather than unity and harmony.  
Redwood City has addressed the issue of creating architectural character in new projects compatible 
with the established architectural patterns in their Downtown by creating architectural “Character 
Zones.”  Within these zones, different “Character Types” - Neoclassical, Victorian, Craftsman, 
Mediterranean, Art Deco, and Contemporary are permitted.   
These Architectural Character Types are intended to reinforce both the predominant eclectic nature of 
building fabric in the Downtown area, and the strong preferences for an appropriate aesthetic for all new 
buildings and development.  SMHeritage believes this type of approach is appropriate and would like to 
encourage its use in Downtown San Mateo to help ensure that new development is compatible and 
complementary to the historic resources. 
Massing 
Massing, more than any architectural detail, has the most impact on the eye.  Consequently it is one of 
the most important design considerations.  The multiple masses and volumes of most of the proposed 
projects, however, read like an assortment of different size shipping boxes rather than unified 
architectural compositions. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
3
8

--- page 118 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Building Corners 
Generally, buildings in an urban context should maintain a consistent street wall along their street 
frontages.  Corner towers and recessed corner entries are widely used to emphasize the corner of a 
building at specific intersections and to capture pedestrian traffic.  But to eliminate the corner altogether, 
or replace it with a multi-story glass box as some of the projects do, does more to diminish the 
streetscape and urban experience than to enhance it.   
Daylight Plane 
Building heights in Downtown San Mateo vary from one story to twelve, and in the Historic District from 
one to nine stories.  Street wall frontages for virtually all existing buildings rise up to full height without 
setbacks. Yet, the daylight plane requirement for the entire retail core limits the height of the street 
frontage to one half the street width - generally two to three stories - regardless of the prevailing street 
wall pattern and varied building height allowance of 55 to 75 feet.  
This seems to be a one-size-fits-all requirement that could be 
adjustable and tailored to differing established building patterns in 
different parts of Downtown.   
One successful infill project within the Historic District is 101 
Ellsworth, rising six stories without an upper level setback, 
suggesting that upper floor setbacks may not be the only solution 
for new construction in and around the Historic District. 
Examples of Compatible Downtown Infill Projects 
Four examples of compatible new infill construction are recognizable in Downtown: Century Movie 
Theater, the Transit Center, the Main Street Parking Garage and 101 Ellsworth.  They achieve their 
compatibility primarily because they conform to established commercial building typologies and draw on 
recognizable architectural styles. Inspiration for the new work came from Mediterranean Revival and Art 
Deco styles popular during the 1890-1950 Historic District period of significance, yet the design of each 
building was interpreted in a contemporary way and meets contemporary needs.   
 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
4
8
101 Ellsworth 
Transit Center/Train Station
Century Movie Theater
Main Street Parking Garage

--- page 119 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Appendix B 
Proposed New Construction in a Historic Context 
What is the inspiration behind some of the new infill projects proposed for Downtown?  Do they conform 
to familiar commercial building typologies?  Do they reflect historical precedents and patterns of 
development?  Do they draw on known architectural styles familiar to and popular with the public?  Are 
they respectful to the surrounding community?  Are they worthy of being landmarks themselves in 
50-100 years?  Although there are at least a dozen or more projects that cause us concern, we think the 
eight examples discussed below are sufficient to convey our point.  
* * * 
Paste-on Parody 
Located just east of the railroad in the Downtown support area, Block 21 and 3rd & Claremont seem to 
find inspiration in a controversial preservation technique known as facadism.  Facadism is sometimes 
used to construct a new building behind a historic facade.  In successful examples, the new building is 
completely hidden behind the old facade.  That is not the case here.  
Neither design acknowledges the established  pattern of providing changes to the street fronting facade 
every 25 to 50 feet as advised in the Downtown Design Guidelines.  Neither reflects the essential 
typological or stylistic patterns prevalent in the greater Downtown.  The question is where did the 
developer get the idea these designs would be acceptable or welcomed by the surrounding community. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
5
8
3rd & Claremont
Block 21 
Facadism
Facadism

--- page 120 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Cornerless Brick Warehouses 
Three projects - 31-57 S. B St. (abutting the Historic District), 405 E. 4th Ave., and 222 E 4th Ave - seem 
to draw their inspiration from brick warehouses and factories that proliferated during the mid-19th 
century at the height of the industrial revolution.  Popular in the mid to late 1800s, they were generally 
constructed in the industrial areas of cities, not the Downtown commercial core of urban centers which 
featured retail shops, mercantile and business offices.   
Although sometimes brick cladding may be the appropriate material, and a few of the oldest Downtown 
buildings are brick, the use of brick does not necessarily equate to compatibility with the Historic District 
where concrete, stucco, wood and terra cotta were often used.  There are some pleasing aspects to all 
three projects, but because most of the buildings in the Historic District were built after 1900, and the 
majority of those in the 1920s-30s, the appropriateness of this mid-nineteenth century industrial building 
type for Downtown is subject to debate.  Notably, all three projects have discarded their building 
corners, something any respectable warehouse would never do. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
6
8
Brooklyn Navy Yard, 
Brick Warehouses c 1860 - 1890s
31-57 S. B Street
222E. 4th Ave.
405 E. 4th Ave.

--- page 121 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Muddlement 
Bespoke in the Downtown retail core, and Block 20 in the Downtown support/Gateway area, are both 
head scratchers.  Block 20 has an intriguing upper level, but it has no design connection to the lower 
floors. Why the upper level design doesn’t continue all the way to the street is vexing. The 3-story glass 
corner interrupts the continuity of the street wall, eliminating what would normally be a prominent visual 
anchor for the building. Firehouse Square in Belmont is a good example of what this project should be.  
Located one block from the Historic District, Bespoke appears to be a bundled collage of shapes, forms, 
wild ideas and conflicted energy.  One section resembles an open parking garage, another looks like an 
elongated version of Philip Johnson’s glass house perched atop two brick warehouses separated by a 3-
story glass divider.  Both proposals are so muddled it is impossible to guess what they are trying to do. 
 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
7
8
Bespoke
Block 20
Firehouse Square, Belmont

--- page 122 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
June 6, 2023 
Missed Opportunity 
The only project within the Historic District, 180 E. Third Ave. makes a good faith effort to find 
compatibility.  It appears to be inspired by, and tries with insufficient guidance or direction, to follow the 
lead of the National Bank of San Mateo, a 1925 Greek Revival design by W. H. Weeks.  The new 
building, currently under construction, has pilasters, a classical entablature and some nice brick 
detailing.  But this is where the compatibility appears to end. The familiar symmetrical tripartite facade 
composition and prominent central entry that define this building type and style has been lost, and much 
of the compatibility along with it.   
Like all the other buildings proposed for Downtown, it is not one building but 
two - one anchored to the ground and the other, a different design and 
composition, setting awkwardly on top.  One wonders why this project did 
not draw its inspiration from the 5-story National Register eligible 1929 E.L. 
Norberg Medical Arts building diagonally across the street.  A missed 
opportunity, this project could have and should have been better. 
www.smheritage.org
Page  of 
8
8
180 E. Third Ave.
National Bank of San 
Once the unity of an area is damaged by an ill-
considered project, decades may pass before 
the error can be redressed.  Once compromised, 
the area’s ability to fend off subsequent attacks 
upon its design integrity is weakened.
- Richard Hedman,
Fundamentals of Urban Design

--- page 123 ---
Aug 8, 2023
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
By Email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org, clerk@cityofsanmateo.org
Re: Draft Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential
Developments
Dear Planning Commission,
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter to remind the
Commission of its obligation to abide by all relevant state laws when reviewing the proposed
Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Mixed-Use Residential Developments (the
“proposed standards”), calendared as a study session, agenda item 2 at tomorrow night’s
meeting. Specifically, the City must comply with the Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (SB 330),
Senate Bill 9 (“SB 9”), and other state housing laws. The proposed standards as currently
drafted do not adhere to these laws: many of them fail to articulate objective standards.
SB 330 bars cities from “[i]mposing or enforcing design standards [...] that are not objective.”
(Gov. Code § 66300, subd. (b)(1)(C).) SB 9 allows cities to impose “objective zoning [...]
subdivision [...] and [...] design” standards (but not subjective standards) on SB 9 projects. In
addition,
the
Housing
Accountability
Act
(HAA)
renders
non-objective
standards
unenforceable in most circumstances. (See California Renters Legal Advocacy and Education
Fund v. City of San Mateo (2021) 68 Cal. App.5th 820, 839-44 (overturning city’s denial of
housing project based on design guidelines requiring “a transition or step in height” where a
building is more than one story taller than its neighbors on the grounds that it was not
objective).) SB 330, SB 9, and the HAA define “objective” as “being uniformly verifiable by
reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and knowable by
both the development applicant or proponent and the public official.” (Gov. Code § 65589.5,
subd. (h)(8); Gov. Code § 66300, subd. (a)(7); see also Gov. Code § 65852.21, subd. (i)(2) [similar
language]; Gov. Code § 66411.7, subd. (m)(1) [similar language].)
360 Grand Ave #323, Oakland 94610
hi@calhdf.org

--- page 124 ---
Unfortunately, several provisions in the proposed Ordinance fall short of this requirement.
CalHDF urges the Commission to carefully review all the proposed standards for objectivity
and specifically points out a few of the most egregious examples:
●
Section 4.6.2 “All windows shall include detailing using at least two (2) of the following
approaches consistent with the selected architectural style.” The phrase “consistent
with the selected architectural style” is not objective. Overall styles are not cleanly
defined, and what counts as “consistent” or inconsistent with the building’s style is in
the eye of the beholder. An applicant cannot know ex ante and with certainty whether
their proposed design will satisfy the ordinance, and thus the ordinance is
unenforceable on this point.
●
Section 4.7.1 (A) “Colors: Neon colors shall be prohibited. Colors of the same color
palette shall be differentiated by at least three shades.” It is not clear what counts as
“the same color palette” or “three shades.” The City must draft more specific language
before it can impose such rules on applicants.
●
Section 4.8 (A) “Additions to existing structures shall: Be of the same architectural
style as the existing building(s)” Compatibility within a style is not an objective
standard, as it cannot be applied uniformly. Architectural styles, and their materials
and design details, are subjectively defined and therefore cannot be enforced by the
City.
●
Section 7.2.3 “The visible portion shall be architecturally treated beginning at the
building corner of the façade with the continuation of the same colors and materials,
including a matching width and depth of structural bays used on the building facade.”
The definition of “architecturally treated” is unclear and ambiguous, thus
unenforceable without clarification as to that definition.
CalHDF appreciates San Mateo’s effort to review and establish objective residential
standards. We remind the City, however, that it must take care to follow the law in doing so.
The current proposal needs at least a few revisions before it can be finalized and
implemented in accordance with state law.
CalHDF is a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for increased
access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income households.
You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdf.org.
Sincerely,
Dylan Casey
CalHDF Executive Director
2 of 3

--- page 125 ---
Courtney Welch
CalHDF Director of Investigations and Enforcement
3 of 3

--- page 126 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Francie Souza 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 3:37 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: ODS comments 
 
Planning Commission - 
 
I am a resident of San Mateo and have the following comments to make regarding the draft of the 
Objective Design Standards: 
 
-Take cues from existing buildings in our downtown historic district, and adjacent neighborhoods -
Demolition permits should not be issued before building permits -There should be a transition zone 
between single family residences to higher-density housing.  Townhomes can provide a good transition. 
Having 5-7 story buildings next to single family homes presents many problems.  
-Please preserve and protect our smaller homes and duplexes between 4th & 5th street,  many of which 
are craftsman and pre-war era.  These provide great options for medium and lower income families -
Include visual samples of architectural styles in the ODS -Please preserve historic homes and trees as 
much as possible - they can’t be replaced! 
 
Overall, I’m asking for our city planners to respect and support the existing community character of San 
Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Frances Souza

--- page 127 ---
MULTI-FAMILY AND 
MIXED-USE RESIDENTIAL 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION
AUGUST 8, 2023
1

--- page 128 ---
PROJECT TEAM
CITY OF SAN MATEO – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
Wendy Lao, Associate Planner
MIG 
Laura Stetson, Principal
Christine Scott Thomson, Senior Planner and Designer
2

--- page 129 ---
AGENDA
1.
PROJECT OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE OF 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS (ODS)
2.
PROGRESS DRAFT ODS
3.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
4.
SCHEDULE
3

--- page 130 ---
THE PROCESS
Research Best Practices
Analyze Existing 
Guidelines and 
Specific Plans 
Focus Group Meetings
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE I
DISCOVERY
Define ODS Approach 
for San Mateo 
Residents’ Input
Development 
Community Input
PHASE II
PUBLIC INSIGHTS
Draft Objective Design 
Standards
Draft Graphics/Exhibits
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW – 
Draft Standards
Final Revisions
Planning Commission 
Hearings
City Council Hearings
PHASE IV
ADOPTION
Spring 2020 – 
Summer 2021
Summer 2021 – 
Summer 2022
Summer 2022 – 
Summer 2023
Summer - Fall 2023
4

--- page 131 ---
THE PROCESS
Research Best Practices
Analyze Existing 
Guidelines and 
Specific Plans 
Focus Group Meetings
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE I
DISCOVERY
Define ODS Approach 
for San Mateo 
Residents’ Input
Development 
Community Input
PHASE II
PUBLIC INSIGHTS
Draft Objective Design 
Standards
Draft Graphics/Exhibits
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW – 
Draft Standards
Final Revisions
Planning Commission 
Hearings
City Council Hearings
PHASE IV
ADOPTION
Spring 2020 – 
Summer 2021
Summer 2021 – 
Summer 2022
Summer 2022 – 
Summer 2023
Summer - Fall 2023
5

--- page 132 ---
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
•
Community/Developer Workshop Series #1 
•
Planning Commission Study Session #1
•
Community/Developer Workshop Series #2
•
Draft ODS published for public review
•
Written public comments
•
Planning Commission Study Session #2
6
Summer 2021
Summer 2021
Spring 2023
July 2023
4 comment letters
August 2023

--- page 133 ---
PROJECT OVERVIEW
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES



--- page 134 ---
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES
• Create and adopt new standards to 
regulate the design of multi-family 
residential and mixed-use residential 
development projects in San Mateo
• Meet criteria required by State law 
• Implement Housing Element policy
• Listen to and learn from the community
• Confirm priorities to guide superior multi-
family residential design in San Mateo
8

--- page 135 ---
WHAT ARE OBJECTIVE DESIGN 
STANDARDS?
•
Why is the city creating ODS?
•
What types of projects require ODS?
•
Where do ODS apply? 
9

--- page 136 ---
WHY DO WE HAVE OBJECTIVE 
DESIGN STANDARDS?
•
Address supply shortage of affordable 
and rental units
•
Remove hurdles created by the 
discretionary process to streamline 
development of multi-family units 
•
Address recent State laws
•
HAA: Housing Accountability Act
•
SB 35: Streamlined Approval Process 
•
SB 330: Housing Crisis Act of 2019 
•
AB 2011 and SB 6 – Residential Uses in 
Commercial Zones
•
Housing Element programs
10

--- page 137 ---
CITY POLICY FOUNDATION
• Strive San Mateo: General Plan 2040 
Update: https://strivesanmateo.org
• Housing Element Programs/Actions
Program Measure: Adopt Objective Design 
Standards to expedite production of housing.
Implementation Action: Adopt Objective 
Design Standards for multi-family residential 
projects and mixed-use projects with a 
residential component.
11

--- page 138 ---
All Multi-Family residential and Mixed-Use projects, including:
WHAT DEVELOPMENTS QUALIFY? 
Townhouses 
+ 
Rowhouses
Mid-Rise and 
High-Rise
Apartments + 
Condominiums
Mixed-Use 
Developments 
with 2/3 
Residential 
Component
Duplexes
+
Triplexes
Two Houses on 
One Lot (e.g., 
SB9)
12

--- page 139 ---
Zoning 
Ordinance
Specific Plans
Assess 
existing 
applicable 
standards
Multifamily 
Design 
Guidelines
Create objective 
standards from 
subjective Design 
Guidelines
• Apply community input
• Review best practices
• Gain insights from developers 
and architects
Multi-Family and MU 
Objective Design 
Standards
HOW DO WE CREATE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND GET THEM RIGHT? 
 
14

--- page 140 ---
HOW WILL THE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
BE IMPLEMENTED? 
 
15

--- page 141 ---
PROGRESS DRAFT
SCOPE OF ODS + PRIORITY STANDARDS
16

--- page 142 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
1.
Site Planning
2.
Building Design + Architecture
3.
Landscaping, Open Space, Exterior Lighting
4.
Other Site Features
5.
Additional Standards for Specific Plan Areas
17

--- page 143 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
Site Planning
•
Building siting, orientation, frontage
•
Pedestrian access and accommodations
•
Parking, access, driveways
18
City of San Mateo; internet 
image

--- page 144 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
Building Design + Architecture
•
Massing and articulation
•
Transitions and screening
•
Roof form
•
Windows, doors, entry design, security
•
Materials and colors
•
Additions to existing buildings
19
City of San Mateo; 
internet image

--- page 145 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
Landscaping, Open Space, Exterior Lighting
•
Landscaping and open space
•
Open space requirements
•
Exterior lighting
20
City of San Mateo

--- page 146 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
Other Site Features
•
Accessory structures and enclosures
•
Utilities and mechanical equipment
21
Internet images

--- page 147 ---
TOPICS ADDRESSED
Objective Standards for Specific Plan Areas
•
Mid and South El Camino Real
•
El Camino Real Master Plan Area
•
Downtown Retail Core and Historic District
•
Vision of the Gateway
•
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan Area (inc., Station Park 
Green)
•
Hillsdale Station Area
•
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan Area
21
22

--- page 148 ---
BUILDING TYPOLOGIES
1.
Low-Rise (1-3 stories)
2.
Mid-Rise (4-7 stories)
3.
High-Rise (8+ stories*)
*Applicable only to density bonus projects
23
Internet images

--- page 149 ---
EMPHASIS ON FLEXIBILITY
• Accommodate diversity of architectural 
styles
• Avoid mandates; provide choices
• Provide a path to deviate from standards
24
City of San Mateo; 
internet image

--- page 150 ---
DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS -
TERMS TO KNOW



--- page 151 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset 
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other
26

--- page 152 ---
~
ae
i
©
wo
rom
mS)
a
=



--- page 153 ---
City of Berkeley, CA


--- page 154 ---
con
a 7

= ee POTN! .

ancien ay et

~
aD)
Ge
Gq—
oO
(<b)
om
&
ia
=



--- page 155 ---
City of Berkeley, CA



--- page 156 ---
z
2
=
=
br
=
=



--- page 157 ---
-
—o

Wall Plane Offset



--- page 158 ---
Wall Plane Offset


--- page 159 ---
City of Berkeley,3A


--- page 160 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other
35

--- page 161 ---
Stepback – above 3rd Floor
City of Emeryville, CA
36

--- page 162 ---
Stepback – above 3rd Floor
City of San Mateo, CA
37

--- page 163 ---
Stepback - above 2"¢ Floor



--- page 164 ---
_— |

: ‘y B \ Stepback - above 2" Floor

City of Pasadena, CA


--- page 165 ---
\

Stepback - above 2" Floor



--- page 166 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset 
•
Step Back
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other
41

--- page 167 ---
Transition – 1- to 4- story
City of Berkeley, CA
42

--- page 168 ---
Transition – 1- to 3- to 5-
story
City of Berkeley, CA
Stepback after 
3rd story
43

--- page 169 ---
Transition – 1- to 2- to 4-story
City of Berkeley, CA
44

--- page 170 ---
Attached Homes next to 
Detached Single-Family 
Homes
City of Berkeley, CA
Landscape 
Screening
45

--- page 171 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other
46

--- page 172 ---
teo, CA

;—a—4 .

jut #

rt
—
2
(eo)
CO
love)
<=
=s
n
fae)
=
~
<=
(eo)
CO



--- page 173 ---
—



--- page 174 ---
N
—
2
ro)
O
joe)
—
_—
nN
CO
—
_—
<&
ro)
O

II

yupane

jit

il i

NUL



--- page 175 ---
Contrasting Colors



--- page 176 ---


--- page 177 ---
Contrasting Colors 
City of San Mateo, CA
Add 
Emeryville 
Super-color 
building
52
Contrasting Colors 
City of Emeryville, CA

--- page 178 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other…Commercial/Residential
53

--- page 179 ---
Residential over Commercial
City of San Mateo, CA
54

--- page 180 ---
Residential over Commercial
City of San Mateo, CA
55

--- page 181 ---
Residential over Commercial
City of Redwood City, CA
56

--- page 182 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other…Entry Recessed Doorway
57

--- page 183 ---


--- page 184 ---
Recessed Doorway
City of Berkeley, CA
Recessed Doorway
City of San Mateo, CA
59

--- page 185 ---
“=
he
Recessed Doorway

Ln |
apennial

; ieee
|

"om

Van’
wa
vi

be

“a



--- page 186 ---
OBJECTIVE STANDARDS
•
Wall Plane Offset
•
Stepback
•
Transition
•
Color
•
Other…Parking Garage Treatments
61

--- page 187 ---
=

= [i
=] -

741
743
745
747

ees sad ee awe es eee)

ate,

City of Berkeley, CA —/

r



--- page 188 ---
City of Emeryville, CA
Entry – Parking Screen
66
63

--- page 189 ---
City of Emeryville, CA
Entry – Parking Screen
66
Add another 
parking 
garage 
screening
64
Parking garage wall 
treatment
City of San Francisco, CA

--- page 190 ---
WORKING DRAFT STANDARDS -
HIGHLIGHTS



--- page 191 ---
3. SITE PLANNING
3.1 FRONTAGE TREAMENTS 
3.2 PEDESTRIAN ACCOMMODATIONS
•
In CBD: plaza or seating area 
required along street frontage 
•
Clearly delineated pedestrian 
paths
•
Paseos when >600 linear feet of 
frontage
66
Internet images

--- page 192 ---
3. SITE PLANNING 
3.3 PARKING, ACCESS, AND DRIVEWAYS
•
Screening of surface parking lots 
along a street frontage 
•
Parking structure frontages: 
either active uses or attractive 
treatments
67
Internet images

--- page 193 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION - DETAILING
Required use of at least 2 (for low- 
and mid-rise) and 3 (for high-rise) on 
all facades 
•
Bay windows
•
Eaves, overhangs, cornices
•
Balconies
•
Recessed windows
•
Projecting or recessed rooms
•
Horizontal moldings
68
City of San Mateo, CA

--- page 194 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – LOW-RISE 
BUILDINGS
Wall plane breaks 
required – at least 2 
feet in depth for 
every 15 to 30 feet
Wall Plane 
Break/Offset
69
Internet image

--- page 195 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – MID-RISE 
BUILDINGS
• For 6- to 7-story 
building, must  have 
base/body/top
• Horizontal wall plane 
breaks required – at 
least 2 feet deep for 
every 20 to 40 feet
• Vertical wall plane break 
– select 2 of 4 options
• Distinctive corner 
treatment required
Top
Body
Base
70
City of Redwood City, CA

--- page 196 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – MID-RISE 
BUILDINGS
• For 6- to 7-story 
building, must  have 
base/body/top
• Horizontal wall plane 
breaks required – at least 
2 feet deep for every 20 
to 40 feet
• Vertical wall plane break 
– select 2 of 4 options
• Distinctive corner 
treatment required
71
Internet image; City 
of San Mateo

--- page 197 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – MID-RISE 
BUILDINGS
• For 6- to 7-story 
building, must  have 
base/body/top
• Horizontal wall plane 
breaks required – at 
least 2 feet deep for 
every 20 to 40 feet
• Vertical wall plane break 
– select 2 of 4 options
• Distinctive corner 
treatment required
72
Internet image

--- page 198 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – HIGH-RISE 
BUILDINGS
• Must  have 
base/body/top
• Horizontal and 
vertical wall plane 
breaks required –
select 3 of 4 options
• Distinctive corner 
treatment required
Top
Body
Base
73
Internet image

--- page 199 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.1 MASSING AND ARTICULATION – HIGH-RISE 
BUILDINGS
• Must  have 
base/body/top
• Horizontal and 
vertical wall plane 
breaks required –
select 3 of 4 options
• Distinctive corner 
treatment required
68
74
Internet image

--- page 200 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.2 GROUND FLOOR REQUIREMENTS
•
Mixed use: at least 
75% glazing
•
Mixed use: 
minimum15-foot-high 
ceilings
•
Residential: raised 18 
to 48 inches above the 
sidewalk
75
Internet image

--- page 201 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.2 GROUND FLOOR REQUIREMENTS
•
Mixed use: at least 75% 
glazing
•
Mixed use: minimum15-
foot-high ceilings
•
Residential: raised 18 to 
48 inches above the 
sidewalk
76
City of San Diego, CA

--- page 202 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.4 TRANSITION AND SCREENING
Adjacent to R1 and R2
• Low-rise: 5 feet for floors above 
1st story; option for 12 feet for all 
floors
• Mid-rise and High-rise: 10 feet 
for 3rd floor and above if within 
30 feet; option for 40 feet for all 
floors
• Evergreen trees to be planted 
along  property line
Example image from Edmonds, WA
77

--- page 203 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.5 ROOF FORM
• Variation in height and/or form 
required for low-rise and mid-
rise 
• No more than two variations
• Flat roofs require a minimum 
2-foot-high parapet and edge 
treatments
78
Internet images, annotated by MIG

--- page 204 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.6 WINDOWS, DOORS, AND ENTRIES
• Windows must have minimum 6-inch 
recess or must protrude
• Must use 2 of 4 window treatments 
(trim, lintel, sill, sash)
• At least one entry door on each street 
frontage
• Commercial entries to be inset or 
protrude
• Garage doors to be inset at least 6 
inches
• No exterior stairways (except as 
required by code)
68
79
Internet images

--- page 205 ---
4. BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 
4.7 MATERIALS AND COLORS
•
Must use at least 4 in any 
combination but no more than 
6
•
Each to cover at least 15% of 
the building
•
Neon colors prohibited
•
Materials list provided for walls, 
base, window frames, roof
•
Specifically prohibited 
materials identified
•
Sustainable materials 
requirement for minimum 25% 
of exterior building materials
80
City of San Mateo

--- page 206 ---
5. LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND LIGHTING 
• Must incorporate 3 of 5 
landscaping/open space 
features
• Green roofs are acceptable 
open space features
• Dog runs and community 
gardens are acceptable 
(when 50+ units)
• All lighting must be 
downward directed
81
Internet image

--- page 207 ---
6. OTHER SITE FEATURES
• Accessory structures to 
match primary 
structures’ 
materials/colors and 
style
• Transformers to be 
placed underground or 
if not possible, not within 
required open space 
areas
82
Anaheim, CA 
Above Ground Equipment Screening Manual

--- page 208 ---
SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS
• Subjective design 
standards for private 
properties rewritten to be 
objective without changing 
intent
• Applicants will be still need 
to consult both a specific 
plan and the ODS
83

--- page 209 ---
NEXT STEPS



--- page 210 ---
THE PROCESS
Research Best Practices
Analyze Existing 
Guidelines and 
Specific Plans 
Focus Group Meetings
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE I
DISCOVERY
Define ODS Approach 
for San Mateo 
Residents’ Input
Development 
Community Input
PHASE II
PUBLIC INSIGHTS
Draft Objective Design 
Standards
Draft Graphics/Exhibits
Planning Commission 
Study Session
PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW – 
Draft Standards
Final Revisions
Planning Commission 
Hearings
City Council Hearings
PHASE IV
ADOPTION
Spring 2020 – 
Summer 2021
Summer 2021 – 
Summer 2022
Summer 2022 – 
Summer 2023
Summer - Fall 2023
85

--- page 211 ---
QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION



--- page 212 ---
QUESTION #1A: MASSING AND TRANSITION
The ODS provide options to reduce massing and increase visual interest 
through articulation. This includes standards for façade breaks (horizontal 
and vertical massing breaks), stepbacks, and use of detailing (windows, 
balconies, awning etc.). 
Are there articulation options that may have been overlooked, need 
refinement, or are unnecessary? 
87

--- page 213 ---
QUESTION #1B: MASSING AND TRANSITION
Current transitional elements for projects adjacent to R1 or R2 zoned 
parcels include increased stepbacks above the second story for all 
building types or increased setbacks and landscaping screening 
requirements.
Are these appropriate transition treatments adjacent to R-1 and R-2 
districts? Should other transitional elements be considered?
88

--- page 214 ---
QUESTION 2: COLORS AND MATERIALS
Is the proposed approach of requiring a combination of at least four 
and a maximum of six different colors and/or materials too 
constraining?  
Is prohibiting neon colors too constraining? 
89

--- page 215 ---
QUESTION 3: DOWNTOWN
Have existing subjective standards of the Downtown Retail Core and 
Historic Design District Guidelines been effectively translated to 
objective standards?
Are there other architectural options that may have been overlooked 
that should be included in the ODS to meet the intent of the 
Downtown Design Guidelines?
90

--- page 216 ---
QUESTION 4: OPEN SPACE
Community members and developers shared a similar interest in 
using stepback space as open space opportunities. The ODS 
includes provisions for green roofs, decks, and community gardens 
in such spaces. 
Are there other design features that could be counted towards open 
space requirements?
91

--- page 217 ---
QUESTION 5: FLEXIBILITY
Flexibility was a key theme that emerged in both the community 
workshop and the developers’ roundtable. The ODS aim to provide 
flexibility to implement required standards by differentiating 
standards for different scales of development and providing a menu 
of options for compliance. 
Do the ODS provide adequate flexibility to address community 
concerns? 
92

--- page 218 ---
FOR MORE INFORMATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO – COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7205
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4526/Objective-Design-
Standards---Multi-Famil
93

--- page 219 ---
QUESTIONS
1.
Massing/Articulation: Are there articulation options that may have been overlooked, 
need refinement, or are unnecessary?  Are these appropriate transition treatments 
adjacent to R-1 and R-2 districts? Should other transitional elements be considered?
2.
Colors/Materials: Is the proposed approach of requiring a combination of at least 
four and a maximum of six different colors and/or materials too constraining?  Is 
prohibiting neon colors too constraining? 
3.
Downtown: Have existing subjective standards of the Downtown Retail Core and 
Historic Design District Guidelines been effectively translated to objective 
standards? Are there other architectural options that may have been overlooked 
that should be included in the ODS to meet the intent of the Downtown Design 
Guidelines?
4.
Open Space: Are there other design features that could be counted towards open 
space requirements?
5.
Flexibility: Do the ODS provide adequate flexibility to address community 
concerns? 
94

--- page 220 ---
MULTI-FAMILY AND 
MIXED-USE RESIDENTIAL 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY SESSION
AUGUST 8, 2023
95