source: packet.pdf
sha256: e9464dbbe9f13db5550b6ce732d5fd8f7984a74022565cc43e98fe9c656e5d5d
pages: 266
ocr_pages: 27
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
January 16, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: January 16, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 823 3308 2594      Passcode: 980337
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Commendatory Resolution C-3 – Recognizing Amourence Lee for her term as Mayor
2.
HIP Housing – 2024 Calendar Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
Microsoft Enterprise Agreement – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award an agreement with CDW-
Government, LLC for a three-year renewal of the City's Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for software licensing,
cloud hosting, upgrades, and technical support in the amount of $765,737; and authorize the Director of
Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
 
1 of 266

--- page 2 ---
4.
Uniform Laundry Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the City's current agreement with Cintas, Inc. for uniform maintenance services
through Fiscal Year 2025-26; increase the total contract amount by $330,000, and establish a contingency reserve
of $25,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project – Final Parcel Map
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the Mayor to sign the Owner’s Statement on the Final Parcel Map for the
Wastewater Treatment Plant.
CEQA: The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by City Council on June
6, 2016. In accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for
implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City prepared an Addendum to the Final PEIR that was
approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the
project evaluated in the PEIR and Addenda.
6.
2nd & El Camino Garage Improvements – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the design professional services agreement with MBH Architects, Inc. in the
amount of $266,222, for a total agreement amount of $858,263; increase the contingency reserve in the amount
of $23,000, for a total contingency amount of $80,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.)
7.
2nd and El Camino Garage Improvements Phase 1 – Construction Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles
Contractor, Inc. in the amount of $691,909.95; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $105,000; and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change
orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
8.
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project – Construction Agreement
Award a construction agreement to Westland Contractors, Inc. for the Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation
Project in an amount not to exceed $3,766,098.80; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $570,000;
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue
change orders within the contingency amount.
2 of 266

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council
on June 6, 2016. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1)
and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and
Addendum.
9.
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Communities Grant Application – Letter of Support
Approve a letter of support to the California Department of Transportation for the Fiscal Year 2024-25 Sustainable
Communities Grant application and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the City Council in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This letter of support is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
10.
Ballot Measure and Community Surveys – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $42,800 of unassigned fund balance from
the General Fund and $14,300 of unassigned fund balance from the Advanced Planning Fund to increase the City
Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget, approve an agreement with True North Research for professional
services for ballot measure and community surveys in the amount of $57,100, and authorize the City Manager to
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
11.
Ballot Measure Communications Consulting Services for the November 2024 General Election – Appropriation
and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and a supplemental budget appropriation of
$38,000 of unassigned fund balance from the General Fund and $152,000 of unassigned fund balance from the
Advanced Planning Fund to increase the City Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget, approve an agreement
with TeamCivX for ballot measure communications consulting services in an amount not to exceed $190,000, and
authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
12.
Updated City Council Appointments List
Approve the updated San Mateo Council Appointments list for 2024 that assigns Council Member Rich Hedges as
external liaison to the America Supporting Americans board.
CEQA: This approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
13.
Business License and Regulations, and Building Security Code Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend Section 5.44.050(q) “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating
Requirements” to change the lighting measurement to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements; amend
3 of 266

--- page 4 ---
Section 23.54.005 “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent,” to remove reference to an antiquated design
term, “Defensible Space Techniques;” and amend Section 23.54.020, “Building Security Code – City
Communications System – High Rise Buildings” to more clearly define building heights that trigger requirements
to maintain essential public safety communication networks.
CEQA: This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
14.
Department Heads and Deputy Directors, Merit Employees’ and Hourly Per Diems Salary Schedules – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo Department Heads, Deputy Directors’, Merit
Employees’ and Hourly Per Diems’ current pay rates and ranges (salary schedules).
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
15.
Police Officer’s Association - Memorandum of Understanding Changes
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Police Officer’s Association for a term
through January 3, 2027, and to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $400,000.
CEQA: This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
16.
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee – Ballot Results
Adopt a Resolution certifying the tabulation results for the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee, ordering
levy of the fee for Fiscal Year 2024-25; and designate the City Manager to administer fee collection.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NEW BUSINESS
17.
Solid Waste – 2024 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification
Provide direction on whether to increase solid waste rates by $5, $6, or $7 per month for residential solid waste
customers; increase commercial solid waste and organics collection rates; and authorize staff to mail a notice to
all property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates
for 2024; and provide direction on the future approach to using the Solid Waste Fund reserves.
CEQA: This action by the City in setting the maximum rates to be charged by Recology San Mateo County relates
to funding an on-going solid waste collection service and is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
4 of 266

--- page 5 ---
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 266

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2131
File ID: 23-8194
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Microsoft Enterprise Agreement – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award an agreement with CDW-Government, LLC 
for a three-year renewal of the City's Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for software licensing, cloud hosting, upgrades, and 
technical support in the amount of $765,737; and authorize the Director of Information Technology to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND: 
The City established its Enterprise Agreement (EA) relationship with Microsoft in March of 2007 and last renewed it in 
2020. Since that time, the City has benefited from entitlements to regular software upgrades of Office versions, Windows 
desktop operating systems, and server products including Exchange, SharePoint, and MS SQL Server.  
In November 2014, the City converted its conventional desktop software licenses to Microsoft Office 365, a subscription-
based suite of remotely-hosted software and services. At the end of each year of the agreement, the City will adjust its 
annual payment in consideration of any licenses added or removed during the year. 
Office 365 enables employees to work with data and applications from virtually anywhere and on virtually any device. It 
affords the city the unique benefit of seamless data recovery and will assist in continuity of government in the event of a 
regional disaster. Through Microsoft Teams, the city also enjoys the ability to interact with external partners and the public 
using familiar, commonly available instant messaging and video conferencing. Microsoft sells these services at several cost 
and feature tiers and staff recommend renewal at the lowest tier, G3. In the current market, there are no viable 
competitors to Microsoft 365.  
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any purchasing procedures approved by 
the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award of the contract that the procedures are in 
the best interest of the City. Microsoft licensing throughout the State of California is based on pre-negotiated prices from 
the County of Riverside’s Microsoft Enterprise License Agreement (MELA)# PSA-0001522 RFQ# RIVCO-2020-RFQ-0000048 
that has a term from November 1, 2019 through October 31, 2024, and leverages the cooperative buying power of state 
and local government agencies and assures participating agencies the lowest-cost for Microsoft products. CDW 
Government LLC (CDW-G) is a provider of information technology services to business, government, education and 
healthcare customers and is a participant, and authorized reseller of Microsoft licenses pursuant to the MELA.  Entering 
into an agreement with CDW-G on the same terms and conditions of the MELA is in the best interest of the City because it 
ensures the best pricing for Microsoft products and services, avoiding costs normally associated with the development of 
highly technical bid specifications, while assuring that competitive prices were received. 
6 of 266

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Based on the above, staff recommends approving an agreement with CDW-Government, LLC for a three-year renewal of 
the City's Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for software licensing, cloud hosting, upgrades, and technical support in the 
amount of $765,737.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No impact to the budgeting process is expected from this action. Monies have been allocated in the City IT Department’s 
operational budget (Computer Software Subscriptions). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Enterprise Agreement Terms & Conditions
Att 3 - Sales Quote, City of San Mateo EA Renewal
Att 4 – Software Cooperative Agreement, California Department of General Services
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Engle, Systems and Network Manager
sengle@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7062
7 of 266

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH CDW 
GOVERNMENT LLC, FOR A THREE-YEAR RENEWAL OF THE MICROSOFT ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT
($765,737)
WHEREAS, the City entered into an Enterprise Agreement (EA) with Microsoft in March 2007, 
renewed the EA in 2020, and that agreement is due to expire; and
WHEREAS, the City’s Department of Information Technology has determined that Microsoft 
products and services best meet the City’s needs since Microsoft products are proven to be of high 
quality, reliable, and there are no viable competitors; and
WHEREAS, the products included under the EA are required to perform city functions and are 
sold by a limited number of vendors at standard governmental pricing; and
WHEREAS, the County of Riverside negotiated a master agreement with CDW Government, LLC 
(CDW-G), which is available to the City of San Mateo on the same terms and conditions; and
WHEREAS, the City, as a local government agency, may participate in the County of Riverside 
Master Agreement, through a cooperative purchasing program that leveraged the cooperative 
purchasing power of state and local government agencies and assuring the lowest available cost for 
Microsoft products; and 
WHEREAS CDW-G, is a participant in the County of Riverside Master Agreement and authorized 
reseller of Microsoft licenses; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing 
procedures approved by the City Council if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award 
that the procedures are in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on the above, the City’s Department of Information Technology recommends 
entering into an agreement with CDW-G for a three-year renewal of the Microsoft Enterprise 
Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).)
2.
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of a 
Microsoft Enterprise Agreement with CDW-G utilizing the County of Riverside Master 
Agreement is in the best interest of the City because:  
8 of 266

--- page 9 ---
•
There are limited vendors for Microsoft licenses to government agencies; 
•
The County of Riverside Master Agreement offers competitively priced contracts for 
the Microsoft products that was pre-negotiated with cooperative purchasing that 
leveraged cooperative purchasing power of the state and local agencies; and
•
Utilizing the County of Riverside Master Agreement avoids costs normally associated 
with the development of highly technical bid specifications, while assuring that 
competitive prices were received.
3.
An Agreement with CDW Government, LLC, in the amount of $765,737 is approved, in 
accordance with the County of Riverside’s Microsoft Enterprise License Agreement 
(MELA)# PSA-0001522 RFQ# RIVCO-2020-RFQ-0000048. 
4.
The Director of the Department of Information Technology is authorized to execute the 
purchase order in substantially the same form presented on behalf of the City.
9 of 266

--- page 10 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 1 of 11
Document X20-10210
Enterprise Agreement State and Local
Not for Use with Microsoft Business Agreement or Microsoft Business and Services Agreement
This Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into between the entities identified on the 
signature form.
Effective date. The effective date of this Agreement is the earliest effective date of any Enrollment entered 
into under this Agreement or the date Microsoft accepts this Agreement, whichever is earlier.
This Agreement consists of (1) these Agreement terms and conditions, including any amendments and the 
signature form and all attachments identified therein, (2) the Product Terms applicable to Products licensed 
under this Agreement, (3) the Online Services Terms, (4) any Affiliate Enrollment entered into under this 
Agreement, and (5) any order submitted under this Agreement.
Please note: Documents referenced in this Agreement but not attached to the signature form may be found 
at http://www.microsoft.com/licensing/contracts and are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, 
including the Product Terms and Use Rights. These documents may contain additional terms and 
conditions for Products licensed under this Agreement and may be changed from time to time. Customer 
should review such documents carefully, both at the time of signing and periodically thereafter, and fully 
understand all terms and conditions applicable to Products licensed.
Terms and Conditions
1.
Definitions.
“Affiliate” means
a.
with regard to Customer,
(i)
any government agency, department, office, instrumentality, division, unit or other entity of 
the state or local government that is supervised by or is part of Customer, or which 
supervises Customer or of which Customer is a part, or which is under common supervision 
with Customer;
(ii) any county, borough, commonwealth, city, municipality, town, township, special purpose 
district, or other similar type of governmental instrumentality established by the laws of 
Customer’s state and located within Customer’s state jurisdiction and geographic 
boundaries; and
(iii) any other entity in Customer’s state expressly authorized by the laws of Customer’s state 
to purchase under state contracts; provided that a state and its Affiliates shall not, for 
purposes of this definition, be considered to be Affiliates of the federal government and its 
Affiliates; and
b.
with regard to Microsoft, any legal entity that Microsoft owns, that owns Microsoft, or that is 
under common ownership with Microsoft.
“Customer” means the legal entity that has entered into this Agreement with Microsoft.
“Customer Data” means all data, including all text, sound, software, image, or video files that are provided 
to Microsoft by, or on behalf of, an Enrolled Affiliate and its Affiliates through use of Online Services.
"day" means a calendar day, except for references that specify “business day”.
“Enrolled Affiliate” means an entity, either Customer or any one of Customer’s Affiliates that has entered 
into an Enrollment under this Agreement.
10 of 266

--- page 11 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 2 of 11
Document X20-10210
“Enrollment” means the document that an Enrolled Affiliate submits under this Agreement to place orders 
for Products.
“Enterprise” means an Enrolled Affiliate and the Affiliates for which it is responsible and chooses on its 
Enrollment to include in its enterprise.
“Fixes” means Product fixes, modifications or enhancements, or their derivatives, that Microsoft either 
releases generally (such as Product service packs) or provides to Customer to address a specific issue.
“License” means the right to download, install, access and use a Product.  For certain Products, a License 
may be available on a fixed term or subscription basis (“Subscription License”). Licenses for Online 
Services will be considered Subscription Licenses.
“Microsoft” means the Microsoft Affiliate that has entered into this Agreement or an Enrollment and its 
Affiliates, as appropriate.
“Online Services” means the Microsoft-hosted services identified as Online Services in the Product Terms.
“Online Services Terms” means the additional terms that apply to Customer’s use of Online Services 
published on the Volume Licensing Site and updated from time to time.
“Product” means all products identified in the Product Terms, such as all Software, Online Services and 
other web-based services, including pre-release or beta versions.
“Product Terms” means the document that provides information about Microsoft Products and Professional 
Services available through volume licensing.  The Product Terms document is published on the Volume 
Licensing Site and is updated from time to time.
“SLA” means Service Level Agreement, which specifies the minimum service level for Online Services and 
is published on the Volume Licensing Site.
“Software” means licensed copies of Microsoft software identified on the Product Terms. Software does not 
include Online Services, but Software may be part of an Online Service.
“Software Assurance” is an offering by Microsoft that provides new version rights and other benefits for 
Products as further described in the Product Terms.
“Trade Secret” means information that is not generally known or readily ascertainable to the public, has 
economic value as a result, and has been subject to reasonable steps under the circumstances to maintain 
its secrecy.
“use” or “run” means to copy, install, use, access, display, run or otherwise interact.
“Use Rights” means, with respect to any licensing program, the use rights or terms of service for each 
Product and version published for that licensing program at the Volume Licensing Site and updated from 
time to time. The Use Rights include the Product-Specific License Terms, the License Model terms, the 
Universal License Terms, the Data Protection Terms, and the Other Legal Terms. The Use Rights 
supersede the terms of any end user license agreement (on-screen or otherwise) that accompanies a 
Product.
“Volume Licensing Site” means http://www.microsoft.com/licensing/contracts or a successor site.
2.
How the Enterprise program works.
a.
General.  The Enterprise program consists of the terms and conditions on which an Enrolled 
Affiliate may acquire Product Licenses. Under the Enterprise program, Customer and its 
Affiliates may order Licenses for Products by entering into Enrollments.
b.
Enrollments.  The Enterprise program gives Customer and/or its Affiliates the ability to enter 
into one or more Enrollments to order Products. Subscription Enrollments may be available for 
some of these Enrollments.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, only 
Enrolled Affiliates identified in an Enrollment will be responsible for complying with the terms 
11 of 266

--- page 12 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 3 of 11
Document X20-10210
of that Enrollment, including the terms of this Agreement incorporated by reference in that 
Enrollment.
c.
Licenses.  The types of Licenses available are (1) Licenses obtained under Software 
Assurance (L&SA), and (2) Subscription Licenses. These License types, as well as additional 
License Types, are further described in the Product List.
3.
Licenses for Products.
a.
License Grant.  Microsoft grants the Enterprise a non-exclusive, worldwide and limited right 
to download, install and use software Products, and to access and use the Online Services, 
each in the quantity ordered under an Enrollment.  The rights granted are subject to the terms 
of this Agreement, the Use Rights and the Product Terms.  Microsoft reserves all rights not 
expressly granted in this Agreement.
b.
Duration of Licenses.  Subscription Licenses and most Software Assurance rights are 
temporary and expire when the applicable Enrollment is terminated or expires, unless the 
Enrolled Affiliate exercises a buy-out option, which is available for some Subscription Licenses.  
Except as otherwise noted in the applicable Enrollment or Use Rights, all other Licenses 
become perpetual only when all payments for that License have been made and the initial 
Enrollment term has expired.
c.
Applicable Use Rights. The latest Use Rights as updated from time to time, apply to the use 
of all Products, subject to the following exceptions.
(i)
For products with metered usage-based pricing (e.g. metered Microsoft Azure 
Services)  Material adverse changes published after the start of a calendar month will 
apply beginning the following month.    
(ii) For Versioned Software.  Material adverse changes published after the date a Product is 
first licensed will not apply to any licenses for that Product acquired during the applicable 
Enrollment term unless the changes are published with the release of a new version and 
Customer chooses to update to that version. Renewal of Software Assurance does not 
change which Use Rights apply to perpetual Licenses acquired during a previous term or 
Enrollment
(iii) For all other Products (e.g. Office 365 services).  Material adverse changes published 
after the start of the subscription term will not apply to any licenses for that Product acquired 
during the applicable Enrollment term.
(iv) For use rights granted through Software Assurance. Material adverse changes 
published after the date a Product is first licensed will not apply to any licenses for that 
Product during the applicable enrollment term unless the changes are published with the 
release of a new version and Customer chooses to update to that version. 
d.
Downgrade rights.  Enrolled Affiliate may use an earlier version of a Product other than Online 
Services than the version that is current on the effective date of the Enrollment.  For Licenses 
acquired in the current Enrollment term, the Use Rights for the current version apply to the use 
of the earlier version.  If the earlier Product version includes features that are not in the new 
version, then the Use Rights applicable to the earlier version apply with respect to those 
features.
e.
New Version Rights under Software Assurance.  Enrolled Affiliate must order and maintain 
continuous Software Assurance coverage for each License ordered.  With Software Assurance 
coverage, Enterprise automatically has the right to use a new version of a licensed Product as 
soon as it is released, even if Enrolled Affiliate chooses not to use the new version immediately.
(i)
Except as otherwise permitted under an Enrollment, use of the new version will be subject 
to the new version’s Use Rights.
12 of 266

--- page 13 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 4 of 11
Document X20-10210
(ii) If the License for the earlier version of the Product is perpetual at the time the new version 
is released, the License for the new version will also be perpetual.  Perpetual Licenses 
obtained through Software Assurance replace any perpetual Licenses for the earlier 
version.
f.
License confirmation.  This Agreement, the applicable Enrollment, Enrolled Affiliate’s order 
confirmation, and any documentation evidencing transfers of perpetual Licenses, together with 
proof of payment, will be Enrolled Affiliate’s evidence of all Licenses obtained under an 
Enrollment.
g.
Reorganizations, consolidations and privatizations.  If the number of Licenses covered by 
an Enrollment changes by more than ten percent as a result of (1) a reorganization, 
consolidation or privatization of an entity or an operating division, (2) a privatization of an 
Affiliate or an operating division of Enrolled Affiliate or any of its Affiliates, or (3) a consolidation 
including a merger with a third party that has an existing agreement or Enrollment, Microsoft 
will work with Enrolled Affiliate in good faith to determine how to accommodate its changed 
circumstances in the context of this Agreement.
4.
Making copies of Products and re-imaging rights.
a.
General.  Enrolled Affiliate may make as many copies of Products, as it needs to distribute 
them within the Enterprise. Copies must be true and complete (including copyright and 
trademark notices) from master copies obtained from a Microsoft approved fulfillment source.  
Enrolled Affiliate may use a third party to make these copies, but Enrolled Affiliate agrees it will 
be responsible for any third party’s actions.  Enrolled Affiliate agrees to make reasonable efforts 
to notify its employees, agents, and any other individuals who use the Products that the 
Products are licensed from Microsoft and subject to the terms of this Agreement.
b.
Copies for training/evaluation and back-up.  For all Products other than Online Services, 
Enrolled Affiliate may: (1) use up to 20 complimentary copies of any licensed Product in a 
dedicated training facility on its premises for purposes of training on that particular Product, (2) 
use up to 10 complimentary copies of any Products for a 60-day evaluation period, and (3) use 
one complimentary copy of any licensed Product for back-up or archival purposes for each of 
its distinct geographic locations.  Trials for Online Services may be available if specified in the 
Use Rights.
c.
Right to re-image.  In certain cases, re-imaging is permitted using the Product media.  If the 
Microsoft Product is licensed (1) from an original equipment manufacturer (OEM), (2) as a full 
packaged Product through a retail source, or (3) under another Microsoft program, then media 
provided under this Agreement may generally be used to create images for use in place of 
copies provided through that separate source.  This right is conditional upon the following:
(i)
Separate Licenses must be acquired from the separate source for each Product that is re-
imaged.
(ii) The Product, language, version, and components of the copies made must be identical to 
the Product, language, version, and all components of the copies they replace, and the 
number of copies or instances of the re-imaged Product permitted remains the same.
(iii) Except for copies of an operating system and copies of Products licensed under another 
Microsoft program, the Product type (e.g., Upgrade or full License) re-imaged must be 
identical to the Product type licensed from the separate source.
(iv) Enrolled Affiliate must adhere to any Product-specific processes or requirements for re-
imaging identified in the Product Terms.
Re-imaged Products remain subject to the terms and use rights of the License acquired from 
the separate source. This subsection does not create or extend any Microsoft warranty or 
support obligation.
13 of 266

--- page 14 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 5 of 11
Document X20-10210
5.
Transferring and reassigning Licenses.
a.
License transfers.  License transfers are not permitted, except that Customer or an Enrolled 
Affiliate may transfer only fully paid perpetual Licenses to:
(i)
an Affiliate, or
(ii) a third party solely in connection with the transfer of hardware or employees to whom the 
Licenses have been assigned as part of (1) a privatization of an Affiliate or agency or of an 
operating division of Enrolled Affiliate or an Affiliate, (2) a reorganization, or (3) a 
consolidation.
Upon such transfer, Customer or Enrolled Affiliate must uninstall and discontinue using the 
licensed Product and render any copies unusable.
b.
Notification of License Transfer.  Enrolled Affiliate must notify Microsoft of a License transfer 
by 
completing 
a 
license 
transfer 
form, 
which 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
http://www.microsoft.com/licensing/contracts and sending the completed form to Microsoft 
before the License transfer.  No License transfer will be valid unless Enrolled Affiliate provides 
to the transferee, and the transferee accepts in writing, documents sufficient to enable the 
transferee to ascertain the scope, purpose and limitations of the rights granted by Microsoft 
under the licenses being transferred (includingthe applicable Use Rights, use and transfer 
restrictions, warranties and limitations of liability).  Any License transfer not made in compliance 
with this section will be void.
c.
Internal Assignment of Licenses and Software Assurance.  Licenses and Software 
Assurance must be assigned to a single user or device within the Enterprise.  Licenses and 
Software Assurance may be reassigned within the Enterprise as described in the Use Rights.
6.
Term and termination.
a.
Term.  The term of this Agreement will remain in effect unless terminated by either party as 
described below. Each Enrollment will have the term provided in that Enrollment.
b.
Termination without cause.  Either party may terminate this Agreement, without cause, upon 
60 days’ written notice. In the event of termination, new Enrollments will not be accepted, but 
any existing Enrollment will continue for the term of such Enrollment and will continue to be 
governed by this Agreement.
c.
Mid-term termination for non-appropriation of Funds.  Enrolled Affiliate may terminate this 
Agreement or an Enrollment without liability, penalty or further obligation to make payments if 
funds to make payments under the Agreement or Enrollment are not appropriated or allocated 
by the Enrolled Affiliate for such purpose.
d.
Termination for cause.  Without limiting any other remedies it may have, either party may 
terminate an Enrollment if the other party materially breaches its obligations under this 
Agreement, including any obligation to submit orders or pay invoices.  Except where the breach 
is by its nature not curable within 30 days, the terminating party must give the other party 30 
days’ notice of its intent to terminate and an opportunity to cure the breach.
If Microsoft gives such notice to an Enrolled Affiliate, Microsoft also will give Customer a copy 
of that notice and Customer agrees to help resolve the breach.  If the breach affects other 
Enrollments and cannot be resolved between Microsoft and Enrolled Affiliate, together with 
Customer’s help, within a reasonable period of time, Microsoft may terminate this Agreement 
and all Enrollments under it. If an Enrolled Affiliate ceases to be Customer’s Affiliate, it must 
promptly notify Microsoft, and Microsoft may terminate the former Affiliate’s Enrollment. If an 
Enrolled Affiliate terminates its Enrollment as a result of a breach by Microsoft, or if Microsoft 
terminates an Enrollment because Enrolled Affiliate ceases to be Customer’s Affiliate, then 
Enrolled Affiliate will have the early termination rights described in the Enrollment.
14 of 266

--- page 15 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 6 of 11
Document X20-10210
e.
Early termination.  If (1) an Enrolled Affiliate terminates its Enrollment as a result of a breach 
by Microsoft, or (2) if Microsoft terminates an Enrollment because the Enrolled Affiliate has 
ceased to be an Affiliate of Customer, or (3) Enrolled Affiliate terminates an Enrollment for non-
appropriation of funds, or (4) Microsoft terminates an Enrollment for non-payment due to non-
appropriation of funds, then the Enrolled Affiliate will have the following options:
(i)
It may immediately pay the total remaining amount due, including all installments, in which 
case, the Enrolled Affiliate will have perpetual rights for all Licenses it has ordered; or
(ii) It may pay only amounts due as of the termination date, in which case the Enrolled Affiliate 
will have perpetual Licenses for:
1)
all copies of Products (including the latest version of Products ordered under SA 
coverage in the current term) for which payment has been made in full, and
2)
the number of copies of Products it has ordered (including the latest version of 
Products ordered under Software Assurance coverage in current term) that is 
proportional to the total of installment payments paid versus total amounts due (paid 
and payable) if the early termination had not occurred.
(iii) In the case of early termination under subscription Enrollments, Enrolled Affiliate will have 
the following options:
1)
For eligible Products, Enrolled Affiliate may obtain perpetual Licenses as described in 
the section of the Enrollment titled “Buy-out option,” provided that Microsoft receives 
the buy-out order for those Licenses within 60 days after Enrolled Affiliate provides 
notice of termination.
2)
In the event of a breach by Microsoft, if Customer chooses not to exercise a buy-out 
option, Microsoft will issue Enrolled Affiliate a credit for any amount paid in advance 
for Subscription Licenses that the Enterprise will not be able to use to do the 
termination of the Enrollment.
Nothing in this section shall affect perpetual License rights acquired either in a separate 
agreement or in a prior term of the terminated Enrollment.
f.
Effect of termination or expiration.  When an Enrollment expires or is terminated,
(i)
Enrolled Affiliate must order Licenses for all copies of Products it has run for which it has 
not previously submitted an order.  Any and all unpaid payments for any order of any kind 
remain due and payable. Except as provided in the subsection titled “Early termination,” all 
unpaid payments for Licenses immediately become due and payable.
(ii) Enrolled Affiliate’s right to Software Assurance benefits under this Agreement ends if it 
does not renew Software Assurance.
g.
Modification or termination of an Online Service for regulatory reasons.  Microsoft may 
modify or terminate an Online Service where there is any current or future government 
requirement or obligation that: (1) subjects Microsoft to any regulation or requirement not 
generally applicable to businesses operating in the jurisdiction; (2) presents a hardship for 
Microsoft to continue operating the Online Service without modification; and/or (3) causes 
Microsoft to believe these terms or the Online Service may conflict with any such requirement 
or obligation.
h.
Program updates.  Microsoft may make changes to this program that will make it necessary 
for Customer and its Enrolled Affiliates to enter into new agreements and Enrollments at the 
time of an Enrollment renewal.
15 of 266

--- page 16 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 7 of 11
Document X20-10210
7.
Use, ownership, rights, and restrictions.
a.
Products.  Unless otherwise specified in a supplemental agreement, use of any Product is 
governed by the Use Rights specific to each Product and version and by the terms of the 
applicable supplemental agreement.
b.
Fixes.  Each Fix is licensed under the same terms as the Product to which it applies. If a Fix is 
not provided for a specific Product, any use rights Microsoft provides with the Fix will apply.
c.
Non-Microsoft software and technology.  Enrolled Affiliate is solely responsible for any non-
Microsoft software or technology that it installs or uses with the Products or Fixes.
d.
Restrictions.  Enrolled Affiliate must not (and is not licensed to) (1) reverse engineer, 
decompile, or disassemble any Product or Fix; (2) install or use non-Microsoft software or 
technology in any way that would subject Microsoft’s intellectual property or technology to any 
other license terms; or (3) work around any technical limitations in a Product or Fix or 
restrictions in Product documentation.  Customer must not (and is not licensed to) (1) separate 
and run parts of a Product or Fix on more than one device, upgrade or downgrade parts of a 
Product or Fix at different times, or transfer parts of a Product or Fix separately; or (2) distribute, 
sublicense, rent, lease, lend any Products or Fixes, in whole or in part, or use them to offer 
hosting services to a third party.
e.
Reservation of rights.  Products and Fixes are protected by copyright and other intellectual 
property rights laws and international treaties. Microsoft reserves all rights not expressly 
granted in this agreement.  No rights will be granted or implied by waiver or estoppel.  Rights 
to access or use Software on a device do not give Customer any right to implement Microsoft 
patents or other Microsoft intellectual property in the device itself or in any other software or 
devices.
8.
Confidentiality.
“Confidential Information” is non-public information that is designated “confidential” or that a reasonable 
person should understand is confidential, including Customer Data. Confidential Information does not 
include information that (1) becomes publicly available without a breach of this agreement, (2) the receiving 
party received lawfully from another source without a confidentiality obligation, (3) is independently 
developed, or (4) is a comment or suggestion volunteered about the other party’s business, products or 
services.
Each party will take reasonable steps to protect the other’s Confidential Information and will use the other 
party’s Confidential Information only for purposes of the parties’ business relationship. Neither party will 
disclose that Confidential Information to third parties, except to its employees, Affiliates, contractors, 
advisors and consultants (“Representatives”) and then only on a need-to-know basis under nondisclosure 
obligations at least as protective as this agreement. Each party remains responsible for the use of the 
Confidential Information by its Representatives and, in the event of discovery of any unauthorized use or 
disclosure, must promptly notify the other party.
A party may disclose the other’s Confidential Information if required by law; but only after it notifies the other 
party (if legally permissible) to enable the other party to seek a protective order.
Neither party is required to restrict work assignments of its Representatives who have had access to 
Confidential Information. Each party agrees that the use of information retained in Representatives’ unaided 
memories in the development or deployment of the parties’ respective products or services does not create 
liability under this Agreement or trade secret law, and each party agrees to limit what it discloses to the 
other accordingly.
These obligations apply (1) for Customer Data until it is deleted from the Online Services, and (2) for all 
other Confidential Information, for a period of five years after a party receives the Confidential Information.
16 of 266

--- page 17 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 8 of 11
Document X20-10210
9.
Privacy and compliance with laws.
a.
Enrolled Affiliate consents to the processing of personal information by Microsoft and its agents 
to facilitate the subject matter of this Agreement.  Enrolled Affiliate will obtain all required 
consents from third parties under applicable privacy and data protection law before providing 
personal information to Microsoft.
b.
Personal information collected under this agreement (1) may be transferred, stored and 
processed in the United States or any other country in which Microsoft or its service providers 
maintain facilities and (2) will be subject to the privacy terms specified in the Use Rights.  
Microsoft will abide by the requirements of European Economic Area and Swiss data protection 
law regarding the collection, use, transfer, retention, and other processing of personal data 
from the European Economic Area and Switzerland.
c.
U.S. export.  Products and Fixes are subject to U.S. export jurisdiction.  Enrolled Affiliate must 
comply with all applicable international and national laws, including the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations and International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and end-user, end 
use and destination restrictions issued by U.S. and other governments related to Microsoft 
products, services and technologies.
10.
Warranties.
a.
Limited warranties and remedies.
(i)
Software.  Microsoft warrants that each version of the Software will perform substantially 
as described in the applicable Product documentation for one year from the date the 
Enterprise is first licensed for that version.  If it does not and the Enterprise notifies 
Microsoft within the warranty term, then Microsoft will, at its option (1) return the price 
Enrolled Affiliate paid for the Software license, or (2) repair or replace the Software.
(ii) Online Services.  Microsoft warrants that each Online Service will perform in accordance 
with the applicable SLA during the Enterprise’s use.  The Enterprise’s remedies for breach 
of this warranty are in the SLA.
The remedies above are the Enterprise’s sole remedies for breach of the warranties in this 
section.  Customer waives any breach of warranty claims not made during the warranty period.
b.
Exclusions.  The warranties in this agreement do not apply to problems caused by accident, 
abuse, or use in a manner inconsistent with this Agreement, including failure to meet minimum 
system requirements.  These warranties do not apply to free, trial, pre-release, or beta 
products, or to components of Products that Enrolled Affiliate is permitted to redistribute.
c.
Disclaimer.  Except for the limited warranties above, Microsoft provides no other 
warranties or conditions and disclaims any other express, implied, or statutory 
warranties, including warranties of quality, title, non-infringement, merchantability, and 
fitness for a particular purpose.
11.
Defense of third party claims.
The parties will defend each other against the third-party claims described in this section and will pay the 
amount of any resulting adverse final judgment or approved settlement, but only if the defending party is 
promptly notified in writing of the claim and has the right to control the defense and any settlement of it. The 
party being defended must provide the defending party with all requested assistance, information, authority, 
and must take all reasonable action to mitigate its losses arising from the third-party claim. The defending 
party will reimburse the other party for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in providing assistance. 
This section describes the parties’ sole remedies and entire liability for such claims.
a.
By Microsoft.  Microsoft will defend Enrolled Affiliate against any third-party claim to the extent 
it alleges that a Product or Fix made available by Microsoft for a fee and used within the scope 
17 of 266

--- page 18 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 9 of 11
Document X20-10210
of the license granted (unmodified from the form provided by Microsoft and not combined with 
anything else) misappropriates a trade secret or directly infringes a patent, copyright, 
trademark or other proprietary right of a third party.  If Microsoft is unable to resolve a claim of 
infringement under commercially reasonable terms, it may, at its option, either (1) modify or 
replace the Product or Fix with a functional equivalent; or (2) terminate Enrolled Affiliate’s 
license and refund any prepaid license fees (less depreciation on a five-year, straight-line 
basis) for perpetual licenses and any amount paid for Online Services for any usage period 
after the termination date.  Microsoft will not be liable for any claims or damages due to Enrolled 
Affiliate’s continued use of a Product or Fix after being notified to stop due to a third-party claim.
b.
By Enrolled Affiliate.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, Enrolled Affiliate will defend 
Microsoft against any third-party claim to the extent it alleges that: (1) any Customer Data or 
non-Microsoft software hosted in an Online Service by Microsoft on Enrolled Affiliate's behalf 
misappropriates a trade secret or directly infringes a patent, copyright, trademark, or other 
proprietary right of a third party; or (2) Enrolled Affiliate’s use of any Product or Fix, alone or in 
combination with anything else, violates the law or damages a third party.
12.
Limitation of liability.
For each Product, each party’s maximum, aggregate liability to the other under this Agreement is limited 
to direct damages finally awarded in an amount not to exceed the amounts Enrolled Affiliate paid for the 
applicable Products during the term of this Agreement, subject to the following:
a.
Online Services.  For Online Services, Microsoft’s maximum liability to Enrolled Affiliate for 
any incident giving rise to a claim will not exceed the amount Enrolled Affiliate paid for the 
Online Service during the 12 months before the incident.
b.
Free Products and Distributable Code.  For Products provided free of charge and code 
that Enrolled Affiliate is authorized to redistribute to third parties without separate payment to 
Microsoft, Microsoft’s liability is limited to direct damages finally awarded up to US$5,000.
c.
Exclusions.  In no event will either party be liable for indirect, incidental, special, punitive, or 
consequential damages, or for loss of use, loss of business information, loss of revenue, or 
interruption of business, however caused or on any theory of liability.
d.
Exceptions.  No limitation or exclusions will apply to liability arising out of either party’s (1) 
confidentiality obligations (except for all liability related to Customer Data, which will remain 
subject to the limitations and exclusions above); (2) defense obligations; or (3) violation of the 
other party’s intellectual property rights.
13.
Verifying compliance.
a.
Right to verify compliance.  Enrolled Affiliate must keep records relating to all use and 
distribution of Products by Enrolled Affiliate and its Affiliates.  Microsoft has the right, at its 
expense, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to verify such compliance with the Product’s 
license terms.  Microsoft will engage an independent auditor and Enrolled Affiliate must provide 
the independent auditor with any information the auditor reasonably requests in furtherance of 
the verification, including visible access to systems running the Products and evidence of 
Licenses for Products Enrolled Affiliate hosts, sublicenses, or distributes to third parties.  
Enrolled Affiliate must provide, without undue delay, the foregoing information and access upon 
request of the independent auditor 
b.
Verification process.  Microsoft will notify Enrolled Affiliate at least 30 calendar days in 
advance of its intent to verify Enrolled Affiliate’s compliance with the license terms for the 
Products Enrolled Affiliate use or distribute.  The independent auditor is subject to a 
confidentiality obligation sufficient to cover the auditor’s engagement with Enrolled Affiliate for 
the verification process. Enrolled Affiliate may, at its discretion, also require a mutually 
agreeable confidentiality agreement with the independent auditor for access to premises, data 
18 of 266

--- page 19 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 10 of 11
Document X20-10210
and systems.  Such confidentiality agreement between Enrolled Affiliate and auditor must be 
completed within fourteen (14) days of such request, and shall not restrict the ability for the 
independent auditor to accurately verify compliance and share the resulting information with 
Microsoft. Any information collected will be used solely for purposes of determining Enrolled 
Affiliate’s compliance.  This verification will take place during normal business hours and the 
auditor will make best efforts not to interfere with Enrolled Affiliate’s operations during the 
course of the audit.
c.
Remedies for non-compliance.  If verification reveals any use of Products without applicable 
license rights, then within 30 days Enrolled Affiliate must order sufficient licenses to cover its 
use, and, if such use or distribution is determined to be in excess of Enrolled Affiliate’s existing 
licenses by 5% or more of the audited environment(s) in aggregate, then Enrolled Affiliate must 
reimburse Microsoft for the costs Microsoft incurred in obtaining the verification and acquire 
the necessary additional licenses.  Such licenses will be obtained at 125% of the price, based 
on the then-current price list. The use percentage is based on the total number of Products 
used without applicable liscense rights (as described above) compared to the total Product 
use. If it is verified that Product use is sufficiently licensed, Microsoft will not require the 
Enterprise to engage in another verification for at least one year.  By exercising the rights and 
procedures described above, Microsoft does not waive its rights to enforce its rights under 
these Additional Use Rights and Restrictions or to protect its intellectual property by any other 
legal or contractual means.
14.
Miscellaneous.
a.
Use of contractors.  Microsoft may use contractors to perform services but will be responsible 
for their performance subject to the terms of this Agreement.
b.
Microsoft as independent contractor.  The parties are independent contractors. Enrolled 
Affiliate and Microsoft each may develop products independently without using the other’s 
Confidential Information.
c.
Notices.  Notices to Microsoft must be sent to the address on the signature form.  Notices must 
be in writing and will be treated as delivered on the date shown on the return receipt or on the 
courier or fax confirmation of delivery.  Microsoft may provide information to Enrolled Affiliate 
about upcoming ordering deadlines, services, and subscription information in electronic form, 
including by email to contacts provided by Enrolled Affiliate. Emails will be treated as delivered 
on the transmission date.
d.
Agreement not exclusive.  Customer is free to enter into agreements to license, use or 
promote non-Microsoft products.
e.
Amendments.  Any amendment to this Agreement must be executed by both parties, except 
that Microsoft may change the Product Terms and the Use Rights from time to time in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Any conflicting terms and conditions contained 
in an Enrolled Affiliate’s purchase order will not apply.  Microsoft may require Customer to sign 
a new agreement or an amendment before an Enrolled Affiliate enters into an Enrollment under 
this agreement.
f.
Assignment.  Either party may assign this Agreement to an Affiliate but must notify the other 
party in writing of the assignment. Any other proposed assignment must be approved by the 
non-assigning party in writing. Assignment will not relieve the assigning party of its obligations 
under the assigned agreement. Any attempted assignment without required approval will be 
void. 
g.
Applicable law; dispute resolution.  The terms of this Agreement will be governed by the 
laws of Customer’s state, without giving effect to its conflict of laws.  Disputes relating to this 
Agreement will be subject to applicable dispute resolution laws of Customer’s state.
19 of 266

--- page 20 ---
EA20201AgrGov(US)SLG(ENG)(Oct2019)
Page 11 of 11
Document X20-10210
h.
Severability.  If any provision in this agreement is held to be unenforceable, the balance of the 
agreement will remain in full force and effect.
i.
Waiver.  Failure to enforce any provision of this agreement will not constitute a waiver. Any 
waiver must be in writing and signed by the waiving party.
j.
No third-party beneficiaries.  This Agreement does not create any third-party beneficiary 
rights.
k.
Survival.  All provisions survive termination or expiration of this Agreement except those 
requiring performance only during the term of the Agreement.
l.
Management and Reporting.  Customer and/or Enrolled Affiliate may manage account details 
(e.g., contacts, orders, Licenses, software downloads) on Microsoft’s Volume Licensing 
Service 
Center 
(“VLSC”) 
web 
site 
(or 
successor 
site) 
at: 
https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/servicecenter. Upon the effective date of this Agreement 
and any Enrollments, the contact(s) identified for this purpose will be provided access to this 
site and may authorize additional users and contacts.
m. Order of precedence.  In the case of a conflict between any documents in this Agreement that 
is not expressly resolved in those documents, their terms will control in the following order from 
highest to lowest priority: (1) this Enterprise Agreement, (2) any Enrollment, (3) the Product 
Terms, (4) the Online Services Terms, (5) orders submitted under this Agreement, and (6) any 
other documents in this Agreement.  Terms in an amendment control over the amended 
document and any prior amendments concerning the same subject matter.
n.
Free Products.  It is Microsoft's intent that the terms of this Agreement and the Use Rights be 
in compliance with all applicable federal law and regulations.  Any free Product provided to 
Enrolled Affiliate is for the sole use and benefit of the Enrolled Affiliate and is not provided for 
use by or personal benefit of any specific government employee.
o.
Voluntary Product Accessibility Templates.  Microsoft supports the government’s obligation 
to provide accessible technologies to its citizens with disabilities as required by Section 508 of 
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and its state law counterparts. The Voluntary Product 
Accessibility Templates (“VPATs”) for the Microsoft technologies used in providing the Online 
Services can be found at Microsoft’s VPAT page.  Further information regarding Microsoft’s 
commitment to accessibility can be found at http://www.microsoft.com/enable.
p.
Natural disaster.  In the event of a “natural disaster,” Microsoft may provide additional 
assistance or rights by posting them on http://www.microsoft.com at such time.
q.
Copyright violation.  Except as set forth in the section above entitled “Transferring and 
reassigning Licenses”, the Enrolled Affiliate agrees to pay for, and comply with the terms of this 
Agreement and the Use Rights, for the Products it uses.  Except to the extent Enrolled Affiliate 
is licensed under this Agreement, it will be responsible for its breach of this contract and 
violation of Microsoft’s copyright in the Products, including payment of License fees specified 
in this Agreement for unlicensed use.
20 of 266

--- page 21 ---
Date
10/31/23
Account Manager
for
VSL Specialist
Brent Cameron
Channel Price Sheet Month
Oct.
Unless otherwise noted, All Quotes expire upon current month's end
Microsoft Part #
Description
Level
Quantity
Price
Extended
Price
Extended
Price
Extended
J5U-00004
AzureprepaymentG ShrdSvr ALNG SubsVL MVL Commit Provision
D
1
$0.00
-
$                    
-
$                
-
$                   
-
$                
-
$               
AAA-12417
CCAL Bridge O365 FSA Sub Platform Per User
D
749
$16.04
12,013.96
$         
16.04
$            
12,013.96
$        
16.04
$            
12,013.96
$    
AAA-12415
CCAL Bridge O365 Sub Platform Per User
D
40
$19.20
768.00
$              
19.20
$            
768.00
$             
19.20
$            
768.00
$         
3NS-00003
Exchange Online P2 GCC Sub Per User
D
40
$72.66
2,906.40
$           
72.66
$            
2,906.40
$          
72.66
$            
2,906.40
$      
AAA-11924
O365 G3 FSA GCC Sub Per User
D
570
$208.98
119,118.60
$       
208.98
$          
119,118.60
$      
208.98
$          
119,118.60
$  
AAA-11894
O365 G3 GCC Sub Per User
D
219
$245.92
53,856.48
$         
245.92
$          
53,856.48
$        
245.92
$          
53,856.48
$    
SFR-00001
Power Automate GCC Sub Per User
D
1
$160.38
160.38
$              
160.38
$          
160.38
$             
160.38
$          
160.38
$         
DDJ-00001
Power BI Pro GCC Sub Per User
D
1
$90.76
90.76
$                
90.76
$            
90.76
$               
90.76
$            
90.76
$           
7MS-00001
Project P3 GCC Sub Per User
D
26
$272.65
7,088.90
$           
272.65
$          
7,088.90
$          
272.65
$          
7,088.90
$      
H30-00238
Project Professional ALng SA 1 Server CAL
D
17
$210.56
3,579.52
$           
210.56
$          
3,579.52
$          
210.56
$          
3,579.52
$      
076-01912
Project Standard ALng SA
D
4
$128.18
512.72
$              
128.18
$          
512.72
$             
128.18
$          
512.72
$         
7NQ-00292
SQL Server Standard Core ALng SA 2L
D
12
$644.92
7,739.04
$           
644.92
$          
7,739.04
$          
644.92
$          
7,739.04
$      
NYH-00001
Teams AC with Dial Out US/CA GCC Sub Add-on
D
789
$0.00
-
$                    
-
$                
-
$                   
-
$                
-
$               
LK9-00003
Teams Phone Standard GCC Sub Per User
D
20
$71.76
1,435.20
$           
71.76
$            
1,435.20
$          
71.76
$            
1,435.20
$      
HWJ-00001
Visio P1 FSA GCC Sub Per User
D
9
$38.64
347.76
$              
38.64
$            
347.76
$             
38.64
$            
347.76
$         
P3U-00005
Visio P2 GCC SU Visio P1 Per User
D
2
$90.88
181.76
$              
90.88
$            
181.76
$             
90.88
$            
181.76
$         
P3U-00001
Visio P2 GCC Sub Per User
D
9
$136.32
1,226.88
$           
136.32
$          
1,226.88
$          
136.32
$          
1,226.88
$      
77D-00111
Visual Studio Pro MSDN ALng SA
D
1
$307.03
307.03
$              
307.03
$          
307.03
$             
307.03
$          
307.03
$         
KV3-00353
Win Enterprise Device ALng SA Platform
D
637
$46.29
29,486.73
$         
46.29
$            
29,486.73
$        
46.29
$            
29,486.73
$    
6VC-01253
Win Remote Desktop Services CAL ALng SA DCAL
D
3
$19.68
59.04
$                
19.68
$            
59.04
$               
19.68
$            
59.04
$           
9EA-00278
Win Server DC Core ALng SA 2L
D
108
$125.87
13,593.96
$         
125.87
$          
13,593.96
$        
125.87
$          
13,593.96
$    
9EM-00270
Win Server Standard Core ALng SA 2L
D
40
$19.32
772.80
$              
19.32
$            
772.80
$             
19.32
$            
772.80
$         
Year 1 Total
255,245.92
$       
Year 2 Total
255,245.92
$      
Year 3 Total
255,245.92
$  
Three Year Total
765,737.76
$       
No Tax Referenced
Riverside Contract: PSA-0001522 
Current Enrollment# 57793303
Agreement End Date: 3/31/2024
Terms and Conditions of sales and services projects are governed by the terms at: 
http://www.cdwg.com/content/terms-conditions/product-sales.aspx
EA Quote
Customer to make three annual payments to CDW•G
CDW Government, LLC
Microsoft Enterprise 6.6 Agreement Pricing
Enterprise Quote
City of San Mateo (8C6A7FAA)
Terms & Conditions
Year 3
Year 1
Year 2
Notes
21 of 266

--- page 22 ---
Procurement Division
707 Third Street, 2nd Floor, MS #2-202
West Sacramento, CA  95605-2811
Procurement Division | State of California | California Government Operations Agency
707 3rd Street, 2ndFloor | West Sacramento, CA  95605 | t 916.375-4400
State of California
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
AMENDMENT No.: 2
Contractor:
Contract Number:
SCA Contract Term:
Contract Base:
CDW Government LLC 
         
SCA-19-70-0025U
11/01/2019 through 10/31/2024
County of Riverside RFQ# RIVCO-2020-RFQ-0000048  
Microsoft Master Agreement Number 8084445 
This contract is available for use by State of California departments only.
This amendment is being issued to:
•
Revise the provision, “OFFICE 365 CLOUD PURCHASES”
•
Revise the provision, “SCA BASE CONTRACT”
•
Revise the provision, “ISSUE PURCHASE ORDER TO”
•
Extend the term of this SLP agreement through October 31, 2024 and to replace the 
existing agreement in its entirety.
This contract is available for use by State Agencies which initiated enrollments, parented 
under Microsoft Master Agreement Number 01E73134 and 01E73970, through a Software 
Cooperative Agreement (SCA) that has now expired, may True-Up or procure Supplemental 
Licenses, Software Assurance, and Subscriptions, as an addition to their active enrollments, 
by referencing the SCA currently active at the time of purchase of these additional items. 
Products, added to the enrollments when initially signed by the customer, are price protected 
(fixed prices throughout an enrollment period) by the Agency's agreement with their Licensing 
Solution Provider (LSP), and should therefore be purchased at the original fixed price.
The SCA Contractor is required to provide all SCA contract terms and conditions with the list 
of products, services and prices. 
The most current ordering instructions and terms and conditions are included herein.  If there 
are future changes to the ordering instructions and/or terms and conditions, these changes 
will be incorporated by an amendment to this contract.
22 of 266

--- page 23 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
2
Terms and conditions listed below are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of 
this SCA Agreement as if attached herein and shall apply to the purchase of goods or 
services made under this Participating Agreement. Contractor non-compliance with the 
requirements of this contract may result in contract termination.
By signing below, Contractor agrees to the General Provisions dated September 5, 
2014, Microsoft Enterprise Agreement Amendment ID 8084445 dated October 22, 2019 
and all other provisions included herein.
1)
General Provisions – Information Technology (GSPD-401IT), effective 9/5/2014 
2)
Cloud Computing Services Special Provisions (Software as a Service) effective 
3/15/2018
3)
Cloud Computing – Software as a Service (SaaS) General Provisions effective 
6/07/2019 
For State of CA:
Original Signature on File
Patrick Mullen
Manager
Multiple Award Programs Section
Procurement Division
Department of General Services 
Date
For Contractor:
Original Signature on File
Signature
Printed Title
Printed Name
Company Name
Date
23 of 266

--- page 24 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
3
OFFICE 365 CLOUD PURCHASES
When procuring Office 365 Cloud 
products/services, State departments 
should conduct an analysis and use their 
own due diligence to determine if Office 
365 is the most cost effective solution that 
meets their business needs and security 
requirements.  In addition, state 
departments should not issue a Request 
for Offer (RFO) or enter into an agreement 
with a Microsoft SCA Contractor prior to 
reading the SCA User Instructions.
AVAILABLE PRODUCTS AND/OR 
SERVICES
This contract provides for the purchase 
and warranty of software, software 
maintenance, technical support, and 
implementation services.
Only products from the manufacturer listed 
below are available within the scope of this 
contract:
• Microsoft
UNAVAILABLE PRODUCTS AND/OR 
SERVICES
The following products and/or services are 
not available under this contract:
• STANDALONE HARDWARE
• CONSULTING
• TRAINING 
• INSTALLATION SERVICES
IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES 
Before procuring Implementation Services, 
state departments should conduct an 
analysis and use their own due diligence to 
determine if these services are the most 
cost effective solution that meets their 
business needs and security requirements.  
Requirements
• State departments must complete a 
Statement of Work (SOW) for all 
Implementation services.
• Job titles/categories are limited to those 
identified in the SLP price list.
• Hourly rates must not exceed those 
identified in the SLP price list.
• Implementation services can only be 
purchased when they are in support of 
software purchased under the SLP.
• Time and Material pricing must not 
exceed the job Title hourly rate times 
the number of hours to complete the job.
NOTE:  Implementation Services under 
this contract must be paid in arrears.
SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE, 
SUBSCRIPTION AND SAAS RENEWALS 
Software Maintenance, Subscription and 
SaaS renewals shall be fixed at the 
agencies prior applicable rates (or lower), 
with a 0% uplift (no up-lift) and no 
additional increases, fees or charges 
added, for the duration of this SCA 
contract.
SCA BENEFITS
Under this Microsoft Enterprise License 
Agreement (MELA), you may qualify for 
free online E-Learning courses, training 
vouchers and other benefits.  When 
accessing your account at the Microsoft 
Volume Licensing Service Center, be sure 
to check what benefits you are entitled to.  
If you need assistance, please contact your 
Licensing Solution Provider (LSP).
SCA BASE CONTRACT
24 of 266

--- page 25 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
4
This SCA is based on CDW Government 
LLC’s participating Agreement #8084445, 
and is based on the products and/or 
services and prices from the County of 
Riverside Microsoft Enterprise License 
Agreement (MELA)# PSA-0001522 RFQ# 
RIVCO-2020-RFQ-0000048 that has a 
term of 11/1/2019 through 10/31/2024.
CONTRACTOR PROVIDES COPY OF 
SCA CONTRACT AND ANY 
AMENDMENTS TO ORDERING 
AGENCIES.
The Contractor is required to provide 
ordering departments a copy of the entire 
SCA contract that consists of the following:
•
SCA contract signed and dated by both 
the DGS and contractor.
•
SCA contract terms and conditions 
including General Provisions and 
Information Technology, Software 
Special Provisions.
•
Std. 204 Payee Data Record.
•
Products and price list.
•
Amendments to the SCA, if applicable.
CONTRACT PRICES
Contract prices for products and/or 
services are maximums. The ordering 
department is encouraged to negotiate 
lower prices.
PRODUCT AND PRICING CHANGES 
AND/OR UPDATES ARE NOT 
AUTHORIZED UNTIL REVIEWED AND 
APPROVED BY DGS PROCUREMENT 
DIVISION SOFTWARE LICENSING 
PROGRAM.
Said documents are to be sent to the 
Department of General Services (DGS) 
Procurement Division, Software Licensing 
Program, 707 Third Street, 2nd Floor, West 
Sacramento, CA  95605-2811, Attention 
SLP Unit.
CONTRACTOR QUARTERLY REPORTS
Contractors are required to submit a 
detailed report quarterly to the DGS 
Procurement Division, Software 
Licensing Program. Reports should be 
sent via email to: SLP@DGS.CA.GOV.
A separate report is required for each 
contract, as differentiated by alpha suffix (if 
applicable). Contractors with resellers are 
responsible for reporting reseller ordering 
activity. Any report that does not follow the 
required format or that excludes 
information will be deemed incomplete and 
returned to the contractor.
State agencies will continue to be billed the 
applicable administrative use fee by the 
DGS-PD.
SCA Quarterly Business Activity Reports 
are due in the SLP Unit within two weeks 
after the end of each quarter as shown 
below:
Quarter 1 Jan 1 to Mar 31 Due Apr 15
Quarter 2 Apr 1 to Jun 30 Due Jul 15
Quarter 3 Jul 1 to Sep 30 Due Oct 15
Quarter 4 Oct 1 to Dec 31 Due Jan 15
New contracts for contractors with 
existing SCA contracts, and extensions 
or renewals of existing contracts, will 
be approved ONLY if the contractor has 
submitted to the SLP Unit all quarterly 
reports, due.  Each quarterly report is 
required within two weeks of the end of 
March, June, September, and December 
of each calendar year.  A report is 
required even when there is no activity.  
The report must include the agency name, 
purchase order number, purchase order 
25 of 266

--- page 26 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
5
date, state agency billing code, pre-tax 
total order cost, agency contact name, 
address and phone number, and total 
dollars for the quarter.  
Tax must NOT be included in the quarterly 
report, even if the agency includes tax on 
the purchase order.
A sample quarterly report indicating 
required format and information is attached 
for your reference (Attachment A). 
CONTRACTOR INVOICES
Unless otherwise stipulated, the contractor 
must send their invoices to the department 
address set forth in the purchase order.  
Invoices shall be submitted in triplicate and 
shall include the following:
• Contract number
• Agency purchase order number
• State Agency Bill Code
• Line item number
• Unit price
• Extended line item price
• Invoice total
State sales tax and/or use tax shall be 
itemized separately and added to each 
invoice as applicable. 
The company name on the SCA contract, 
purchase order and invoice must match or 
the State Controller’s Office will not 
approve payment.
CONTRACTOR OWNERSHIP 
INFORMATION
CDW Government LLC is a large business 
enterprise.
AGENCY NON-COMPLIANCE
Agency non-compliance with the 
requirements of this contract may result in 
the loss of delegated purchasing authority 
to use the SCA.
PLEASE REQUEST A COPY OF ALL 
CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
FROM THE CONTRACTOR, IF NOT 
PROVIDED INITIALLY.
ISSUE PURCHASE ORDER TO:
Agency purchase orders must be mailed to 
the following address, or e-mail to:
CDW Government LLC
625 W. Adams
Chicago, IL 60061
Attn: Ben Estes
Agencies with questions regarding 
products and/or services may contact the 
contractor as follows:
Phone:  (469) 587-0448
E-mail:  Benjamin.estes@cdwg.com
SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS
F.O.B.  (Free On Board) Destination
DELIVERY
30 days after receipt of order, or as 
negotiated between agency and Contractor 
and included in the purchase order.
CONTRACTOR RESPONSE TO RFO
When responding to a Request For Offer 
(RFO) under this contract, contractor must 
provide pricing for both the initial purchase 
and possible subsequent True-Ups, for 
each year purchased.  In addition, 
contractor must provide a margin above 
contractor’s cost from Microsoft 
26 of 266

--- page 27 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
6
(represented as a percentage) which will 
not be exceeded in the event that 
additional products, not added at signing 
are added to the enrollment after the 
enrollment has commenced.
AGENCY RESPONSIBILITY
Agencies must contact contractors to 
obtain copies of the contracts and compare 
them for a best value purchasing decision.  
Each agency is responsible for its own 
contracting program and purchasing 
decisions, including use of the SCA 
program and associated outcomes.
This responsibility includes, but is not 
necessarily limited to, ensuring the 
necessity of the services, securing 
appropriate funding, complying with laws 
and policies, preparing the purchase order 
in a manner that safeguards the State’s 
interests, obtaining required approvals, and 
documenting compliance with Government 
Code 19130.b (3) for outsourcing services.
It is the responsibility of each agency to 
consult as applicable with their legal staff 
and contracting offices for advice 
depending upon the scope or complexity of 
the purchase order.
If you do not have legal services available 
to you within your agency, the DGS Office 
of Legal Services is available to provide 
services on a contractual basis. 
ORDER REQUIREMENTS AND 
MAXIMUM ORDER LIMIT 
Purchases under this SCA are subject to 
the following requirements:
• There is no maximum order limit under 
this SCA.
• Unless otherwise determined by an 
individual ordering agency purchasing 
authority, no SCA order may be 
executed by a State agency that 
exceeds that agency’s purchasing 
authority threshold. State agencies with 
approved purchasing authority, along 
with their dollar thresholds can be 
obtained at the List of State 
Departments with Approved Purchasing 
Authority.
• Agencies must adhere to the detailed 
requirements in the State Contracting 
Manual (SCM) when using SCA 
contracts.  The requirements for the 
following bullets are in the SCM, Volume 
3, (for IT):  If soliciting offers from a 
certified DVBE, include the Disabled 
Veteran Business Enterprise 
Declarations form (Std. 843) in the 
Request for Offer.  This declaration 
must be completed and returned by the 
DVBE prime contractor and/or any 
DVBE subcontractors.  (See the SCM 
Volume 3, Chapter 3)
• This is not a bid transaction, so the 
small business preference, DVBE 
participation goals, protest language, 
intents to award, evaluation criteria, 
advertising, etc., are not applicable.
• State agencies must solicit a minimum 
of 3 SCA contractors (initial purchase 
only).
• If less than 3 offers are received, State 
agencies must document their file with 
the reasons why the other suppliers 
solicited did not respond with an offer.
• Assess the offers received using best 
value methodology, with cost as one of 
the criteria.
• Issue a Purchase Order to the selected 
contractor.
• For SCA transactions under $10,000, 
only one offer is required if the State 
agency can establish and document that 
the price is fair and reasonable. The fair 
27 of 266

--- page 28 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
7
and reasonable method can only be 
used for non-customizable purchases.
After establishing a Microsoft Enterprise 
Agreement enrollment with one of the 
SCA approved Licensing Solutions 
Provider (LSP), State agencies may 
choose to make all future: annual 
payments, true-ups and ‘additional 
product’ purchases from that LSP 
without obtaining additional quotes from 
approved SCA LSP’s, for the term of the 
enrollment. However, the LSP's initial 
response must identify: annual 
payments, true-up costs, and the mark-
up above NET of any ‘additional 
products’ added to the enrollment.
If an agency decides that a change of 
LSP would be beneficial, this can be 
achieved. The change of LSP (known 
officially as a “Change of Channel 
Partner”), changes all future payments 
from one LSP to another LSP, including: 
any outstanding annual payments, true-
ups, and ‘additional product’ purchases.  
The new LSP will be responsible for 
assisting your agency during the annual 
true-up reporting process, advising the 
agency on Software Assurance benefits, 
downloads, Volume License Keys, etc. 
NOTE: Make sure that the new LSP is 
willing to accept the payment 
structure established by the initial 
LSP, unless the agency is willing to 
increase their ‘annual payment’ to 
satisfy the new LSP’s desired 
payment structure.
A “Change of Channel Partner” must be 
completed at least 90 days prior to the 
agency’s individual Microsoft Enterprise 
Agreement enrollment anniversary date. 
The Anniversary date falls annually, 
after the enrollment start date. The 
“Change of Channel Partner” document 
can be obtained from the new LSP and 
when completed should be submitted to 
the new LSP. The new LSP will submit 
the document to Microsoft.
NOTE:  When choosing a LSP, agencies 
should use their own due diligence to 
insure that the prices for all products 
are the most cost efficient solution.
SPLITTING ORDERS
Splitting orders to avoid any monetary 
limitations is prohibited.
Do not circumvent normal procurement 
methods by splitting purchases into a 
series of delegated purchase orders (SAM 
3572).
Splitting a project into small projects to 
avoid either fiscal or procedural controls is 
prohibited (SAM 4819.34).
MINIMUM ORDER LIMITATION
There is a minimum order of 25 users or 
desktop per new enrollment.
ORDERING PROCEDURES
1. Order Form
State departments shall use a 
Contract/Delegation Purchase Order 
(Std. 65) for purchases and services.
Electronic copies of the State Standard 
Forms can be found at the Office of 
State Publishing web site: 
http://www.dgs.ca.gov/osp (select 
Standard Forms). The site provides 
information on the various forms and 
use with the Adobe Acrobat Reader.  
Beyond the Reader capabilities, Adobe 
Acrobat advanced features may be 
utilized if you have Adobe Business 
Tools or Adobe Acrobat 4.0 installed on 
28 of 266

--- page 29 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
8
your computer.  Direct link to the 
Standard Form 65:  
(http://www.documents.dgs.ca.gov/dgs/f
mc/pdf/std065.pdf)
2. Purchase Orders
All Ordering Agency purchase order 
documents executed under this SCA 
must contain the applicable SCA base 
contract number as show on page 1.
a.
State Departments:
Std. 65 Purchase Documents – 
State departments not transacting 
in FI$Cal must use the Purchasing 
Authority Purchase Order (Std. 65) 
for purchase execution. An 
electronic version of the Std. 65 is 
available at the DGS-PD website 
at http://www.dgs.ca.gov/
pd/Forms.aspx (select Standard 
STD Forms).
FI$Cal Purchase Documents – 
State departments transacting in 
FI$Cal will follow the FI$Cal 
procurement and contracting 
procedures.
The ordering agency is required to 
forward a copy of each purchase 
order to the Department of General 
Services (DGS), Procurement 
Division – Software Licensing 
Program, 707 Third Street, 2nd Floor, 
West Sacramento, CA  95605-2811.
The agency is required to complete and 
distribute the order form.  For services, 
the agency shall modify the information 
contained on the order to include the 
service period (start and end date), and 
the monthly cost (or other intermittent 
cost), and any other information 
pertinent to the services being provided.  
The cost for each line item should be 
included in the order, not just system 
totals.
The contractor must immediately reject 
orders that are not accurate.  
Discrepancies are to be negotiated and 
incorporated into the order prior to the 
products and services being delivered.
3. Purchase Order Amendments
Purchase order amendments may be 
issued throughout an enrollment period 
(after SCA expires) for true-ups and 
additional products, only when all 
Licensing Solution Providers (LSP’s) 
responses to the initial RFO identifies:  
annual payments, true-up costs and the 
mark-up above NET of any additional 
products.
4. Service and Delivery after Contract 
Expiration
Purchase orders must be issued before 
the SCA contract end term expires.  
Also, purchase order amendments 
cannot be issued to add product and 
software maintenance if the SCA 
contract end term has expired.
SMALL BUSINESS MUST BE 
CONSIDERED
Prior to placing orders under the SCA, 
state departments shall, whenever 
practicable, first consider offers from small 
businesses that have established SCA 
contracts [GC Section 14846(b)].  
NOTE: The Department of General 
Services auditors will request 
substantiation of compliance with this 
requirement when department files are 
reviewed.
29 of 266

--- page 30 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
9
SMALL BUSINESS/DVBE – TRACKING
State departments are able to claim 
subcontracting dollars towards their small 
business or DVBE goals whenever the 
Contractor subcontracts a commercially 
useful function to a certified small business 
or DVBE.  The Contractor will provide the 
ordering department with the name of the 
small business or DVBE used and the 
dollar amount the ordering department can 
apply towards its small business or DVBE 
goal.
SMALL BUSINESS/DVBE - 
SUBCONTRACTING
1. The amount an ordering department 
can claim towards achieving its small 
business or DVBE goals is the dollar 
amount of the subcontract award made 
by the Contractor to each small 
business or DVBE.
2. The Contractor will provide an ordering 
department with the following 
information at the time the order is 
quoted:
a. The Contractor will state that, as the 
prime Contractor, it shall be 
responsible for the overall execution 
of the fulfillment of the order.
b. The Contractor will indicate to the 
ordering department how the order 
meets the small business or DVBE 
goal, as follows:
•
List the name of each company 
that is certified by the Office of 
Small Business and DVBE 
Certification that it intends to 
subcontract a commercially 
useful function to; and
•
Include the small business or 
DVBE certification number of 
each company listed, and attach 
a copy of each certification; and 
•
Indicate the dollar amount of 
each subcontract with a small 
business or DVBE that may be 
claimed by the ordering 
department towards the small 
business or DVBE goal; and 
•
Indicate what commercially 
useful function the small 
business or DVBE subcontractor 
will be providing towards 
fulfillment of the order.
3. The ordering department’s purchase 
order must be addressed to the prime 
Contractor, and the purchase order 
must reference the information provided 
by the prime Contractor as outlined 
above.
PRODUCTIVE USE REQUIREMENTS
The customer in-use requirement applies 
to all procurements of information 
technology equipment and software, per 
the SCM, Volume 3, Chapter 2, Section 
2.B6.2 and SCM, Volume FI$Cal, Chapter 
2, Section 2.E3.2.
Each equipment or software component 
must be in current operation for a paying 
customer and the paying customer must be 
external to the contractor’s organization 
(not owned by the contractor and not 
owning the contractor).
To substantiate compliance with the 
Productive Use Requirements, the SCA 
contractor must provide upon request the 
name and address of a customer 
installation and the name and telephone 
number of a contact person.
The elapsed time such equipment or 
software must have been in operation is 
based upon the importance of the 
30 of 266

--- page 31 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
10
equipment or software for system 
operation and its cost.  The following 
designates product categories and the 
required period of time for equipment or 
software operation prior to approval of the 
replacement item on SCA.
Category 1 - Critical Software:  Critical 
software is software that is required to 
control the overall operation of a computer 
system or peripheral equipment.  Included 
in this category are operating systems, 
data base management systems, language 
interpreters, assemblers and compilers, 
communications software, and other 
essential system software.
Cost
Installation
Final Bid 
Submission
More than 
$100,000
8 months
6 months
$10,000 up to 
$100,000
4 months
3 months
Less than 
$10,000
1 month
1 month
Category 2 - All Information Technology 
Equipment and Non-Critical Software:  
Information technology equipment is 
defined in State Administrative Manual 
(SAM) § 4819.2.
Cost
Installation
Final Bid 
Submission
More than 
$100,000
6 months
4 months
$10,000 up 
to $100,000
4 months
3 months
Less than 
$10,000
1 month
1 month
APPLICABLE CODES, POLICIES AND 
GUIDELINES
All California codes, policies and guidelines 
are applicable. THE USE OF THE SCA 
DOES NOT REDUCE OR RELIEVE 
STATE DEPARTMENTS OF THEIR 
RESPONSIBILITY TO MEET STATEWIDE 
REQUIREMENTS REGARDING 
CONTRACTING OR THE 
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OR 
SERVICES.  Most procurement and 
contract codes, policies, and guidelines are 
incorporated into The SCA contracts.  
Notwithstanding this, there is no guarantee 
that “every” possible requirement that 
pertains to all the different and unique state 
processes has been included.  
TERMINATION OF SCA CONTRACT
1. The State or Contractor may terminate 
this SCA Contract at any time upon 30 
days prior notice.
2. Upon termination or other expiration of 
this Contract, each party will assist the 
other party in orderly termination of the 
Contract and the transfer of all assets, 
tangible and intangible, as may 
facilitate the orderly, nondisrupted 
business continuation of each party. 
3. This provision shall not relieve the 
Contractor of the obligation to perform 
under any purchase order or other 
similar ordering document executed 
prior to the termination becoming 
effective.
STATEWIDE PROCUREMENT 
REQUIREMENTS
Departments must carefully review and 
adhere to the following Procurement 
Requirements, such as:
• SAM Section 4819.41 and 4832 
certifications for information technology 
procurements and compliance with 
policies.
• Services may not be paid for in 
advance.
31 of 266

--- page 32 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
11
• Departments are required to file with the 
Department of Fair Employment and 
Housing (DFEH) a Contract Award 
Report Std. 16 for each order over 
$5,000 within 10 days of award, 
including supplements that exceed 
$5,000.
• Pursuant to Unemployment Insurance 
Code Section 1088.8, state and local 
government agencies must report to the 
Employment Development Department 
(EDD) all payments for services that 
equal $600 or more to independent sole 
proprietor contractors.  See the 
contractor's Std. Form 204, Payee Data 
Record, in the SCA contract to 
determine sole proprietorship.  All 
inquiries regarding this subject should 
be forwarded to EDD:  Technical 
questions:  916/651-6945 or Information 
and forms: 916/657-0529.
• Annual small business and disabled 
veteran reports.
ETHNICITY/RACE/GENDER REPORTING 
REQUIREMENT
Effective July 1, 2002, in accordance with 
Public Contract Code 10116, state 
departments are to capture information on 
ethnicity, race, and gender of business 
owners (not subcontractors) for all 
awarded contracts, including CAL-Card 
transactions.  Each department is required 
to independently report this information to 
the Governor and the Legislature on an 
annual basis.
Departments are responsible for 
developing their own guidelines and forms 
for collecting and reporting this information,
Contractor participation is voluntary.  
PAYMENTS AND INVOICES
1. Payment Terms
Payment will be made in accordance 
with the provisions of the California 
Prompt Payment Act, Government 
Code Section 927 et. seq.  Unless 
expressly exempted by statute, the 
Act requires State agencies to pay 
properly submitted, undisputed 
invoices not more than 45 days after 
(i) the date of acceptance of goods or 
performance of services; or (ii) receipt 
of an undisputed invoice, whichever is 
later.  
2. Advance Payments
Advance payment is allowed for 
services only under limited, narrowly 
defined circumstances, e.g. between 
specific departments and certain 
types of non-profit organizations, or 
when paying another government 
agency (Government Code (GC) § 
11256 – 11263 and 11019).
It is NOT acceptable to pay in 
advance, except software 
maintenance and license fees, which 
are considered a subscription and 
may be paid in advance if a provision 
addressing payment in advance is 
included in the purchase order.
Software warranty upgrades and 
extensions may also be paid for in 
advance.
3. Payee Data Record (Std. 204)
State Agencies not transacting in 
FI$Cal, must obtain a copy of the 
Payee Data Record (Std. 204) in 
order to process payments. State 
Ordering Agencies forward a copy of 
the Std. 204 to their accounting 
office(s). Without the Std. 204, 
payment may be unnecessarily 
delayed. State Agencies should 
32 of 266

--- page 33 ---
SOFTWARE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT (SCA)
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC
SCA-19-70-0025U, AMENDMENT NO.: 2
BUILDING GREEN • BUYING GREEN • WORKING GREEN
12
contact the Contractor for copies of 
the Payee Data Record
4. DGS Administrative and Incentive 
Fees
Orders from State Agencies:
The Department of General Services 
(DGS) will bill each State agency 
directly an administrative fee for use 
of SCA contracts. The administrative 
fee should NOT be included in the 
order total, nor remitted before an 
invoice is received from DGS. 
See the DGS Price Book at 
www.dgs.ca.gov/publications (click on 
DGS Price Book) for current fees. 
5. Credit Card
CDW Government LLC accepts the 
State of California credit card (CAL-
Card).
A Purchasing Authority Purchase 
Order (Std. 65) is required even when 
the ordering department chooses to 
pay the contractor via the CAL-Card.  
Also, the DGS administrative fee is 
applicable for all SCA orders to 
suppliers not California certified as a 
small business.
FEDERAL DEBARMENT
When federal funds are being expended, 
the department is required to obtain (retain 
in file) a signed “Federal Debarment” 
certification from the contractor before the 
purchase order is issued.   This 
certification is required by the regulations 
implementing Executive Order 12549, 
Debarment and Suspension, 29 CFR Part 
98, Section 98.510, Participants; 
responsibilities.  The regulations were 
published as Part VII of the May 26, 1988 
Federal Register (pages 19160-19211).
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITY ACT 
(ADA)
(See attachment B)
DGS PROCUREMENT DIVISION 
CONTACT AND PHONE NUMBER
Department of General Services
Procurement Division, SLP Unit
707 Third Street, 2nd Floor
West Sacramento, CA 95605-2811
Phone no.: 916/375-4365
Faxination no.: 916/376-6371
ORDER OF PRECEDENCE
The following order of precedence shall 
apply:
a. All federal, state, local laws and 
regulations 
b. This agreement
c. State of California, General 
Provisions – Information Technology 
(GSPD-401IT)
d. State of California Cloud Computing – 
Software as a Service (SaaS) 
General Provisions
e. State of California Cloud Computing 
Services – Special Provisions (SaaS)
f.
County of Riverside RFQ # RIVCO-
2020-RFQ-0000048
g. Microsoft Master Agreement # 
8084445
33 of 266

--- page 34 ---
Updated 10/2019
ATTACHMENT A
SCA QUARTERLY BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT
Company Name:
Publisher:
For Questions Regarding this Report:
E-mail:
Reporting Calendar Year:
Reporting Quarter: 
 Q1 (January to March)
 Q2 (April to June)
 Q3 (July to September)
 Q4 (October to December)
Check Here if No New Orders for This Quarter 
STATE GOVERNMENT AGENCY PURCHASES
State Agency 
Name
Purchase 
Order Number
Purchase 
Order Date
Agency 
Billing Code
Total Dollars 
Per Purchase 
Order
Agency Contact
Agency Address
Phone 
Number
Total State Agency Dollars Reported for Quarter: $
34 of 266

--- page 35 ---
ATTACHMENT A
SCA QUARTERLY BUSINESS ACTIVITY REPORT
Procurement Division | State of California | California Government Operations Agency
707 3rd Street, 2ndFloor | West Sacramento, CA  95605 | t 916.375-4400
Instructions for completing the SCA Quarterly Business Activity Report.
1. Complete the top of the form with the appropriate information for your company.
2. Agency Name - Identify the State agency that issued the order.
3. Purchase Order Number - Identify the purchase order number (and amendment 
number if applicable) on the order form.  This is not your invoice number.  This is the 
number the State agency assigns to the order.
4. Purchase Order Date - Identify the date the purchase order was issued, as shown on 
the order.  This is not the date you received, accepted, or invoiced the order.
5. Agency Billing Code - Identify the State agency billing code.  This is a five-digit 
number identified on the upper right hand corner of the Std. 65 purchase order form.  
You must identify this number on all purchases made by State of California agencies.
6. Total Dollars Per PO - Identify the total dollars of the order excluding tax and freight.  
Tax must NOT be included in the quarterly report, even if the agency includes tax on 
the purchase order.  The total dollars per order should indicate the entire purchase 
order amount (less tax and freight) regardless of when you invoice order, perform 
services, deliver product, or receive payment.
7. Agency Contact - Identify the ordering agency’s contact person on the purchase 
order.
8. Agency Address - Identify the ordering agency’s address on the purchase order.
9. Phone Number - Identify the phone number for the ordering agency’s contact person.
10.Total State Sales - Separately identify the total State dollars (pre-tax) for all orders 
placed in quarter.
11.Grand Total - Identify the total of all State dollars reported for the quarter.
Notes:
•
A report is required for each SCA contract each quarter even when there are no new 
orders for the quarter.
•
Quarterly reports are due two weeks after the end of the quarter.
35 of 266

--- page 36 ---
Updated 2/06/2018
15
ATTACHMENT B
ADA NOTICE
Procurement Division (State Department of General Services)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) COMPLIANCE
POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY
To meet and carry out compliance with the nondiscrimination requirements of 
the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), it is the policy of the Procurement 
Division (within the State Department of General Services) to make every effort 
to ensure that its programs, activities, and services are available to all persons, 
including persons with disabilities.
For persons with a disability needing a reasonable accommodation to 
participate in the Procurement process, or for persons having questions 
regarding reasonable accommodations for the Procurement process, please 
contact the Procurement Division at (916) 375-4400 (main office); the 
Procurement Division TTY/TDD (telephone device for the deaf) or California 
Relay Service numbers which are listed below.  You may also contact directly 
the Procurement Division contact person who is handling this procurement.
IMPORTANT:  TO ENSURE THAT WE CAN MEET YOUR NEED, IT IS BEST 
THAT WE RECEIVE YOUR REQUEST AT LEAST 10 WORKING DAYS 
BEFORE THE SCHEDULED EVENT (i.e., MEETING, CONFERENCE, 
WORKSHOP, etc.) OR DEADLINE DUE-DATE FOR PROCUREMENT 
DOCUMENTS.
The Procurement Division TTY telephone numbers are:
Sacramento Office: (916) 376-1891
Fullerton Office: (714) 773-2093
The California Relay Service Telephone Numbers are:
Voice: 1-800-735-2922 or 1-888-877-5379
TTY: 1-800-735-2929 or 1-888-877-5378
Speech-to-Speech: 1-800-854-7784
36 of 266

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4651
File ID: 23-8258
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Uniform Laundry Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the City's current agreement with Cintas, Inc. for uniform maintenance services through 
Fiscal Year 2025-26; increase the total contract amount by $330,000, and establish a contingency reserve of $25,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The City has a contract with Cintas, Inc. (Cintas) for uniform laundry services. These services have been provided annually 
by Cintas since Fiscal Year 2011-12. Originally in 2011, the Wastewater Treatment Plant conducted a Request for Quote 
(RFQ) for this service, soliciting quotes from three vendors. Cintas was awarded a four-year agreement by City Council on 
November 18, 2012 based on the RFQ outcome. When the agreement expired in 2016, the City then utilized an alternative 
purchasing procedure with an existing agreement between Prince William County Public Schools and Cintas Inc. through 
OMNIA Partners, a cooperative purchasing organization, to provide uniform laundry services for the Public Works and 
Parks & Recreation Departments. The new agreement had a five-year term with Cintas and was renewed by the Finance 
Department in 2021 for a three-year term, which expires on February 1, 2024. On October 31, 2023, the purchasing 
agreement between Prince William County Public Schools and Cintas Inc. via OMNIA Partners was renewed through 
October 31, 2027. To remain consistent with past multi-year service agreements with Cintas, and to take advantage of the 
competitive pricing already established by the OMNIA Partners rates, a new multi-year agreement is recommended 
through June 30, 2026. Public Works staff will conduct a new Request for Proposal (RFP) for these services in Fiscal Year 
2025-26.
In the past three fiscal years, expenses under the Cintas contract have averaged approximately $115,000 annually. The 
required funding in future fiscal years will be significantly greater, as this agreement has an annual Consumer Price Index 
(CPI) increase component, which increased by 7.7% over the previous year’s rates on May 1, 2023. In addition to the 
annual CPI increases, staffing levels in the Wastewater Treatment Plant and Field Maintenance Divisions utilizing these 
services have continued to increase, filling previously vacant positions requiring this service, including hiring 5 full-time 
employees each in the next few months.
Based on service costs, recent escalation in rates, and use trends under the current contract term to date, annual expenses 
are estimated to be $150,000. With the proposed Amendment No. 1 to extend the contract through Fiscal Year 2025-26, 
additional funding needs are estimated to be $330,000, which includes $30,000 additional funding needed for the 
remainder of Fiscal Year 2023-24 and $150,000 each year for Fiscal Years 2024-25 and 2025-26. A contingency reserve of 
$25,000 is requested to accommodate potential fluctuations in rates and/or use of services. 
37 of 266

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City staff is satisfied with the overall services provided throughout the past twelve years by Cintas. Based on the above, 
staff recommends approval for Amendment No. 1 to the City’s current agreement with Cintas increasing the contract total 
by $330,000 with a contingency reserve of $25,000, through FY 2025-26.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for uniform laundry service costs is included in the Public Works and Parks & Recreation Departments’ operating 
budgets as services are incurred, as such, no additional budget appropriations are needed this fiscal year. Any additional 
funding needs in subsequent fiscal years will be addressed as part of the budget development process.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Addendum
Att 2 – Master Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ryan Lukehart, Management Analyst I
rlukehart@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227330
Jamie Perez, Senior Management Analyst
jperez@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227242
38 of 266

--- page 39 ---
R-2100A RENEWAL 
Page 1 of 1 
 
ADDENDUM 
Customer CITY OF SAN MATEO 
(“Customer”)        Date
 
 
 Address 2001 PACIFIC BLVD
 City
SAN MATEO
State
CA
Zip
94403
 
The Addendum (“Addendum”) amends the current agreement number 
MULTIPLE 
dated 2/1/2021 
(“Agreement”) and all Customer numbers currently being serviced under the referenced agreement.  
 
Sort 
Payer 
Sold To 
Address  
Department 
81022
15936449
15912591
1201 E POPLAR AVE 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94401 
GOLF 
80852
15936354
15912525
2050 DETROIT DR 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94404-1002 
WASTEWATER 
81016
15936498
15912473
2001 PACIFIC BLVD 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94403 
PARKS 
02150
22405893
22405893
1961 PACIFIC BLVD 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94403-1430 
CORP YARD 
81020
15936411
15912561
1949 PACIFIC BLVD 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94403-1430 
STREETS 
81017
15936359
15912536
1949 PACIFIC BLVD 
SAN MATEO 
CA 
94403-1430 
SEWER 
 
 
 
Term: Cintas and Customer agree that starting on the date this Addendum is signed existing terms will extend 
for all locations and Sold To (Customer) numbers listed above through June 30, 2025. 
 
Except as otherwise set forth in the Addendum, all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement remain in 
effect. Each party represents that the individual signing this Addendum on its behalf is authorized to do so and 
to bind the party. 
 
 
CINTAS CORPORATION: 
 
 
 
 
        CUSTOMER: 
 
 
    Sign:   
 
    Sign: 
 
Print:         
    Print: 
 
    Title: 
 
     Title: 
 
Accepted-GM:
 
 
 
 
RANIER ADAO
KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER
39 of 266
6

--- page 40 ---
CINTAS
FACILITIES SOLUTIONS AGREEMENT Location No. 464
Contract No. Multiple

Customer No._Multiple
Main Corporate Code > New CC 13218

Date 2/1/2021

Customer/Participating Agency City of San Mateo Phone_ 650.522.7354
Address_2001 Pacific Bivd. City_San Mateo State CA Zip 94403

UNIFORM PRODUCT RENTAL PRICING:

| item [Description CSC~—CSCSCSCSCSSC.C~*d

| Ail uniform pricing based on the Omnia GPO structure in Exhibit A

Any uniform items not governed by the Omnia GPO structure will remain at the current rate

| Unit Price
| r—“:*CSCSCSY
| a
Pd Agreement for Service Includes: PF
po CITY OF SAN MATEO - GOLF (159368) =SSS~=~CS~SsSSTSSCSCSSSSSSS
J | CITY OF SAN MATEO - WASTEWATER (15936354) ~—=S=~—~—SCSSSSCSCSCSSS
poof CITY OF SAN MATEO - PARKS (15996498) ==SS~=~<“C~*~S*s*SSSSSYSSC‘“‘“‘SSY
po] CITY OF SAN MATEO - SEWER (15936359) =S*~*~<“—*~“—*~*S*~é~YSCSO*tC‘“‘s‘“‘CSCSCS*S*SSY
el | C—CsiszC
| | C—CisSCY
Ls _ —C—‘isiszC

CITY OF SAN MATEO - STREETS (15936411)

* This agreement is effective as of this date from 2/1/2021 to 2/1/2024 , with a minimum term of 36 months. The length of this rental

agreement will commence with the actual unifonn rental, not affiliated with the start date of the Master Agreement. Any negotiations of price, terms
or discounts must be approved by Prince William County Public Schools for the Master Agreement. Any such changes shall take effect on the
anniversary date of the master agreement. All requests for price changes must be justified and based upon verifiable criteria which may include the
Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index (CPI-U).

« Name Emblem $250 ea ® Company Emblem $350 ea

¢ Customer Emblem $3.50 ea e Embroidery $575 ea

« COD Terms $ per week charge for prior service (if Amount Due is Carried to Following Week)

e Automatic Lost Replacement Charge: Item % of Inventory. $ Ea.

e Automatic Lost Replacement Charge: Item, % of Inventory. $ Ea,

* Minimum Charge $_50% of invoice per delivery.

e® Make-Up charge $.1.50 per garment.

* Non-Standard/Special Cut Garment (i.e., non-standard, non-stocked unusually small or large sizes, unusually short or long sleeve or length, etc.)
premium $025 per garment,

¢ Seasonal Sleeve Change $ per garment.

e Under no circumstances will the Company accept textiles bearing free liquid. Shop towels may not be used to clean up oil or solvent spills.
° Artwork Charge for Logo Mat $.

e Size Change: Customer agrees to have employees measured by a Cintas representative using garment “size samples”. A charge
of $8.00 per garment will be assessed for employee's size changed within 4 weeks of installation.

e Other
eee

FACILITY SERVICES PRODUCTS PRICING:
| Bundle" | tem# [| Description —SSSSS~S*SCSCS Senta Freq, | Inventory | Unit Price |

P| FS pricing based on the Omnia GPO structure in Exhibit A
FS items not governed by the Omnia GPO structure will remain the same

“Indicated bundled items/services

40 of 266


--- page 41 ---
Rich Lee
Finance Director
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
41 of 266

--- page 42 ---
. Adding Employees Additional employees and Merchandise may be added to this Agreement at any time upon written or oral request by
the Customer to the Company. Any such additional employees or Merchandise shall automatically become a part of and subject to the terms
of this Agreement. If such employees are employed at a Customer location that is then participating under this Agreement, the Customer
shall pay Company the one-time preparation fee indicated on Exhibit A. Customer shall not pay Company any one-time preparation fee for
garments for employces included in the initial installation of a Customer location. There will be a one-time charge for name and/or
company emblems when employees are added to the program in garments requiring emblems.

» Embiem Guarantee Customer has requested that Company supply emblems designed exclusively for Customer featuring Customer's logo or
other specific identification (hereinafter "Customer Emblems"). Company will maintain a sufficient quantity of Customer Emblems in
inventory to provide for Customer's needs and maintain a low cost per emblem through quantity purchases.

10. In the event Customer decides to discontinue the use of Customer Emblems, changes the design of the Customer Emblems, terminates this
Agreement for any reason or fails to renew this Agreement, the Customer will purchase at the time of deletion, design change, termination
or expiration, all remaining Customer Emblems that the Company allocated to Customer at the price indicated on Exhibit A of this
Agreement. In no event shall the number of Customer Emblems allocated to Customer exceed the greater of (a) twelve (12) months’
volume for each unique Customer Emblem or (b) a quantity agreed to by Company and Customer and noted on Exhibit A.

11. Terminating Employees Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the weekly rental charge attributable to any individual leaving the
employ of the Customer, or on a temporary leave of absence of three (3) weeks or more, shall be terminated upon oral or written notice by
the Customer to the Company but only after all garments issued to that individual, or value of same at the then current Loss/Damage
Replacement Values, are returned to Company.

12. Replacement In the event any Merchandise is lost, stolen or is not returned to Company, or is destroyed or damaged by fire, welding
damage, acid, paint, ink, chemicals, neglect or otherwise, the Customer agrees to pay for said Merchandise at the then current Loss/Damage
Replacement Values.

13. Indemnification To the fullest extent permitted by law, Company agrees to defend, indemnify, pay on behalf of and save harmless the
Participating Public Agency, its elected and appointed officials, agents, employees and authorized volunteers against any and all claims,
liability, demands, suits or loss, including reasonable attorneys fees and all other costs connected therewith, arising out of or connected to
the services provided by Company under this Contract, but only to the extent of Company’s negligence.

14. Additional Items; Additional customer employees, products and services may be added to this agreement and shall automatically become a

part of and subject to the terms hereof and all of its provisions. If this agreement is terminated early for convenience, the parties agree that

the damages sustained by Company will be substantial and difficult to ascertain. Therefore, if this agreement is terminated by Customer
prior to the applicable expiration date for any reason other than documented quality of service reasons which are not cured, or terminated by

Company for non-payment by Customer at any time Customer will pay to Company, as termination charges and not as a penalty based upon

the following schedule:

If this agreement is cancelled for convenience in the first twelve months of the term, Customer shall pay as termination charges equal to 50
weeks of rental service.

If this agreement is cancelled for convenience in months thirteen (13) through eighteen (18) of the term, Customer shall pay as termination
charges equal to 36 weeks of rental service.

If this agreement is cancelled for convenience in months nineteen (19) through twenty-four (24) of the term, Customer shall pay as
termination charges equal to 23 weeks of rental service.

If this agreement is cancelled for convenience after 24 months of service, Customer shall pay as termination charges of 10 weeks of rental
service.

Customer shall also be responsible to return all of the Merchandise allocated to such Customer locations terminating this Agreement at the
then current Loss/Damage Replacement Values and for any unpaid charges on Customer’s account prior to termination,

42 of 266


--- page 43 ---
Exhibit A

Uniform Items

|__item | UnitPrice [Description
0.17
0.23
0.17
0.33
0.25
0.34
0.55
0.55
0.42
0.44
0.25
0.34
0.35
70 0.31
371 0.42
74 0.25
381 0.37
0.37
0.42
0.33
0.27
0.88
0.29
0.27
0.17
0.27
0.25
0.34
0.32

NINN
bE bd bd
WMmiwloe

w
Re
~~

w

:

391

Vr W114 114-114-1141
=] o
= N

w

olin

.

970
66273
66275
71125
82497
82670

Win ve
o
-

Win

Facility Service Items
|_UnitPrice |Description
| 9313, |S 2,000| 1000 MOISTURE SPRFL__|
| 9314 | $2,000 VY DTYSCRUBSVC _|
$1,750} PULSEMOP

43 of 266


--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-8280
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project – Final Parcel Map
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the Mayor to sign the Owner’s Statement on the Final Parcel Map for the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order requiring improvements to its 
collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows and unauthorized 
discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes 
several capital improvement projects that are currently under design and construction and are intended to comply with 
the Cease and Desist Order. The WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project (Project) is one of these projects, which will result 
in a new treatment plant for processing wastewater. On July 16, 2018, the City Council approved the Special Use Permit, 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), and Tentative Parcel Map for the Project as submitted in the Planning 
Application PA #17-075. On April 15, 2019, the City Council approved modifications to the previously approved Project. 
The approved Project is currently under construction since May 2019 and is anticipated to be completed in early 2025. 
In compliance with the Final Conditions of Approval (COAs), the Subdivision Map Act, and the City’s Municipal Code 
Section 26.56, the City prepared a Final Parcel Map No. 474 based on the previously approved Tentative Parcel Map. All 
the conditions required for Final Parcel Map approval have been satisfied. The Final Parcel Map was approved by the 
Department of Public Works. A copy of the Final Parcel Map is included as Attachment 2. A City representative is required 
to sign the Owner’s Statement in the Final Parcel Map prior to its recordation with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s 
Office. Staff recommends approval of the proposed resolution to authorize the Mayor to sign the Owner’s Statement in 
the Final Parcel Map No. 474. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
All costs associated with the execution and recordation of the Final Parcel Map are included in the WWTP and Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion (46t003) Project budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. In 
accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of 
the Clean Water Program. The City prepared an Addendum to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 
(Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project evaluated in the PEIR and 
Addenda.
44 of 266

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Project Manager II
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Deryk Daquigan, Acting Deputy Public Works Director
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
45 of 266

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO SIGN THE OWNER’S STATEMENT ON THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
FINAL PARCEL MAP
WHEREAS the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Upgrade and Expansion Project (Project) will result
in a new treatment plant for processing wastewater; and
WHEREAS, the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), and Tentative Parcel Map
for the Project as submitted in the Planning Application PA #17-075 was approved by City Council on July 16,
2018; and
WHEREAS modifications to the previously approved Project were approved by the City Council on April
15, 2019; and
WHEREAS, the approved Project has been under construction since May 2019 and is anticipated to be
completed in early 2025: and
WHEREAS, in compliance with the Final Conditions of Approval (COAs), the Subdivision Map Act, and the
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 26.56, the City prepared a Final Parcel Map No. 474 based on the previously
approved Tentative Parcel Map; and
WHEREAS, all the conditions required for the Final Parcel Map approval have been satisfied; and
WHEREAS, Final Parcel Map No. 474 has been approved by the Department of Public Works.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1. The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance
with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). On June 6, 2016, the
City Council certified the PEIR. In accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary
environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City
prepared an Addendum to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and
April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and
Addendum.
2. The Council authorizes the Mayor to sign the Owner’s Statement in the Final Parcel Map No. 474
prior to recording the map with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office, and to take any other
action necessary to accomplish the intent of this resolution.
46 of 266

--- page 47 ---
47 of 266


--- page 48 ---
48 of 266


--- page 49 ---
49 of 266


--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-468
File ID: 23-8284
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2nd & El Camino Garage Improvements – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the design professional services agreement with MBH Architects, Inc. in the amount of 
$266,222, for a total agreement amount of $858,263; increase the contingency reserve in the amount of $23,000, for a 
total contingency amount of $80,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The 2nd & El Camino Garage has served the San Mateo downtown community for over seventy-five years. It is a concrete 
structure that has 385 parking spaces spanning five and a half stories. In 2020, a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) report 
identified multiple areas that are out of accessibility compliance such as the slope along the path of travel, stairs, 
transitions, and lighting. A structural assessment identified concrete façade panel connections to be either broken or 
deteriorated and wheel stops were found to be broken and/or missing. Damaged vehicle barriers, corroded tube steel 
lintels, missing waterproofing at major structural joints, concrete cracking and spalling throughout, exposed rebar on the 
driving surface, faded striping and missing wayfinding indicators were all items that require attention. In 2022, a structural 
investigation identified exposed, ruptured, and corroded post-tension beam tendons in various areas which require 
immediate attention to restore the integrity of the structure.  
In September 2023, the City Council awarded MBH Architects (MBH) to produce design documents for a two phased 
approach Phase 1: Post-tension Beam Tendon Repairs, which includes the replacement of post-tension beam tendons in 
multiple areas. Construction for Phase 1 is scheduled to start in early-2024. Phase 2: Parking Garage Structural & Safety 
Improvements includes the replacement of the stairs, improvements to the concrete surfaces, rebar, lighting, vehicle 
barriers, exterior façade, public sidewalk, signage, striping, waterproofing, security system, and implement the City’s 
Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Plan. Through the development of this phase, it was determined that a 
number of concerns related to safety can be addressed efficiently by replacing elements on the exterior façade with an 
architectural mesh system, thus changing the overall look and feel of the building.  Thus, a Planning Application is required 
for review by the City’s Zoning Administrator and Planning Commission.
In November 2023, Amendment No. 1 in the amount of $21,400 was issued to develop a testing assessment program 
during design and construction in preparation for the Pre-Planning review process. MBH then met with the City’s Planning 
Department to discuss the list of requirements for this type of project. In December 2023, MBH submitted an additional 
service request to produce a complete Planning Application package required for review by the Planning Commission, 
which is scheduled to occur in mid-2024.  Construction for Phase 2 is scheduled to start in late-2024. This proposed 
Amendment No. 2 is to provide the required Planning Application documents for project approval. If approved, this 
Amendment will bring the total contract amount to $858,263 and the total contingency amount to $80,000. The $266,222 
50 of 266

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
increase is detailed in Exhibit A-2 to Amendment No. 2 included in Attachment 1 of this Report.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in the Parking Facility Structural Repairs (46F025) project for the cost of this 
amendment and increased contingency. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
51 of 266

--- page 52 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 5
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
MBH ARCHITECTS, INC. FOR
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FOR 
2ND & EL CAMINO GARAGE IMPROVEMENTS
($570,641 [Original Amount], $21,400 [Amendment 1], $266,222 [Amendment 2])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
MBH Architects, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for professional services for the 2nd & 
El Camino Garage Improvements (“Agreement”) on September 19, 2023; and
WHEREAS, Amendment No. 1 in the amount of $21,400 was issued in November 2023 to 
develop a testing assessment program during the design and construction phases of the project; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement to modify the scope of work as 
described in Exhibit A-2, and to increase compensation for Consultant’s services..
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 1 “Scope of Services” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The scope of service to be performed by Consultant under this agreement is as 
described in Exhibits A and A-2 to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference.”
2.
Section 5 “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibits A and A-2, 
CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed $858,263.”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
52 of 266

--- page 53 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 5
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and MBH Architects, Inc. have executed this Amendment 
No. 2 on ___________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Brad B. Underwood, 
Interim Public Works Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Jason Dries-Daffner, 
Its Authorized Agent
Principal
Date
_______________________________________
  Linh Nguyen,
  Assistant City Attorney
53 of 266

--- page 54 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 3 of 5
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT A-2
SCOPE OF SERVICES
54 of 266

--- page 55 ---
MBH Architects
1.1 Per client advanced authorization T&M spent for additional
architectural scope of services
Conceptual Design
Design Development
1.2 Planning Submittal
Planning Submittal Package
Plan Check (2 rounds, 2 weeks each)

1.3 MBH Si e

Fee Type

T&M
T&M

Fixed Fee
Hourly Budget
Subtotal

$32,048
$7,484

$77,000
$43,500
$160,032

Additional Signage Scope Hourly Budget $6,500
Planning Submittal Hourly Budget $1,800
Sign Permit Application Hourly Budget $2,200
Signage Program Guidelines for City of San Mateo Hourly Budget $4,500
Subtotal $15,000
1.4 Luk and Associates
Preliminary Title Report Fixed Fee $3,500
Boundary & Additional Topographic Survey Fixed Fee $9,000
Planning Submittal Fixed Fee $4,000
Utility Plan Fixed Fee $2,000
Construction Administration Hourly Budget $2,500
Subtotal $21,000
1.5 JETT Landscape Architecture +Design
100% Design Development through First Planning Submittal
100% DD Package Fixed Fee $6,500
Planning Submittals Fixed Fee $5,760
Meetings —Up to 16 hours on-line and/or in person meetings Hourly Budget $3,100
(Public meetings NIC)
Construction Documents
70% Construction Documents Fixed Fee $4,200
90% Construction Documents Fixed Fee $2,800
Meetings —Up to 16 hours on-line and/or in-person meetings Hourly Budget $3,100
(Public meetings NIC)
Construction Administration
Deliverables and Site Visits and Reports Hourly Budget $12,500
Subtotal $37,960

1.6 SavaTree Consulting Group

Tree Condition Assessment

Contract Amendment
Rev 7/21

Fixed Fee
Subtotal

$1,440
$1,440

Page 4of 5

55 of 266


--- page 56 ---
Fee Type Fee
1.7 ACIES Engineering

E&P Site Survey Fixed Fee $1,800
Basis of Design Fixed Fee $3,000
Permit/Construction Documents Fixed Fee $10,000
Title 24 Compliance Documentation Fixed Fee $1,500
Permitting Assistance, Plancheck Coordination and One Round of Fixed Fee $1,000
Plancheck Comments

Construction Administration Fixed Fee $3,000

Subtotal $20,300

1.8 Gabel Energy
CA Energy Code Compliance Scope Fixed Fee $850
Subtotal $850

1.9 Robert Becker, Inc.

Standing level architectural rendering per viewpoint (1) Fixed Fee $1,350
Subtotal $1,350

MBH Subtotal $175,032

Consultant Subtotal $82,900

MBH Consultant Mark-up (10%) $8,290
ASR2Total $266,222

Contract Amendment Page 5o0f 5
Rev 7/21

56 of 266


--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-468
File ID: 23-8293
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
2nd and El Camino Garage Improvements Phase 1 – Construction Contract 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles 
Contractor, Inc. in the amount of $691,909.95; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $105,000; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The 2nd & El Camino Garage has served the San Mateo downtown community for over seventy-five years. It is a concrete 
structure that has 385 parking spaces spanning five and a half stories. In 2020, the City Council created a directive to 
prioritize condition assessments for all downtown parking garages starting with this location due to the extent of visual 
deterioration and history of safety concerns. That year, a Certified Access Specialist (CASp) report identified multiple areas 
that are out of accessibility compliance such as the slope along the path of travel, stairs, transitions, and lighting. A 
structural assessment identified concrete façade panel connections to be either broken or deteriorated and wheel stops 
were found to be broken and/or missing. Damaged vehicle barriers, corroded tube steel lintels, missing waterproofing at 
major structural joints, concrete cracking and spalling throughout, exposed rebar on the driving surface, faded striping and 
missing wayfinding indicators were all items that require attention. In 2022, a structural investigation identified exposed, 
ruptured, and corroded post-tension beam tendons in various areas, which require immediate attention to restore the 
integrity of the structure. 
In 2023, the City engaged MBH Architects to produce design documents for a two phased approach: Phase 1: Post-tension 
Beam Tendon Repairs, which includes the replacement of post-tension beam tendons in multiple areas and Phase 2: 
Parking Garage Structural & Safety Improvements, which includes the replacement of the stairs, improvements to the 
concrete surfaces, rebar, lighting, vehicle barriers, exterior façade, public sidewalk, signage, striping, waterproofing, 
security system, and implementation of the City’s Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Plan. 
The construction drawings for Phase 1 include the repair and/or replacement of the post-tension beam tendons at various 
locations and were used as the basis for development of a fixed-price proposal utilizing a process called “job order 
contracting” (JOC). The JOC process includes a contract for a fixed term or maximum dollar value in which a contractor is 
selected based on a competitive bid to perform various and separate job orders in the future, during the life of the 
contract. The JOC contract serves as an "on call" contracting program that is procured through one umbrella or framework 
contract. The contract is competitively procured at the onset of the program using a unit price book (UPB), unit price list 
construction catalog, or custom list of construction prices as a basis for pricing in the procurement process. Each individual 
job order is then priced from that UPB and allows for rapid deployment of projects with a transparent pricing mechanism. 
57 of 266

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The JOC process is a competitive procurement method for construction services approved by the City Council by resolution 
on March 18, 2019, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), which permits the use of procedures 
approved by the Council that are not set forth in the purchasing ordinance. Specifically, this process involves the 
development of a detailed project list, establishment of a firm price using a unit price book, and the selection of a pre-
qualified construction contractor upon the City’s authorization to proceed. 
In this case, a multi-step process was used to select Angeles Contractor, Inc. to perform the work, subject to Council 
approval. First, Sourcewell (formerly known as the National Joint Powers Alliance or NJPA) conducted a competitive 
proposal process to select The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement JOC on behalf of Sourcewell member agencies. 
Second, Gordian competitively bids and administers the JOC process with the use of Gordian’s unit price book that will 
provide the best price to the City. This allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating 
the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids through a project-specific competitive 
bidding process. Here, Gordian used the JOC process to select Angeles Contractor, Inc., the low bidder and pre-qualified 
contractor selected to construct the improvement project.  Time is of the essence for this project because additional 
structural tendons were found to have ruptured during the 2023 design phase in addition to the ruptured tendons 
discovered in the 2022 investigation, further compromising the integrity of the parking garage. Therefore, the JOC process 
helps to expedite the procurement process and the start of the structural repair project.
With contract approval, the construction for Phase 1 will begin in February 2024 and be complete by April 2024. Based on 
the above, staff recommends award of the contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. because of their experience and availability 
to perform these construction services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Phase 1 Project budget is $691,909.95; with a contingency reserve in the amount of $105,000;.There is sufficient 
funding available in the Parking Facility Structural Repairs (46F025) project to award this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
58 of 266

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO 
ANGELES CONTRACTOR, INC. FOR THE 2ND AND EL CAMINO GARAGE IMPROVEMENTS PHASE 1 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve an alternative purchasing procedure upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is
in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA) has conducted competitive bidding processes to select 
Gordian, Inc. (Gordian) to implement Job Order Contracting on behalf of their member agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Job Order Contracting process allows for an umbrella construction contract to cover 
various and separate job orders during the life of the contract, and is beneficial for renovation, remodeling, or 
alterations where many small project tasks will arise, but the timing, type, and quantity of work are unknown; 
and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell and Gordian have conducted competitive bidding to select contractors to perform 
Job Order Contracting based on Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, unit price books provide fixed unit prices used for establishing budgets for contractor 
services at member agencies; and
WHEREAS, use of Gordian’s Unit Price Book and contract provides a competitive price to the City and 
allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project 
specifications or solicit bids for each minor project task; and
WHEREAS, the City approved the Job Order Contracting as a competitive procurement method for 
construction services by resolution on March 18, 2019 upon findings that the Job Order Contracting process with 
Gordian is in the best interests of the City; and
WHEREAS, the 2nd and El Camino Garage Improvements Phase 1 project is designed and documented to 
be priced using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, Angeles Contractor, Inc. was selected based on their experience and availability to perform 
construction services using the Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff has determined that this is the best price available 
because companies have submitted competitive bids. 
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
59 of 266

--- page 60 ---
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as 
an “existing facility” in that it consists of the renovation of an existing building and involves negligible 
or no expansion of existing or former use.
2.
The Job Order Contracting process, as approved by City Council on March 18, 2019, utilizing Gordian’s 
contract and Unit Price Book to award a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. is in the 
best interests of the City because it offers the best price to the City and allows the City to complete 
the structural improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project specifications and 
eliminating the need for the solicitation of bids through a project-specific competitive bidding 
process.
3.
A construction contract is approved in the amount of $691,909.95 to Angeles Contractor, Inc. for the 
2nd and El Camino Garage Improvements Phase 1.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the contract on behalf of the City and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.
60 of 266

--- page 61 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 1 of 29
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION
This Contract is by and between.
OWNER
CONTRACTOR
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street
San Mateo, California 94403
Angeles Contractor, Inc.
783 Phillips Drive
City of Industry, CA 91748
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK
1.01
Work
A.
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents.
B.
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows:
1.
2nd and El Camino Garage Improvements Phase 1 which includes demolition and 
disposal; post-tension beam tendon repair and replacement, crack sealing, grinding; 
inspection; testing and closeout.
2.
The Site of the Work includes designated work areas described in greater detail in the 
Contract Documents but generally located at 95 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 
94401.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY
2.01
Defined Terms
A.
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms.
1.
Architect: 
MBH Architects, 960 Atlantic Avenue, Alameda, CA 94501
2.
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
61 of 266

--- page 62 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 2 of 29
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material.
3.
Engineer: 
N/A
4.
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition.
5.
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is:
a.
Steve Wu, City of San Mateo
2.02
Terminology
A.
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning.
B.
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives:
1.
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents.
C.
Day:
1.
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight.
D.
Defective:
1.
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it:
a.
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or
62 of 266

--- page 63 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 3 of 29
b.
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or
c.
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion.
E.
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide:
1.
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition.
2.
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
3.
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
4.
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use.
F.
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning.
2.03
Contract Documents Defined
A.
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents:
1.
This Contract.
2.
Performance bond.
3.
Payment bond.
4.
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows):
a.
Exhibit A – Scope of Work
b.
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts.
5.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions.
6.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task Catalog.
7.
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications.
8.
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract:
a.
Work Change Directives.
63 of 266

--- page 64 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 4 of 29
b.
Change Orders.
c.
Field Orders.
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
3.01
Intent of Contract Documents
A.
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents.
B.
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder.
C.
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents.
D.
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants.
3.02
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies
A.
Reporting Discrepancies:
1.
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01.
64 of 266

--- page 65 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 5 of 29
3.
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof.
B.
Resolving Discrepancies:
1.
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and:
a.
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or
b.
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
2.
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail.
3.
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence: 
a.
Change Order.
b.
Addenda.
c.
Contract.
d.
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
e.
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
f.
Owner Standard Specifications.
g.
Owner Standard Drawings.
h.
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications.
i.
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions.
j.
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document).
k.
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
l.
Notice to Bidder.
65 of 266

--- page 66 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 6 of 29
m.
Instruction to Bidder.
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES
4.01
Contract Times
A.
The Work will be substantially completed within 365 days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract and completed and ready for final payment within 395 days after the Effective Date 
of the Contract.
4.02
Liquidated Damages
A.
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion.
4.03
Delays in Contractor’s Progress
A.
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times.
B.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers.
C.
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times.
D.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers.
4.04
Progress Schedules
A.
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR.
B.
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule.
66 of 266

--- page 67 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 7 of 29
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE
5.01
Payment
A.
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of $691,909.95 for all Work.
B.
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR.
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
6.01
Bonds
A.
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due.
B.
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore
6.02
Insurance
A.
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B.
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES
7.01
Supervision and Superintendence
A.
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction.
67 of 266

--- page 68 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 8 of 29
B.
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances.
C.
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site.
D.
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday.
7.02
Other Work at the Site
A.
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site.
7.03
Services, Materials, and Equipment
A.
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents.
B.
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents.
7.04
Subcontractors and Suppliers
A.
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7. 
7.05
Quality Management
A.
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents.
7.06
Licenses, Fees and Permits
A.
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others.
B.
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents.
7.07
Laws and Regulations; Taxes
A.
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
68 of 266

--- page 69 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 9 of 29
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations.
B.
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations.
C.
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations.
D.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties. 
E.
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.  
F.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.  
G.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced.
H.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.  
I.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.  
J.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
69 of 266

--- page 70 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 10 of 29
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.  
K.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.  
L.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.  
M.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.  
N.
In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  
7.08
Record Documents
A.
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work.
7.09
Safety and Protection
A.
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work.
B.
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to:
1.
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work;
2.
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and
3.
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction.
C.
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor).
D.
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations.
70 of 266

--- page 71 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 11 of 29
E.
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued.
7.10
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals
A.
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information.
B.
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal.
C.
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents.
D.
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples.
E.
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs.
F.
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions.
G.
Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals.
H.
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents.
7.11
Warranties and Guarantees
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee.
7.12
Correction Period
A.
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work.
71 of 266

--- page 72 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 12 of 29
7.13
Indemnification
A.
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the 
Owner
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES
8.01
Owner’s Responsibilities
A.
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR.
B.
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract.
C.
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project.
D.
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination.
E.
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes.
F.
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
G.
While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed.
H.
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor.
I.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract. 
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION
9.01
RPR’s Status
A.
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract.
B.
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
72 of 266

--- page 73 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 13 of 29
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them.
C.
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work.
D.
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents.
E.
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work.
F.
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK
10.01
Authority to Change the Work
A.
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work.
10.02
Change Orders
A.
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering:
1.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive;
2.
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and
3.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12.
B.
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change.
73 of 266

--- page 74 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 14 of 29
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS
11.01
Differing Conditions Process
A.
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so.
B.
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly:
1.
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question;
2.
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition;
3.
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein;
4.
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor;
5.
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and
6.
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
C.
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part.
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
12.01
Claims Process
A.
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto.
B.
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party.
74 of 266

--- page 75 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 15 of 29
C.
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied.
D.
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process.
12.02
Mediation
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties.
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK
13.01
Tests and Inspections
A.
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access.
B.
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests.
C.
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense.
13.02
Defective Work
A.
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective.
B.
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work.
C.
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor.
D.
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work.
E.
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work.
F.
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
75 of 266

--- page 76 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 16 of 29
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated.
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
14.01
Progress Payments
A.
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress.
14.02
Applications for Payments:
A.
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment.
B.
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment.
14.03
Retainage
A.
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete.
14.04
Review of Applications
A.
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment.
B.
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement.
C.
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work.
14.05
Contractor’s Warranty of Title
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner.
76 of 266

--- page 77 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 17 of 29
14.06
Substantial Completion
A.
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
B.
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor.
C.
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
14.07
Final Inspection
A.
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies.
14.08
Final Payment
A.
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents.
B.
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by:
1.
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents;
2.
Consent of the surety to final payment;
3.
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment;
4.
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and
5.
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work.
C.
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment.
14.09
Waiver of Claims
A.
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor.
B.
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted.
77 of 266

--- page 78 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 18 of 29
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION
15.01
Owner May Suspend Work
A.
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension.
15.02
Owner May Terminate for Cause
A.
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause.
B.
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to:
1.
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and
2.
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond.
C.
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure.
D.
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient.
E.
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner.
15.03
Owner May Terminate for Convenience
A.
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items:
1.
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work;
2.
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and
3.
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal.
78 of 266

--- page 79 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 19 of 29
B.
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination.
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
16.01
Contractor Representations
A.
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract:
1.
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
3.
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
4.
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on:
a.
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work;
b.
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and
c.
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs.
5.
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract.
6.
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.
7.
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor.
8.
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work.
9.
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents.
79 of 266

--- page 80 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 20 of 29
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS
17.01
Cumulative Remedies
A.
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply.
17.02
Limitation of Damages
A.
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project.
17.03
No Waiver
A.
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract.
17.04
Survival of Obligations
A.
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor.
17.05
Contractor’s Certifications
A.
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract.
17.06
Controlling Law and Venue
A.
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
17.07
Notices
A.
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract.
17.08
No Partnership or Agency
A.
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
80 of 266

--- page 81 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 21 of 29
17.09
Severability
A.
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
17.10
Waiver
A.
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives. 
17.11
Warranty
A.
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents. 
81 of 266

--- page 82 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 22 of 29
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract.
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract).
OWNER:
CONTRACTOR:
By:
Brad B. Underwood
By:
Young Kang
Title:
Interim Public Works Director
Title:
President
Address for giving notices:
Address for giving notices:
330 West 20th Avenue
783 Phillips Drive
San Mateo, CA  94403
City of Industry, CA 91748
License No.:
CA License # 858483
(where applicable)
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
82 of 266

--- page 83 ---
EXHIBIT A

SCOPE OF WORK

Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Date: December 18, 2023

Re: Qc Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #
Title:
(Contractor:
Proposal Value:

CA-REGB02-123021-ACI
12344100

San Mateo RE: 2ND AND EL CAMING - PARKING GARAGE

Angeles Contractor Inc.

$891,200.95

Sect item Mod UOM Description

Line Total

Labor Equip. Material (excludes)

Section - 01
q O1 22 16 000002

2 O122 16 000002

3 60122 16 000002

# O1 22 20 000078

Installation x

Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible
costs as directed by Owner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base
cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. |f there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,
fist each one separately and add a comment in the “note” block to identify the
Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sdewalk dosure, road cut, vanous permits, extended
warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt shall be
submitted wath the Price Proposal.

Quantity Unit Price Factor

200,000.00 io 10000 ~

Risk Register for
{Vandalism allowance. 2 Additional beam and deck tendon repair. 3. Additional concrete repair 4. Temporary
shoring 5 Additional scaffold or rental duration &. Owner approved staging fences 7. Additional traffic control

8_Additional generator rental. &. Concrete scanning! testing. , etc.

EA

Installation

Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees wil be paid to the contractor for eligible
costs as directed by Qwner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base
cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,
fist each one separately and add a comment in the “note” block to identity the
Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended
warranty. expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt shall be
submitted wath the Price Proposal.

Quantity Unit Price Factor
1315201 = * oo 0 1.5087 ~

Bond Fees calculated at 2° of total ammount of $657,600.30

EA

Installation x

Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible
costs as directed by Qwner. Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base
cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee. |f there are multiple Reimbursable Fees,
fist each one separately and add a comment in the “note” block to identify the
Reimbursable Fee (2.9. sidewalk closure. road cut, various permits, extended
warranty, expedited shipping costs, etc.) A copy of each receipt shall be
submitted with the Price Proposal.

Quantity Unit Price Factor

13,152.01 100 1.1000 *

$200,000.00

Total

200,000.00

$10,842.44

Total
18,642.44

$14,467.21

Total
14,467.21

Builder's risk policy fee: calculated at 2% minimum of total amount for proposal value of $657,600.30

HR

Installation x

Flagperson For Trafic Conirol
Quantity Unit Price Factor

240.00 72.20 = 1.5087 ~

iperson = 30 days. (For traffic and pedestrian)

$28,251.40

Total
28,351.49

3 0122 23 000270

6 O1 22 23 000675

‘Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

Mo

Installation x

© Road Broom, Self Propelled Street Sweeper With Full-Time Operator
Quantity Unit Price Factor

1.00 19.206.31 * 1.5087 ~

Street sweeper (1 month)

Mo

Installation

6.5 KW, 13 HP Gas Powered Generator Set
Quantity Unit Price Factor
oo 0 69142 1.5087 ~

Generator rental up te 1 month.

$28,076.56

Total
26.076.56

$1,042.15
Total
1,043.15

Page 1 of 3
1218/2023

83 of 266


--- page 84 ---
Work OrderNumber: 123447.00

Work Order Title: San Mateo RE: 2ND AND EL CAMINO - PARKING GARAGE
Section - 04
F Of 22 23 000875 0031 MoD For LP Or NG Gas, Add $130.40
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1000 86.43 1.5087 ~ 120.40
& Of 54 23 000003 CCF Scaffolding With Bracing Accessones - Area Based On 9 Wide Sections (OCF 825,276.60
/ Monthy
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation rt 2812 % 15087 ~ 25,276.60
2nd & El] Camino 331 x SW x 36H 100 (1 month)
9 O01 54 23 000008 CCF 220 To 40° Height Scaffotding Initial Erection And Final Dismanting, Per CCF 356,858.60
‘Of Scaffolding And Accessories.
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation sggsp = 6548 % 15087 ~ 38,058.69
Scaffold erection and dismantle 2nd & El Camino 331 x SW x 38H /100
70) 0600 71 613 «000004 EA First 25 Miles, Equipment Delivery, Pickup, Mobiization And Demobilization 34,276.08
Using A Tractor Trailer With Up To 53° Bedincludes loading, tie-down of
equipment, delivery of equipment, off loading on site, rigging, dismantling.
loading for retum and transporting away. For equipment such as bulldozers,
motor scrapers, hydraulic excavators, gradalls, road graders, loader-backhoes,
heavy duty construction loaders, tractors, pavers, rollers, bridge finishers,
straight mast construction forklifts, telescoping boom rough terrain construction
forklifts, telescoping and articulating boom man lifts with 40" boom lengths,
etc.
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 1 a4476 0X 1.5087 ~ 4276.08
3 mobilization (PT repair, Scaffold, and concrete repair crew)
0601 74 18 OO ODT EA 10 CY Low-Boy Dumpster “Concrete Or Asphalt Only"Includes delivery of 34,616.62
dumpster, rental cost, peck-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Concrete or
asphalt only.
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 40 * 75.00 0 * 1.5087 ~ 4616.62
1EAa week x4
Subtotal for Section - 01 $385,839.44
Section - 03
72 0301 30 710040 SF Spall Concrete Repair, Up To 34° Deep On Floor Surfaces 366,304.66
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation 7ei25 0X s7.Bi 0X 1.5087 ~ 86,304.65
25, 375SF x8 floor= 152,2505F Total
O.5% of 152.2505F =761.255F
Repair per 50.1 #1
13° 0301 30 710041 SF Spall Concrete Repair, >3/4° To 1-1/2" Deep On Floor Surfaces. $30,640.04
- Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
Installation aa063 0X ees7 x 1.5087 ~ 2eHB
25,375SF xO floor= 152,250 5F Total
0.25% of 152.2505F = 380.635F
Repair per 50.1 #1
74 6903 38 00 000001 Lu San Mateo 2nd and E] Camino PT reinforcement repair -SDI_ 120123 $200,175.81
7 ‘(Quantity Unit Price Factor Total
acl wo 0 155.20045 0 * i2ppp 0 AM. 126.81
"NPP* Schwager Davis Post Tensioned reinforcement repair proposal ($152,874.00) dated 12/01/2023.
Subtotal for Section - 03 $306,070.51
ContractorsPrceProposal-Detal GS
1218023

84 of 266


--- page 85 ---
Work Order Number: = 123441.00
San Mateo RE: 2ND AND EL CAMINO - PARKING GARAGE

Work Order Title:
Proposal Total $691,909.95
This total represents the correct total for the proposal. Any discrepancy between line totals,
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal: 25.97%
Page 3 of 3
1218/2023

(Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail

85 of 266


--- page 86 ---
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
ARTICLE 18 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
18.01
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
18.02
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
A.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
B.
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
C.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
D.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions.
E.
Surety Bonds as described below.
F.
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
G.
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
18.03
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
18.04
Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; 
or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
86 of 266

--- page 87 ---
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or City.
ARTICLE 19 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS 
19.01
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
A.
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, 
or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in 
the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used).
B.
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it. 
C.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City.
19.02
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
A.
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear.
B.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City’s site.
19.03
Claims Made Policies
A.
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1.
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work.
2.
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
3.
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
87 of 266

--- page 88 ---
4.
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review. 
5.
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold. 
19.04
Acceptability of Insurers 
A.
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
19.05
Waiver of Subrogation 
A.
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
19.06
Verification of Coverage 
A.
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time.
19.07
Subcontractors 
A.
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
19.08
Surety Bonds. 
A.
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1.
Performance Bond
2.
Payment Bond
3.
Maintenance Bond
B.
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California.
88 of 266

--- page 89 ---
19.09
Special Risks or Circumstances.  
A.
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
89 of 266

--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-8291
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project – Construction Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a construction agreement to Westland Contractors, Inc. for the Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project in an 
amount not to exceed $3,766,098.80; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $570,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) is improving the City’s sanitary sewer system to prevent sanitary sewer overflows and 
unauthorized discharges of sewage. As part of the CWP, the annual sanitary sewer rehabilitation project proactively 
upgrades and rehabilitates aging sewer pipes to reduce inflow and infiltration. 
Basin B is identified as an area that includes downtown San Mateo, and those City areas West of El Camino Real to City 
limits between Highway 92 to the South and Crystal Springs Road to the North. The Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation 
Project (Project) focuses on the repair of sewer system in this area to address deficiencies previously identified using video 
inspections. This work ensures proper operation of the sewer collection system, reduce infiltration and inflow, and fix 
defects in order to prevent potential sanitary sewer overflows. The Project includes pipe spot repairs, full segment pipe 
replacements, rehabilitation and replacement of manholes, trenchless cured-in-place pipe liner rehabilitations, pre- and 
post-installation video inspections, and site restorations. Construction activities are expected to start in February 2024. 
The project was advertised for construction on November 9, 2023. Bids were opened on December 7, 2023. The engineer’s 
estimate was $4,720,000.00. Ten bids were received and are listed as follows: 
Contractor:
Bid Amount:
Westland Contractors, Inc.
$3,766,098.80
Express Plumbing, Inc.
$3,840,850.00
JMB Construction, Inc.
$4,215,901.00
Golden Bay Construction, Inc.
$4,544,625.60
D’Arcy & Harty Construction, Inc.
$4,860,560.00
Koios Engineering, Inc.
$4,892.860.00
Devaney Engineering, Inc.
$5,088,676.00
Precision Engineering, Inc.
$5,135,224.00
Casey Construction, Inc.
$5,314,531.20
Pacific Underground Construction, Inc.
$6,579,950.00
90 of 266

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In a review of the bids, staff determined Westland Contractors, Inc. to be the lowest responsive, responsible bidder with a 
bid of $3,766,098.80. Westland Contractors, Inc. submitted a complete bid package, and the contractor was found to have 
the appropriate licenses. They also have previously completed satisfactory work for the City.  Based on the above, staff 
recommends awarding the construction agreement to Westland Contractors, Inc. Staff also recommends establishing a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $570,000.00 to address any unanticipated items that may arise during construction.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding for this agreement and contingency is available in the Citywide Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project 
(46S091) Collection System Improvements. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. The City prepared
Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work
is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
Att 2 - Bid Summary
Att 3 - Collection System Basin Delineation
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Webb, Associate Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Thomas Williams, Acting Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
91 of 266

--- page 92 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 1 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
AGREEMENT WITH WESTLAND CONTRACTORS, INC. 
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
FOR 
BASIN B SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION PROJECT 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S091 
 
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and WESTLAND CONTRACTORS, INC, a corporation, with offices at 3100 E. 10th Street, Unit A, 
Oakland, CA 94601 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ___________________.   
 
RECITALS: 
 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement. 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described. 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled: 
 
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091 
 
2. 
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of 3,766,098.80 in full 
payment for the work set forth above. 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book. 
 
3. 
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the 
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to 
as the “contract documents”). 
 
92 of 266

--- page 93 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 2 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto. 
 
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book. 
 
4. 
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book. 
4.2.1 The Work shall be substantially completed within 240 working days from the 
date when the Contract Times commence to run as provided in Paragraph 2.03 
of the General Conditions, and completed and ready for final payment in 
accordance with Paragraph 14.07 of the General Conditions within 280 
working days after the date when the Contract Times commence to run. 
4.2.2 Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence of this Agreement 
and that Owner will suffer financial loss if the Work is not completed within 
the times specified in Paragraph Contract Times above, plus any extensions 
thereof allowed in accordance with Article 11 of the General Conditions. The 
parties also recognize the delays, expense, and difficulties involved in proving 
in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered by Owner if the 
Work is not completed on time. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such 
proof, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated damages for delay (but 
not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $500 for each day that expires 
after the time specified herein for Substantial Completion until the Work is 
substantially complete. 
4.2.3 After Substantial Completion, if Contractor neglects, refuses, or fails to 
complete remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension 
thereof granted by Owner, Contractor shall pay Owner $2,500 for each day 
that expires after the time specified herein for completion and readiness for 
final payment until the Work is completed and ready for final payment. 
5. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
93 of 266

--- page 94 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 3 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor. 
 
6. 
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California. 
 
7. 
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776. 
 
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator. 
 
8. 
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
9. 
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement. 
 
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s active negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its 
94 of 266

--- page 95 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 4 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty 
to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
 
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  
 
a. 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa. 
 
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
95 of 266

--- page 96 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 5 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo. 
 
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions. 
 
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
 
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
 
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives. 
 
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
96 of 266

--- page 97 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 6 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and Westland 
Contractors, Inc. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Neil Hunt 
Its Authorized Agent 
President/CEO 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
<Insert Name>  
<Insert Title> 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
97 of 266

--- page 98 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 7 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
Exhibit A  
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.   
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions. 
5. Surety Bonds as described below. 
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
8.  
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity. 
Self-Insured Retentions  
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions  
98 of 266

--- page 99 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 8 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.  
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site. 
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies) 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work.  
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work.  
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review.  
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold.  
Acceptability of Insurers  
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity.  
Waiver of Subrogation  
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
99 of 266

--- page 100 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Rev 6/23 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
Verification of Coverage  
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.    
Subcontractors  
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
Surety Bonds  
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. Bid bond 
2. Performance bond 
3. Payment bond 
4. Maintenance bond 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
100 of 266

--- page 101 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
1
Mobilization & Demobilization
1
LS
$219,000.00
$219,000.00
$40,000.00
$40,000.00
$215,000.00
$215,000.00
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$94,000.00
$94,000.00
$210,000.00
$210,000.00
2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$131,000.00
$131,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$35,000.00
$35,000.00
$273,500.00
$273,500.00
$55,000.00
$55,000.00
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
3
Bypassing
1
LS
$50,150.00
$50,150.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$75,000.00
$75,000.00
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
4
Temporary Erosion & Sediment Control
1
LS
$37,600.00
$37,600.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$3,500.00
$3,500.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
5
Shoring & Bracing (Depth>5')
1
LS
$50,600.00
$50,600.00
$21,000.00
$21,000.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$90,000.00
$90,000.00
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
$220,000.00
$220,000.00
6
CCTV - Pre-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
$0.40
$19,922.00
$3.00
$149,415.00
$3.00
$149,415.00
$3.30
$164,356.50
$5.00
$249,025.00
7
CCTV - Post-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
$0.40
$19,922.00
$3.00
$149,415.00
$3.00
$149,415.00
$3.30
$164,356.50
$3.00
$149,415.00
8
CCTV - Uninspected segments
2,562
LF
$2.60
$6,661.20
$0.40
$1,024.80
$3.00
$7,686.00
$3.00
$7,686.00
$3.30
$8,454.60
$10.00
$25,620.00
9
Repair of Uninspected segments
1
LS
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
10
Easement Site Restoration
1
LS
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
11
CIPP Segment Repair 6" Dia.
26
LF
$750.00
$19,500.00
$750.00
$19,500.00
$900.00
$23,400.00
$935.00
$24,310.00
$825.00
$21,450.00
$500.00
$13,000.00
12
CIPP Segment Repair 8" Dia.
66
LF
$790.00
$52,140.00
$780.00
$51,480.00
$900.00
$59,400.00
$970.00
$64,020.00
$858.00
$56,628.00
$540.00
$35,640.00
13
CIPP Segment Repair 10" Dia.
9
LF
$830.00
$7,470.00
$800.00
$7,200.00
$936.00
$8,424.00
$995.00
$8,955.00
$880.00
$7,920.00
$590.00
$5,310.00
14
CIPP Spot Repair 6" Dia.
56
EA
$2,800.00
$156,800.00
$2,700.00
$151,200.00
$960.00
$53,760.00
$3,500.00
$196,000.00
$2,970.00
$166,320.00
$2,300.00
$128,800.00
15
CIPP Spot Repair 8" Dia.
11
EA
$3,010.00
$33,110.00
$2,800.00
$30,800.00
$3,240.00
$35,640.00
$3,600.00
$39,600.00
$3,080.00
$33,880.00
$2,400.00
$26,400.00
16
CIPP Spot Repair 10" Dia.
7
EA
$3,320.00
$23,240.00
$2,900.00
$20,300.00
$3,360.00
$23,520.00
$3,800.00
$26,600.00
$3,190.00
$22,330.00
$2,550.00
$17,850.00
17
CIPP Spot Repair 12" Dia.
1
EA
$3,740.00
$3,740.00
$3,500.00
$3,500.00
$3,480.00
$3,480.00
$4,500.00
$4,500.00
$3,850.00
$3,850.00
$3,500.00
$3,500.00
18
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
55
LF
$1,150.00
$63,250.00
$1,200.00
$66,000.00
$300.00
$16,500.00
$725.00
$39,875.00
$1,100.00
$60,500.00
$1,000.00
$55,000.00
19
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
86
LF
$1,250.00
$107,500.00
$1,200.00
$103,200.00
$300.00
$25,800.00
$765.00
$65,790.00
$975.00
$83,850.00
$900.00
$77,400.00
20
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
42
LF
$1,200.00
$50,400.00
$1,400.00
$58,800.00
$300.00
$12,600.00
$850.00
$35,700.00
$1,200.00
$50,400.00
$1,300.00
$54,600.00
21
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
LF
$1,300.00
$15,600.00
$1,400.00
$16,800.00
$480.00
$5,760.00
$970.00
$11,640.00
$1,025.00
$12,300.00
$1,000.00
$12,000.00
22
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,300.00
$10,400.00
$1,200.00
$9,600.00
$480.00
$3,840.00
$815.00
$6,520.00
$1,050.00
$8,400.00
$1,000.00
$8,000.00
23
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
7
LF
$1,250.00
$8,750.00
$1,400.00
$9,800.00
$480.00
$3,360.00
$1,025.00
$7,175.00
$1,100.00
$7,700.00
$1,400.00
$9,800.00
24
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,350.00
$10,800.00
$1,400.00
$11,200.00
$480.00
$3,840.00
$960.00
$7,680.00
$1,250.00
$10,000.00
$1,500.00
$12,000.00
25
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
40
LF
$1,300.00
$52,000.00
$1,400.00
$56,000.00
$300.00
$12,000.00
$1,100.00
$44,000.00
$1,350.00
$54,000.00
$1,500.00
$60,000.00
26
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
76
LF
$1,400.00
$106,400.00
$1,400.00
$106,400.00
$300.00
$22,800.00
$1,100.00
$83,600.00
$655.00
$49,780.00
$1,400.00
$106,400.00
27
Open Cut Spot Repair 4" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
1
EA
$7,840.00
$7,840.00
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
$4,800.00
$4,800.00
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
Westland Contractors, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BIDDERS
Express Plumbing, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDERS
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
BIDDERS
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BIDDERS
Golden Bay Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #4
BIDDERS
D'Arcy & Harty Construction 
Inc.
BIDDER #5
Page 1
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
101 of 266

--- page 102 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
Westland Contractors, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
BIDDERS
Express Plumbing, Inc.
BIDDER #2
BIDDERS
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
BIDDERS
JMB Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #3
BIDDERS
Golden Bay Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #4
BIDDERS
D'Arcy & Harty Construction 
Inc.
BIDDER #5
28
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
22
EA
$7,190.00
$158,180.00
$7,500.00
$165,000.00
$6,500.00
$143,000.00
$5,600.00
$123,200.00
$7,200.00
$158,400.00
$8,500.00
$187,000.00
29
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
79
EA
$7,840.00
$619,360.00
$7,500.00
$592,500.00
$6,800.00
$537,200.00
$5,600.00
$442,400.00
$8,700.00
$687,300.00
$7,500.00
$592,500.00
30
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
30
EA
$7,520.00
$225,600.00
$8,000.00
$240,000.00
$6,500.00
$195,000.00
$6,900.00
$207,000.00
$8,900.00
$267,000.00
$9,500.00
$285,000.00
31
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
67
EA
$8,170.00
$547,390.00
$8,000.00
$536,000.00
$6,800.00
$455,600.00
$6,900.00
$462,300.00
$9,600.00
$643,200.00
$8,000.00
$536,000.00
32
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
8
EA
$7,520.00
$60,160.00
$7,500.00
$60,000.00
$6,500.00
$52,000.00
$5,700.00
$45,600.00
$7,300.00
$58,400.00
$9,000.00
$72,000.00
33
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
12
EA
$8,170.00
$98,040.00
$7,500.00
$90,000.00
$7,000.00
$84,000.00
$5,700.00
$68,400.00
$9,000.00
$108,000.00
$8,500.00
$102,000.00
34
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
9
EA
$7,840.00
$70,560.00
$8,000.00
$72,000.00
$7,500.00
$67,500.00
$7,000.00
$63,000.00
$9,900.00
$89,100.00
$10,000.00
$90,000.00
35
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
17
EA
$8,500.00
$144,500.00
$8,000.00
$136,000.00
$8,000.00
$136,000.00
$7,000.00
$119,000.00
$11,000.00
$187,000.00
$9,500.00
$161,500.00
36
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
$7,500.00
$7,500.00
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
$8,100.00
$8,100.00
$11,500.00
$11,500.00
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
37
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
3
EA
$8,170.00
$24,510.00
$8,000.00
$24,000.00
$8,500.00
$25,500.00
$7,800.00
$23,400.00
$11,000.00
$33,000.00
$12,000.00
$36,000.00
38
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
13
EA
$8,820.00
$114,660.00
$8,000.00
$104,000.00
$9,000.00
$117,000.00
$8,200.00
$106,600.00
$13,000.00
$169,000.00
$10,500.00
$136,500.00
39
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,820.00
$8,820.00
$7,500.00
$7,500.00
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
$9,500.00
$9,500.00
$14,500.00
$14,500.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
40
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
EA
$9,150.00
$109,800.00
$8,500.00
$102,000.00
$10,500.00
$126,000.00
$6,500.00
$78,000.00
$15,000.00
$180,000.00
$12,500.00
$150,000.00
41
Manhole Rehabilitation - Flat Repair
44
EA
$2,240.00
$98,560.00
$600.00
$26,400.00
$720.00
$31,680.00
$730.00
$32,120.00
$660.00
$29,040.00
$1,000.00
$44,000.00
42
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth >5'
33
EA
$3,910.00
$129,030.00
$3,400.00
$112,200.00
$4,080.00
$134,640.00
$3,050.00
$100,650.00
$3,740.00
$123,420.00
$4,000.00
$132,000.00
43
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth 0'-5'
23
EA
$3,400.00
$78,200.00
$2,900.00
$66,700.00
$3,480.00
$80,040.00
$3,500.00
$80,500.00
$3,190.00
$73,370.00
$3,200.00
$73,600.00
44
Manhole Rehabilitation - Vertical Repair
48
EA
$2,240.00
$107,520.00
$450.00
$21,600.00
$540.00
$25,920.00
$550.00
$26,400.00
$495.00
$23,760.00
$500.00
$24,000.00
45
Reconnect Lateral to Main for CIPP Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations using 
CIPP Top Hat
21
EA
$2,050.00
$43,050.00
$1,850.00
$38,850.00
$2,220.00
$46,620.00
$2,300.00
$48,300.00
$2,035.00
$42,735.00
$1,600.00
$33,600.00
46
Reconnect Lateral to Main for Open Cut Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations
169
EA
$760.00
$128,440.00
$500.00
$84,500.00
$890.00
$150,410.00
$840.00
$141,960.00
$325.00
$54,925.00
$1,000.00
$169,000.00
47
Uncover and Raise Cleanout Frame & Cover
7
EA
$1,630.00
$11,410.00
$500.00
$3,500.00
$600.00
$4,200.00
$1,200.00
$8,400.00
$700.00
$4,900.00
$1,800.00
$12,600.00
48
Uncover and Raise Manhole Frame & Cover
21
EA
$2,760.00
$57,960.00
$1,200.00
$25,200.00
$2,500.00
$52,500.00
$1,800.00
$37,800.00
$900.00
$18,900.00
$2,000.00
$42,000.00
49
Remove and Replace Existing Monument
3
EA
$2,390.00
$7,170.00
$1,000.00
$3,000.00
$9,800.00
$29,400.00
$1,830.00
$5,490.00
$3,900.00
$11,700.00
$4,500.00
$13,500.00
$4,720,000.00
$3,766,098.80
$3,840,850.00
$4,215,901.00
$4,544,625.60
$4,860,560.00
TOTAL BID 
Page 2
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
102 of 266

--- page 103 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
1
Mobilization & Demobilization
1
LS
$219,000.00
$219,000.00
2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$131,000.00
$131,000.00
3
Bypassing
1
LS
$50,150.00
$50,150.00
4
Temporary Erosion & Sediment Control
1
LS
$37,600.00
$37,600.00
5
Shoring & Bracing (Depth>5')
1
LS
$50,600.00
$50,600.00
6
CCTV - Pre-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
7
CCTV - Post-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
8
CCTV - Uninspected segments
2,562
LF
$2.60
$6,661.20
9
Repair of Uninspected segments
1
LS
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
10
Easement Site Restoration
1
LS
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
11
CIPP Segment Repair 6" Dia.
26
LF
$750.00
$19,500.00
12
CIPP Segment Repair 8" Dia.
66
LF
$790.00
$52,140.00
13
CIPP Segment Repair 10" Dia.
9
LF
$830.00
$7,470.00
14
CIPP Spot Repair 6" Dia.
56
EA
$2,800.00
$156,800.00
15
CIPP Spot Repair 8" Dia.
11
EA
$3,010.00
$33,110.00
16
CIPP Spot Repair 10" Dia.
7
EA
$3,320.00
$23,240.00
17
CIPP Spot Repair 12" Dia.
1
EA
$3,740.00
$3,740.00
18
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
55
LF
$1,150.00
$63,250.00
19
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
86
LF
$1,250.00
$107,500.00
20
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
42
LF
$1,200.00
$50,400.00
21
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
LF
$1,300.00
$15,600.00
22
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,300.00
$10,400.00
23
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
7
LF
$1,250.00
$8,750.00
24
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,350.00
$10,800.00
25
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
40
LF
$1,300.00
$52,000.00
26
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
76
LF
$1,400.00
$106,400.00
27
Open Cut Spot Repair 4" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
1
EA
$7,840.00
$7,840.00
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
$2.50
$124,512.50
$3.00
$149,415.00
$2.00
$99,610.00
$2.50
$124,512.50
$3.00
$149,415.00
$2.00
$99,610.00
$2.50
$6,405.00
$3.00
$7,686.00
$2.00
$5,124.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$850.00
$22,100.00
$900.00
$23,400.00
$750.00
$19,500.00
$880.00
$58,080.00
$950.00
$62,700.00
$780.00
$51,480.00
$850.00
$7,650.00
$1,000.00
$9,000.00
$800.00
$7,200.00
$3,000.00
$168,000.00
$3,200.00
$179,200.00
$2,700.00
$151,200.00
$3,000.00
$33,000.00
$3,500.00
$38,500.00
$2,800.00
$30,800.00
$3,250.00
$22,750.00
$3,600.00
$25,200.00
$2,900.00
$20,300.00
$4,000.00
$4,000.00
$4,500.00
$4,500.00
$3,500.00
$3,500.00
$750.00
$41,250.00
$400.00
$22,000.00
$900.00
$49,500.00
$750.00
$64,500.00
$400.00
$34,400.00
$900.00
$77,400.00
$1,000.00
$42,000.00
$500.00
$21,000.00
$900.00
$37,800.00
$750.00
$9,000.00
$500.00
$6,000.00
$900.00
$10,800.00
$1,250.00
$10,000.00
$520.00
$4,160.00
$900.00
$7,200.00
$1,250.00
$8,750.00
$600.00
$4,200.00
$900.00
$6,300.00
$750.00
$6,000.00
$600.00
$4,800.00
$900.00
$7,200.00
$850.00
$34,000.00
$600.00
$24,000.00
$900.00
$36,000.00
$850.00
$64,600.00
$400.00
$30,400.00
$900.00
$68,400.00
$8,750.00
$8,750.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
BIDDERS
Koios Engineering, Inc.
BIDDER #6
BIDDERS
BIDDERS
Precision Engineering, Inc.
Devaney Engineering Inc.
BIDDER #8
BIDDER #7
Page 3
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
103 of 266

--- page 104 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
28
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
22
EA
$7,190.00
$158,180.00
29
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
79
EA
$7,840.00
$619,360.00
30
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
30
EA
$7,520.00
$225,600.00
31
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
67
EA
$8,170.00
$547,390.00
32
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
8
EA
$7,520.00
$60,160.00
33
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
12
EA
$8,170.00
$98,040.00
34
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
9
EA
$7,840.00
$70,560.00
35
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
17
EA
$8,500.00
$144,500.00
36
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
37
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
3
EA
$8,170.00
$24,510.00
38
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
13
EA
$8,820.00
$114,660.00
39
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,820.00
$8,820.00
40
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
EA
$9,150.00
$109,800.00
41
Manhole Rehabilitation - Flat Repair
44
EA
$2,240.00
$98,560.00
42
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth >5'
33
EA
$3,910.00
$129,030.00
43
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth 0'-5'
23
EA
$3,400.00
$78,200.00
44
Manhole Rehabilitation - Vertical Repair
48
EA
$2,240.00
$107,520.00
45
Reconnect Lateral to Main for CIPP Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations using 
CIPP Top Hat
21
EA
$2,050.00
$43,050.00
46
Reconnect Lateral to Main for Open Cut Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations
169
EA
$760.00
$128,440.00
47
Uncover and Raise Cleanout Frame & Cover
7
EA
$1,630.00
$11,410.00
48
Uncover and Raise Manhole Frame & Cover
21
EA
$2,760.00
$57,960.00
49
Remove and Replace Existing Monument
3
EA
$2,390.00
$7,170.00
$4,720,000.00
TOTAL BID 
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BIDDERS
Koios Engineering, Inc.
BIDDER #6
BIDDERS
BIDDERS
Precision Engineering, Inc.
Devaney Engineering Inc.
BIDDER #8
BIDDER #7
$8,750.00
$192,500.00
$7,000.00
$154,000.00
$11,000.00
$242,000.00
$8,750.00
$691,250.00
$8,000.00
$632,000.00
$11,000.00
$869,000.00
$8,750.00
$262,500.00
$8,000.00
$240,000.00
$11,000.00
$330,000.00
$8,750.00
$586,250.00
$9,000.00
$603,000.00
$11,000.00
$737,000.00
$8,750.00
$70,000.00
$7,500.00
$60,000.00
$11,000.00
$88,000.00
$8,750.00
$105,000.00
$7,500.00
$90,000.00
$11,000.00
$132,000.00
$8,750.00
$78,750.00
$9,000.00
$81,000.00
$11,000.00
$99,000.00
$8,750.00
$148,750.00
$8,500.00
$144,500.00
$11,000.00
$187,000.00
$8,750.00
$8,750.00
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
$8,750.00
$26,250.00
$10,000.00
$30,000.00
$11,000.00
$33,000.00
$8,750.00
$113,750.00
$12,000.00
$156,000.00
$11,000.00
$143,000.00
$8,750.00
$8,750.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
$11,000.00
$8,750.00
$105,000.00
$13,000.00
$156,000.00
$11,000.00
$132,000.00
$1,500.00
$66,000.00
$750.00
$33,000.00
$600.00
$26,400.00
$4,500.00
$148,500.00
$4,000.00
$132,000.00
$3,400.00
$112,200.00
$4,000.00
$92,000.00
$3,300.00
$75,900.00
$2,900.00
$66,700.00
$1,000.00
$48,000.00
$750.00
$36,000.00
$450.00
$21,600.00
$2,000.00
$42,000.00
$2,300.00
$48,300.00
$1,850.00
$38,850.00
$750.00
$126,750.00
$2,500.00
$422,500.00
$250.00
$42,250.00
$2,500.00
$17,500.00
$2,500.00
$17,500.00
$900.00
$6,300.00
$2,000.00
$42,000.00
$3,000.00
$63,000.00
$500.00
$10,500.00
$250.00
$750.00
$5,000.00
$15,000.00
$1,500.00
$4,500.00
$4,892,860.00
$5,088,676.00
$5,135,224.00
Page 4
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
104 of 266

--- page 105 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
1
Mobilization & Demobilization
1
LS
$219,000.00
$219,000.00
$130,900.00
$130,900.00
$310,000.00
$310,000.00
2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$131,000.00
$131,000.00
$105,000.00
$105,000.00
$150,000.00
$150,000.00
3
Bypassing
1
LS
$50,150.00
$50,150.00
$20,000.00
$20,000.00
$85,000.00
$85,000.00
4
Temporary Erosion & Sediment Control
1
LS
$37,600.00
$37,600.00
$25,000.00
$25,000.00
$50,000.00
$50,000.00
5
Shoring & Bracing (Depth>5')
1
LS
$50,600.00
$50,600.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
6
CCTV - Pre-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
$3.60
$179,298.00
$6.00
$298,830.00
7
CCTV - Post-Construction
49,805
LF
$2.60
$129,493.00
$3.60
$179,298.00
$5.00
$249,025.00
8
CCTV - Uninspected segments
2,562
LF
$2.60
$6,661.20
$3.60
$9,223.20
$10.00
$25,620.00
9
Repair of Uninspected segments
1
LS
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
$132,000.00
10
Easement Site Restoration
1
LS
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
$250,000.00
11
CIPP Segment Repair 6" Dia.
26
LF
$750.00
$19,500.00
$938.00
$24,388.00
$900.00
$23,400.00
12
CIPP Segment Repair 8" Dia.
66
LF
$790.00
$52,140.00
$975.00
$64,350.00
$950.00
$62,700.00
13
CIPP Segment Repair 10" Dia.
9
LF
$830.00
$7,470.00
$1,000.00
$9,000.00
$1,000.00
$9,000.00
14
CIPP Spot Repair 6" Dia.
56
EA
$2,800.00
$156,800.00
$3,375.00
$189,000.00
$3,450.00
$193,200.00
15
CIPP Spot Repair 8" Dia.
11
EA
$3,010.00
$33,110.00
$3,500.00
$38,500.00
$3,500.00
$38,500.00
16
CIPP Spot Repair 10" Dia.
7
EA
$3,320.00
$23,240.00
$3,625.00
$25,375.00
$3,700.00
$25,900.00
17
CIPP Spot Repair 12" Dia.
1
EA
$3,740.00
$3,740.00
$4,375.00
$4,375.00
$4,300.00
$4,300.00
18
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
55
LF
$1,150.00
$63,250.00
$2,000.00
$110,000.00
$935.00
$51,425.00
19
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
86
LF
$1,250.00
$107,500.00
$650.00
$55,900.00
$950.00
$81,700.00
20
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
42
LF
$1,200.00
$50,400.00
$1,700.00
$71,400.00
$1,000.00
$42,000.00
21
Open Cut Segment Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
LF
$1,300.00
$15,600.00
$1,000.00
$12,000.00
$1,400.00
$16,800.00
22
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,300.00
$10,400.00
$1,600.00
$12,800.00
$1,600.00
$12,800.00
23
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
7
LF
$1,250.00
$8,750.00
$2,800.00
$19,600.00
$1,900.00
$13,300.00
24
Open Cut Segment Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
8
LF
$1,350.00
$10,800.00
$1,500.00
$12,000.00
$1,700.00
$13,600.00
25
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
40
LF
$1,300.00
$52,000.00
$1,500.00
$60,000.00
$1,200.00
$48,000.00
26
Open Cut Segment Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
76
LF
$1,400.00
$106,400.00
$450.00
$34,200.00
$600.00
$45,600.00
27
Open Cut Spot Repair 4" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
1
EA
$7,840.00
$7,840.00
$10,000.00
$10,000.00
$13,000.00
$13,000.00
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
BIDDERS
BIDDERS
Casey Construction, Inc.
Pacific Underground 
Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #9
BIDDER #10
Page 1
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
105 of 266

--- page 106 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
BID OPENING: 12/7/2023       Council Award:  01/16/2024
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Basin B Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project
BID SUMMARY
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46s091
BIDDERS
BIDDERS
Casey Construction, Inc.
Pacific Underground 
Construction, Inc.
BIDDER #9
BIDDER #10
28
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
22
EA
$7,190.00
$158,180.00
$10,000.00
$220,000.00
$11,000.00
$242,000.00
29
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
79
EA
$7,840.00
$619,360.00
$11,000.00
$869,000.00
$13,000.00
$1,027,000.00
30
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
30
EA
$7,520.00
$225,600.00
$10,000.00
$300,000.00
$11,000.00
$330,000.00
31
Open Cut Spot Repair 6" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
67
EA
$8,170.00
$547,390.00
$11,000.00
$737,000.00
$14,000.00
$938,000.00
32
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (EZMT)
8
EA
$7,520.00
$60,160.00
$10,000.00
$80,000.00
$11,500.00
$92,000.00
33
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
12
EA
$8,170.00
$98,040.00
$12,000.00
$144,000.00
$13,000.00
$156,000.00
34
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
9
EA
$7,840.00
$70,560.00
$11,500.00
$103,500.00
$13,500.00
$121,500.00
35
Open Cut Spot Repair 8" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
17
EA
$8,500.00
$144,500.00
$12,500.00
$212,500.00
$14,000.00
$238,000.00
36
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,500.00
$8,500.00
$12,000.00
$12,000.00
$14,500.00
$14,500.00
37
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (EZMT)
3
EA
$8,170.00
$24,510.00
$11,000.00
$33,000.00
$16,500.00
$49,500.00
38
Open Cut Spot Repair 10" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
13
EA
$8,820.00
$114,660.00
$12,000.00
$156,000.00
$14,500.00
$188,500.00
39
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth 0'-5' (ROW)
1
EA
$8,820.00
$8,820.00
$12,500.00
$12,500.00
$14,000.00
$14,000.00
40
Open Cut Spot Repair 12" Dia., Depth >5' (ROW)
12
EA
$9,150.00
$109,800.00
$12,500.00
$150,000.00
$15,500.00
$186,000.00
41
Manhole Rehabilitation - Flat Repair
44
EA
$2,240.00
$98,560.00
$750.00
$33,000.00
$3,000.00
$132,000.00
42
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth >5'
33
EA
$3,910.00
$129,030.00
$4,250.00
$140,250.00
$3,800.00
$125,400.00
43
Manhole Rehabilitation - Line Existing MH, Depth 0'-5'
23
EA
$3,400.00
$78,200.00
$3,625.00
$83,375.00
$3,550.00
$81,650.00
44
Manhole Rehabilitation - Vertical Repair
48
EA
$2,240.00
$107,520.00
$562.00
$26,976.00
$1,500.00
$72,000.00
45
Reconnect Lateral to Main for CIPP Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations using 
CIPP Top Hat
21
EA
$2,050.00
$43,050.00
$2,313.00
$48,573.00
$2,300.00
$48,300.00
46
Reconnect Lateral to Main for Open Cut Spot Repair and Segment Repair Locations
169
EA
$760.00
$128,440.00
$700.00
$118,300.00
$500.00
$84,500.00
47
Uncover and Raise Cleanout Frame & Cover
7
EA
$1,630.00
$11,410.00
$750.00
$5,250.00
$2,500.00
$17,500.00
48
Uncover and Raise Manhole Frame & Cover
21
EA
$2,760.00
$57,960.00
$1,200.00
$25,200.00
$3,500.00
$73,500.00
49
Remove and Replace Existing Monument
3
EA
$2,390.00
$7,170.00
$3,500.00
$10,500.00
$800.00
$2,400.00
$4,720,000.00
$5,314,531.20
$6,579,950.00
TOTAL BID 
Page 2
BasinB-BidResultsBreakdown
106 of 266

--- page 107 ---
A
D
E
C
B
DELAWARE
HILLSDALE
US HWY 101 SB
US HWY 101 NB
3RD
STATE HWY 92 EB
NORFOLK
STATE HWY 92 WB
4TH
HUMBOLDT
EL CAMINO REAL
9TH
5TH
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
PACIFIC
POPLAR
2ND
SAN MATEO
PENINSULA
SARATOGA
J HART CLINTON
POLHEMUS
CRYSTAL SPRINGS
MARINERS ISLAND
THIRD
DE ANZA
CONCAR
FRANKLIN
EL CAMINO REAL
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, i-cubed, Earthstar Geographics,
CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN,
IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User Community
Legend
A
B
C
D
E
N
City of San Mateo 
Collection System Basin Delineation
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
0.25
Miles
107 of 266

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4666
File ID: 23-8302
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
California Department of Transportation Sustainable Communities Grant Application – Letter of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a letter of support to the California Department of Transportation for the Fiscal Year 2024-25 Sustainable 
Communities Grant application and authorize the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the City Council in substantially the 
form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works and Community Development Departments are jointly drafting a grant application in response to the 
California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) Sustainable Communities Grant Fiscal Year 2024-25 Call for Projects. If 
awarded, the grant will be used to develop an updated Downtown San Mateo Area Plan. This effort intends to develop a 
holistic, data-driven, and community-based plan focused on land use and multimodal transportation for the heart of San 
Mateo. This endeavor seeks to shape a future vision for Downtown, encompassing aspects such as business, housing, 
community, major infrastructure for active transportation and curb management, and recreation needs in alignment with 
the General Plan 2040 and to meet the City and state climate goals. 
The grant amount requested for the project is approximately $900,000. As part of the grant application, letters of support 
are strongly encouraged. Staff requests the City Council consider a letter of support for this grant application and authorize 
the Mayor to sign the letter on behalf of the Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for submitting a letter supporting the grant application. There is a required minimum 11.47% 
local match for the grant. Sufficient funds are available in the Downtown Circulation Study (46R021) project to fulfill the 
required local match if awarded.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This letter of support is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Letter of Support
108 of 266

--- page 109 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
109 of 266

--- page 110 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
January 16, 2024
California Department of Transportation
Division of Transportation Planning
1120 N Street
Sacramento, CA 95814
Re: Grant Proposal for the Downtown San Mateo Area Plan
To Whom It May Concern,
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council, I am writing to express my strong support of the City of San 
Mateo’s grant application for the Caltrans Sustainable Communities program for the proposed Downtown 
San Mateo Area Plan (the Plan). This plan aims to create a comprehensive, data-driven, and community-
based plan focused on land use and multimodal transportation for the heart of San Mateo. This endeavor 
seeks to shape a future vision for Downtown, encompassing aspects such as business, housing, community, 
major infrastructure for active transportation and curb management, and recreation needs in alignment 
with the General Plan 2040 and to meet the City and state climate goals. 
To preserve San Mateo as a desirable place to live, work, visit, and raise a family, it is crucial to plan a 
downtown center that embodies the community's aspirations. The integration of housing, job centers, 
shopping, and dining in close proximity to transit promotes a vibrant urban environment where people can 
live, work, play, and shop without heavy reliance on cars. An active downtown not only facilitates cultural 
and entertainment events but also contributes to the city's fiscal health. Recognizing this, the General Plan 
calls for the update of the Downtown Area Plan, last adopted in 2009, to reimagine how the downtown can 
grow to meet the community's future needs.
Given the effort of the City and region to encourage multimodal transportation, equitable access to 
transportation, and planning cohesively to ensure coordination between land use and transportation, 
identifying necessary improvements for the future of Downtown San Mateo is of utmost importance.  We 
believe this would be a project that would advance our goals and objectives. Toward this end, we strongly 
support the City of San Mateo’s grant application for this project. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Lisa Diaz Nash
Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000
110 of 266

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-8289
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Ballot Measure and Community Surveys – Appropriation and Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $42,800 of unassigned fund balance from the 
General Fund and $14,300 of unassigned fund balance from the Advanced Planning Fund to increase the City Manager’s 
Office 2023-24 operating budget, approve an agreement with True North Research for professional services for ballot 
measure and community surveys in the amount of $57,100, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In the City’s ongoing interest to engage the public and be responsive to the community’s interests, the City periodically 
contracts with an independent, professional research firm to conduct statistically significant surveys. In 2024, the City 
plans to issue two separate surveys, and staff recommends contracting with True North Research for this work. 
Survey 1.
The City seeks to study potential ballot measures the City is considering for November 2024. City Council directed staff to 
commence the process to consider a ballot measure asking voters if they approve portions of the City’s proposed Strive 
San Mateo 2040 General Plan that conflict with the height and density limits outlined in Measure Y. Measure Y was passed 
by the voters in 2020. The City is also considering placing two Charter amendment measures on the ballot. Hiring an 
independent firm to issue a survey to likely voters within the City of San Mateo to understand their preferences in the 
November 2024 election on these measures will inform the City of voter opinion in advance of any ballot measure. 
Survey 2.
The City conducts bi-annual community surveys of residents on their sentiment regarding a variety of topics including City 
services, policy issues, and communications. The next survey is due sometime in 2024 and will be used as a benchmark for 
comparison with the results of prior surveys issued in 2022 and 2020. 
Staff recommends contracting with True North Research because of the firm’s unique experience and qualifications. The 
City previously issued two competitive RFPs to solicit proposals from independent research firms. The City ultimately chose 
to work with True North Research based on its years of experience conducting surveys for California municipalities, 
proposed methodology, cost, and high success rate in predicting ballot measure outcomes. The firm also has unique 
familiarity with the City's needs and prior research, having conducted five prior surveys for San Mateo, including general 
community and past ballot measure surveys.
During the last RFP for the 2022 community survey, True North Research was determined to be qualified to conduct 
similar services for the 2024 survey cycle. 
111 of 266

--- page 112 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
To fund the ballot measure and community surveys, the proposed resolution approves a supplemental budget 
appropriation to increase the City Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget by $57,100, with $42,800 from the General 
Fund’s unassigned fund balance and $14,300 from the Advanced Planning Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Proposed Agreement with True North Research
STAFF CONTACT:
Tara Peterson, Interim Deputy Director of Special Projects - Community Development Department
tpeterson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7235
112 of 266

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT AND APPROPRIATING FUNDS TO SUPPORT BALLOT MEASURE AND COMMUNITY 
SURVEYS
WHEREAS, the City Council directed staff to prepare to place various ballot measures on the November 
2024 ballot to support the General Plan Update and other City business and to regularly survey the community 
(“Project”); and
WHEREAS, True North Research has successfully completed surveys for the City in the past; and
WHEREAS, the City issued an Request for Proposals for community survey services, and staff 
recommends proceeding with True North Research to complete surveys in support of the Project; and
WHEREAS, funding is needed to complete the work on the Project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Project is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not impact the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
2.
The appropriation of $57,100, with $42,800 from the General Fund and $14,300 from the Advanced 
Planning Fund (Fund 225) to the City Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget for the Project is 
approved. 
3.
The City Manager is authorized to enter into an agreement with True North Research in substantially 
the form presented.
113 of 266

--- page 114 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 12
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH TRUE NORTH RESEARCH
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
COMMUNITY SURVEYS
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and TRUE NORTH RESEARCH, a California corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 
1591 North Coast Highway 101, Encinitas, CA 92024.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain survey services hereinafter described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these community survey services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
114 of 266

--- page 115 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 12
Rev 9/22
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on February 1, 2024 and 
be completed by December 31, 2024.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $57,100, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
115 of 266

--- page 116 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
116 of 266

--- page 117 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
117 of 266

--- page 118 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Tara Peterson
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
True North Research
Attn: Dr. Timothy McLarney
1591 N. Coast Highway 101
Encinitas, CA 92024
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
118 of 266

--- page 119 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
119 of 266

--- page 120 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and True North Research have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Dr. Timothy McLarney 
Its Authorized Agent and
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
<Insert Name>
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
120 of 266

--- page 121 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
All tasks associated with designing, conducting, and analyzing two surveys, as well as presenting the 
results. The scope of services for each survey includes:
• Meet with the City and other consultants identified by the City (e.g., TeamCivX) to thoroughly discuss 
the research objectives and methodology for the survey, as well as discuss potential challenges, 
concerns, and issues that may surround the study.
• Develop a stratified and clustered random sample of San Mateo voters/residents to be 
recruited to participate in the survey.
• Develop a draft questionnaire for the City’s review and make revisions as needed until all
parties approve of the instrument.
• Pre-test the survey instrument to ensure its integrity.
• Translate the finalized questionnaire and invitations into Spanish to allow for data collection
in English and Spanish.
• CATI (Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing) program the finalized survey instrument
to ensure accurate and reliable data collection using live telephone interviewers.
• Web program the same survey instrument to allow for secure, password-protected online
data collection to compliment the telephone data collection.
• Recruit participation in the survey using a combination of email invitations, text invitations,
and telephone calls.
• Collect at least 600 quality interviews according to the sampling plan and a strict interviewing 
protocol. Interviewers will be professional, high-quality interviewers. It is expected that
the average interview will last up to 15 minutes.
• Process the data, which includes conducting validity checks, cleaning, recoding, coding
open-end responses, and adjusting for strategic oversampling (if used) through a statistical
procedure known as ‘weighting’.
• Prepare an initial topline summary which presents the overall findings of the survey.
121 of 266

--- page 122 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/22
• Prepare a thorough report on the findings, including a detailed question-by-question analysis, 
description of the methodology, an executive summary of the key findings and conclusions / 
recommendations, as well as a comprehensive set of crosstabulations showing how
the answers varied by subgroups of residents. The report will include extensive full-color
graphics displaying the findings, as well as insightful narrative discussion of the results and
their implications.
• Prepare an electronic copy of the final report to allow the City to reproduce the report as
needed.
• Prepare a PowerPoint presentation of the results and present the results to the City.
• Be available to assist and provide advice to the City after the survey is complete.
122 of 266

--- page 123 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
$28,550 each for two surveys for a total of $57,100
123 of 266

--- page 124 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
124 of 266

--- page 125 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 12
Rev 9/22
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
125 of 266

--- page 126 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-8335
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Ballot Measure Communications Consulting Services for the November 2024 General Election – Appropriation and 
Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and a supplemental budget appropriation of $38,000 
of unassigned fund balance from the General Fund and $152,000 of unassigned fund balance from the Advanced Planning 
Fund to increase the City Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget, approve an agreement with TeamCivX for ballot 
measure communications consulting services in an amount not to exceed $190,000, and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Policy and Council Direction
The City Council directed staff to proceed with the process to bring ballot measures to the voters in November 2024. In 
preparation, staff proposes obtaining professional communications consulting services to assist with conducting a survey 
and providing factual information to the public about the ballot measures, as permitted by law. 
General Plan Measure 
As part of the City’s years-long process to update San Mateo’s General Plan, the Council directed staff to proceed with a 
ballot measure that would ask voters if they approve of building heights, densities, and intensities within the 10 defined 
study areas in General Plan 2040 to exceed the limits specified in Measure Y. Measure Y, a ballot measure approved by 
voters in 2020, set citywide height limits at up to 55 feet (five stories), density limits up to 50 units per acre, and 
nonresidential intensity up to a 3.0 floor area ratio (FAR). As currently drafted, General Plan 2040 would allow for heights 
up to eight stories, densities up to 130 units per acre, and intensities up to a 4.5 FAR on specified parcels within the study 
areas. Properties outside of the study areas would maintain the current limits set by Measure Y. General Plan 2040 is 
anticipated to have adoption hearings before the Council in March of 2024.
Charter Amendments
In addition to the General Plan Measure, the City is also considering Charter amendments concerning the Mayoral rotation 
process, City Council vacancies, and other possible changes still under consideration. The City’s Charter can only be 
amended by voters during a regularly scheduled election. 
Consultant
During the last two election cycles, the City contracted with the communications consulting firm TBWBH Props & 
Measures to assist with providing neutral, public information on ballot measures. Since that time, several of the TBWBH 
partners have started their own consulting firm, TeamCivX, that focuses on working with government entities on ballot 
measure education and surveys. 
126 of 266

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing 
procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. In this case, due to the positive experience with this 
team of consultants combined with the expedited process required to move forward with the 2024 ballot, staff is 
recommending that the City Council approve an alternative purchasing procedure to authorize a contract with TeamCivX.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed resolution approves a supplemental budget appropriation increasing the City Manager’s Office 2023-24 
operating budget by $190,000, with $38,000 from the General Fund’s unassigned fund balance and $152,000 from the 
Advanced Planning Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2  – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT:
Tara Peterson, Interim Deputy Director of Special Projects - Community Development Department
tpeterson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7235
127 of 266

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT AND APPROPRIATING FUNDS TO SUPPORT BALLOT MEASURE COMMUNICATION 
CONSULTING SERVICES 
WHEREAS, the City Council directed staff to prepare to place various ballot measures on the November 
2024 ballot to support the General Plan Update and other City business (“Project”); and
WHEREAS, the partners at TeamCivX previously provided the City with election services by assisting with 
providing neutral, public information on ballot measures during the last two election cycles while working for 
the consulting firm TBWBH Props & Measures. Since that time, several of the TBWBH partners have started their 
own consulting firm, TeamCivX, that focuses on working with government entities on ballot measures; and
WHEREAS, the City staff recommends proceeding with TeamCivX in support of the Project; and
WHEREAS, funding is needed to complete the work on the Project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Project is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not impact the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the approval of a contract with TeamCivX 
is in the best interest of the City due to the its positive experience with the subject team of 
consultants combined with the expedited process required to move forward regarding the 2024 
ballot.
3.
An appropriation of $190,000, with $38,000 from the General Fund unassigned fund balance and 
$152,000 from the Advanced Planning Fund (Fund 225) unassigned fund balance to the City 
Manager’s Office 2023-24 operating budget for the Project is approved.
4.
The City Manager is authorized to enter into an agreement with TeamCivX in the substantially the 
form presented.
128 of 266

--- page 129 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 9
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH TEAMCIVX
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
BALLOT MEASURE FEASIBILITY AND COMMUNICATION SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and TeamCivX, a limited liability company, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 21 Orinda Way, 
Suite C-191, Orinda, CA 94563.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain services to assess the electoral feasibility of multiple ballot 
measures hereinafter described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
129 of 266

--- page 130 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 9
Rev 9/22
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on February 1, 2024 and 
be completed on September 30, 2024.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $190,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
130 of 266

--- page 131 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 9
Rev 9/22
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligent performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
131 of 266

--- page 132 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 9
Rev 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
132 of 266

--- page 133 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 9
Rev 9/22
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Tara Peterson
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
TeamCivX
Attn:  Barry Barnes
21 Orinda Way, Suite C-191
Orinda, CA 94563
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
133 of 266

--- page 134 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 9
Rev 9/22
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
134 of 266

--- page 135 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 9
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and TEAMCIVX have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Barry Barnes 
Its Authorized Agent
Partner
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Prasanna Rasiah
City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Budget and Fees
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
135 of 266

--- page 136 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 9
Rev 9/22
 
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
136 of 266

--- page 137 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 9
Rev 9/22
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
137 of 266

--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 24-8357
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Updated City Council Appointments List
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the updated San Mateo Council Appointments list for 2024 that assigns Council Member Rich Hedges as external 
liaison to the America Supporting Americans board.
BACKGROUND:
At its January 2, 2024 City Council meeting the Council reviewed and approved the City Council Appointments List. 
Subsequent to that approval, former Council Member Joe Goethals, who sits on the America Supporting Americans 
(“ASA”) board of directors, requested a Council liaison to that board. The Mayor approved the request and Council 
Member Rich Hedges expressed interest in the appointment, which was also approved by the Mayor. The list is being 
brought back to you for Council concurrence in the appointment.
ASA is a non-profit organization, led by Linda Patterson, that facilitates the adopt-a-unit program for the military. It was 
conceived as a program with the City of San Mateo’s adoption of A Company, 1st brigade, 327th regiment of the 101st 
Airborne (Air Assault) unit of the United States Army in 1968. The City has continuously supported our adopted unit 
throughout deployments as well as in stateside training and events for the past 55 years. It was the City’s adoption that 
really started the program. There are now six other cities in the County of San Mateo that have adopted units of the 101st. 
They are: Atherton, Belmont, Burlingame, Foster City, Hillsborough, and Millbrae. As this is such an important relationship 
for the community of San Mateo, and a point of pride for the City, it was determined that it would be worthwhile to add 
this as an external liaison appointment. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - San Mateo Council Appointments - 2024
138 of 266

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
139 of 266

--- page 140 ---
San Mateo Council Appointments - 2024
Body
Alt
Appt'd By
Type of Appointment
2023
2024
External Agencies Board Member Appointments
1
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) - General Assembly
Council
External Agency
Hedges
Hedges
 Lee (alt)
2
City/County Association of Governments  (C/CAG) & Alternate
Y
Council
External Agency
Hedges
Nash (alt)
Hedges
Nash (alt)
3
Emergency Services Council 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
4
Grand Boulevard Task Force 
Y
Council
External Standing Comm
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
5
Housing Our People Effectively (HOPE) Interagency Council – Leadership
Committee
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Nash (alt)
Loraine
Lee (alt)
6
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) 
Y
Council
External Agency
Lee
Lorraine (alt)
Loraine
Lee (alt)
7
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance - Commute.org (Alternate)
Y
Council 
External Agency
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
Newsom
Hedges (alt)
8
SF Airport Community Roundtable 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Nash (alt)
Newsom
Nash (alt)
9
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (JPA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
10 San Mateo County Council of Cities  (Mayor & Alternate)
Y
Council
External Agency
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
11 San Mateo County Pre-Hospital Emergency Medical Services Group 
Y
Council
External Agency
Newsom
Lee (alt)
Newsom
Lee (alt)
12 San Mateo Foster City Public Financing Authority
Council
Internal Agency
Hedges
Hedges
13 South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA)
Y
Council
External Agency
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
External Agencies Committee Appointments
14 ABAG Regional Planning Committee - (ABAG-RPC) - through 6/30/24
COC
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
15 Congestion Management and Environmental Quality Committee (CMEQ)
C/CAG
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
16 Member Agency Committee (MAC) for HEART - Annual Meeting
Council
External Committee
Lee
Hedges
Lee
17 Housing and Community Development Committee 
COC
External Committee
Hedges
Hedges
Internal Committees
18 City Council Audit & Budget Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
19 City Council Legislative Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
20 Council of Cities - City Selection Committee (Mayor/Deputy)
Council
Internal Standing Comm
Lee / Nash
Nash /
Newsom
External Liaison
21 City Delegate to America Supporting Americans (ASA) Board
Council
External Liaison
N/A
Hedges
22 City Delegate to Assembly Member Papan 
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
23 City Delegate to Congressman Mullin 
Council
External Liaison
Lee
Lee
24 City Delegate to Senator Becker
Council
External Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
25 City Delegate to Board of Supervisor Corzo
Council
External Liaison
Loraine
Lee
26 Local Policy Makers Group (LPMG) 
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Loraine (alt)
Hedges
Nash (alt)
27 San Mateo Chamber of Commerce & Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)
Y
Council
External Liaison
Hedges
Lee (alt)
Hedges
Lee (alt)
28 San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA)
Council
External Liaison
Nash
Hedges (alt)
Nash
Hedges (alt)
29 San Mateo-Foster City Elementary School Board and San Mateo Union High School
District Board
Council
External Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
Internal Liaison
30 Civic Arts Committee (CAC)
Internal Liaison
Nash
Lee
31 Community Relations Commission (CRC) 
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
32 Library Board
Internal Liaison
Nash
Nash
140 of 266

--- page 141 ---
San Mateo Council Appointments - 2024
33 Measure S Oversight Committee
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
34 Park and Recreation Commission
Internal Liaison
Newsom
Newsom
35 Personnel Board
Internal Liaison
Hedges
Hedges
36 Planning Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Lee
Nash (alt)
Nash
Newsom (alt)
37 Senior Citizens Commission
Internal Liaison
Nash
Lee
38 Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Y
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
Loraine
Hedges (alt)
39 Youth Activities Council
Internal Liaison
Loraine
Loraine
Continuity Assignments (8) - Proposed
Body
Alt
Appt'd By
Type of Appointment
2023
2024
141 of 266

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 24-8361
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Business License and Regulations, and Building Security Code Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend Section 5.44.050(q) “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating 
Requirements” to change the lighting measurement to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements; amend Section 
23.54.005 “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent,” to remove reference to an antiquated design term, “Defensible 
Space Techniques;” and amend Section 23.54.020, “Building Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise 
Buildings” to more clearly define building heights that trigger requirements to maintain essential public safety 
communication networks.
BACKGROUND:
On January 2, 2024, the City Council introduced the attached proposed ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend Section 
5.44.050(q) “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating Requirements” to change the lighting measurement 
to lumens to reflect current lighting requirements; amend Section 23.54.005 “Building Security Code – Purpose and 
Intent,” to remove reference to an antiquated design term, “Defensible Space Techniques;” and amend Section 23.54.020, 
“Building Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise Buildings” to more clearly define building heights that 
trigger requirements to maintain essential public safety communication networks. This ordinance has since been edited to 
make non-substantive corrections, and if adopted will become effective 30 days after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this ordinance adoption. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
142 of 266

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Section 5.44.050 “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating Requirements,” and 
Amending Sections 23.54.005(b) “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent” and 23.54.020 “Building 
Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise Buildings”
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department, as an active member of the City of San Mateo’s Design 
Review Board, has identified areas of improvement in three San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Sections 
outlined in this resolution; and
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 5.44.050 “Business Licenses and Regulations – Massage Operating 
Requirements,” will more clearly communicate the requirements of the code due to changes in lighting 
technology by using lumens for measurement instead of watts; and
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 23.54.005(b) “Building Security Code – Purpose and Intent” references an 
outdated principle in safety design, and the updated language will more clearly state the City of San Mateo’s 
commitment to maximizing public safety through safety technologies; and 
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 23.54.020 “Building Security Code – City Communications System – High Rise 
Buildings,” currently lists the height limit which triggers the installation of communications infrastructure as five 
stories, without providing a definition for “story,” which has caused confusion for past development proposals 
and will be more clearly expressed as the specific height limit of 55 feet to trigger the requirement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Subsection (b) of Section 23.54.005 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(b) To apply crime prevention through environmental design and safety technologies.
Section 2. Subsection (q) of Section 5.44.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(q) Minimum lighting consisting of at least one artificial light of not less than 450 lumens shall be 
provided and shall be operating in each room or enclosure where massage services are being performed on 
clients, and in all areas where clients are present.
Section 3. Section 23.54.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
All new buildings with a top plate height of 55 feet or more shall provide a location on the building for 
installation of City radio communications equipment, including antennas and their supporting equipment. An 
electrical supply source shall be provided by the permittee at the antenna/equipment location, and reasonable 
access shall be provided by the permittee and/or building owner to City staff and/or City contractors for 
installation of necessary telephone lines and for purposes of installation, maintenance, adjustment and repair of 
the antenna/equipment. This access and location agreement shall be recorded in terms that convey the intent 
and meaning of this condition in the form approved by the City Attorney.
143 of 266

--- page 144 ---
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies 
only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen 
with certainty that the ordinance adoption, will not have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).
Section 5.  Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here
144 of 266

--- page 145 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 23-8282
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Department Heads and Deputy Directors, Merit Employees’ and Hourly Per Diems Salary Schedules – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo Department Heads, Deputy Directors’, Merit 
Employees’ and Hourly Per Diems’ current pay rates and ranges (salary schedules). 
BACKGROUND:
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 4.02, the City Council provides for the compensation of all officers and employees and 
salaries shall be fixed by Resolution. Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 570.5, requires the City 
Council to adopt a full salary schedule, as a standalone document detailing the rates of pay for each City classification, and 
to maintain this salary schedule as a publicly available document for at least five years. 
The California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CALPERS) uses this salary schedule to determine the “compensation 
earnable” when calculating the monthly pension an individual will receive when they retire. “Compensation earnable” is 
defined by the Public Employees’ Retirement Law (PERL) Government Code Sections 20636, and 20636.1 as pay rate and 
special compensation as defined in the statutes. 
The City of San Mateo Department Heads’ and Deputy Directors’, Merit Employees’ and Hourly Per Diems’ Salary 
Schedules are consistent with classifications and pay rates for current employees at this time, and no changes to the 
various salary ranges are proposed by the adoption of the salary schedules. 
The Department Heads and Deputy Directors’ Salary Schedules (Attachment 1 - Exhibit A) reflects salary changes 
previously approved by the Council in Resolutions. The Merit Employees’ Salary Schedules (Attachment 1 - Exhibit B) 
reflects salary changes previously approved by the Council in Resolutions. The Hourly Per Diems’ Salary Schedules 
(Attachment 1 - Exhibit C) reflects salary changes previously approved by the Council in Resolutions.  Salary schedules are 
periodically brought before Council for approavel in compliance with CALPERS and the PERL. Salary schedules are available 
to the public on the City’s website. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact related to the adoption of this Resolution.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
145 of 266

--- page 146 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A - Department Heads’ and Deputy Directors’ Salary Schedule
Exhibit B - Merit Employees’ Salary Schedule
Exhibit C - Hourly Per Diems’ Salary Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
146 of 266

--- page 147 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
 (2024) 
ADOPTING THE CITY OF SAN MATEO EMPLOYEE PAY RATES AND RANGES 
(SALARY SCHEDULE) 
WHEREAS, pursuant to City Charter Section 4.02, the City Council provides for the compensation of all 
officers and employees and salaries shall be fixed by resolution; and 
WHEREAS, Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 570.5, requires the City Council to 
adopt a full salary schedule, as a standalone document detailing the rates of pay for each City classification; and 
WHEREAS, the City must maintain salary schedules as publicly available documents for at least five 
years; and 
WHEREAS, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CALPERS) uses the salary schedules to 
determine “compensation earnable”; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo Department Head and Deputy Directors Salary Schedule is consistent 
with classifications and pay rates for current employees at this time and no changes to the various salary ranges 
are proposed by the adoption of the salary schedules; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo Merit Employees’ Salary Schedule is consistent with classifications and 
pay rates for current employees at this time and no changes to the various salary ranges are proposed by the 
adoption of the salary schedules; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo Hourly Per Diem Employees’ Salary Schedule is consistent with 
classifications and pay rates for current employees at this time and no changes to the various salary ranges are 
proposed by the adoption of the salary schedules; and 
WHEREAS, these salary schedules reflect salary changes previously approved by the Council in 
Resolutions; and 
WHEREAS, no appropriation of additional funds is necessary.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The classification updates are not subject to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15061(b)(3)) because it can be seen with certainty that they will not cause a physical change
in the environment; and
2.
The pay rates and ranges set forth in the Department Head and Deputy Directors’ Salary Schedule
attached as Exhibit A are approved.
147 of 266

--- page 148 ---
3. The pay rates and ranges set forth in the Merit Employees’ Salary Schedule attached as Exhibit B are 
approved. 
 
4. The pay rates and ranges set forth in the Hourly Per Diem Employees’ Salary Schedule attached as 
Exhibit C are approved.
148 of 266

--- page 149 ---
 	
 
		
		
 !"#!" "$%
&'(
)' *+*,
-*.-
/'01,2
(+345,2
6'7*/,2
87708,
 )+*2687891
:";< 
$=   ;  
">=::;:?
$$>=   ;  
$ )+*28**'172
"?;< 
 ="  ;  
""=  ;  
":<="  ;  
": 8--*)+*2687891
-*.
"$;$"
#=>:<;?$
"=$?<;?:
"<:=< #; 
-*."
"#;@#
 =$<#; "
""=@@@;<<
":#=$$@;<:
-*.$
$<;#:
 =>?:;#?
"$=<::;??
">"=> ;">
@ )/+A'A.',+)
-*.
":;<
 = #";"?
"=>::;<#
":"=$##; #
-*."
$";@:
 =<#:;>#
""=#<#;#"
"?<=<#; @
-*.$
$#; >
=":;?$
"@= ?;#"
">#="#@;##
"$ )+*2),15
-*.
#$;>#
?=<;
:="?@; >
#<=">>;#:
-*."
#>;<>
?=>>:;:?
?= >?;?>
" <= <$;@
-*.$
 $;<
>=">;  
?=#@";?
"<=$ :; >
" )+*2,+(181+87
-*.
 <;# 
>=@?";?
>=$<:;$:
"" ="?:;$"
-*."
;" 
>=>#<;??
#="?@;>
"$="# ;@
-*.$
:;?:
#=$@ ;<:
" ="$?;>#
"@"=><@;:<
: +1)'66B,'.67*
-*.
 :; "
>=@>;"#
>=$?:;"
"" =<$;@@
-*."
;$"
>=# <;$<
#="#@;#$
"$=<$#;"
-*.$
:;>>
#=$< ;:"
" ="<#;:?
"@$=:; ?
"? +1+7A'*)/7','92
-*.
 $;">
>=":";"$
?=# ;@#
"@=>?;>>
-*."
 >;@@
>=:?<;$@
>=?#:;<:
""<=<<>;?>
-*.$
$;>:
#= #; 
#=?$:;$#
"$:=>$:;?"
"< +1.815-C1)18*+'7
-*.
 :; "
>=@>;"#
>=$?:;"
"" =<$;@@
-*."
;$"
>=# <;$<
#="#@;#$
"$=<$#;"
-*.$
:;>>
#=$< ;:"
" ="<#;:?
"@$=:; ?
" +1.0(,+)4'15-
-*.
;#@
>=#<<;<:
#=@ $;?
"$"=>@@;<"
-*."
?;<@
#=@ $;$@
" =$?$;# 
"@@=@>:;?<
-*.$
"$;@"
#=>?$;< 
"=$#";<#
"<:=?; #
"" A+787)+1)*'1
-*.
;:#
>=#$<;"<
#=$<#;?
"$"=$:;<"
-*."
?;">
#=$>"; 
" =$"?;? 
"@$=#$";$<
-*.$
"$;@
#=><;
"=$@@; >
"<:=">;#?
> /06871-'01)-+1
-*.
 $;">
>=":";"$
?=# ;@#
"@=>?;>>
-*."
 >;@@
>=:?<;$@
>=?#:;<:
""<=<<>;?>
-*.$
$;>:
#= #; 
#=?$:;$#
"$:=>$:;?"
%7D8EEEF)G6FHI)JFI))JFJF !:!" "$
Exhibit A
149 of 266

--- page 150 ---
  	



  !"!#
$!%$
&'(#)
"*+,#)
-.!&#)
/..'/#
0 %'!) "!)#"(/("/.
$!%1
2311
456732
152243
14454374
$!%
2631
45073
165234
1065740304
$!%
223
054431
157342
12501431
1 %'!) "( !(
$!%1
7317
0503
157073
17150304
$!%
7432
0506302
145002317
1523
$!%
11346
251370
10541031
11563
01 %'!)"( !(%/(,$8( 
$!%1
2237
05434
15637
1254342
$!%
7301
05614306
14547341
17523
$!%
7036
0502032
1452037
560032
110 %"(%'#" +(,$
$!%1
7376
05034
150430
1275146346
$!%
7367
054736
1451371
17254322
$!%
130
25131
105073
2563
6 %'!)%#"  &"9
$!%1
11637
751134
175203
057034
$!%
1311
7542341
5212340
6752372
$!%
14311
15273
152734
451312
7 %'!)"( !(99"./. 
$!%1
273
051623
15620300
125236
$!%
732
05341
1454314
17516371
$!%
7231
0522327
105030
6573
&6:;<=><  ?;?;1
150 of 266

--- page 151 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A$%A
@5539/(@/()
/
B$CA$
6(7"
DDEB$AC&F
&EB%%CGD
HE&FDCHD
BBCBG
6(7$
G$EA%GCFD
&EAADC%F
HEH%GC"B
BFCBF
6(7&
GFEF$"C"$
&EH"FC$%
DE%A"CHF
BDCAA
6(7B
"%%EGHGCB%
&EDD&CD$
DEB"BCGA
A%CH&
6(7A
"%AEA%$C$%
BE%AHCHD
DEHG"CDA
$FA%
@5539/(@/())
/
BHCHA
6(7"
GGE&%%C$B
&ED"GC$B
DE$HAC%$
BGCDH
6(7$
"%&EHFDC$%
&EGG"C%D
DEFBHC&A
A$C"%
6(7&
"%DEB%DC"$
BE"FGCAB
GE%&BC%"
ABCBA
6(7B
""&E$HHC"$
BE&AFCD"
GEB&GCHF
AFCG"
6(7A
""DE&HACAF
BEAA$CG"
GEDFBCF&
$FA"
@5539/(@/(6:

ABCDH
6(7"
""BE"&FCBB
BE&DGCDF
GEA""C&H
AHC&B
6(7$
""GE$F&C%D
BEADHC%B
GEG&DCAG
AGCG$
6(7&
"$BEFBHCH$
BEHGBC"B
"%E&DHC&"
F$CFF
6(7B
"&%E$G%C&F
AE%""C"H
"%EDAHCA&
FACBD
6(7A
"&FE"F"CGF
AE$&HC%%
""E&BFCD&
A%"%
@5539/()/I@66()
/
$GC%&
6(7"
F%E&AHC$B
$E&$"CB&
AE%$GCHH
&%C&$
6(7$
F&E%B&CAF
$EB$BCHA
AE$A&CF&
&"CFG
6(7&
FAEG$"CHF
$EA&ACBA
AEBG&CBD
&&C""
6(7B
FDEDD$C%B
$EFBGC&"
AEHB%C"H
&BCF%
6(7A
H"EGHGC$B
$EHFDCB&
AEGGDC$H
A&A%
@5539/()/I@66())
/
&"CDF
6(7"
FFE&%ACB%
$EAA%C$"
AEA$ACBA
&&C&A
6(7$
FGE&HACF%
$EFFDC$G
AEHD"C&%
&BCDA
6(7&
H$EBBACBB
$EHDFC&F
FE%&HC"$
&FCB$
6(7B
HAEHF"CFB
$EG"&CG"
FE&"&CBH
&DC%B
6(7A
HGE"&&C$D
&E%B&CAG
FEAGBCBB
A"&"
@5539/()/I@66(6:
/
&AC%G
6(7"
H$EGG&CBD
$ED%HCBB
FE%D$CHG
&FCH%
6(7$
HFE&"%C$D
$EG&AC%"
FE&AGC"G
&DC&"
6(7&
HGEH%DCG$
&E%FACH&
FEFB$CB"
B%C%D
6(7B
D&E&ABCDD
&E$%ACGF
FEGBFC$B
B"CDA
6(7A
DHE%AAC%D
&E&BDC$H
HE$ABCAG
$"%"
@5539/()/I?I:

F&C""
6(7"
"&"E$H&CHF
AE%BDCGG
"%EG&GCBD
FACGH
6(7$
"&HE"DFCB%
AE$HFCB%
""EB&$C$%
FDCG$
6(7&
"B&E&FGCB%
AEA"BC$"
""EGBHCBA
H$C%&
6(7B
"BGED$$CB%
AEHF$CB%
"$EBDAC$%
HAC$A
6(7A
"AFEADFC%D
FE%$$CAB
"&E%BDCDB
JLMNOPQRSRTUVWXYZ[\]^O_PO`abcYdeNVfcTXOMNg\]^O_PO`abOhOah]\R\\gijj^jhkkWlmOkRno
p]jMkk]PNMqgijj`abOhOr^jhkkgUQgsmOkRnog
7 t"0&%
Exhibit B
151 of 266

--- page 152 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A%$A
@?)/(58
/
B"CD&
6(7"
EFG$BHCDH
&G&AACHA
FG$F%CAE
B&CE$
6(7$
D"G"""CD$
&GA%BC&%
FGAD$CHH
BACFD
6(7&
DAG$A%CF$
&GHH&CBD
FGD&FCAH
BFCEE
6(7B
DDGH%DC%%
&GE&"C"$
EG&%%CFA
A%C%%
6(7A
"%BG%$"CEE
BG%%%CEB
EGHHECBD
A&B%
@?)/)6(:@()I
@66)6(@/(
/
&BCHF
6(7"
F$G""HC$E
$GFF&CF%
HG%%DCHD
&HC$&
6(7$
FAG&FECBE
$GEDDC"F
HG$E"CAB
&FCEH
6(7&
FEGF$$CB%
&G%$FCFE
HGAH%C$%
&DCA&
6(7B
E$G$AEC$%
&G"H&CFE
HGEABCEA
B"C&A
6(7A
EAGDEHC%%
&G&%FC"A
FG"HACA%
A"E&
@66)6((35)(;5*:>
/
&BCHF
6(7"
F$G""HC$E
$GFF&CF%
HG%%DCHD
&HC$&
6(7$
FAG&FECBE
$GEDDC"F
HG$E"CAB
&FCEH
6(7&
FEGF$$CB%
&G%$FCFE
HGAH%C$%
&DCA&
6(7B
E$G$AEC$%
&G"H&CFE
HGEABCEA
B"C&A
6(7A
EAGDEHC%%
&G&%FC"A
FG"HACA%
A%&"
4*J)/67)
/
B$C$%
6(7"
EFGFDAC%%
&G&FHCF&
FG&"HC$A
BBC"B
6(7$
D"GEA"CF$
&GA&$CFH
FGHABC&"
BHC"F
6(7&
DAGDD%CB%
&GHD"CDB
FGDDDC$%
BEC$"
6(7B
"%%G$DBC&$
&GEAFCBF
EG&AFCEH
A%C&B
6(7A
"%BGF%FC$%
BG%$FC$%
EGF$ACH%
A%&%
4*J)/67))
/
BHCBH
6(7"
DHGH$"C"$
&GF"HC$%
EG%A"CFH
BECAA
6(7$
"%%GDFDCB%
&GEE&CE$
EGB"BCDA
A%CFB
6(7&
"%AGA$DCAH
BG%AECE&
EGFDBC"&
A&C%$
6(7B
""%G$BBC&H
BG$B%C"F
DG"EFC%&
AAC&E
6(7A
""AG"FFCD$
BGB$DCD$
DGADEC"H
A%&$
4*J)/676/)3:
/
A"C%E
6(7"
"%HG$$EC&$
BG%EACF%
EGEA$C&H
A&C&F
6(7$
"""G%%$CHB
BG$HDC&&
DG$A%C$$
AACFH
6(7&
""AGDD"CFH
BGBH"C$$
DGHHACDE
AEC$E
6(7B
"$"G$"DCBB
BGHH$C$D
"%G"%"CH$
H%CD%
6(7A
"$HGHEHC$E
BGEF$CAA
"%GAAFC"D
A%&%K 4*J)/675(3:))L>
:@(M
/
BFCDH
6(7"
DDGE%%CFH
&GE&ECBD
EG&"HCF&
A%C"&
6(7$
"%BG$HECF$
BG%"%C&B
EGHEDC%H
A$C&F
6(7&
"%EGDAHC"H
BG"D%CH$
DG%FDCHE
ABCFE
6(7B
""&GD"FC%E
BG&E"CB&
DGBD&C%D
AFC$$
6(7A
""EGDEEC%B
BGAFHCBH
DGD"ACHF
NPQRSTUVWVXYZ[\]^_`abScTSdefg]hiRZjgX\SQRk`abScTSdefSlSela`V``kmnnbnloo[pqSoVrs
tanQooaTRQukmnndefSlSvbnlookYUkwqSoVrsk
7 x$0&%
152 of 266

--- page 153 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%A%
4*B3CC)5)@*

DEF%%
6(7"
"G$H$E$FG%
GH$I"FGI
"&HJ$&FJJ
E"FJI
6(7$
"GAHJEGFI%
GHJ$$FJJ
"IH"&$F$%
EJF"A
6(7&
"DDH$&&FEE
GHE"GFGA
"IHDGAFIA
EAF%&
6(7I
"EJH$$IFA$
DH"$IF%I
"JHI&JFI"
A&F%G
6(7J
"A&HJJAF$E
DHIIIFJA
"GH"$AFAI
$%$G
49B(@/@*;6(

JJFGJ
6(7"
""JHDGEFJG
IHIJ$FGI
AHGIDF&E
JEF"J
6(7$
"$%HAE"FD$
IHGJ&F"I
"%H%E"FE"
G%FDE
6(7&
"$GH&AIFE%
IHEG"F&I
"%HJ&$FA%
G&FJ"
6(7I
"&$H%AIFJG
JH%E%FJG
""H%%DFEE
GGF&A
6(7J
"&EH"%AF%E
JH&""FEA
""HJ%AF%A
$"%&
49B(?@/@B:

G&F""
6(7"
"&"H$D&FDG
JH%IEFAA
"%HA&AFIE
GJFAD
6(7$
"&DH"EGFI%
JH$DGFI%
""HI&$F$%
GEFA$
6(7&
"I&H&GAFI%
JHJ"IF$"
""HAIDFIJ
D$F%&
6(7I
"IAHE$$FI%
JHDG$FI%
"$HIEJF$%
DJF$J
6(7J
"JGHJEGF%E
GH%$$FJI
"&H%IEFEI
$"E%
49)*)/B?@)/(
697:K)63:

JIF"&
6(7"
""$HG"EFII
IH&&"FIE
AH&EIFED
JGFJE
6(7$
""DHGEEF$%
IHJ$GFID
AHE%DF&J
JAF"&
6(7&
"$$HAEGFGE
IHD&%F$G
"%H$IEFEA
G"FDI
6(7I
"$EHI$EFGE
IHA&AFJG
"%HD%$F&A
GIFJI
6(7J
"&IH$D"FD$
JH"GIF&%
""H"EAF&"
$"%G
496)/66?@/@B:

GIF%I
6(7"
"&&H"AAFI%
JH"$&F%J
""H%AAFAJ
GGFA%
6(7$
"&AH"E$F%%
JH&J&F"J
""HJAEFJ%
GAFAI
6(7&
"IJHIJJF&G
JHJAIFII
"$H"$"F$E
D&F%D
6(7I
"J"HAA&FJG
JHEIJFA"
"$HGGGF"&
DGF&G
6(7J
"JEHE$JFGI
GH"%EFGE
"&H$&JFID
$%&J
496)/666;6(?6
@/@*;6()

J%FJ%
6(7"
"%JH%$AFGI
IH%&AFG%
EHDJ$FID
J$FDD
6(7$
"%AHDJIFDG
IH$$"F&I
AH"IGF$&
JJF"J
6(7&
""IHGAJFI%
IHI""F&G
AHJJDFAJ
JDFG$
6(7I
""AHEJ$FJ$
IHG%AFD"
AHAEDFD"
G%F$&
6(7J
"$JH$J$FJ$
IHE"DFI%
"%HI&DFD"
$%&G
496)/666;6(?6
@/@*;6())

JGF%E
6(7"
""GHGEJF&G
IHIEDFA%
AHD$&FDE
JEFG"
6(7$
"$"HEAEF%I
IHGEEF&A
"%H"JEF"D
G"F$$
6(7&
"$DH&ADF$E
IHEAAFA%
"%HG"GFII
GIF%I
6(7I
"&&H"E$FAG
JH"$$FI$
""H%AEFJE
GGFEE
6(7J
"&AH"GAF%I
JH&J$FGG
""HJADFI$
LNOPQRSTUTVWXYZ[\]^_`QaRQbcde[fgPXheVZQOPi^_`QaRQbcdQjQcj_^T^^ikll`ljmmYnoQmTpq
r_lOmm_RPOsikllbcdQjQt`ljmmiWSiuoQmTpqi
7 v&0&%
153 of 266

--- page 154 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%&A
496)/666;6(?6
@/@*;6(6:

BCDE"
6(7"
"&CF"AEDCC
EF"B%DGA
""F"A$D"$
BHDC"
6(7$
"C%F$%%D$%
EF&G$D&$
""FBA&D&E
H%DCE
6(7&
"CBFE%%DG$
EFB&CDBE
"$F$%ADC"
H&DB$
6(7C
"E&F"CEDG$
EFAG%D$&
"$FHB$D"B
HBDGC
6(7E
"B%F%"GDAA
BF"ECDB"
"&F&&CDGG
B$%&
5@*)4:@()3/
(58/)5)@/
/
CCDHH
6(7"
G&F"$EDE$
&FEA"DHE
HFHB%DCB
CBDHA
6(7$
GHF&$ED%C
&FHC&D$H
AF""%DC$
CADAH
6(7&
"%"FBHBD%%
&FG"%DB$
AFCH&D%%
E"D"%
6(7C
"%BF$E$DG$
CF%ABDBE
AFAECDC"
B%CE
5/(:@*6:I)56
=3:>:
/
$&D&A
6(7"
CAFBC$D%%
"FAH%DAE
CF%E&DE%
$CDCC
6(7$
E%FAC%D%C
"FGEED&G
CF$&BDBH
$EDE&
6(7&
E&F"&&D%%
$F%C&DEA
CFC$HDHE
$BDBA
6(7C
EEFCGBDC%
$F"&CDCA
CFB$CDH%
E&%"
5/(:@*6I56@66)6(
/
&AD"G
6(7"
HGFC&ED%A
&F%EED$%
BFB"GDEG
&GDGC
6(7$
A&F%E&D%A
&F"GCD&E
BFG$"D%G
C"DHC
6(7&
ABFA%AD$C
&F&&ADHA
HF$&CD%$
C&DEA
6(7C
G%FBCEDB%
&FCABD&H
HFEE&DA%
$%"E
5)(;@((;@66(

A"D&"
6(7"
"BGF"$AD%%
BFE%CDG$
"CF%GCD%%
ACDGE
6(7$
"HBFBAGD&$
BFHGEDHC
"CFH$CD""
AADHH
6(7&
"ACFB$&D"$
HF"%%DAG
"EF&AED$B
G$DHH
6(7C
"G$FGEHDH$
HFC$"DCE
"BF%HGDA"
GBDG$
6(7E
$%"FB%HDBA
HFHECD"C
"BFA%%DBC
$ECH
5)(;@((;7)

EEDCA
6(7"
""EF&GBDEB
CFC&AD&&
GFB"BD&A
EHDGB
6(7$
"$%FEA%DA%
CFB&HDH$
"%F%CADC%
B%DEB
6(7&
"$EFGG&DAA
CFACEDG$
"%FCGGDCG
B&D&$
6(7C
"&"FBBCDH$
EF%BCD%&
"%FGH$D%B
BBD"&
6(7E
"&HFEBED"$
EF$G%DGH
""FCB&DHB
$ECA
5)(;@((;7))

B"D%H
6(7"
"$BFGGBDCA
CFAACDCA
"%FEA&D%C
B&DHB
6(7$
"&$FB&ADE$
EF"%"DCA
""F%E&D$"
BBDH%
6(7&
"&AFBA$D$%
EF&&&DG&
""FEEBDAE
BGDBC
6(7C
"CCFAGHD$C
EFEH$DGH
"$F%HCDHH
H$DA%
6(7E
"E"FC$HDE$
EFA$CD"C
"$FB"ADGB
$%"H
5)(;5*:>7

C"DE&
6(7"
ABF&A&D%A
&F&$$DC&
HF"GADEG
C&D&A
6(7$
G%F$%GDHB
&FCBGDB"
HFE"HDCA
CED&C
6(7&
GCF&%HDBC
&FB$HD$$
HFAEADGH
CHDC%
6(7C
GAFB$$DH$
&FHG&D"A
AF$"ADEB
CGDE%
6(7E
"%$FGG$D%C
&FGB"D$&
AFEA$DBH
JLMNOPQRSRTUVWXYZ[\]^O_PO`abcYdeNVfcTXOMNg\]^O_PO`abOhOah]\R\\gijj^jhkkWlmOkRno
p]jMkk]PNMqgijj`abOhOr^jhkkgUQgsmOkRnog
7 tC0&%
154 of 266

--- page 155 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%AA
53/B3BB5:6:

A"C"A
6(7"
"%DE&FGC&D
GE%H"C&$
IEIDGCA&
A&CGF
6(7$
"""E$"AC%G
GE$FFCA%
HE$DFCH$
AACIA
6(7&
""DE"F%C%I
GEGDIC%I
HEDI%CIG
AIC&H
6(7G
"$"EG&HCII
GEDF%CFD
"%E""HCHH
D"C%G
6(7A
"$DEH"%CAD
GEII"C"I
"%EAFACII
A$D&
53/B3BB)5:)
/
&HCAG
6(7"
I$E$IACDI
&E"DGCI&
DEIAFC"G
G"C&D
6(7$
IDE%"&CGI
&E&%IC$"
FE"DFCFH
G&C$%
6(7&
IHEIFIC$%
&EGADCIA
FEGIHCIA
GAC"F
6(7G
H&EHD$CG%
&ED"&CHG
FEI&%C$%
GFC$%
6(7A
HIE"ADC"D
&EFFAC$G
IE"FHCDI
A$D$
53/B3BB)5:))
/
G&CAD
6(7"
H%EAH"C%%
&EGIGC$F
FEAGHC$A
GACGI
6(7$
HGEAH$CFD
&ED&IC"I
FEII$CF&
GFCA&
6(7&
HIEIDICD%
&EI%$CDG
IE$&HC%A
GHCDH
6(7G
"%&E&&DCH$
&EHFGCA%
IED""CG"
A"CH&
6(7A
"%FEHHDCA$
GE"A&CF"
IEHHHCF"
$%AD
53/B3:5?/(
?@/@J:

F%CH$
6(7"
"GFEA$HCH$
AEDFGC$&
"$E$HGC"D
FGC""
6(7$
"AGE"DGC"$
AEH$HC&H
"$EIGFC%"
FFCGA
6(7&
"D"E%HHC"D
DE"HDC"$
"&EG$GCH&
I%CH$
6(7G
"DIE&A$C&$
DEGFAC%H
"GE%$HC&D
IGCAI
6(7A
"FAEH&$C%%
DEFDDCD$
"GEDD"C%%
$%%"
53??K794
:*@()3/6@/@*;6(

AACDA
6(7"
""AEFDICAD
GEGA$CDG
HEDGFC&I
AIC"A
6(7$
"$%EHI"CF$
GEDA&C"G
"%E%I"CI"
D%CFI
6(7&
"$DE&HGCI%
GEID"C&G
"%EA&$CH%
D&CA"
6(7G
"&$E%HGCAD
AE%I%CAD
""E%%FCII
DDC&H
6(7A
"&IE"%HC%I
AE&""CIH
""EA%HC%H
GA&A
53??6:L3BB)
/
&$C&$
6(7"
DFE$&GC$%
$EAIACH&
AED%$CIA
&&CFD
6(7$
F%E"HICAD
$EDHHCHG
AEIGHCII
&AC$F
6(7&
F&E&I%CHD
$EI$$C&G
DE""AC%I
&DCIF
6(7G
FDEDF"CIG
$EHGICH$
DE&IHC&$
&ICA$
6(7A
I%E"A&C"D
&E%I$CI"
DEDFHCG&
GAGA
53??6:L3BB))
/
&ACG"
6(7"
F&EDA&C%%
$EI&$CI"
DE"&FCFA
&FC%$
6(7$
FDEHHIC$G
$EHD"CGF
DEG"DCA$
&ICDI
6(7&
I%EGA$C$%
&E%HGC&$
DEF%GC&A
G%CG%
6(7G
IGE%DHCD%
&E$&&CGA
FE%%ACI%
G$C$&
6(7A
IFEI$$CHD
&E&FFCI"
FE&"ICAI
MOPQRSTUVUWXYZ[\]^_`aRbSRcdef\ghQYifW[RPQj_`aRbSRcdeRkRdk`_U__jlmmamknnZopRnUqr
s`mPnn`SQPtjlmmcdeRkRuamknnjXTjvpRnUqrj
7 wA0&%
155 of 266

--- page 156 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
ABAC
53??6:D3EE)5:
6:
/
A$F%G
6(7"
HGIAJ%F$%
&I&CBF%"
GI$J%FHB
A&FJC
6(7$
J"IA$GFA%
&IB"CFAA
GIC"HFJB
ABFJA
6(7&
JBIBA"FG$
&ICGAFCH
GIJC"FH"
AHF%"
6(7A
JJIHA%FG$
&IHA%F%&
HI&$%F%C
B%F"G
6(7B
"%AI&&&FGC
AI%"$FHA
HICJAFAH
B&$A
53??6:D697D

A$FAH
6(7"
HHI&A&F$H
&I&JGFH$
GI&C"FJA
AAF&H
6(7$
J$I$J%F%H
&IBAJFC$
GICJ%FHA
ACF&H
6(7&
JCIAHAF$%
&IG"%FJ&
HI%A%F&B
AHFAB
6(7A
"%%IGHGFB$
&IHGCFAA
HI&JHFJC
B%FCB
6(7B
"%BI&CAFH%
AI%B$FAJ
HIGH%FA%
$$CC
53??6:D697D6:

B$F%%
6(7"
"%HI"B"FBC
AI"BJFCH
JI%"$FC&
BAF&A
6(7$
""&I%&%FB$
AI&AGF&&
JIA"JF$"
BCFGB
6(7&
""HI%HAFBC
AIBA"FG"
JIHA%F&H
BJF&%
6(7A
"$&I&G$F%%
AIGABF%H
"%I$H"F%%
C"FJJ
6(7B
"$HIJB$F%%
AIJBJFCJ
"%IGACF%%
B&&A
53??6D56533:
/
&CFHJ
6(7"
GCIGAHFHH
$IJB"FHH
CI&JBFGA
&HFC%
6(7$
H%I$HAFBC
&I%HGFHG
CICJ%F&H
A%F&%
6(7&
H&IHGBF$%
&I$$BFJG
CIJHJFC%
A$F"C
6(7A
HGICHBF%H
&I&G$FB%
GI&%GF%J
AAF%A
6(7B
J"IC&$F&C
&IB$AF&$
GIC&CF%&
$$C$
53??6D56?K:

CHF$$
6(7"
"A"IHHJFCH
BIABGF&%
""IH$AF"A
G"F$G
6(7$
"AHI$"JFCH
BIG%%FGC
"$I&B"FCA
GAFAG
6(7&
"BAIHJ&F"$
BIJBGFA&
"$IJ%GFGC
GGFH&
6(7A
"C"IHH"FH%
CI$$CF$$
"&IAJ%F"B
H"F&&
6(7B
"CJI"HBF$A
CIB%GF"$
"AI%JHFGG
$$CB
53??6D5665()3/
?K:

BAF&$
6(7"
""$IJJ%FH%
AI&ABFH%
JIA"BFJ%
BCFGB
6(7$
""HI%HHFGC
AIBA"FHH
JIHA%FG&
BJF&"
6(7&
"$&I&HGF&C
AIGABFCG
"%I$H$F$H
C"FJJ
6(7A
"$HIJAAF$%
AIJBJF&J
"%IGABF&B
CAFGJ
6(7B
"&AIGBHF&$
BI"H&F%"
""I$$JFHC
$%%$
53??9/)5@()3/6
?@/@K:

C&F""
6(7"
"&"I$G&FGC
BI%AHFJJ
"%IJ&JFAH
CBFJG
6(7$
"&GI"HCFA%
BI$GCFA%
""IA&$F$%
CHFJ$
6(7&
"A&I&CJFA%
BIB"AF$"
""IJAGFAB
G$F%&
6(7A
"AJIH$$FA%
BIGC$FA%
"$IAHBF$%
GBF$B
6(7B
"BCIBHCF%H
CI%$$FBA
"&I%AHFHA
':M0G#J#$&<AN?39)1M0M*OP?Q-<6P$NMF)1M0M*OM M 1)#))FSTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 QC0&%
156 of 266

--- page 157 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A$B%
53/6()/67)
/
C"DAB
6(7"
EFGA%FDAF
&G&$HD"E
HG$%EDEE
C&DAF
6(7$
B%GAB"D%%
&GCECD$H
HGACBD$A
CADCE
6(7&
BCGAB$DHF
&GF&ED"E
HGEE$DH&
CHDA"
6(7C
BEGEC"D&F
&GE%"DAB
EG$&FDHE
CBDFH
6(7A
"%&G$E"DEC
&GBH$D&E
EGF%FDE$
AC%%
53/6()/67))
/
CADH%
6(7"
BAG%ABD%E
&GFAFD"$
HGB$"DAB
CHDE$
6(7$
BBGCCCD&F
&GE$CDHE
EG$EHD%&
CBDBF
6(7&
"%&GB"$DCC
&GBBFDF&
EGFABD&H
A$D$"
6(7C
"%EGAH$D%C
CG"HADEA
BG%CHDFH
ACDAF
6(7A
""&GCHEDCE
CG&FCDAF
BGCAFDAC
$"F&
53/69*()/IJ
@77*)5@()3/6?I:

HADEH
6(7"
"AHGHEADEC
FG%FEDFB
"&G"CEDE$
HBD$B
6(7$
"FCGBCFDCE
FG&CCD"%
"&GHCADAC
E$DEH
6(7&
"H$G&B&D$%
FGF&%DA"
"CG&FFD"%
EFDF%
6(7C
"E%G"$FD$C
FGB$HDB&
"AG%"%DA$
B%DCE
6(7A
"EEG$&"DEE
HG$&BDFB
"AGFEADBB
$F%$
5:)?@/
)/(**)I/5
@/@*;6(

A%DF$
6(7"
"%AG$AHDFC
CG%CED&H
EGHH"DCH
A$DB$
6(7$
""%G%C%DF%
CG$&$D&&
BG"H%D%A
AAD$C
6(7&
""CGB&EDFC
CGC$%DH$
BGAHED$$
AHDHF
6(7C
"$%G"$$DA$
CGF$%D"%
"%G%"%D$"
F%D&$
6(7A
"$AGCHED"$
CGE$FD%E
"%GCAFDA"
F%A%
596(3)@/
/
$BD"B
6(7"
F%GH""DF%
$G&&AD%F
AG%ABD&%
&%DA"
6(7$
F&GCA"D%E
$GCC%DC&
AG$EHDAB
&"DB%
6(7&
FFG&$EDB$
$GAA"D""
AGA$HDC"
&&D&%
6(7C
FBG$EBDB$
$GFFAD%%
AGHHCD"F
$"FF
596(3?:6:K)5
?@/@I:

F$D%&
6(7"
"$BG%$CDCE
CGBF$DCE
"%GHA$D%C
FCDE$
6(7$
"&CGE%HDEE
AG"ECDB$
""G$&&DBB
FHDHC
6(7&
"C%GEFFD&$
AGC"HDBC
""GH&EDEF
H%DHB
6(7C
"CHG$AADH$
AGFF&DFE
"$G$H"D&"
H&DBE
6(7A
"A&GEFAD&$
AGB"HDB%
"$GE$$D""
ACC$
@(@4@6675)@*)6(
/
&EDH&
6(7"
E%GAEFD"$
&G%BBDCH
FGH"ADA"
C%DCE
6(7$
ECG"HHD%%
&G$&HDAE
HG%"CDHA
C$D&%
6(7&
EHGBEHD%%
&G&ECD"$
HG&&$D$A
CCD$$
6(7C
B"GBF"DA$
&GA&FDBE
HGFF&DCF
CFD$&
6(7A
BFG"$HDFE
&GFBHD$$
EG%"%DFC
':M0H#B#$&<CN?39)1M0M*OJ?P-<6J$NMD)1M0M*OM M 1)#))DRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 PH0&%
157 of 266

--- page 158 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%A"
79(;49)*)/B
3CC)5)@*

D&E%F
6(7"
"&"G"H%EA$
FG%H&EII
"%GA$IEH"
DDE%$
6(7$
"&JG&$%E&$
FG$I"EFF
""GHH&E&D
DAE"&
6(7&
"H&GJA%EAD
FGF&%EH$
""GAI$EFI
J$E&A
6(7H
"F%GFDDEH%
FGJA"E%$
"$GFHJE$%
JFEI%
6(7F
"FJGDD"E"D
DG%D&EIA
"&G"&IEH&
F"JJK L:L))=(586:
M;<:@(N
/
HJEAH
6(7"
AAGJ%"EH%
&GI&HEDJ
IG&%IEHF
F%E""
6(7$
"%HG$F$EF$
HG%%AEJ"
IGDIJEJ"
F$E&F
6(7&
"%IGA%"EFD
HG"IIEF$
AG%JFE"&
FHEJ$
6(7H
""&GI$"EFD
HG&JJEJF
AGHIFE"&
FJE"A
6(7F
""IGA&IE&D
HGFJHEFF
AGA""EF&
F"JD
L*37?/(:L)=
(58)
/
&HEFF
6(7"
J"GIF&E&D
$GJD&EFA
FGAIJEJI
&DE%A
6(7$
JFG%JFEAD
$GIIJEFH
DG$FDE&&
&JEJH
6(7&
JIGHDFEJ$
&G%"JEA"
DGF&IEI"
&AEH&
6(7H
I"GAAIEJD
&G"F&EI%
DGI&&E$&
H"E$%
6(7F
IFGDAIEJ$
&G$ADE"%
JG"H"EFD
F"JH
L*37?/(:L)=
(58))
/
&IEH%
6(7"
JAGIHDE$%
&G%J"E%"
DGDF&EIF
H%E"&
6(7$
I&GHDHE$%
&G$"%E"D
DGAFFE&F
H"EA$
6(7&
IJG$"AED%
&G&FHED%
JG$DIE&%
H&EJI
6(7H
A"G%FDEJ$
&GF%$E"I
JGFIIE%D
HFEJI
6(7F
AFG$$&E"$
&GDD$EH&
JGA&FE$D
F"JJ
L*37?/(:L)=
(586:
/
H$E$"
6(7"
IJGJAAEFD
&G&JDEA"
JG&"DED&
HHE""
6(7$
A"GJD$E%I
&GF$AE&"
JGDHDEIH
HDE""
6(7&
AFGIA"EII
&GDIIE"F
JGAA%EAA
HIE"J
6(7H
"%%G$"$ED%
&GIFHE&&
IG&F"E%F
F%E&F
6(7F
"%HGJ$HEHI
HG%$JEID
IGJ$JE%H
$D$%
)67@(586:L6697L

FAEJ$
6(7"
"$HG$"IE$H
HGJJJED$
"%G&F"EF$
D$EH"
6(7$
"$AGI%&E$I
HGAA$EH&
"%GI"DEAH
DFE$%
6(7&
"&FGDHDE%I
FG$"JE"D
""G&%&EIH
DIE"F
6(7H
"H"GJHJE"$
FGHF"EI"
""GI"$E$D
J"E$%
6(7F
"HIG"&&EII
FGDAJEHD
"$G&HHEHA
HFFF
)67@(58:)
/
H"E"H
6(7"
IFGFH&E$%
&G$A%E"$
JG"$IED%
H$EAH
6(7$
IAG&"$E$I
&GH&FE%A
JGHH$EDA
HHEA%
6(7&
A&GH%DE$%
&GFA$EFF
JGJI&EIF
HDEA%
6(7H
AJGFI"EJ$
&GJF&E"H
IG"&"EI"
HAE%$
6(7F
"%"GAJ&EAD
&GA$$E%I
IGHAJEI&
':P0J#A#$&<HQ?39)1P0P*RS?T-<6S$QPE)1P0P*RP P 1)#))EVWWXWYZZ[\]^Z_`a
bcWdZZcefdghVWWijk^Y^lXWYZZhmnho]^Z_`ah
7 TI0&%
158 of 266

--- page 159 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
ABBC
)67@(58:))
/
ABD&"
6(7"
EAF$$%D$G
&FC$&DGC
HFGB"DCE
AHD$G
6(7$
EGF&CBDCG
&FHG&D&%
GF"EHD"A
AEDA&
6(7&
"%$FHGCD%%
&FEB&D&"
GFBCBDB%
B"DCA
6(7A
"%HF&EGD%G
AF"&%DH%
GFEAEDGA
B&DEE
6(7B
""$F$GADGA
AF&"GDCB
EF&BHD%H
ABBH
)67@(58:6/)3:
/
AEDHB
6(7"
"%&FAEEDHC
&FEG%DHC
GFC$ADEG
B"DEE
6(7$
"%GF"&ED$%
AF"BED$%
EF%""DC%
BAD&B
6(7&
""&F%$BDEC
AF&AHD"B
EFA"GDG&
BCDHH
6(7A
""GF%HHDAG
AFBA"DAA
EFG&EDHE
BED&&
6(7B
"$&FA&"D%A
AFHAHD&B
"%F$GBDE$
B%$H
3=/(3=/
533:)/@(3:
/
A"DE&
6(7"
GHF$$CDE$
&F&BADGG
HF$CGDE"
A&DG$
6(7$
E"F"&ADH$
&FB%BD"G
HFBEADBC
ABDHE
6(7&
EBF$AEDA%
&FCC&DAA
HFE&HDAB
AHDGG
6(7A
EEFBGED%G
&FG&%D&B
GF$EED%E
B%D%%
6(7B
"%&FEECD$%
&FEEEDGB
GFCCCD&B
$$&$
53/I?@/@J:

HGD%%
6(7"
"C$F$G$DC%
CF$A"DCA
"&FB$&DBB
G"DBA
6(7$
"CEFBGCDA%
CFB$$DBB
"AF"&$D$%
GBD"E
6(7&
"HHF$&&DGG
CFG"CDCE
"AFHCEDAE
GED%&
6(7A
"GBF$$ADE$
HF"$AD%A
"BFA&BDA"
E&D%C
6(7B
"E&FBBED$G
HFAAADBE
"CF"$EDEA
$"$$
/J)/:)/J
?@/@J:

HGD&A
6(7"
"C$FEAHDB$
CF$CHD$"
"&FBHGDEC
G"DG$
6(7$
"H%F"CAD%G
CFBAADHH
"AF"G%D&A
GBDB"
6(7&
"HHFGGCDBC
CFGA"DHE
"AFG$&DGG
GED&E
6(7A
"GBFGGGDGG
HF"AEDBH
"BFAE%DHA
E&D&G
6(7B
"EAF$$GDB$
HFAH%D&&
"CF"GBDH"
B%&G
/J:@6635

BHDHC
6(7"
"$%F"&ED$%
AFC$%DHA
"%F%""DC%
C%D&B
6(7$
"$BFB&ED%G
AFG$GDA&
"%FAC"DBE
C&D"&
6(7&
"&"F&$$DH$
BF%B%DGH
"%FEA&DBC
CBDE%
6(7A
"&HF"%CD%%
BF$H&D&"
""FA$BDB%
CGDE$
6(7B
"A&F&$GD&C
BFB"$DC&
""FEAAD%&
B%A%
/J:@66(
/
B$DB"
6(7"
"%EF$$EDHC
AF$%"D"A
EF"%$DAG
BADE"
6(7$
""AF"E"D$G
AF&E"DEH
EFB"BDEA
BHD&H
6(7&
""EF$GEDC%
AFBGGD%C
EFEA%DG%
BEDEH
6(7A
"$AFH"CDH$
AFHECDG%
"%F&E&D%C
C$DC$
6(7B
"&%F$$CDA%
BF%%GDH"
"%FGB$D$%
':L0H#E#$&<AM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLD)1L0L*NL L 1)#))DRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 PE0&%
159 of 266

--- page 160 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A$"%
/B:2:
/
CDEDD
6(7"
FFG&%DECC
&GH"FEA$
HG$DAEI$
CFEF%
6(7$
"%&GDDAE%C
&GFF"E&A
HGICDEF$
A$E"A
6(7&
"%HGC%DEA$
CG"IFEA$
FG%&&EFI
ACECI
6(7C
""&G$HIED$
CG&ADE"H
FGCC%EAI
AIEFA
6(7A
""HGC&FEDI
CGAAAE&H
FGHIFEFH
$"$C
/B:6:

D"E"H
6(7"
"CHG"$IE%H
AGIFDE"I
"$G&C&EHC
DCE&D
6(7$
"ACGIF$ED$
AGFCFED$
"$GHF"E%I
DDED&
6(7&
"I"GD"%E%H
IG$"FEI$
"&GCDAEHC
H"E$&
6(7C
"IHGFHAE%H
IGCFFEC&
"CG%H$E%F
HCEF%
6(7A
"DIGADCED$
IGDF"E&C
"CGD"CEAI
$"$A
/B:6:(:@JJ)5

D"E"H
6(7"
"CHG%DIEA$
AGIFAE$A
"$G&&FED"
DCE&D
6(7$
"ACGIF$ED$
AGFCFED$
"$GHF"E%I
DDED&
6(7&
"I"GD"%E%H
IG$"FEI$
"&GCDAEHC
H"E$&
6(7C
"IHGFHAE%H
IGCFFEC&
"CG%H$E%F
HCEF%
6(7A
"DIGADCED$
IGDF"E&C
"CGD"CEAI
A"IF
/B:(58)
/
&IEA$
6(7"
DAGFH"E$C
$GF$$E&I
IG&&"EDD
&HE"F
6(7$
DFGC&AE%H
&G%AAE$%
IGI"FEAF
&FEF&
6(7&
H&G%$AECH
&G"F&E$F
IGF"HEDF
C"EIF
6(7C
HIGIFHEAI
&G&&CEAI
DG$$CEHH
C&EAH
6(7A
F%GICAEI%
&GCHIE&D
DGAA&EH%
A"D"
/B:(58))
/
C%E"F
6(7"
H&GAD&EDI
&G$"CE&H
IGFICECH
C$E%$
6(7$
HDG&HCE$C
&G&I%EF&
DG$H$E%$
C&EF%
6(7&
F"G&%&EIH
&GA""EIH
DGI%HEIC
CAEHA
6(7C
FAG&HDEIC
&GIIHEDI
DGFCHEFD
CDEF"
6(7A
FFGIF%EFI
&GH&CE$D
HG&%DEAH
A&D%
/B:(586/)3:
/
CCE$$
6(7"
F"GFI"EA$
&GA&IEFH
DGII&ECI
CIE$&
6(7$
FIG"$DEIH
&GIFDE$$
HG%"%EIC
CHE$H
6(7&
"%%GC&"E%%
&GHI$ED&
HG&IFE$A
A%ECI
6(7C
"%CGFA&EIH
CG%&IEIH
HGDCIE"C
A$ED&
6(7A
"%FGIIHEI%
CG$"HE%$
FG"&FE%A
A"D&
/B:(58(:@J
/
C%E"F
6(7"
H&GAD&EDI
&G$"CE&H
IGFICECH
C$E%$
6(7$
HDG&HCE$C
&G&I%EF&
DG$H$E%$
C&EF%
6(7&
F"G&%&EIH
&GA""EIH
DGI%HEIC
CAEHA
6(7C
FAG&HDEIC
&GIIHEDI
DGFCHEFD
CDEF"
6(7A
FFGIF%EFI
&GH&CE$D
HG&%DEAH
':L0D#F#$&<CM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLE)1L0L*NL L 1)#))ERSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P"%0&%
160 of 266

--- page 161 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
ABA$
/C):53?7)/67
/
B$D"E
6(7"
FGHGIGDIB
&H&GADIF
GH&"&DEG
BBD%E
6(7$
E"HGB$DB%
&HA$FDAA
GHIBAD$%
BID%F
6(7&
EAHFA&DG$
&HIFIDIF
GHEFGDF"
BFD"I
6(7B
"%%H"FBD$F
&HFA&D$B
FH&BFDIE
A%D$E
6(7A
"%BHI$AD%%
BH%$BD%B
FHG"FDGA
ABAG
/C):3/?/(@*
7:3J:@?6533:
/
A%DA$
6(7"
"%AH%E%DFB
BH%B"DEI
FHGAGDAG
A$DGE
6(7$
"%EHF&$DFF
BH$$BD&B
EH"A$DGB
AAD"B
6(7&
""BHG&EDBB
BHB"&D%I
EHAI"DI$
AGDIB
6(7B
""EHE"EDEI
BHI"$D&"
EHEE&D&&
I%D$&
6(7A
"$AH$E$DBF
BHF"FDEB
"%HBB"D%B
A%$%
K59()C@66)6(@/(
/
&FD"B
6(7"
GEH&A$DIB
&H%A$D%$
IHI"$DG$
&EDFG
6(7$
F$HE"ADE$
&H"FED%G
IHE%EDII
B"DI"
6(7&
FIHA&BD%B
&H&$FD$&
GH$""D"G
B&DA$
6(7B
E%HA&ID"I
&HBF$D"I
GHABBDIF
BADBF
6(7A
EBHAE$DGI
&HI&FD"F
GHFF$DG&
$%GF
L@5)*)()6ML*(
6C56?J:

IID$F
6(7"
"&GHFG$DBB
AH&%$DGE
""HBFED&G
IED$A
6(7$
"BBH%BEDF%
AHAB%D&F
"$H%%BD"A
G$D&G
6(7&
"A%HA&IDB%
AHGFEDFI
"$HABBDG%
GADI&
6(7B
"AGH&%&DIF
IH%A%D"B
"&H"%FDIB
GED%B
6(7A
"IBHB%GDF%
IH&$&D&F
"&HG%%DIA
ABF$
L@5)*)()6
533:)/@(3:
/
BAD&B
6(7"
EBH$FAD&$
&HI$ID&I
GHFAGD""
BGD&I
6(7$
EFHA$FD$F
&HGFEDAA
FH$"%DIE
BEDBE
6(7&
"%$HEI$D%B
&HEI%D%F
FHAF%D"G
A"DG$
6(7B
"%GHAEAD&I
BH"&FD$F
FHEIID$F
ABD%A
6(7A
""$HB&GD"$
BH&$BDA%
EH&IEDGI
$%GE
L)*?@)/(/@/5
?@/@J:

IID$F
6(7"
"&GHFG$DBB
AH&%$DGE
""HBFED&G
IED$A
6(7$
"BBH%BEDF%
AHAB%D&F
"$H%%BD"A
G$D&G
6(7&
"A%HA&IDB%
AHGFEDFI
"$HABBDG%
GADI&
6(7B
"AGH&%&DIF
IH%A%D"B
"&H"%FDIB
GED%B
6(7A
"IBHB%GDF%
IH&$&D&F
"&HG%%DIA
$"%$
L)/@/56:C?J:6:

G$DI"
6(7"
"A%HEEGDIF
AHF%GDI%
"$HAF&D"B
GADFI
6(7$
"AGHGAGD"I
IH%IGDAF
"&H"BIDB&
GED$I
6(7&
"IBHFI%DAI
IH&B%DGE
"&HG&FD&F
F$DF&
6(7B
"G$H&%GD"I
IHI$GD$%
"BH&AFDE&
FIDA&
6(7A
"F%H%"$D%%
IHE$&DAB
"AH%%"D%%
':O0G#E#$&<BP?39)1O0O*QM?R-<6M$POD)1O0O*QO O 1)#))DTUUVUWXXYZ[\X]^_
`aUbXXacdbefTUUghi\W\jVUWXXfklfm[\X]^_f
7 R""0&%
161 of 266

--- page 162 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A%"B
C)/@/5675))
/
D$E"D
6(7"
FGHB&%EDF
&H&G%ED%
GH&%$EAD
DDE%"
6(7$
I"HAA%E$F
&HA$"E"B
GHB$IE"I
DAEII
6(7&
IAHBB"EIB
&HBGIE&"
GHIG"EF&
DFE%A
6(7D
IIHI&GEBF
&HFD&EGB
FH&$FE"D
A%E$$
6(7A
"%DHDB%EDF
DH%"GEG"
FHG%AE%D
A%"A
C)/@/5675)@*)6()
/
&FE$G
6(7"
GIHAIIE&B
&H%B"EA"
BHB&&E$F
D%E%&
6(7$
F&H$DDEIB
&H$%"EG&
BHI&GE%F
D"EF"
6(7&
FBHIG$EFF
&H&DAE""
GH$DGEGD
D&EBI
6(7D
I%HF&GEB%
&HDI&EGA
GHABIEF%
DAEBA
6(7A
IDHIDIE%D
&HBA"EFI
GHI"$ED$
$%GB
C*(6:J)56
697:J)63:

ADE"&
6(7"
""$HB"FEDD
DH&&"EDF
IH&FDEFG
ABEAF
6(7$
""GHBFFE$%
DHA$BEDG
IHF%GE&A
AIE"&
6(7&
"$$HIFBEBF
DHG&%E$B
"%H$DFEFI
B"EGD
6(7D
"$FHD$FEBF
DHI&IEAB
"%HG%$E&I
BDEAD
6(7A
"&DH$G"EG$
AH"BDE&%
""H"FIE&"
$"A$
K)6533:)/@(3:

BDEA"
6(7"
"&DH"FAEDD
AH"B%EIF
""H"F$E"$
BGED"
6(7$
"D%H$%%E$%
AH&I$E&$
""HBF&E&A
G%EDA
6(7&
"DBHA%%EI$
AHB&DEBA
"$H$%FED"
G&EB$
6(7D
"A&H"DAEI$
AHFI%E$&
"$HGB$E"B
GBEID
6(7A
"B%H%"IEFF
BH"ADEB"
"&H&&DEII
ADGB
K)6(58/)5)@/)
/
&FEG&
6(7"
F%HAFBE"$
&H%IIEDG
BHG"AEA"
D%EDF
6(7$
FDH"GGE%%
&H$&GEAF
GH%"DEGA
D$E&%
6(7&
FGHIFGE%%
&H&FDE"$
GH&&$E$A
DDE$$
6(7D
I"HIB"EA$
&HA&BEIF
GHBB&EDB
DBE$&
6(7A
IBH"$GEBF
&HBIGE$$
FH%"%EBD
ADGG
K)6(58/)5)@/))
/
D$EB&
6(7"
FFHBDDEB%
&HD%IED"
GH&FGE%A
DDEAA
6(7$
I$HBDBEB%
&HAB&E&&
GHG$%EAA
DBEAA
6(7&
IBHGFAEFF
&HG$$EA&
FH%BAEDI
DFEBD
6(7D
"%"H"G"EA$
&HFI"E$"
FHD&%EIB
A%EF%
6(7A
"%AHBBBEG$
DH%BDE"%
FHF%AEAB
$%"I
K3*C5:6?(5697J
/
ADE"&
6(7"
""$HB"FEDD
DH&&"EDF
IH&FDEFG
ABEAF
6(7$
""GHBFFE$%
DHA$BEDG
IHF%GE&A
AIE"&
6(7&
"$$HIFBEBF
DHG&%E$B
"%H$DFEFI
B"EGB
6(7D
"$FHDAGE%%
DHID%EBA
"%HG%DEGA
BDEAD
6(7A
"&DH$G"EG$
AH"BDE&%
""H"FIE&"
LNOPQRSTUTVWXYZ[\]^_`QaRQbcde[fgPXheVZQOPi^_`QaRQbcdQjQcj_^T^^ikll`ljmmYnoQmTpq
r_lOmm_RPOsikllbcdQjQt`ljmmiWSiuoQmTpqi
7 v"$0&%
162 of 266

--- page 163 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A%BA
C3*DE9)7?/(
?@)/(675
/
F%G%H
6(7"
B&I$J"GAF
&I$%&GH$
AIJF%GJK
F"GB&
6(7$
BKI%$KG&A
&I&FKG$"
KI$H$G$B
F&GK&
6(7&
J%IJBFG$F
&IFJJG&J
KIHB$G%$
FHGK%
6(7F
JHI%$FGH$
&IAHFGKJ
KIJ"BGK"
$"A%
C3*D6:L)56?C:

ABG$$
6(7"
"F"IBBJGAB
HIFHKG&%
""IB$FG"F
K"G$K
6(7$
"FBI$"JGAB
HIK%%GKA
"$I&H"GAF
KFGFK
6(7&
"HFIBJ&G"$
HIJHKGF&
"$IJ%KGKA
KKGB&
6(7F
"A"IBB"GB%
AI$$AG$$
"&IFJ%G"H
B"G&&
6(7H
"AJI"BHG$F
AIH%KG"$
"FI%JBGKK
$%JH
8G:G@/@*;6()
/
FAG%J
6(7"
JHIBA&G%B
&IABKG%F
KIJBBGHJ
FBG"K
6(7$
"%%I$"AGHA
&IBHFGFB
BI&H"G&B
H%G&$
6(7&
"%FIAHHGA%
FI%$HG$$
BIK$"G&%
H$GHB
6(7F
"%JI&B"GB%
FI$%AGJJ
JI""HG"H
HFGJ$
6(7H
""FI$H"G"A
FI&JFG$B
JIH$%GJ&
$%JA
8G:G@/@*;6())

H%GA$
6(7"
"%HI$HKGAF
FI%FBG&K
BIKK"GFK
H$GJ$
6(7$
""%I%F%GA%
FI$&$G&&
JI"K%G%H
HHG$F
6(7&
""FIJ&BGAF
FIF$%GK$
JIHKBG$$
HKGKA
6(7F
"$%I"$$GH$
FIA$%G"%
"%I%"%G$"
A%G&$
6(7H
"$HIFKBG"$
FIB$AG%B
"%IFHAGH"
H$&K
8396)/C675)@*)6()
/
F$GFB
6(7"
BBI&F&G$B
&I&JKGB$
KI&A"GJF
FFG&B
6(7$
J$I$J%G%B
&IHFJGA$
KIAJ%GBF
FAG&B
6(7&
JAIFBFG$%
&IK"%GJ&
BI%F%G&H
FBGFH
6(7F
"%%IKBKGH$
&IBKAGFF
BI&JBGJA
H%GAH
6(7H
"%HI&AFGB%
FI%H$GFJ
BIKB%GF%
H$&F
8396)/C675)@*)6())
/
FAGK&
6(7"
JKI"JKG%%
&IK&BG&H
BI%JJGKH
FBGBK
6(7$
"%"IA%JGBB
&IJ%BG%K
BIFAKGFJ
H"G%&
6(7&
"%AI"A%G%F
FI%B&G%B
BIBFAGAK
H&G&&
6(7F
""%IJ$JG&$
FI$AAGH"
JI$FFG""
HHGK"
6(7H
""HIBA&G%%
FIFHAG$K
JIAHHG$H
$%JK
8:@/@*;6::)6>?C:

HHGAH
6(7"
""HIKABGHA
FIFH$GAF
JIAFKG&B
HBG"H
6(7$
"$%IJB"GK$
FIAH&G"F
"%I%B"GB"
A%GKB
6(7&
"$AI&JFGB%
FIBA"G&F
"%IH&$GJ%
A&GH"
6(7F
"&$I%JFGHA
HI%B%GHA
""I%%KGBB
AAG&J
6(7H
"&BI"%JG%B
HI&""GBJ
""IH%JG%J
':N0K#J#$&<FO?39)1N0N*PQ?R-<6Q$ONG)1N0N*PN N 1)#))GTUUVUWXXYZ[\X]^_
`aUbXXacdbefTUUghi\W\jVUWXXfklfm[\X]^_f
7 R"&0&%
163 of 266

--- page 164 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%AB
8:@/@*;6(6:

CCDEC
6(7"
""CFGEBDCE
HFHC$DEH
AFEHGD&B
CBD"C
6(7$
"$%FAB"DG$
HFEC&D"H
"%F%B"DB"
E%DGB
6(7&
"$EF&AHDB%
HFBE"D&H
"%FC&$DA%
E&DC"
6(7H
"&$F%AHDCE
CF%B%DCE
""F%%GDBB
EED&A
6(7C
"&BF"%AD%B
CF&""DBA
""FC%AD%A
C%&E
8:(58/)5)@/
/
&ADBA
6(7"
B$FAE%DEB
&F"A%DB%
EFA"&D&A
H"DEC
6(7$
BEFE"BDBB
&F&&"DC%
GF$"BD$H
H&DC"
6(7&
A%FC"GDEB
&FHB"DHC
GFCH&D"H
HCDHA
6(7H
AHFE%"D$B
&FE&BDC"
GFBB&DHH
HGDC&
6(7C
ABFBG&DEH
&FB%$DB&
BF$&ADHG
$$&A
86/IJ
/)I843:8336K56
?I:

GBD%%
6(7"
"E$F$B$DE%
EF$H"DEH
"&FC$&DCC
B"DCH
6(7$
"EAFCBEDH%
EFC$$DCC
"HF"&$D$%
BCD"A
6(7&
"GGF$&&DBB
EFB"EDEA
"HFGEADHA
BAD%&
6(7H
"BCF$$HDA$
GF"$HD%H
"CFH&CDH"
A&D%E
6(7C
"A&FCCAD$B
GFHHHDCA
"EF"$ADAH
$%A&
)/675()3/
697:K)63:

CGDBB
6(7"
"$%F&GGDGE
HFE$ADA"
"%F%&"DHB
E%DHA
6(7$
"$CFGBGD$H
HFB&GDAG
"%FHB$D$G
E&D$"
6(7&
"&"FHCCDB%
CF%CCDAA
"%FACHDEC
EED%C
6(7H
"&GF&B$DAE
CF$B&DAE
""FHHBDCB
EAD%$
6(7C
"H&FCEBDBH
CFC$"DBB
""FAEHD%G
E$%B
)/6(:9?/(53/(:3*
(586:D
/
CHDG"
6(7"
""&FB$%D"$
HF&GGDG%
AFHBCD%"
CGD"B
6(7$
""BFAC$DBB
HFCGCD""
AFA"$DGH
CADG&
6(7&
"$HF$G%DEB
HFGGADEH
"%F&CCDBA
E$DHC
6(7H
"$AFBEHDE%
HFAAHDGA
"%FB$$D%C
E$%H
)/6(:9?/(53/(:3*
(58/)5)@/
/
HADGH
6(7"
"%&FHG$DGE
&FAGADG$
BFE$$DG&
C"DAB
6(7$
"%BF"&BDAE
HF"CAD"A
AF%""DCB
CHD&%
6(7&
""$FAG&D$B
HF&HCD"&
AFH"HDHH
CEDGG
6(7H
""BF%CBDGE
HFCH%DG$
AFB&BD$&
E%BC
)::)I675)@*)6(
/
H%D%C
6(7"
B&F$A"DEH
&F$%&DC$
EFAH%DAG
H"DB&
6(7$
BGF%$GD&E
&F&HGD$"
GF$C$D$B
H&DG&
6(7&
A%FABHD$H
&FHAAD&A
GFCB$D%$
HCDG%
6(7H
ACF%$HDC$
&FECHDGA
GFA"BDG"
CHG&
)669773:((58)
/
&BDG&
6(7"
B%FCBED"$
&F%AADHG
EFG"CDC"
H%DHB
6(7$
BHF"GGD%%
&F$&GDCB
GF%"HDGC
H$D&%
6(7&
BGFABGD%%
&F&BHD"$
GF&&$D$C
HHD$$
6(7H
A"FAE"DC$
&FC&EDAB
GFEE&DHE
HED$&
6(7C
AEF"$GDEB
&FEAGD$$
BF%"%DEH
':M0G#A#$&<HN?39)1M0M*OJ?P-<6J$NMD)1M0M*OM M 1)#))DRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P"H0&%
164 of 266

--- page 165 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
ABCB
)669773:((58))
/
B$DE&
6(7"
FFGEBBDE%
&GB%HDB"
CG&FCD%A
BBDAA
6(7$
H$GEBEDE%
&GAE&D&&
CGC$%DAA
BEDAA
6(7&
HEGCFADFF
&GC$$DA&
FG%EADBH
BFDEB
6(7B
"%"G"C"DA$
&GFH"D$"
FGB&%DHE
A%DF%
6(7A
"%AGEEEDC$
BG%EBD"%
FGF%ADAE
ABEC
)669773:((58
6/)3:
/
BHD%$
6(7"
"%"GH&FDF%
&GH$%DC$
FGBHBDH%
A"D$%
6(7$
"%EGA"ED$%
BG%HEDCF
FGFCED&A
A&DBH
6(7&
"""G$AFD&E
BG$CHD"C
HG$C"DA&
AADHA
6(7B
""EG&FBD"E
BGBCED&"
HGEHFDEF
AFDBA
6(7A
"$"GAEBD&$
BGECADAA
"%G"&%D&E
$EH%
*@4697:I)63:

E$D$A
6(7"
"$HGBFBDBB
BGHF%D"C
"%GCH%D&C
EAD%C
6(7$
"&AG&$BDE%
AG$%BDCH
""G$CCD%A
ECDHF
6(7&
"B"GB&"D%B
AGB&HDEE
""GCFADH$
C"D%$
6(7B
"BCGC"ADF%
AGEF"D&F
"$G&%HDEA
CBD$B
6(7A
"ABG&FADA$
AGH&CDH%
"$GFEADBE
ABA"
*@43:@(3:;@/@*;6(
)
/
B$DF$
6(7"
FHG%F&D&$
&GB$ED$F
CGB$&DE"
BBDC%
6(7$
H&G%%&D$B
&GACCD%A
CGCA%D$C
BEDCB
6(7&
HCG$$BD"$
&GC&HD&H
FG"%$D%"
BFDFH
6(7B
"%"GE&CD%%
&GH%HD"$
FGBEHDCA
A"D%B
6(7A
"%EG"FCD"E
BG%FBD"$
FGFBFDH&
ABA%
*@43:@(3:;@/@*;6(
))
/
BCD%F
6(7"
HCGH%HDEF
&GCEADCE
FG"AHD"B
BHD"H
6(7$
"%$G&A%D"E
&GH&EDAB
FGA$HD"F
A"DB"
6(7&
"%EGH$CDBB
BG""$DAH
FGH"%DE$
A&DC&
6(7B
"""GCCHD"E
BG$HHD$%
HG&"BDH&
AED"A
6(7A
""EGCHAD"E
BGBH$D"$
HGC&$DH&
E"%"
*@43::
/
$HD&$
6(7"
E"G%%&D&$
$G&BED$F
AG%F&DE"
&%DEA
6(7$
E&GCBAD%F
$GBA"DC&
AG&"$D%H
&$D%$
6(7&
EEGE%AD"E
$GAE"DCB
AGAA%DB&
&&DBC
6(7B
EHGE%EDHE
$GECCD"H
AGF%%DAF
E"C"
*@/65@7*@43::
/
$FDCC
6(7"
AHGFBED"E
$G&%"DCF
BGHFCD"F
&%D%F
6(7$
E$GAE$DHE
$GB%ED$C
AG$"&DAF
&"DB&
6(7&
EAGB%ADCE
$GA"ADE"
AGBA%DBF
&$DFE
6(7B
EFG&$&DH$
$GE$CDFB
AGEH&DEE
$EB"
*@/657@:58697I
/
A"DA$
6(7"
"%CG"BCDA$
BG"$"D%E
FGH$FDHE
A&DF"
6(7$
"""GH%$D"E
BG&%&DH&
HG&$AD"F
AED"E
6(7&
""EGF%%D%F
BGBH$D&"
HGC&&D&B
AFDEA
6(7B
"$"GHFBD&$
BGEH"DC%
"%G"EAD&E
E"D$$
6(7A
"$CG&HCD$F
BGFHHDH%
"%GE"EDBB
':K0C#H#$&<BL?39)1K0K*MN?O-<6N$LKD)1K0K*MK K 1)#))DQRRSRTUUVWXYUZ[\
]^R_UU^`a_bcQRRdefYTYgSRTUUchicjXYUZ[\c
7 O"A0&%
165 of 266

--- page 166 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A&&&
*@(@58:
/
&%BCC
6(7"
DEF%%$BGD
$FED"BDA
AF&&&BAH
&$B"D
6(7$
DDFHH"B"D
$FAC$B&A
AFAC&BE&
&&BD$
6(7&
DGFGA"B%%
$FDG%BE$
AFH$GB$A
&AB""
6(7E
C&F%EHB&$
$FH%GBAA
DF%HCB&D
&DBC"
6(7A
CDF&&CBE%
$FG&DB%A
DF&D"BEA
H"D%
*)4:@:)@/)

&DBG%
6(7"
C"FGAEBE%
$FCDCBEH
AFGGDB$%
&HBAC
6(7$
CAF$""BDH
$FHG$BCD
DF$DCBDE
E%B$D
6(7&
CHFA$$BEH
&F%$%B"%
DFAE&BAE
E$B%H
6(7E
H$F%EDBDE
&F"AABDE
DFH&CB$$
E&BGG
6(7A
HAFCHEBE%
&F$GGBE%
CF"EHBC%
H"C%
*)4:@:)@/))

E%BD%
6(7"
CGF"&DB"D
&F%E&BC%
DFAGEBDH
E$BE%
6(7$
H$FC"&BHE
&F"H"B&%
DFHG$BH$
EEB&E
6(7&
HDFEA"BGD
&F&$AB%H
CF$%EB&&
EDB&&
6(7E
G%F&A%B%E
&FECAB%%
CFA$GB"C
EHBEE
6(7A
GEFE&EBGD
&FD&$B""
CFHDGBAH
H""%
*)4:@:;@66()
/
$CB""
6(7"
A$FHD$BDE
$F%&&B"H
EFE%AB$$
$HB&$
6(7$
AAF$"GBG$
$F"$&BHE
EFD%"BDD
$GBAG
6(7&
ACFC%HBD%
$F$"GBAD
EFH%GB%A
&%BG&
6(7E
D%F&%"BG$
$F&"GB&%
AF%$AB"D
&$B&"
6(7A
D&F%$DB%E
$FE$EB%H
AF$A$B"C
H"$%
*)4:@:;@66())
/
$GBH%
6(7"
AHF"%"BD%
$F$&EBDH
EFHE"BH%
&"B"E
6(7$
D%FCECB"$
$F&&DBE&
AF%D$B$D
&$BAC
6(7&
D&FA$EB%E
$FEE&B$&
AF$G&BDC
&EB%%
6(7E
DDF&%%BC$
$FAA%B%&
AFA$AB%D
&ABAA
6(7A
DGF&"&B%H
$FDDABHG
AFCCDB%G
H"&%
*)4:@:;@66(6:
/
&EB$H
6(7"
DDFHA%BH%
$FAC"B"H
AFAC%BG%
&ABHA
6(7$
DGFHHGB&$
$FDHHB%A
AFH$EB""
&CBE&
6(7&
C&F%%DBDH
$FH%CBGA
DF%H&BHG
&GB"H
6(7E
CDF&&&B&$
$FG&ABG%
DF&D"B""
E%BHG
6(7A
CGFC&HBH%
&F%DDBHH
DFDEEBG%
AEDG
*)4:@:;(58/3*3I;
675)@*)6(
/
EEBCE
6(7"
G&F%CDBG$
&FACGBHH
CFCADBE"
EDBCC
6(7$
GCF$CGB$%
&FCE"BA"
HF"%DBD%
EHBHC
6(7&
"%"FD$AB"$
&FG%HBDD
HFEDHBCD
A"B%H
6(7E
"%DF$&%B%%
EF%HABCC
HFHA$BA%
A&B&E
6(7A
""%FGEGBGD
EF$DCB&"
GF$EABH&
':K0C#G#$&<EL?39)1K0K*MN?O-<6N$LKB)1K0K*MK K 1)#))BQRRSRTUUVWXYUZ[\
]^R_UU^`a_bcQRRdefYTYgSRTUUchicjXYUZ[\c
7 O"D0&%
166 of 266

--- page 167 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A"B%
*)(:@5;7:3C
533:

&BDA&
6(7"
EEFGH&D"$
$FBAGD$E
GFHE%D$G
H"DG%
6(7$
A"F"I&D$H
&F"$"D$A
GFEG$DEE
H&DI%
6(7&
AHFA$%DA%
&F$G$D&H
EF%GADH%
HIDHG
6(7H
AAFGHID&$
&FH%BDHH
EF&AED""
HEDI&
6(7I
B$FGI&D$%
&FIG&DIA
EFE$"D"%
A"BI
*)(:@5;675)@*)6(

&GD$%
6(7"
E%FIBGDE$
$FE"ID$G
IFAA&D%G
&EDAI
6(7$
E&FEB$DIG
$FA&AD"A
GF"HBD&A
&BDI%
6(7&
EEF%H%DBG
$FBG&D""
GFH$%D%A
H"D$B
6(7H
A%FHBADGH
&F%BGD"%
GFE%AD$$
H&D"G
6(7I
AHF"GIDAH
&F$&ED"I
EF%"&DA$
G$%G
?@)/(7*@//:
/
HBDEH
6(7"
"%&FHE$DGH
&FBEBDE$
AFG$$DE$
I"DBA
6(7$
"%AF"&ADBG
HF"IBD"B
BF%""DIA
IHD&%
6(7&
""$FBEHD%%
HF&HID"I
BFH"HDI%
IGDEE
6(7H
""AF%IADEG
HFIH%DE$
BFA&AD$&
G%GI
?@)/(=>:J@5)*
/
&EDHB
6(7"
EEFBEADI$
$FBBBD"E
GFHBAD$"
&BD"G
6(7$
A"FH&EDGH
&F"&$D$$
GFEAGDHE
H%DBG
6(7&
AIF"E&D$H
&F$EIDAB
EF%BEDEE
H$DEA
6(7H
AAFBGHDH%
&FH$"DE"
EFH"&DE%
G%GA
?@)/(=>:J@5)*6:
/
H"D$&
6(7"
AIFEIHDH%
&F$BAD$I
EF"HGD$%
H&D"%
6(7$
ABFGIGD$%
&FHHAD&$
EFHE"D&I
HID%H
6(7&
B&FGGADI$
&FG%$DGH
EFA%IDE"
HED%H
6(7H
BEFAHGDB$
&FEG&D&H
AF"I&DB"
G%G%
?@)/(=>:))*657
/
&HDA$
6(7"
E$FHHHD"$
$FEAGD&"
GF%&ED%"
&GDH%
6(7$
EIFGA"DAH
$FB"%DAH
GF&%GDA$
&AD%%
6(7&
EBF%IEDIG
&F%H%DGA
GFIAAD"&
&BDEG
6(7H
A$FGA$DAA
&F"A%D""
GFAB%D$H
G"EI
?@)/(=>:6:7>#*
/
H"DA%
6(7"
AGFBHHD$%
&F&HHD%"
EF$HID&I
H&DGB
6(7$
B%FB%"D&$
&FHBGD$%
EFIEID""
HIDGH
6(7&
BHFB"&DGH
&FGI%DI$
EFB%BDHE
HEDGA
6(7H
BBF$%$DA%
&FA"IDHB
AF$GGDB%
G"H"
?@)/(=3:>:)
/
&%DB"
6(7"
GHF&%ADAH
$FHE&DH$
IF&IBD%E
&$D&%
6(7$
GEF"IADBG
$FIA&D%H
IFIBGDIA
&&DEG
6(7&
E%F$%&D"$
$FE%%D"$
IFAI%D$G
&ID$I
6(7H
E&F&$BDE$
$FA$%D&E
GF""%DA"
&GDA$
6(7I
EGFIBID%H
$FBHIDBG
GF&A$DB$
':L0E#B#$&<HM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLD)1L0L*NL L 1)#))DRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P"E0&%
167 of 266

--- page 168 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A%B"
?@)/(=3:>:)
*@/65@7
/
&"CAB
6(7"
ADEF&%CAF
$ED&"CGD
DEHFDCFG
&&C%G
6(7$
AFEF"GCAH
$EAHACG"
DEB&HCGB
&HCDG
6(7&
B"EGHAC&A
$EBABC"B
DEGGDCD&
&AC"$
6(7H
BDE"DAC$H
$EFG%CA$
AE$A&C%$
A"&%
?@)/(=3:>:))
/
&DCD$
6(7"
B&EG"%CFF
$EFH$CB&
AE"DGC$H
&BC"%
6(7$
BBE"BACHH
$EGAFC&$
AEH&"C&B
&FCBB
6(7&
F%EAA$CF%
&E"%$CH$
AEB$"CG%
H%CD"
6(7H
FHE$FBCAH
&E$H"CF&
BE%$&CGB
A"$G
?@)/(/@/5
*@=3:>:7=
/
&GC%A
6(7"
F"E$H&CFH
&E"$HCBA
AEBB%C&$
H%CF%
6(7$
FHEFAFCG$
&E$AHC"G
BE%B$CH"
H$CAF
6(7&
FFEBB%CHF
&EH"HC$D
BE&GBCDH
HHCDB
6(7H
G$EB%%C"$
&EDADC&G
BEB$DC%"
$$HG
?@/@I)/I@:43:)6(

DGC%H
6(7"
"$$EBFAC"A
HEB$$CDH
"%E$&$C"F
A"CAG
6(7$
"$FE&"&CFH
HEG&DC"D
"%EAG$CF$
AHCHF
6(7&
"&HE"$BCGA
DE"DFCBB
""E"BBC&&
ABC&G
6(7H
"H%E"H$CFH
DE&G%C""
""EABFCDB
B%CH%
6(7D
"HAEH"DC&A
DEA&"C&A
"$E$%"C$F
A%GD
?58*)I8(J9)7
/
&ACDF
6(7"
BAE%GACG$
$EG$ACF%
AE&H"CH"
&FC$%
6(7$
BGEHHDCH%
&E%DDCDG
AEA$%CHD
&GCG$
6(7&
F&E%B%C$H
&E"GDC%"
AEG$$CD$
H"CB$
6(7H
FAEF%DCB$
&E&&FCAF
BE$&&CF"
$%$&
?I?(@/@*;6()
/
HAC%G
6(7"
GDEFA&C%F
&EAFBC%H
BEGFFCDG
HFC"B
6(7$
"%%E$"ACDA
&EFDHCHF
FE&D"C&F
D%C&$
6(7&
"%HEADDCA%
HE%$DC$$
FEB$"C&%
D$CDF
6(7H
"%GE&F"CF%
HE$%ACGG
GE""DC"D
DHCG$
6(7D
""HE$D"C"A
HE&GHC$F
GED$%CG&
$%$$
?I?(@/@*;6())

D%CA$
6(7"
"%DE$DBCAH
HE%HFC&B
FEBB"CHB
D$CG$
6(7$
""%E%H%CA%
HE$&$C&&
GE"B%C%D
DDC$H
6(7&
""HEG&FCAH
HEH$%CB$
GEDBFC$$
DBCBA
6(7H
"$%E"$$CD$
HEA$%C"%
"%E%"%C$"
A%C&$
6(7D
"$DEHBFC"$
HEF$AC%F
"%EHDACD"
$%$H
?I?(@/@*;6(6:

DDCAD
6(7"
""DEBAFCDA
HEHD$CAH
GEAHBC&F
DFC"D
6(7$
"$%EGF"CB$
HEAD&C"H
"%E%F"CF"
A%CBF
6(7&
"$AE&GHCF%
HEFA"C&H
"%ED&$CG%
A&CD"
6(7H
"&$E%GHCDA
DE%F%CDA
""E%%BCFF
AAC&G
6(7D
"&FE"%GC%F
DE&""CFG
""ED%GC%G
':L0B#G#$&<HM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLC)1L0L*NL L 1)#))CRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P"F0&%
168 of 266

--- page 169 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$A""
/(=3:>@?)/

BACD"
6(7"
"&AE"FDCAA
DE"B%CGF
""E"F$C"$
BHCA"
6(7$
"A%E$%%C$%
DE&G$C&$
""EBF&C&D
H%CAD
6(7&
"ABED%%CG$
DEB&ACBD
"$E$%FCA"
H&CB$
6(7A
"D&E"ADCG$
DEFG%C$&
"$EHB$C"B
HBCGA
6(7D
"B%E%"GCFF
BE"DACB"
"&E&&ACGG
$%&A
/(=3:>@/@*;6(

DBC%F
6(7"
""BEBFDC&B
AEAFHCG%
GEH$&CHF
DFCB"
6(7$
"$"EFGFC%A
AEBFFC&G
"%E"DFC"H
B"C$$
6(7&
"$HE&GHC$F
AEFGGCG%
"%EB"BCAA
BAC%A
6(7A
"&&E"F$CGB
DE"$$CA$
""E%GFCDF
BBCFF
6(7D
"&GE"BGC%A
DE&D$CBB
""EDGHCA$
DABD
/(=3:>(58
/
A%CG"
6(7"
FDE"%FCDB
&E$H&CA"
HE%G$C&F
A$CHD
6(7$
FFEGABC%A
&EA$"C%%
HEA"$C"H
AACBF
6(7&
G$EGAFC"B
&EDHACG&
HEHADCBF
ABCBF
6(7A
GHE%FHC%F
&EH&AC"$
FE%G%CDG
AFCF%
6(7D
"%"EAH$CH$
&EG%$CF%
FEADBC%B
D$&%
3II)5@66()
/
$BC&"
6(7"
DAEH&FCAF
$E"%DC&&
AEDB"CDA
$HCAG
6(7$
DHE"HHCFA
$E"GGC"D
AEHBACF$
$FCBG
6(7&
DGEBH$C$F
$E$GDC%G
AEGH$CBG
$GCGG
6(7A
B$EA"&C%F
$EA%%CD%
DE$%"C%G
&"C&H
6(7D
BDE$%FCFA
$ED%FC%&
DEA&AC%H
DA&%
3II)5@66())
/
$FCG$
6(7"
B%E"BDCH$
$E&"AC%H
DE%"&CF"
&%C$B
6(7$
B$EG&&CHB
$EA$%CD&
DE$AACAF
&"CB$
6(7&
BDEH$GCHB
$ED$FC%H
DEAHHCAF
&&C%"
6(7A
BFEBG%C%A
$EBA"CG$
DEH$AC"H
&ACD"
6(7D
H"EHFHC$A
$EHB"C%D
DEGF$C$H
$$D%
7@:>J*@/65@7
?K:

BACGD
6(7"
"&DE"&%CBF
DE"GHC&&
""E$B%CFG
BHCG%
6(7$
"A"E$%$CDB
DEA&%CFH
""EHBBCFF
H%CG$
6(7&
"AHED&$C&$
DEBHAC&$
"$E$GAC&B
HAC"&
6(7A
"DAE"HHCAA
DEG$GCG%
"$EFAFC"$
HHCAB
6(7D
"B"E"%FCA%
BE"GBCAF
"&EA$DCH%
$BA$
7@:>7*@//)/K
@?)/)6(:@(3:

BDC%B
6(7"
"&DE$G%CHB
DE$%&CAG
""E$HAC$&
BHCGB
6(7$
"A"E&HFCGB
DEA&HCBD
""EHF"CDF
H"C%A
6(7&
"AHEH&"CHB
DEBF"CGG
"$E&"%CGF
HAC$A
6(7A
"DAE&HDCF%
DEG&HCD&
"$EFBACBD
HHCDB
6(7D
"B"E&""C%F
BE$%AC$H
"&EAA$CDG
':M0H#G#$&<AN?39)1M0M*OJ?P-<6J$NMC)1M0M*OM M 1)#))CRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P"G0&%
169 of 266

--- page 170 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A&BA
7@:>:@/C:6:
/
D%E%&
6(7"
F&G$DDEHB
&G$%"EI&
BGH&IE%F
D"EFA
6(7$
FIG%AAE%F
&G&DFE$I
IG$ADEAH
D&EI$
6(7&
H%GH"HEF%
&GDHBEH$
IGAIBEBA
DAEBH
6(7D
HAG%&"EDF
&GBAAE%B
IGH"HE$H
DIEIH
6(7A
HHG&B$E"B
&GF$"EB$
FG$F%E"F
$"$I
7@:>)/C?@/@C:

BAE%B
6(7"
"&AG&%AE%D
AG$%DE%D
""G$IAED$
BIEHB
6(7$
"D"G&IFEHB
AGD&IEBA
""GIF"EAF
I"E%D
6(7&
"DIGI&"EIB
AGBF"EHH
"$G&"%EHF
IDE$D
6(7D
"ADG&IAEF%
AGH&IEA&
"$GFBDEBA
IIEAB
6(7A
"B"G&""E%F
BG$%DE$I
"&GDD$EAH
$$A"
7@:>6J*@/65@7
?@)/(697K

A"EI&
6(7"
"%IGB$%EBF
DG"&HE$B
FGHBFE&H
ADE%F
6(7$
""$GDHHEBD
DG&$BEH"
HG&IDEHI
ABEA"
6(7&
""IGAAHEH$
DGA$"EAD
HGIHBEBB
AHE%B
6(7D
"$$GFADE%F
DGI$AE"B
"%G$&IEFD
B"EI%
6(7A
"$FG&AAEFD
DGH&BEIB
"%GBHBE&$
$"IB
7@;:3**@?)/)6(:@(

A"E&$
6(7"
"%BGIDBEI$
DG"%AEBD
FGFHAEAB
A&EBD
6(7$
"""GAFIED%
DG$H"EF$
HG$HFEHA
ABE%B
6(7&
""BGB$FE"$
DGDFAEI%
HGI"HE%"
AFEAB
6(7D
"$"GF"$E$D
DGBFAE%H
"%G"A"E%$
B"E"H
6(7A
"$IG&""E$D
DGFHBEAH
"%GB%HE$I
$"II
7@;:3**697:K)63:

AAEBA
6(7"
""AGIBFEAB
DGDA$EBD
HGBDIE&F
AFE"A
6(7$
"$%GHF"EI$
DGBA&E"D
"%G%F"EF"
B%EIF
6(7&
"$BG&HDEF%
DGFB"E&D
"%GA&$EH%
B&EA"
6(7D
"&$G%HDEAB
AG%F%EAB
""G%%IEFF
BBE&H
6(7A
"&FG"%HE%F
AG&""EFH
""GA%HE%H
A%"I
7@;:3**(58/)5)@/)
/
&FE$I
6(7"
IHGAHHE&B
&G%B"EA"
BGB&&E$F
D%E%&
6(7$
F&G$DDEHB
&G$%"EI&
BGH&IE%F
D"EF"
6(7&
FBGHI$EFF
&G&DAE""
IG$DIEID
D&EBH
6(7D
H%GF&IEB%
&GDH&EIA
IGABHEF%
DAEBA
6(7A
HDGHDHE%D
&GBA"EFH
IGH"$ED$
A%"F
7@;:3**(58/)5)@/))
/
D$E"D
6(7"
FIGB&%EDF
&G&I%ED%
IG&%$EAD
DDE%"
6(7$
H"GAA%E$F
&GA$"E"B
IGB$HE"H
DAEHH
6(7&
HAGBB"EHB
&GBIHE&"
IGHI"EF&
DFE%A
6(7D
HHGH&IEBF
&GFD&EIB
FG&$FE"D
A%E$$
6(7A
"%DGDB%EDF
DG%"IEI"
FGI%AE%D
':M0I#H#$&<DN?39)1M0M*OJ?P-<6J$NME)1M0M*OM M 1)#))ERSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$%0&%
170 of 266

--- page 171 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%AB
7:?)(5/(:
697:C)63:

DEFAA
6(7"
"$%G&EEFEH
IGH$BFB"
"%G%&"FIA
H%FIB
6(7$
"$DGEAEF$I
IGA&EFBE
"%GIA$F$E
H&F$"
6(7&
"&"GIDDFA%
DG%DDFBB
"%GBDIFHD
HHF%D
6(7I
"&EG&A$FBH
DG$A&FBH
""GIIAFDA
HBF%$
6(7D
"I&GDHAFAI
DGD$"FAA
""GBHIF%E
D%&D
7*@/585>
/J)/:

DEFEH
6(7"
"$%G"&BF$%
IGH$%FEI
"%G%""FH%
H%F&D
6(7$
"$DGD&BF%A
IGA$AFI&
"%GIH"FDB
H&F"&
6(7&
"&"G&$$FE$
DG%D%FAE
"%GBI&FDH
HDFB%
6(7I
"&EG"%HF%%
DG$E&F&"
""GI$DFD%
HAFB$
6(7D
"I&G&$AF&H
DGD"$FH&
""GBIIF%&
$%B$
7*@/585>
697:C)63:

HDFE&
6(7"
"&HGEIDFD$
DG$DBFII
""G&BDFIH
HAFE%
6(7$
"I$GAB"FHA
DGIBDFA&
""GB%EFHI
E"FAH
6(7&
"IBGIEIFI%
DGEIBF%$
"$GIDHF$%
EDF%&
6(7I
"DHG%DEFIA
HG%%$F$"
"&G%%IFEB
EAFI&
6(7D
"H&G"&BFAA
HG$EIFH"
"&GDBIFBB
D%H$
7*@/585>:K):
/
DEFEH
6(7"
"$%G"&BF$%
IGH$%FEI
"%G%""FH%
H%F&D
6(7$
"$DGD&BF%A
IGA$AFI&
"%GIH"FDB
H&F"&
6(7&
"&"G&$$FE$
DG%D%FAE
"%GBI&FDH
HDFB%
6(7I
"&EG"%HF%%
DG$E&F&"
""GI$DFD%
HAFB$
6(7D
"I&G&$AF&H
DGD"$FH&
""GBIIF%&
D%H"
7*@/585>:)
/
IIFBI
6(7"
B&GIHBF%A
&GDBIFBH
EGEABF%B
IHFBE
6(7$
BEGHH$FE$
&GEDHF$H
AG"&AFDH
IBF%H
6(7&
"%$G%IAFH%
&GB$IFBD
AGD%IF%D
D"F$E
6(7I
"%HGH$HF"$
IG"%"F%%
AGAADFD"
D&FD&
6(7D
"""G&HAF%I
IG$A&F&B
BG$A%FHE
D%H%
7*@/585>:))
/
IBF&A
6(7"
"%$GE%HF$%
&GBD%F$I
AGDDAFAD
D"FH%
6(7$
"%EG&&AFII
IG"$AFI%
AGBIIFAE
D&FB$
6(7&
""$G"B%F%I
IG&"DF%%
BG&IBF"E
DHF&D
6(7I
""EG$H"F"$
IGD"%F%I
BGEE"FEH
DAFB"
6(7D
"$$GD$&FAI
IGE"$FIH
"%G$"%F&$
D%D%
7*@//:@66)6(@/(
/
IHF%H
6(7"
BDGA$HF$I
&GHADFH$
EGBADFD$
IAF"H
6(7$
"%%G"AIF$A
&GAD&F$I
AG&IAFHB
D%F$D
6(7&
"%IGDI$FHA
IG%$%FAE
AGE""FAB
D$FDI
6(7I
"%BG&""FBH
IG$%IF&"
BG"%BF&&
DIFBD
6(7D
""IG$E&FIA
IG&BDF"&
BGD$$FEB
':M0E#B#$&<IN?39)1M0M*OP?Q-<6P$NMF)1M0M*OM M 1)#))FSTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 Q$"0&%
171 of 266

--- page 172 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A%B%
7*@//:@6635

A%CDD
6(7"
"%AE&F$CDG
GE%A&CAD
HEBH$CB$
A&C%%
6(7$
""%E"HFC$H
GE$&HC%A
FE"H$CGG
AAC&D
6(7&
""AE"$&C%H
GEG$BCH"
FEAF&CAF
ABCHH
6(7G
"$%E&AHCF$
GED$FC"F
"%E%$FCF"
D%C&F
6(7A
"$AED$"CG%
GEH&"CAF
"%EGDHCGA
$"&$
7*@//:7:)/5)7@*

B"C"H
6(7"
"GHE%BDCA$
AEDFAC$A
"$E&&FCB"
BGC&B
6(7$
"AGEDF$CB$
AEFGFCB$
"$EHF"C%D
BBCB&
6(7&
"D"EB"%C%H
DE$"FCD$
"&EGBACHG
H"C$$
6(7G
"DHEFADC"D
DEGFHC&"
"GE%BFCDH
HGCHB
6(7A
"BDEAGDC$H
DEBF%C$G
"GEB"$C"F
A%AG
7*@//:794*)56:I
/
G"CH$
6(7"
HBE%%%C"$
&E&GDC"D
BE$A%C%"
G&CBD
6(7$
F"E%%"CHH
&EA%%C%B
BEAH&CGF
GACB%
6(7&
FAE%AFC%H
&EDADC"$
BEF$"CAF
GBCBH
6(7G
FFE&&GCH%
&EH$%CAB
HE$BBCF%
GFCF%
6(7A
"%&EBBAC%G
&EFF"C&A
HEDGBCF$
$"&&
7*@//:6:

D&C%B
6(7"
"&"E$%DCDH
AE%GDCG"
"%EF&&CHF
DACFA
6(7$
"&BE"&ACDG
AE$BGCGA
""EG$BCFB
DHCF&
6(7&
"G&E&BFC"$
AEA"GCAH
""EFGHC$D
B$C%&
6(7G
"GFEH$&CHG
AEBD$CGD
"$EGHAC&$
BAC$G
6(7A
"ADEA$ACD%
DE%$%C$$
"&E%G&CH%
$"&%
7*@//)/J?@/@J:

BHC%%
6(7"
"D$E$H$CD%
DE$G"CDG
"&EA$&CAA
H"CAG
6(7$
"DFEAHDCG%
DEA$$CAA
"GE"&$C$%
HAC"F
6(7&
"BBE$&&CHH
DEH"DCDF
"GEBDFCGF
HFC%&
6(7G
"HAE$$GCF$
BE"$GC%G
"AEG&ACG"
F&C%D
6(7A
"F&EAAFC$H
BEGGGCAF
"DE"$FCFG
D$GF
7*@/(?@58)/)6(
/
GACAG
6(7"
FGEBGBCAD
&EDGGC"G
BEHFACD&
GBCD&
6(7$
FFE%DGCGG
&EH"%C"B
HE$AAC&B
GFCBH
6(7&
"%&EABAC%%
&EFH&CDA
HED&"C$A
A"CFF
6(7G
"%HE"G%CHH
GE"AFC$D
FE%""CBG
$A$%
73*)55@7(@)/

FBCG%
6(7"
$%$EAH$C&$
BEBF"CD&
"DEHH"CHD
"%"CBB
6(7$
$""EB&"CD%
HE"G&CA$
"BEDGGC&%
"%DC&H
6(7&
$$"E$B&CDG
HEA"%CA$
"HEG&FCGB
"""C"H
6(7G
$&"E$&HC$%
HEHF&CBH
"FE$DFCHA
""DC"B
6(7A
$G"ED$ACG%
FE$F&C$H
$%E"&ACGA
':L0B#F#$&<GM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLC)1L0L*NL L 1)#))CRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$$0&%
172 of 266

--- page 173 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A$BC
73*)5)D)(@*
E3:/6)5675
/
F"GH&
6(7"
BIJ$FCGHC
&J&AAGCA
IJ$I%GAB
F&GB$
6(7$
H"J"""GH$
&JA%FG&%
IJAH$GCC
FAGIH
6(7&
HAJ$A%GI$
&JCC&GFH
IJH&IGAC
FIGBB
6(7F
HHJC%HG%%
&JB&"G"$
BJ&%%GIA
A%G%%
6(7A
"%FJ%$"GBB
FJ%%%GBF
BJCCBGFH
$C$$
73*)5K)/5
@/@*;6(

A%GAH
6(7"
"%AJ$$"G"C
FJ%FCGHI
BJICBGF&
A$GBI
6(7$
"%HJHACG%%
FJ$$HG%B
HJ"C&G%%
AAG$&
6(7&
""FJH%FG%B
FJF"HG&H
HJAIAG&F
AIGIF
6(7F
"$%J%IFGBB
FJC"BG$C
"%J%%CG$F
C%G&"
6(7A
"$AJFIBG"$
FJB$CG%B
"%JFACGA"
$A&%
73*)5*)9(/@/(

BIG%C
6(7"
"B"J"%%GA$
CJHCAGF%
"AJ%H"GI"
H%GHB
6(7$
"BHJ$CFG&C
IJ$IHGF%
"AJII$G%&
HAG%B
6(7&
"HIJI&HG%%
IJC%AG&A
"CJFIBG$A
HHG&C
6(7F
$%CJCIHG$F
IJHFHG$%
"IJ$$&G$I
"%&GBC
6(7A
$"CJ%AFG%%
BJ&%HGII
"BJ%%FGA%
F""%
73*)53EE)5:
/
AHG"%
6(7"
"$$JH$IGF%
FJI$IGHB
"%J$F&GHA
C"GIF
6(7$
"$BJF$$G&$
FJH&HG&$
"%JI%"GBC
CFGA$
6(7&
"&FJ"C"G$%
AJ"C%G%A
""J"B%G"%
CIGF"
6(7F
"F%J$&AGBF
AJ&H&GCH
""JCBCG&$
I%GF$
6(7A
"FCJFH&GC%
AJC&FG&I
"$J$%IGB%
F$"%
73*)53EE)5:
(:@)/
/
A%G$&
6(7"
"%FJFBBG&$
FJ%"BGIB
BJI%IG&C
A$B&
73*)5:5675)
/
$HGAB
6(7"
C"JA$HGCF
$J&CCGA$
AJ"$IGFI
&%GH"
6(7$
CFJ$HIG%B
$JFI$GHC
AJ&ABG%H
&$G$H
6(7&
CIJ"C%G%F
$JAB&G%B
AJAHCGCI
&&GI&
6(7F
I%J"F$GF%
$JCHIGIB
AJBFAG$%
&AG$I
6(7A
I&J&C$GHC
$JB$"GCA
CJ""&GAB
A$B$
73*)5:5675))
/
&$GA$
6(7"
CIJC&IG$B
$JC%"GF&
AJC&CGFF
&&GHH
6(7$
I%JCH"G%F
$JI"BGBH
AJBH%GH$
&AGA$
6(7&
I&JBCFG%B
$JBF%GH&
CJ"AAG&F
&IG"$
6(7F
IIJ$%FG"C
$JHCHG&H
CJF&&GCB
&BGIF
6(7A
B%JAH$G%%
&J%HHGCH
CJI"CG%%
A$B"
73*)5:56756:
/
&IGFB
6(7"
IIJHACG&$
$JHHBG&$
CJFHCG&C
&HG"I
6(7$
B"JFAAGA$
&J"&$GH%
CJIBIGHC
F%GHB
6(7&
BAJ$%FGAC
&J$IIG"%
IJ"%%G&B
F$GIC
6(7F
BBJHA&GI$
&JF$"G&%
IJF"$GB"
FFGCC
6(7A
H$JBIIGBF
&JAI$G$$
IJI&HGB$
':M0I#H#$&<FN?39)1M0M*OP?Q-<6P$NMG)1M0M*OM M 1)#))GSTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 Q$&0&%
173 of 266

--- page 174 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$"AB
73*)5:53:63:
7:37:(;697

BBCDB
6(7"
""BEFDGCBD
HEHB$CDH
AEDHFC&G
BGC"B
6(7$
"$%EAG"CF$
HEDB&C"H
"%E%G"CG"
D%CFG
6(7&
"$DE&AHCG%
HEGD"C&H
"%EB&$CA%
D&CB"
6(7H
"&$E%AHCBD
BE%G%CBD
""E%%FCGG
DDC&A
6(7B
"&GE"%AC%G
BE&""CGA
""EB%AC%A
F"$%
73*)56:I@/(
/
F%CGG
6(7"
"HFEH%ACG%
BEDDACD"
"$E$GHC"B
FHC%D
6(7$
"BHE%&&CHH
BEA$HC&D
"$EG&DC"$
FFC&G
6(7&
"D%EAD$CAD
DE"A%CGG
"&EH"&CBG
G%CGB
6(7H
"DGE"AFCB$
DEHDAC"H
"HE%"DCHD
GHCHA
6(7B
"FBEFDGC%G
DEFD%C&"
"HEDHFC&H
$D$"
73*)5(586J56
@?)/)6(:@(3:

F"CDF
6(7"
"HAE%HAC$H
BEF&$CDD
"$EH$%CFF
FHCGA
6(7$
"BBEFB&CH%
BEAA%CB$
"$EAFACHB
FGC$D
6(7&
"D$EFD&C%G
DE$D%C"$
"&EBD&CBA
G"CFA
6(7H
"F%E%A&C$G
DEBH$C%B
"HE"FHCHH
GBCHD
6(7B
"FFEFBAC&D
DEG&DCA%
"HEG"&C$G
$"$G
7:)/5)7@*
(:@/673:(@()3/
7*@/:

F"C"G
6(7"
"HGE%FDCB$
BEDABC$B
"$E&&ACF"
FHC&F
6(7$
"BHEDA$CF$
BEAHACF$
"$EGA"C%D
FFCF&
6(7&
"D"EF"%C%G
DE$"ACD$
"&EHFBCGH
G"C$$
6(7H
"DGEABDC"D
DEHAGC&"
"HE%FACDG
GHCGF
6(7B
"FDEBHDC$G
DEFA%C$H
"HEF"$C"A
BH&&
7:3I:@?@66)6(@/()
/
$DC&"
6(7"
BHEF&GCHG
$E"%BC&&
HEBD"CBH
$FCHA
6(7$
BFE"FFCGH
$E"AAC"B
HEFDHCG$
$GCDA
6(7&
BAEDF$C$G
$E$ABC%A
HEAF$CDA
$ACAA
6(7H
D$EH"&C%G
$EH%%CB%
BE$%"C%A
&"C&F
6(7B
DBE$%GCGH
$EB%GC%&
BEH&HC%F
BH&H
7:3I:@?@66)6(@/())
/
$GCA$
6(7"
D%E"DBCF$
$E&"HC%F
BE%"&CG"
&%C$D
6(7$
D$EA&&CFD
$EH$%CB&
BE$HHCHG
&"CD$
6(7&
DBEF$ACFD
$EB$GC%F
BEHFFCHG
&&C%"
6(7H
DGEDA%C%H
$EDH"CA$
BEF$HC"F
&HCB"
6(7B
F"EFGFC$H
$EFD"C%B
BEAG$C$F
B&H$
7:3I:@?@66(6:
/
&&CAG
6(7"
F%ED&DC&$
$EF"DCFG
BEGGDC&D
&BCHF
6(7$
F&EFGGC$H
$EG&GC%"
DE"HAC%$
&FC%G
6(7&
FFE"D%C%%
$EADFCDA
DEH&%C%%
&GCF&
6(7H
G%EBGDC"$
&E%AACHF
DEF"BCB"
H%CHG
6(7B
GHE"FFC%%
&E$&FCBG
FE%"HCFB
':L0F#A#$&<HM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLC)1L0L*NL L 1)#))CRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$H0&%
174 of 266

--- page 175 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$%AA
7:325(?B:)
/
C&DCA
6(7"
"""E&FADFF
GE$FGD""
HE$F$D$G
CCDHA
6(7$
""AEG$IDI$
GEGIIDHH
HEI%$D&"
CFDGH
6(7&
"$"EAAHD&$
GEAIHDCH
"%E"&HD""
A"D""
6(7G
"$IE"""D%F
GEFFFDFH
"%ECH$DCH
A&DFF
6(7C
"&$EFAFD%F
CE""%D&"
""E%I$D&G
$%AI
7:325(?B:))

CHD"G
6(7"
"$&E%"CD&A
GEI&"D&A
"%E$C"D$F
A"DII
6(7$
"$FEGFCDGG
GEHG"DIC
"%EI%ID"$
AGDCC
6(7&
"&GE&%%D%G
CE"ACD&H
""E"H"DAI
AIDGF
6(7G
"G%E&G&D&A
CE&HIDF$
""EAHCD$F
I%DC"
6(7C
"GAEAGGDCA
CEAG%D"F
"$E$$%D&F
$%AG
7:325(?B:6:

ACD%I
6(7"
"&CE&"ID"A
CE$%GDC"
""E$IADG&
AIDHG
6(7$
"G"E&&GDCA
CEG&CDHG
""EIIIDFF
I"D%G
6(7&
"GIEI$HDHA
CEAF"DH$
"$E&"%DF&
IGD$G
6(7G
"CGE&IIDI$
CEH&IDA%
"$EFAGDF"
IIDCA
6(7C
"A"E&%FDH$
AE$%GD"H
"&EGG$DG"
$%AC
7:325(697(
/
CHDC$
6(7"
"$&EIFFDAG
GEIA"D"%
"%E&"CDI$
A$D$"
6(7$
"$HEG%$D$G
GEHIID%"
"%EIF&DC$
ACD%"
6(7&
"&CE$GCDG%
CE$%"DIC
""E$I%DGC
AIDH&
6(7G
"G"E$FFDGF
CEG&GD"I
""EIIGD%G
I"D%%
6(7C
"GIEAGADF%
CEAIFDI$
"$E&%&DH%
$$%$
794=>6697J

CCD$$
6(7"
""GEFF"D%G
GEG"FDC%
HECI&DG$
CIDI$
6(7$
"$%E%&ADA%
GEA"ADIH
"%E%%&D%C
A%D&"
6(7&
"$CEGGHDAF
GEF$GDHH
"%EGCGD"G
A&D%$
6(7G
"&"E%H$D&$
CE%G$D%"
"%EH$GD&A
ACDFI
6(7C
"&AEHH$D&A
CE$AFDHG
""EG"AD%&
A"$&
79?76(@()3/
?58@/)5)
/
&HDG&
6(7"
F$E%"FDF%
&E"CGDCI
AEF&GDH%
G"D"A
6(7$
FCEA"CDH$
&E$H$DH$
IE"&GDAA
G&D%C
6(7&
FHECGCDAF
&EGGGD%A
IEGA$D"G
GCD%%
6(7G
H&ECFCD&A
&ECHHDGG
IEIHFDIF
A"$G
79?76(@()3/
?58@/)5))
/
G&DH$
6(7"
H"E&G&DFF
&EC"&D$&
IEA""DHH
GCDFC
6(7$
HCE&FGD$F
&EAAFDA&
IEHGFDAH
GIDH$
6(7&
HHEAI&DGG
&EF&&DCH
FE&%AD"$
C%D"%
6(7G
"%GE$&HD$%
GE%%HD$%
FEAFADA%
A"G%
79?76(@()3/
?58@/)5)))
/
GFD&$
6(7"
"%%EGFAD%F
&EFAGDFC
FE&I&DFG
C%DGG
6(7$
"%GEH&CD%F
GE%&CDHA
FEIGGDCH
C$DI$
6(7&
"%HEACCDAG
GE$"IDC$
HE"&IDHI
CCD"G
6(7G
""GEAIGDAG
GEG"%DCA
HECCAD$$
':L0I#H#$&<GM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLD)1L0L*NL L 1)#))DRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$C0&%
175 of 266

--- page 176 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$"$A
:B9*@(3:;
53?7*)@/5
?@/@B:

CDE&C
6(7"
"DAFCG"E$G
AF%$HED"
"&F%A"ECC
CHECD
6(7$
"A&FCI$EGG
AF$IIEC"
"&FAGIE&C
H$E&"
6(7&
"C"F"I%E&$
AFDHGE$G
"GF$ADEHA
HAE%"
6(7G
"CHFHCAEH%
AFHCIEHH
"GFI%AEG%
HIEI%
6(7D
"HAFIAHECA
CF"I"E""
"DFDH%EC&
D$GD
65(;J5(35)(;
@((3:/;
/
&HEI$
6(7"
H%FI"DE$H
&F""$E"&
AFCG$EIG
G%EAG
6(7$
HGFDHHE$G
&F$D&E&I
CF%GIE%$
G$EGI
6(7&
HHF&C%ECA
&F&IHEHH
CF&AGE$&
GGEGG
6(7G
I$FG$CE&A
&FDDGEI%
CFC%$E$H
GAE&I
6(7D
IAFD""E&$
&FC""EIC
HF%G$EA"
D%$&
65(;J5(35)(;
?@/@B:
/
G"EIA
6(7"
HCF&%"EDA
&F&DCECD
CF$CDE"&
G&EHD
6(7$
I"F"I&EHH
&FD%CEGA
CFDIIEGI
GDEH"
6(7&
IDF&%DEGG
&FAADEDI
CFIG$E"$
GCEHI
6(7G
IIFA&AE$G
&FH&$E"A
HF&%&E%$
D%E%A
6(7D
"%GF"%GE&$
GF%%GE%"
HFACDE&A
DGDA
63*)=@6(K:5;5
7:3B533:
/
D%ED$
6(7"
"%DF%I%EHG
GF%G"EIA
HFCDCEDC
D$ECI
6(7$
"%IFH&$EHH
GF$$GE&G
IF"D$ECG
DDE"G
6(7&
""GFC&IEGG
GFG"&E%A
IFDA"EA$
DCEAG
6(7G
""IFI"IEIA
GFA"$E&"
IFII&E&&
A%E$&
6(7D
"$DF$I$EGH
GFH"HEIG
"%FGG"E%G
DGDG
63*)=@6(
(58/)5)@/
/
G%E"I
6(7"
H&FDCDEH%
&F$"GEGD
AFIAGEAD
G$E%$
6(7$
HCFG%%E$%
&F&A"EDD
CF$H&E&D
G&EI%
6(7&
I"F&"GEC$
&FD"$E"%
CFA%IEDA
GDEHD
6(7G
IDF&AGE"$
&FAACEHD
CFIGCE%"
GCEI"
6(7D
IIFAA"E%H
&FH&&E"$
HF&%DE%I
$$&%
697:L)6)/B
*)4:@:)@/

GCEA%
6(7"
IIF%&HE$H
&FH%IE"A
HF$D&E"I
GIEC&
6(7$
"%&FGHIE%H
&FIH%E&D
HFA$GE%I
D"EII
6(7&
"%HF"GAEG%
GF"DIEGH
IF%"$E$%
DGE&$
6(7G
""&F%%IEHH
GF&GAED&
IFG"CEGI
DAECC
6(7D
""HF"%IED$
GFDG$EAC
IFHG$EGA
$$$I
697:L)6)/B*)4:@:;
@66)6(@/(

G$EHG
6(7"
HIF"$AE"A
&FG$CEI&
CFG$CE"H
GGECC
6(7$
I&F"&CED$
&FDH$E$"
CFCA"EGA
GAEH%
6(7&
ICF&$HEHH
&FCG&EG$
HF""%ECG
GHEHI
6(7G
"%"FC%HECA
&FI""EHH
HFGCDEC&
D"E"$
6(7D
"%AF$IHEAG
GF%HHEG"
HFHDHE$$
':N0C#I#$&<GO?39)1N0N*PK?Q-<6K$ONE)1N0N*PN N 1)#))ESTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 Q$A0&%
176 of 266

--- page 177 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A&B"
69:C;(58/)5)@/
6:
/
DEFB&
6(7"
"%"G"AHFH$
&GEI%FBE
EGD$IFE"
A%FE$
6(7$
"%AGH%AF$D
DG%BAFAI
EGE%EFHH
A&F""
6(7&
""%GDBHF$%
DG$DEFHD
IG$%AFB%
AAFA%
6(7D
""AGD&"FIB
DGD&IFBI
IGB"IF&&
AHFII
6(7A
"$%GB&AFA$
DGB&IFE&
"%G%A$FIB
$%&H
696(@)/@4)*)(;
@/@*;6(

AAFBA
6(7"
""AGHBEFAB
DGDA$FBD
IGBDHF&E
AEF"A
6(7$
"$%GIE"FH$
DGBA&F"D
"%G%E"FE"
B%FHE
6(7&
"$BG&IDFE%
DGEB"F&D
"%GA&$FI%
B&FA"
6(7D
"&$G%IDFAB
AG%E%FAB
""G%%HFEE
BBF&I
6(7A
"&EG"%IF%E
AG&""FEI
""GA%IF%I
ADB%
6;6@/@*;6()
/
DIF%$
6(7"
"%"GI&EFE%
&GI$%FH$
EGDIDFI%
A"F$%
6(7$
"%BGA"BF$%
DG%IBFHE
EGEHBF&A
A&FDI
6(7&
"""G$AEF&B
DG$HIF"H
IG$H"FA&
AAFIA
6(7D
""BG&EDF"B
DGDHBF&"
IGBIEFBE
AEFDA
6(7A
"$"GABDF&$
DGBHAFAA
"%G"&%F&B
$%&&
6;6@/@*;6())

ABF%E
6(7"
""BGBEAF&B
DGDEHFI%
IGH$&FHE
AEFB"
6(7$
"$"GEIEF%D
DGBEEF&I
"%G"AEF"H
B"F$$
6(7&
"$HG&IHF$E
DGEIIFI%
"%GB"BFDD
BDF%D
6(7D
"&&G"E$FIB
AG"$$FD$
""G%IEFAE
BBFEE
6(7A
"&IG"BIF%D
AG&A$FBB
""GAIHFD$
$D"B
6;6(?6J/(=3:>
?K:

HAFEH
6(7"
"AHGHEAFED
BG%BEFBI
"&G"DEFE$
HIF$I
6(7$
"BDGIDBFDE
BG&DDF"%
"&GHDAFAD
E$FEH
6(7&
"H$G&I&F$%
BGB&%FA"
"DG&BBF"%
EBFB%
6(7D
"E%G"$BF$D
BGI$HFI&
"AG%"%FA$
I%FDE
6(7A
"EEG$&"FEE
HG$&IFBI
"AGBEAFII
$%&"
6;6(?6@/@*;6(6:

BDFA"
6(7"
"&DG"EAFDD
AG"B%FIE
""G"E$F"$
BHFD"
6(7$
"D%G$%%F$%
AG&I$F&$
""GBE&F&A
H%FDA
6(7&
"DBGA%%FI$
AGB&DFBA
"$G$%EFD"
H&FB$
6(7D
"A&G"DAFI$
AGEI%F$&
"$GHB$F"B
HBFID
6(7A
"B%G%"IFEE
BG"ADFB"
"&G&&DFII
$"H"
6;6(?6675)@*)6(

ABF%E
6(7"
""BGBEAF&B
DGDEHFI%
IGH$&FHE
AEFB"
6(7$
"$"GEIEF%D
DGBEEF&I
"%G"AEF"H
B"F$$
6(7&
"$HG&IHF$E
DGEIIFI%
"%GB"BFDD
BDF%D
6(7D
"&&G"E$FIB
AG"$$FD$
""G%IEFAE
BBFEE
6(7A
"&IG"BIF%D
AG&A$FBB
""GAIHFD$
':M0H#I#$&<DN?39)1M0M*OJ?P-<6J$NMF)1M0M*OM M 1)#))FRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$H0&%
177 of 266

--- page 178 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
A"%B
(:@CD*)E8((58
/
FBGFH
6(7"
IFJA%IGFF
&JA&KGK$
HJKKFG"$
FHGB"
6(7$
IKJK"BG$%
&JK%%GBK
KJ$&FGA%
FIGAI
6(7&
"%&J&$AG"$
&JIHFG%K
KJA"%GB"
B"GI%
6(7F
"%HJI"IG&A
FJ"B%GHF
KJII&G$K
B$KB
(:@CC)5/C3:5
533:
/
F"GI&
6(7"
KHJ$FAGIA
&J&BBGAB
HJ$H%GBK
F&GK$
6(7$
I"J"""GI$
&JB%FG&%
HJBI$GAA
FBGHI
6(7&
IBJ$B%GH$
&JAA&GFI
HJI&HGBA
FHGKK
6(7F
IIJA%IG%%
&JK&"G"$
KJ&%%GHB
B%G%%
6(7B
"%FJ%$"GKK
FJ%%%GKF
KJAAKGFI
A$$B
(:@CC)56@C(;=:>:
/
&IG%A
6(7"
K"J$F&GKF
&J"$FGHA
AJHH%G&$
F%GK%
6(7$
KFJKAKGI$
&J$AFG"I
HJ%H$GF"
F$GAH
6(7&
KKJHF&G%%
&JF"&G"I
HJ&IBG$B
FFGBH
6(7F
I$JH%%G"$
&JBABG&I
HJH$BG%"
B%AF
(:@/673:(@()3/
7*@//:@6635

B%GAA
6(7"
"%BJ&I$GAF
FJ%B&GBA
KJHK$GH$
B&G%%
6(7$
""%J"KIG$K
FJ$&KG%B
IJ"K$GFF
BBG&A
6(7&
""BJ"$&G%K
FJF$HGK"
IJBI&GBI
BHGKK
6(7F
"$%J&BKGI$
FJA$IG"I
"%J%$IGI"
A%G&I
6(7B
"$BJA$"GF%
FJK&"GBI
"%JFAKGFB
B%A&
(:@/673:(@()3/
7*@//:@66(
/
FAG%H
6(7"
IBJK$AG$F
&JAKBGA$
HJIKBGB$
FKG"A
6(7$
"%%J"KFG$K
&JKB&G$F
KJ&FKGAI
B%G$B
6(7&
"%FJBF$GAK
FJ%$%GKH
KJH""GKI
B$GBF
6(7F
"%IJ&""GIA
FJ$%FG&"
IJ"%IG&&
BFGIB
6(7B
""FJ$H&GFK
FJ&IBG"&
IJB$$GHI
A$&&
(:?@)/(675
/
FBGIH
6(7"
IBJA&KGFF
&JAHKGF%
HJIAIGKH
FKG%K
6(7$
IIJII"GBA
&JKFBGK&
KJ&&$GA&
B%G$"
6(7&
"%FJF%BG%F
FJ%"BGBK
KJH%%GF$
B$GFH
6(7F
"%IJ"$&G%K
FJ"IHG%F
IJ%I&GBI
A%HK
(:(:)??:6:7>
/
&HG$H
6(7"
HHJB&BGH$
$JIK$G"F
AJFA"G&"
&KGIA
6(7$
K"J%$$G&$
&J""AG$F
AJHB"GKA
F%GAK
6(7&
KFJAFHGHA
&J$BBGAK
HJ%B&GIK
F$GBA
6(7F
KKJBFIG$%
&JF%BGHF
HJ&HIG"%
B$KH
L8)5*@4@(?/(
3CC)5:
/
&"GKK
6(7"
AAJ&"BG%%
$JBB%GBK
BJB$AG$B
&&G&$
6(7$
AIJ$IKGK%
$JAABG&F
BJHHFGI%
&FGK&
6(7&
H$JF$AG$F
$JHKBGA$
AJ%&BGB$
&AG&I
6(7F
HBJAIAGA%
$JI""GF"
AJ&%KG%B
&KG%&
6(7B
HIJ""%G$F
&J%F$GH%
AJBI$GB$
':N0H#I#$&<FO?39)1N0N*PD?Q-<6D$ONG)1N0N*PN N 1)#))GSTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 Q$K0&%
178 of 266

--- page 179 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$"$A
=@6(?@/@B?/(
697:C)63:

DEFGG
6(7"
"$%H&EEFEI
JHI$AFA"
"%H%&"FJG
I%FJA
6(7$
"$DHEGEF$J
JHG&EFAE
"%HJG$F$E
I&F$"
6(7&
"&"HJDDFG%
DH%DDFAA
"%HADJFID
IIF%D
6(7J
"&EH&G$FAI
DH$G&FAI
""HJJGFDG
IAF%$
6(7D
"J&HDIGFGJ
DHD$"FGG
""HAIJF%E
$%J"
=4675)@*)6(

DAF$D
6(7"
"$&H$JJFJJ
JHEJ%F"E
"%H$E%F&E
I"FAA
6(7$
"$GHAJJF$%
JHADAF&A
"%HEJDF&D
IJFEJ
6(7&
"&JHIJ&FI%
DH"EGFI%
""H$$%F&%
IEFIG
6(7J
"J%HG%"FIJ
DHJ"DFJD
""HE&&FJE
E%FE$
6(7D
"JEH%EJF"I
DHIDIFE%
"$H$DIF"G
I$%E
==(7*5(
(58/)5)@/
/
JAFEJ
6(7"
"%&HJE$FEI
&HAEAFE$
GHI$$FE&
D"FAG
6(7$
"%GH"&GFAI
JH"DAF"A
AH%""FDG
DJF&%
6(7&
""$HAE&F$G
JH&JDF"&
AHJ"JFJJ
DIFEE
6(7J
""GH%DGFEI
JHDJ%FE$
AHG&GF$&
$""$
==(7?@)/(/@/5
697(

I&FGJ
6(7"
"&$HEEJF%%
DH"%IFIA
""H%IJFD%
IIFE%
6(7$
"&GHE$AF%%
DH&&DFE&
""HDI%FED
IAFE"
6(7&
"JJHAGAFJ%
DHDEIFD$
"$H%G$FJD
E$FG"
6(7J
"D"HJ&"FAI
DHG$JF&"
"$HI"AF&&
EIF%A
6(7D
"DGH$E$FJJ
IH%GEFJ%
"&H"GAF&E
$""D
==(7?@/@B:

G"F"D
6(7"
"IGHG$"FGG
IHJA&F"D
"JH%IGFJA
GJFG$
6(7$
"EIHJ%GFEI
IHEGJFAD
"JHE%%FE&
GGFID
6(7&
"GJH&EIFEI
EH%A"FJ"
"DH&IJFE&
A$FIJ
6(7J
"A$HII$FJ%
EHJ"%F%A
"IH%DDF$%
AIFG"
6(7D
$%"H&I%FE$
EHEJJFIJ
"IHEG%F%I
I$JD
==(7?58@/)5)
/
J%FI"
6(7"
GJHJEAF"I
&H$JAF$%
EH%&AFA&
J$FJ%
6(7$
GGH"GJF$G
&H&A"FE%
EH&JGFIA
JJF&D
6(7&
A$H$&$F"$
&HDJEF&A
EHIGIF%"
JIF&&
6(7J
AIH&A$FGG
&HE%EFJ$
GH%&$FEJ
I$JE
==(7?58@/)5))
/
JDF$&
6(7"
AJH%GJF%G
&HI"GFI$
EHGJ%F&J
JEF$J
6(7$
AGH$JDFIG
&HEEGFIG
GH"GEF"J
JAF&I
6(7&
"%$HII&FI%
&HAJGFI%
GHDDDF&%
D"FI&
6(7J
"%EH&IIF$G
JH"$AFJE
GHAJEF"A
I$JG
==(7?58@/)5)))
/
JAFE$
6(7"
"%&HJI"F&I
&HAEAF$G
GHI$"FEG
D"FAG
6(7$
"%GH"&IF%G
JH"DAF%G
AH%""F&J
DJF&%
6(7&
""$HAG"F%G
JH&JDFJ&
AHJ"DF%A
DIFEE
6(7J
""GH%DJFDI
JHDJ%FDI
AHG&EFGG
':L0E#A#$&<JM?39)1L0L*NO?P-<6O$MLF)1L0L*NL L 1)#))FRSSTSUVVWXYZV[\]
^_S`VV_ab`cdRSSefgZUZhTSUVVdijdkYZV[\]d
7 P$A0&%
179 of 266

--- page 180 ---
 	



 !""#"$#$%$&'
()(*
+,-.
/+/01,
234
53
6(76
839:*;
4)<=>*;
?3/(8*;
@//9@*
$""%
==(737:@()3/6
697(

ABCD%
6(7"
"EFG"HBC%%
FGFD&CD"
"$G%BDC$F
H$CBF
6(7$
"F"GH$ECDD
FGD&FCFH
"$GAE&CHE
HAC$&
6(7&
"FDGFFAC"$
AG%BDC&"
"&G$"&C%"
HBCAF
6(7E
"AFGAH&CD%
AG&H$C%H
"&GD%AC"F
D&C$E
6(7F
"H&G"E"C%E
AGAFBC$H
"EGE$DCE$
A$E%
==(737:@(3:)
/
E"CBF
6(7"
DHG$ABC"A
&G&FACF"
HG$H$CE&
E&CD$
6(7$
B"G"A&C$D
&GF%AC$D
HGFBACBE
EFCDE
6(7&
BFG&EDC%E
&GAAHC$&
HGBEFCAH
EHCDH
6(7E
BBGFB%CF$
&GD&%CE%
DG$BBC$"
A$E$
==(737:@(3:))
/
EAC%A
6(7"
BFGD"$CD%
&GADFC""
HGBDECE%
EDC%H
6(7$
BBGBADCAE
&GDEECBF
DG&&%CH$
F%C$E
6(7&
"%EGF&"C$D
EG%$%CE&
DGH"%CBE
F$CF&
6(7E
"%BG$BHC$%
EG$%&CHE
BG"%DC"%
A$E&
==(737:@(3:)))
/
F%CA$
6(7"
"%FG$DACB$
EG%EBCF%
DGHH&CB"
F$CB&
6(7$
""%G%F$CH$
EG$&$CD%
BG"H"C%A
FFC&"
6(7&
""FG%$"CD%
EGE$&CB$
BGFDFC"F
FHCHE
6(7E
"$%G"%HCHA
EGA"BCF&
"%G%%DCBD
A$&F
==(737:)/(:@)/I
/
&ACAB
6(7"
HAG&"&C"A
$GB&FC"$
AG&FBCE&
&DCE$
6(7$
HBGDDHCA%
&G%H$CA%
AGAFHC&%
E%C%B
6(7&
D&GE%&CH$
&G$%HCDE
AGBF%C&"
E"CB"
6(7E
DHG"D"CB$
&G&F&C"F
HG$AFC"A
$"""
==(768)J(697K
/
FAC&E
6(7"
""HG"BFC&A
EGF%HCF"
BGHAAC$D
FDCDA
6(7$
"$$GEE$C&A
EGH%BC&$
"%G$%&CF&
A"CEH
6(7&
"$HGDBECB$
EGB"BC%E
"%GAFHCB"
AEC$E
6(7E
"&&GAE$CD%
FG"E%C""
""G"&ACB%
AHC"F
6(7F
"&BGAFAC%%
FG&H"C&D
""GA&DC%%
':M0H#B#$&<EN?39)1M0M*OP?Q-<6P$NMC)1M0M*OM M 1)#))CSTTUTVWWXYZ[W\]^
_`TaWW`bcadeSTTfgh[V[iUTVWWejkelZ[W\]^e
7 Q&%0&%
180 of 266

--- page 181 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78'7
900:*;911*+2!<
&7='(
1*2$
('=(&
1*2&
($=>7
1*2(
((=$$
1*2?
(?=>'
1*28
78$&
900:*;911*++2!<
($=@>
1*2$
((=(8
1*2&
(?=@8
1*2(
(>=?&
1*2?
(@='?
1*28
78'@
900:*;911*152!<
(8='7
1*2$
(>=A'
1*2&
(@=($
1*2(
?'='@
1*2?
?$=@8
1*28
78&&
900.4:*9:*+2!<
?&=8&
1*2$
??=?7
1*2&
?>=?>
1*2(
?@=88
1*2?
8'=A(
1*28
7&>8
900.4:*9:*152!<
8?=@A
1*2$
8A=(?
1*2&
87=7&
1*2(
>&=>>
1*2?
>8=?@
1*28
7&A@
900.4:*+:;<;52!<
>(=$$
1*2$
>8=7A
1*2&
>@=7&
1*2(
A&='(
1*2?
A8=&8
1*28
78''
9!<+:*032!<
?$=7(
1*2$
?(=@&
1*2&
?8=A7
1*2(
?A=@@
1*2?
8'=''
1*28
)9BB!CDE0!!!F=2!<=5FGA%7%&(H?I<.4+JFGF,KL<MNH1L&IF=+JFGF,KF"F"J+%++=
2"M$G$7
Exhibit C
181 of 266

--- page 182 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78'9
:!;+<+1*5:*+=:11+1*2!;
(9>?@
1*2$
(?>&(
1*2&
(@>A?
1*2(
(7>8(
1*29
9$>(8
1*28
78??
:B4:*+005*+<1*540*.52!;
&(>8@
1*2$
78'$
:11+1**.0+*60,5C2!;
(9>?@
1*2$
(?>&(
1*2&
(@>A?
1*2(
(7>8(
1*29
9$>(8
1*28
78'8
/,!D+<120*+2!;
9&>&'
1*2$
99>$9
1*2&
9?>$@
1*2(
9A>&$
1*29
8'>(9
1*28
78'?
/,!D+<120*++2!;
9?>9?
1*2$
9A>88
1*2&
8'>@9
1*2(
8(>'&
1*29
88>(A
1*28
7&A'
/,!D;:+<*1425=+1.52!;
89>$(
1*2$
8?>8A
1*2&
87>$(
1*2(
?$>@9
1*29
?9>89
1*28
7A&'
/..C;<!52!;
&(>A'
1*2$
&9>A?
1*2&
&8>78
1*2(
&@>$(
1*29
&A>(8
1*28
7?'9
0<*5:,15=+01E.5C52!;
&(>(A
1*2$
&9>99
1*2&
&8>8(
1*2(
&?>?A
1*29
):FF!GHI0!!!J>2!;>5JK@%7%&(L9M;.4+NJKJ,OP;QRL1P&MJ>+NJKJ,OJ"J"N+%++>
2"Q&K$7
Exhibit C
182 of 266

--- page 183 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78&(
03+9.9145:612!;
8<=<>
1*2$
>'=(<
1*2&
>(=$'
1*2(
>8=7'
1*2?
>@=7&
1*28
7&$8
0+*6A**.5B6A11*2!;
@$=($
1*2$
@?=78
1*2&
@@=<<
1*2(
7&=<<
1*2?
7>=7&
1*28
78&>
0.!B9.5.99+2!;
(7=8?
1*2$
?$=(>
1*2&
?(=&'
1*2(
?8=$<
1*2?
?<=&'
1*28
78&7
0.!B9.5.99++2!;
?(=8>
1*2$
?8=?@
1*2&
?<=8(
1*2(
?7=>7
1*2?
8$=7(
1*28
7&<7
0.!B9.50;B*;ABAC52!;
<'=7&
1*2$
<?=$$
1*2&
<<=?8
1*2(
@'=7&
1*2?
@?=8@
1*28
78((
0.;;15:0..5!2!;
(>=@7
1*2$
(@=>'
1*2&
?'=('
1*2(
?&=$>
1*2?
??='?
1*28
78(&
0.;;15:142:2!;
?&=?@
1*2$
??=(@
1*2&
?>=(@
1*2(
?@=?8
1*2?
8'=>8
1*28
)ADD!EFG0!!!H=2!;=5HI<%7%&(J?K;.4+LHIH,MN;OPJ1N&KH=+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++=
2"O(I$7
Exhibit C
183 of 266

--- page 184 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78$9
0.::15;+0.<<+05+2!:
(&=(&
1*2$
((=>?
1*2&
(9=&>
1*2(
(?=@>
1*28
(@=9&
1*29
78$?
0.::15;+0.<<+05++2!:
(9=8$
1*2$
(>='&
1*2&
(@=?@
1*2(
8'=8'
1*28
8&=&(
1*29
7&?&
0.::1;01:A52!:
?@=&&
1*2$
>$=&>
1*2&
>8=8>
1*2(
>>=@(
1*28
@$=((
1*29
7&?(
0.::1;0110*+.B:A52!:
98=(&
1*2$
9?=>9
1*2&
97=($
1*2(
?$=77
1*28
?8=>7
1*29
7&??
0.::4B+*61;0142;5152!:
9&=''
1*2$
98=(8
1*2&
9?=>9
1*2(
97=('
1*28
?$=77
1*29
79($
0.B1*540*+.B+B120*.5+2!:
8$=97
1*2$
8(=9?
1*2&
89=8@
1*2(
8>=9$
1*28
87=?>
1*29
7?'9
041*.!+CB2!:
&7=$7
1*2$
('=9$
1*2&
($=7'
1*2(
((=('
1*28
)CDD!EFG0!!!H=2!:=5HI>%7%&(J8K:.4+LHIH,MN:OPJ1N&KH=+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++=
2"O8I$7
Exhibit C
184 of 266

--- page 185 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7899
!:*:/:1120,1*2!;
(<=>(
1*2$
9'=9<
1*2&
9&=('
1*2(
99=&&
1*29
9?=&(
1*28
7$(8
!24*60.;;!@,;A*!+52!;
7&=$7
1*2$
7?=<'
1*2&
$'$=?9
1*2(
78>8
!@5@1425@+1.52!;
8(=9&
1*2$
88=<(
1*2&
8<=((
1*2(
?'=7?
1*29
?(=>&
1*28
78>9
!@5@*032!;
(<=9'
1*2$
9'=$(
1*2&
9$=7&
1*2(
9(=><
1*29
98=><
1*28
78>(
!@,5@+B:5/.5+1*2!;
8>=>?
1*2$
?'=(8
1*2&
?(=$(
1*2(
?8=7'
1*29
?<=7&
1*28
779'
!@,.2;*1422.5*1@012!;
&8=''
1*2$
7$&'
!+50*.5.C24/,+0B.5D12!;
$$$=78
1*2$
$$>=89
1*2&
$&(=9&
1*2(
77$&
!+13B:1352!;
$>=8&
1*2$
79$&
!+12:*035+2!;
9$=$9
1*2$
9&=79
1*2&
99=7'
1*2(
9?=7'
1*29
97='&
1*28
):EE!FGH0!!!I=2!;=5IJ>%7%&(K9L;.4+MIJI,NO;PQK1O&LI=+MIJI,NI"I"M+%++=
2"P8J$7
Exhibit C
185 of 266

--- page 186 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78$(
!+129*035++2!:
8;<($
1*2$
8=<&>
1*2&
87<8(
1*2(
;$<?8
1*28
;(<77
1*2;
78$8
!+129*0351@+.52!:
87<=;
1*2$
;$<77
1*2&
;8<(;
1*2(
;?<==
1*28
;7<((
1*2;
7;8&
!.A@*.A@0..5!+@9*.52!:
8$<7(
1*2$
8(<>&
1*2&
8;<=7
1*2(
8=<>>
1*28
;'<''
1*2;
7&(&
0.@!B:9@9C52!:
=><''
1*2$
>$<;8
1*2&
>;<$7
1*2(
>7<'(
1*28
7(<'?
1*2;
7;8$
@C+@5911+1*9@*2!:
;&<;$
1*2$
;8<7$
1*2&
;=<(=
1*2(
;7<7=
1*28
?&<?&
1*2;
7;&=
@C5-4@+.52!:
8=<==
1*2$
87<7'
1*2&
;&<$;
1*2(
;8<8?
1*28
;?<7;
1*2;
7;$8
@C5*03+2!:
(?<;&
1*2$
(><$7
1*2&
(7<7(
1*2(
8$<?7
1*28
8(<;>
1*2;
)9DD!EFG0!!!H<2!:<5HI=%7%&(J8K:.4+LHIH,MN:OPJ1N&KH<+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++<
2"O?I$7
Exhibit C
186 of 266

--- page 187 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
788&
9:+50.;2+9122!;
<&=$7
1*2$
<<='7
1*2&
<>='?
1*2(
<?=$>
1*2<
8'=&7
1*28
78(7
@04*+:A11+1*A9*2!;
(?=$<
1*2$
(7=?B
1*2&
<$=>$
1*2(
<(=8&
1*2<
<8=<?
1*28
78(>
CA0+,+*6120+2!;
$B=B>
1*2$
$?=8<
1*2&
$7=(>
1*2(
78(B
CA0+,+*6120++2!;
$7=8$
1*2$
&'=(?
1*2&
&$=(&
1*2(
&&=&<
1*2<
&(=($
1*28
7>8'
C+,!252A5A*+.91202!;
&$=(&
1*2$
&&=&B
1*2&
&(=&>
1*2(
&8=8(
1*2<
78'(
C+9A90120+2!;
(?=&B
1*2$
<'='(
1*2&
<$=?$
1*2(
<(=>7
1*2<
<8=>8
1*28
7&$B
D.,C051;*0142:2!;
8<=$(
1*2$
8>=8?
1*2&
87=$(
1*2(
>$=B>
1*2<
><=8<
1*28
)AEE!FGH0!!!I=2!;=5IJB%7%&(K<L;.4+MIJI,NO;PQK1O&LI=+MIJI,NI"I"M+%++=
2"PBJ$7
Exhibit C
187 of 266

--- page 188 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7&$8
9.,:15;+01<952!<
8=>&&
1*2$
?$>&?
1*2&
?@>@?
1*2(
??>=(
1*2@
=$>((
1*2A
7AA?
95B23+01*032!<
@'>$=
1*2$
@$>7?
1*2&
@(>=?
1*2(
@A>=A
1*2@
@?>=7
1*2A
7AA=
3B5/.52B*5,.::2!<
('>8A
1*2$
(&>'A
1*2&
((>@?
1*2(
(@>7=
1*2@
(8>AA
1*2A
7&'=
35BCB,61*+2!<
@8>'7
1*2$
@=>$?
1*2&
A'>(&
1*2(
A&>A=
1*2@
A@>7&
1*2A
7&'7
35BCB,61*++2!<
A'>8&
1*2$
A&>7&
1*2&
AA>&@
1*2(
A?>?8
1*2@
8'>(&
1*2A
7&'?
35BCB,61*152!<
AA>8A
1*2$
A=>$A
1*2&
8'>?=
1*2(
8(>A$
1*2@
88>(7
1*2A
7A'?
35*03C+0+BC2!<
(7>=7
1*2$
@$>8A
1*2&
@(>A$
1*2(
@A>@7
1*2@
@?>A(
1*2A
)BDD!EFG0!!!H>2!<>5HI?%7%&(J@K<.4+LHIH,MN<OPJ1N&KH>+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++>
2"O=I$7
Exhibit C
188 of 266

--- page 189 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7$8'
349:;51.4501!+50*.52!9
$'(<&8
1*2$
$'8<==
1*2&
$$(<8>
1*2(
7?8(
+;0,41+.;120+:,+1*2!9
&?<(>
1*2$
&><=8
1*2&
&@<>8
1*2(
&8<7&
1*2=
('<&?
1*2?
7?=@
+11422**03+2!9
(8<@(
1*2$
='<=8
1*2&
=&<('
1*2(
==<&&
1*2=
=><&(
1*2?
77&'
-:2:;1A:5!;5254;52!9
@?<''
1*2$
7??$
,:/:;:,61*+2!9
=&<8&
1*2$
==<@'
1*2&
=><@=
1*2(
=8<87
1*2=
?$<'=
1*2?
7>'$
,:;!10:2,:/.552!9
&8<@@
1*2$
('<'8
1*2&
($<=(
1*2(
(&<8>
1*2=
7?(=
,:!*:0352!9
('<@@
1*2$
(&<$>
1*2&
((<>&
1*2(
(?<$$
1*2=
(><@$
1*2?
78$>
,+/5:5+:;+2!9
(><7'
1*2$
(8<?@
1*2&
='<&>
1*2(
=&<'8
1*2=
=(<77
1*2?
):BB!CDE0!!!F<2!9<5FG@%7%&(H=I9.4+JFGF,KL9MNH1L&IF<+JFGF,KF"F"J+%++<
2"M7G$7
Exhibit C
189 of 266

--- page 190 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78$9
,+/5:5+:;++2!<
='>?'
1*2$
=&>='
1*2&
==>(=
1*2(
=?>((
1*2=
=8>==
1*2@
78$(
,+/5:56:!<0,5A2!<
&?>8&
1*2$
&9>79
1*2&
&7>&(
1*2(
('>@9
1*2=
($>7(
1*2@
78$@
,+/5:56:+!+2!<
$?>8'
1*2$
$9>@8
1*2&
$8>(?
1*2(
$7>$7
1*2=
&'>'?
1*2@
78$8
,+/5:56:+!++2!<
$8>?'
1*2$
$7>==
1*2&
&'>(&
1*2(
&$>&(
1*2=
&&>&'
1*2@
78$$
,+/5:56:11*+2!<
&9>$$
1*2$
&8>(&
1*2&
&7>@7
1*2(
('>7(
1*2=
(&>($
1*2@
78$&
,+/5:56:11*++2!<
&7>8'
1*2$
($>$=
1*2&
(&>@9
1*2(
(=>''
1*2=
(@>@@
1*2@
78$=
,+/5:56:11*152!<
(=>&8
1*2$
(@>8@
1*2&
(9>=(
1*2(
(7>$8
1*2=
='>87
1*2@
):BB!CDE0!!!F>2!<>5FG9%7%&(H=I<.4+JFGF,KL<MNH1L&IF>+JFGF,KF"F"J+%++>
2"M$'G$7
Exhibit C
190 of 266

--- page 191 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7898
,+:;4<5!2!=
$>?8@
1*2$
$7?(9
1*2&
&'?&@
1*2(
7878
,+:;4<5!152!=
&'?(>
1*2$
&$?(&
1*2&
&&?&@
1*2(
&(?($
1*2@
&@?(8
1*28
787A
,+:;4<5!B1+2!=
$7?@9
1*2$
&'?(@
1*2&
&$?&8
1*2(
&&?$7
1*2@
&(?&8
1*28
7879
,+:;4<5!B1+152!=
&$?@$
1*2$
&&?@'
1*2&
&(?(A
1*2(
&@?@&
1*2@
&8?87
1*28
7>&$
,+*0.=*50..5!2!=
(9?&'
1*2$
(A?>8
1*2&
(7?8'
1*2(
@$?&7
1*2@
@(?$9
1*28
7>&&
,+*5<06120+<,+1*2!=
(9?&'
1*2$
(A?>8
1*2&
(7?8'
1*2(
@$?&7
1*2@
@(?$9
1*28
79$&
=<+C*<11+1*+2!=
&$?(&
1*2$
&&?&A
1*2&
&(?&9
1*2(
&@?(@
1*2@
)<DD!EFG0!!!H?2!=?5HIA%7%&(J@K=.4+LHIH,MN=OPJ1N&KH?+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++?
2"O$$I$7
Exhibit C
191 of 266

--- page 192 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78$'
9:+;*:11+1*++2!9
&(<=>
1*2$
&=<=7
1*2&
&><8'
1*2(
&8<?8
1*2=
788>
9:+;*@A5B:0+,2!9
(?<=7
1*2$
(7<$8
1*2&
='<78
1*2(
=&<?C
1*2=
78$=
9:+;*@.5A5+2!9
('<7$
1*2$
(&<('
1*2&
((<?8
1*2(
(><&>
1*2=
(8<C&
1*2>
78('
9:+;*@.5A5++2!9
(><>&
1*2$
(?<$'
1*2&
(C<??
1*2(
='<>$
1*2=
78$(
9:+;*@5A+,1022!9
($<8?
1*2$
((<'7
1*2&
(=<>7
1*2(
(8<$&
1*2=
7&=7
9:;:D+;D:5/.5+1*2!9
>7<'=
1*2$
8$<87
1*2&
8=<=C
1*2(
8?<(7
1*2=
?'<='
1*2>
78'7
903,*E4+22!9
(8<>C
1*2$
(C<&'
1*2&
(7<7&
1*2(
=$<?&
1*2=
7&'&
9D9*:;:,61*+2!9
=8<'7
1*2$
=C<$?
1*2&
>'<(&
1*2(
>&<>C
1*2=
>=<7&
1*2>
):FF!GHI0!!!J<2!9<5JK?%7%&(L=M9.4+NJKJ,OP9QRL1P&MJ<+NJKJ,OJ"J"N+%++<
2"Q$&K$7
Exhibit C
192 of 266

--- page 193 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7&&&
898*:;:,61*++2!8
<'=>&
1*2$
<&=7&
1*2&
<<=&?
1*2(
<@=@>
1*2?
>'=(&
1*2<
7&&?
898*:;:,61*152!8
<<=><
1*2$
<A=$<
1*2&
>'=@A
1*2(
>(=<$
1*2?
>>=(7
1*2<
7<$$
.BB+0:11*+2!8
&>=($
1*2$
&@=?7
1*2&
&A=>7
1*2(
&7=77
1*2?
($=(@
1*2<
7<$(
.BB+0:11*++2!8
&A=7&
1*2$
('=&>
1*2&
($=>&
1*2(
((='$
1*2?
(?=<$
1*2<
7&$A
2:5C2,:;;+;9:!8+;+1*5:*52!8
><='>
1*2$
>@=7>
1*2&
@$='?
1*2(
@?=&?
1*2?
@@=<>
1*2<
7<>'
2:5C5:;952!8
(?='<
1*2$
(<=<<
1*2&
(@=$@
1*2(
(A=A(
1*2?
?'=<>
1*2<
7<<7
2:5C5:;95152!8
?'='(
1*2$
?$=A<
1*2&
?(=@&
1*2(
?<=>7
1*2?
?@=@7
1*2<
):DD!EFG0!!!H=2!8=5HI@%7%&(J?K8.4+LHIH,MN8OPJ1N&KH=+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++=
2"O$(I$7
Exhibit C
193 of 266

--- page 194 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7&89
2:65.,,:!;+<+1*5:*2!;
=$>(&
1*2$
=(>9?
1*2&
=9>'9
1*2(
=@>=9
1*2?
9$>$7
1*2=
7&88
2:65.,,1425A+1.52!;
==>9=
1*2$
=@>$=
1*2&
9'>8@
1*2(
9(>=$
1*2?
99>(7
1*2=
7=9&
2,:<030B5C+52!;
=8>89
1*2$
9'>(=
1*2&
9(>$(
1*2(
9=>7'
1*2?
9@>7&
1*2=
7=='
2,:<<5:11+1*:<*D2!;
?9>'9
1*2$
?@>$9
1*2&
='>&=
1*2(
=&>=?
1*2?
=?>7=
1*2=
77'&
2.,:/:<!.<!!A3+0,522!;
&?>7&
1*2$
77'$
2.,2:5B<C522!;
&?>7&
1*2$
7=$8
2.,50120+2!;
&7>=@
1*2$
('>7$
1*2&
(&>&7
1*2(
((>8(
1*2?
(=>&8
1*2=
7=$@
2.,50120++2!;
(&>=&
1*2$
((>77
1*2&
(=>=&
1*2(
(8>$&
1*2?
(@>8?
1*2=
7?'=
2.,+00:!*2!;
$9>8=
1*2$
):EE!FGH0!!!I>2!;>5IJ8%7%&(D?K;.4+LIJI,MN;OPD1N&KI>+LIJI,MI"I"L+%++>
2"O$?J$7
Exhibit C
194 of 266

--- page 195 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7&8&
2.,+0092*9+:2!;
7<=>'
1*2$
$'$=<<
1*2&
$'?=(@
1*2(
$$$=$@
1*2>
$$?=$<
1*28
7&8(
2.,+0,+4*:9:*2!;
@<='?
1*2$
7'=7@
1*2&
78='@
1*2(
77=(?
1*2>
$'(=@?
1*28
7>$'
2.,+0.AA515B2!;
87=$'
1*2$
7>$$
2.,+0.AA+052!;
87=$'
1*2$
?$=<>
1*2&
?>=8&
1*2(
?<=>$
1*2>
<'=>&
1*28
7<''
2.,+015C9:*2!;
<'=@@
1*2$
<>='?
1*2&
<<=(@
1*2(
@'=@8
1*2>
@>=>7
1*28
78<@
2..,;9:9C52!;
&>=>?
1*2$
&8=?&
1*2&
&?=<>
1*2(
&<=7?
1*2>
&7=$<
1*28
7?8$
2..,.259*.52!;
&7=$7
1*2$
('=8$
1*2&
($=7'
1*2(
((=('
1*2>
78@$
25103..,120+9,+1*+2!;
$<=<?
1*2$
$@=8>
1*2&
$7=(?
1*2(
)9DD!EFG0!!!H=2!;=5HI<%7%&(J>K;.4+LHIH,MN;OPJ1N&KH=+LHIH,MH"H"L+%++=
2"O$8I$7
Exhibit C
195 of 266

--- page 196 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
789&
25103..,120+:,+1*++2!;
&&<'=
1*2$
&(<'&
1*2&
&><'=
1*2(
&8<$7
1*2>
&=<&9
1*28
78&'
25.?5:;:11*+2!;
&=<($
1*2$
&@<>7
1*2&
&9<=7
1*2(
&7<77
1*2>
($<(@
1*28
78&$
25.?5:;:11*++2!;
&9<7&
1*2$
('<&=
1*2&
($<=&
1*2(
((<'$
1*2>
(><8$
1*28
78&8
25.?5:;:11*152!;
((<79
1*2$
(8<>@
1*2&
(@<'9
1*2(
(9<@(
1*2>
>'<>9
1*28
78&9
25.-0*0..5!2!;
8'<8&
1*2$
8&<9'
1*2&
88<$8
1*2(
8@<=9
1*2>
='<&=
1*28
7&=9
25.-0*;:A:?5152!;
=8<'@
1*2$
=@<7>
1*2&
@$<'>
1*2(
@><&>
1*2>
@@<8=
1*28
7&=@
25.-0*;?5++2!;
87<$>
1*2$
=$<@@
1*2&
=><88
1*2(
=@<>9
1*2>
@'<8$
1*28
):BB!CDE0!!!F<2!;<5FG@%7%&(H>I;.4+JFGF,KL;MNH1L&IF<+JFGF,KF"F"J+%++<
2"M$=G$7
Exhibit C
196 of 266

--- page 197 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7879
5025.:5;<1202!<
&8=(>
1*2$
&>=9?
1*2&
&@=>?
1*2(
&?=7&
1*29
('=&8
1*28
787$
50120+2!<
$@=8&
1*2$
787&
50120++2!<
$@=@>
1*2$
$?=89
1*2&
$7=(>
1*2(
787(
50120+++2!<
&&='>
1*2$
&(='&
1*2&
&9='>
1*2(
&8=$7
1*29
&>=&?
1*28
77('
5!,+:3*0;<5;A+B52!<
(8=''
1*2$
78(?
10*6C0*.0+*6;**62!<
(?=7&
1*2$
9'=>9
1*2&
9&=97
1*2(
99=99
1*29
9>=(7
1*28
77'(
1*4!D*;11+1*;D*2!<
$>=@8
1*2$
77$$
1*4!D*+D*5D2!<
&8='?
1*2$
&>=&(
1*2&
&@=98
1*2(
&?=@'
1*29
('='&
1*28
789>
161*<1;D;,61*+2!<
97='&
1*2$
8$=&'
1*2&
8(=97
1*2(
88=78
1*29
8?=98
1*28
);EE!FGH0!!!I=2!<=5IJ@%7%&(K9L<.4+MIJI,NO<PQK1O&LI=+MIJI,NI"I"M+%++=
2"P$@J$7
Exhibit C
197 of 266

--- page 198 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
7&((
161*819:9,61*++2!8
;<='>
1*2$
;>=<$
1*2&
<$=&&
1*2(
<?='?
1*2?
<<=>>
1*2;
7&($
16*819:9,61*152!8
<?=;$
1*2$
<@=?$
1*2&
@'=?;
1*2(
@(=<&
1*2?
@<=7?
1*2;
7<'>
*59AA+0,+B3**032!8
?;=?@
1*2$
?@=;$
1*2&
?7=<7
1*2(
;$=7'
1*2?
7<&(
*5*5+8852!8
(<=(;
1*2$
(@=7&
1*2&
(7=<7
1*2(
?$=?;
1*2?
7;@7
C9*5D50+1+:1*540*.52!8
&$='?
1*2$
&$=7>
1*2&
&&=7>
1*2(
7<'@
CC*2,0**03:+0+9:2!8
?7=@?
1*2$
;$=7>
1*2&
;?=('
1*2(
;<=@@
1*2?
7&$&
CC*289+:*142*2!8
<(=>?
1*2$
<<=@'
1*2&
<7=@$
1*2(
@&=>$
1*2?
@<='7
1*2;
7&$?
CC*289:9B52!8
>$=$;
1*2$
>?=>&
1*2&
>>=<;
1*2(
7&=<?
1*2?
7<=>$
1*2;
)9EE!FGH0!!!I=2!8=5IJ@%7%&(K?L8.4+MIJI,NO8PQK1O&LI=+MIJI,NI"I"M+%++=
2"P$>J$7
Exhibit C
198 of 266

--- page 199 ---
 	


!"#$$%$&%&'&()
*+*,
-./
0.!
1*21
3.45,6
78$8
99*2:03;<+0+2!:
='>8$
1*2$
=&>='
1*2&
==>(?
1*2(
=8>((
1*2=
78$@
99*2:03;<+0++2!:
=?>&(
1*2$
=@>&=
1*2&
=7>(8
1*2(
?$>8(
1*2=
7&$$
99*2.25;*+.<1142*2!:
87>A'
1*2$
@&>7?
1*2&
@8>&(
1*2(
@7>8?
1*2=
A(>&=
1*2?
78=&
99*2.25;*.5++2!:
=8>'8
1*2$
=A>'@
1*2&
?'>&=
1*2(
?&>?(
1*2=
78=(
99*2.25;*.5+++2!:
?'>8&
1*2$
?&>7(
1*2&
??>($
1*2(
?@>@=
1*2=
78&A
99*2.25+<*5<B2!:
(8>87
1*2$
(A>=&
1*2&
='>'7
1*2(
=$>7$
1*2=
7&$(
99*213+C*142D2!:
?8>(=
1*2$
?A>A8
1*2&
8$>=@
1*2(
8=>&=
1*2=
8@>$?
1*2?
);EE!FGH0!!!I>2!:>5IJ@%7%&(K=L:.4+MIJI,NO:PQK1O&LI>+MIJI,NI"I"M+%++>
2"P$7J$7
Exhibit C
199 of 266

--- page 200 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 24-8366
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Police Officer’s Association – Memorandum of Understanding Changes
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Police Officer’s Association for a term through 
January 3, 2027, and to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $400,000.
BACKGROUND:
The Police Officer’s Association (POA) represents approximately 100 employees. The contract with this bargaining unit 
expired on January 6, 2024. Negotiations with the POA concluded on January 3, 2024 and the membership subsequently 
ratified the proposed changes to their Memorandum of Understanding. 
Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached 
agreement. These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on January 3, 2027. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase and an additional 1.0% increase for additional community-
based training requirements implemented by the Department, effective the first full pay period following Council adoption 
of this agreement.  The bargaining unit will receive a 3.0% salary increase and an additional 1.0% increase for additional 
community-based training requirements implemented by the Department, effective the pay period including January 5, 
2025. The bargaining unit will receive a 3.0% salary increase and an additional 2.0% for community-based training 
requirements implemented by the Department, effective the pay period including January 4, 2026.
Educational Incentives: Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of this agreement, sworn members 
who possess a POST Intermediate Certificate are eligible for a 4% differential of base pay. Sworn members who possess a 
POST Advanced Certificate are eligible for a 9% differential of base pay. For Dispatchers, possession of a POST Intermediate 
Public Safety Dispatcher Certificate shall qualify employees for 1% of their base salary. Possession of a POST Advanced 
Public Safety Dispatcher Certificate shall qualify Dispatchers for 2.5% of their base salary. For Community Service Officers 
(CSOs), possession of an Associate’s Degree shall qualify a CSO for 2% of their base salary. 
PORAC: Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of this agreement, the City will contribute $550.00 per 
employee per month for all classifications in the POA bargaining unit to the trust, which is a $50 a month increase as they 
are currently receiving $500 per employee per month. Other: There are language changes relating to departmental 
operations and housekeeping language that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract.
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
200 of 266

--- page 201 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the terms and conditions of the contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
A supplemental budget appropriation of available fund balance in the General Fund of $400,000 for the Police 
Department's 2023-24 operating budget is required to accommodate the negotiated increases.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A - Tentative Agreements
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
201 of 266

--- page 202 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION UNIT AND A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET 
APPROPRIATION
 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary, term, other pays and miscellaneous language changes 
relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the unit; and 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s 
MOU; and
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, an appropriation of additional General Funds to the Fiscal Year 2023-24 Police Department 
operating budget is necessary to fund the negotiated increases. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the Police Officer’s Association, set 
forth in the Tentative Agreements attached as Exhibit A, are approved and summarized as follows:
Term:  The contract will be for a period of three years, expiring on January 3, 2027.
Salary:  The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase and an additional 1.0% increase for 
additional community-based training requirements implemented by the Department, effective the 
first full pay period following Council adoption of this agreement.  The bargaining unit will receive a 
3.0% salary increase and an additional 1.0% increase for additional community-based training 
requirements implemented by the Department, effective the pay period including January 5, 2025.  
The bargaining unit will receive a 3.0% salary increase and an additional 2.0% for community-based 
training requirements implemented by the Department, effective the pay period including January 
4, 2026.
202 of 266

--- page 203 ---
Educational Incentives: Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of this 
agreement, sworn members who possess a POST Intermediate Certificate are eligible for a 4% 
differential of base pay.  Sworn members who possess a POST Advanced Certificate are eligible for a 
9% differential of base pay.  For Dispatchers, possession of a POST Intermediate Public Safety 
Dispatcher Certificate shall qualify employees for 1% of their base salary.  Possession of a POST 
Advanced Public Safety Dispatcher Certificate shall qualify Dispatchers for 2.5% of their base salary. 
For Community Service Officers (CSOs), possession of an Associate’s Degree shall qualify a CSO for 
2% of their base salary.  
PORAC: Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption of this agreement, the City will 
contribute $550.00 per employee per month for all classifications in the POA bargaining unit to the 
trust. 
Other:  There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language 
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract.
3.
A supplemental budget appropriation of available fund balance in the General Fund of $400,000 for 
the Police Department's 2023-24 operating budget is authorized to accommodate the negotiated 
increases. 
203 of 266

--- page 204 ---
Exhibit A

CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 4 — Salary for POA Unit Classifications

Compensation is intended to be consistent with City-wide compensation objectives as approved
by the City Council in July of 1993 and commensurate with actual job performance. Effective
with all increases provided after September 1993, job performance will be the sole criteria for
determining an individual employee's placement within a salary range.

4.2 Salary Advancement Within Range

Salary advancement within a five-step range shall be based on merit and performance as
determined by the Department Head. The evaluations and recommendations of the employee's
superiors will be used by the Department Head, who will determine the employee's advancement
within the range.

Salary advancement within an established range is typically considered at one-year intervals. The
date of salary review and increase may be advanced or delayed as determined by the Department
Head. Salary advancement within the range typically occurs in increments of four and one-half
percent (4 1/2%). At no time shall an employee advance beyond the top of the established range.
Withholding salary increases under Article 4 shall not be considered discipline and is not subject
to the principles of Article 14 (Discipline).

Effective January 22, 2024, or the first full pay period following Council adoption of this
agreement, whichever is later, all employees in the Community Service Officer I and Dispatcher
I classifications who have successfully completed the training program and probationary periods
for their respective classifications will be advanced to the Community Service Officer II /
Dispatcher II classification. Employees will be placed at the salary step that is closest to, but still
exceeding, their salary rate prior to advancement. All employees hired within the Community
Service Officer I / Dispatcher I classification will be advanced to the Community Service Officer
II / Dispatcher II classification on the first full pay period following successful completion of the
training program and probationary period.

rar For the City:
a a er

Peter Hoffmann tacey Cue

204 of 266


--- page 205 ---
a

CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION

2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
Article 5 — Overtime
Definitions
A. Regular overtime is authorized time worked, except emergency overtime, by an

3.3.1

pe

employee in excess of their normally scheduled tour of duty. For purposes of
determining eligibility for overtime compensation, any absence with pay shall be
considered as time worked, however sick leave will not be considered as time
worked if after receiving notice of upcoming mandatory overtime, the employee
calls in sick on their regular shift between time of notice and the upcoming
mandatory overtime that occurs in the same pay period as the notice of such
mandatory overtime. In such circumstances, the employee would be paid at the
regular rate of pay for those hours of the mandatory overtime shift equal to the
number of sick leave hours utilized by the employee.

Emergency Overtime

Any employee who is called in for emergency overtime of any duration shall be
compensated for a minimum of four (4) hours overtime, unless the emergency notification
is less than three hours prior to the employee’s scheduled work time, in which case the
employee will be paid as outlined in 5.1 4-4 of this MOU. In compensation for travel time,
emergency overtime shall start at the time the employee is notified, but not exceed one
hour.

Court Appearance

A. The definition of Court Appearance shall include any time a court appearance is
made, sworn testimony is provided, i.e. by telephone (with outlined exception per
Subdivision D), DMV Admin Per Se Hearing, whether under subpoena, assigned by
the department, by request of a District Attorney’s Office, a City Attorney’s Office,
or under civil subpoena issued by a Civil Attorney. Overtime spent conferring with
the prosecuting attorney in person will be considered as court overtime and part of
the court appearance.

B. Employees who are assigned to an alternative work schedule (other than a standard
five (5) day - eight-(8) hour work shift) will be paid the minimum four (4) hours pay
if the court appearance occurs on their days off. The four (4) hour minimum is paid
at time and one-half (MOU Overtime Rate). Employees do not earn the minimum
four (4) hours for multiple appearances in court within the same day. Appearances
beyond the initial four (4) hour appearance period will be compensated for actual
hours spent in the court process at the overtime rate provided in this article.

205 of 266


--- page 206 ---
see OE ©

Peter Hoffmann

Date:

Employees who are assigned to an alternative work schedule (other than a standard
five (5) day — eight (8) hour work shift) will be paid a minimum two (2) hours pay if
the court appearance occurs on their workday, but not during their scheduled hours
(e.g., Court is at 0900 and the employee normally starts their shift at 1500 hours).
The two (2) hour minimum is paid at time and one-half (MOU Overtime Rate).
Employees do not earn the minimum two (2) hours for multiple appearances in court
within the same day. Appearances beyond the initial two (2) hour appearance period
but not during their scheduled work hours will be compensated for actual hours spent
in the court process at the overtime rate provided in this article. If an employee
appears in court on a work day, the employee may work the remainder of their
scheduled shift, or, provided there is sufficient staff available, leave (using leave
balances). If an employee whose work shift ends at 7:00 a.m. (midnight shift) is
subpoenaed to appear in court at 9:30 a.m. or earlier, the employee shall have the
option to remain on duty and perform assignments until commencement of the court
appearance. The employee shall be compensated at time and one-half (MOU
Overtime Rate) for hours worked in excess of their scheduled shift. The employee’s
exercise of the option to continue working shall not deprive the employee from
receiving at least minimum compensation otherwise provided in 5.5.2 452.
Employees who are participating in a jury trial or lengthy Preliminary hearings may,
at the department’s discretion, have their shifts rescheduled. Such schedule change,
if any, shall not cause the employee to use leave balances or lose scheduled days off
during the F.L.S.A. work cycle.

Employees who respond to a subpoena by telephone will be paid a minimum one (1)

hour pay at the time and one-half rate (MOU Overtime Rate) established in this
article. Time spent providing testimony by telephone beyond one (1) hour within the
same day will be compensated for actual hours spent in the court process at the MOU
Overtime Rate.

Lunch breaks taken during court overtime are not compensable. However, when

court meal times exceed one (1) hour, the employee shall be entitled to compensation

at the rate prescribed in Section 54.5 for the time by which the meal break exceeds
one (1) hour.

1/10/24 Date; 1-10.2024

206 of 266


--- page 207 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION

2023 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 27.8 — Shift Differential (Special Compensation)

Employees in the classifications of Dispatcher I/II and Senior Dispatcher and Community
Service Officer I/II and Senior Community Service Officer who work the ‘Relief’, “Overlap”,
“Swing Shift” or “Midnights” shall be compensated by the payment of an additional five percent
(5%) of their base pay for that shift. Shift differential does not apply to overtime hours worked,
however, employees working one of the designated shifts as part of a shift trade shall receive the

shift differential.

For the POA:

LA—

Peter Hoffmann

Date: _\\ | \4 | Lars

For the City:

Stacey Cue

Date: ll // 7/262

207 of 266


--- page 208 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 29 — Holidays

29.1

29,3

29.6

Holidays

The holidays to be observed are as follows:

A. New Year's Day January Ist.

B. Martin Luther King's Birthday 3rd Monday in January
C. Presidents’ Day 3rd Monday in February
D. Memorial Day Last Monday in May

E. Juneteenth June 19th

F. Independence Day July 4th

G. Labor Day lst Monday in September
H. Veteran's Day November 11

I. Thanksgiving Day 4th Thursday in November
J. Day after Thanksgiving 4th Friday in November
K. Christmas Day December 25th

L. Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, thanksgiving
or day of mourning.

M. Floating holidays are to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the employee
and the department. Employees receive three (3) floating holidays annually.

Special Holiday Schedule

Employees who are assigned a special holiday schedule because they cannot take
holidays when they fall shall be compensated for holidays as follows:

A. Such employees shall be compensated for thirteen fourteen (143) holidays a year by
the granting of 4.31@-hours of holiday credit per pay period. Such time off shall be
taken off under the conditions specified in Section 30.5. This holiday credit is not
reported to CalPERS as compensation.

B. Such employees shall be compensated for special holidays declared by competent
authority by the granting of equivalent time off under the conditions specified in
Section 30.5.

Holiday Payment

Employees who have completed probation who have taken, or are scheduled to take, at
least eighty (80) hours of vacation during a calendar year may, at their option, make an
irrevocable election to sell back up to one hundred and twelve fewr(112 104) hours of

208 of 266


--- page 209 ---
accumulated holiday pay, vacation or annual leave or a combination thereof at the
employee's established rate of pay plus all applicable differentials.

Requests to sell back must be received by Payroll no later than December 31st for the
following year elections. No employee can sell back more than their current annual
vacation accrual in the calendar year. Elected hours not requested for distribution (sell
back) by December 1st will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell back
cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution).

Employees joining the bargaining unit with leave balances in excess of the maximum
accumulation of leave hours will automatically sell back the number of hours required to
meet the maximum accumulation allowed.

For the POA: For the City:
Peter Hoffmann Stacey Cue
Date: 1/10/24 Date: 1.10.2024

209 of 266


--- page 210 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 35 — Benefits

i

35.4.

Health Insurance

The City shall make contributions on behalf of those employees eligible for Group Medical
Coverage, or Medicare, Part B under the various plans available to the City in the amounts
necessary to a maximum contribution of one hundred sixty dollars ($160.00) or not less
than what is provided under the Public Employees’ Medical Hospital Care Act
(“PEMHCA”) as prescribed by Government Code Section 22892, whichever is greater per
employee per month.

The City shall contract with the Public Employees' Retirement System to make available
to eligible current and retired employees benefits equal to the State Employees' Medical
and Hospital Care Act.

If, during the term of this agreement; a health plan is mandated by the Federal Government,
the City and the Association agree to open negotiations on the subject of possible
modification of the health plan only. It is understood that in case of such mandated health
plan, the City shall be liable for up to the mandated cost or the amounts specified above,
whichever is higher.

Pool Money

It is understood that during the term of this contract, the City may seek expert opinion as
to the parameters of this plan and all contributions to pool outlined below are contingent
upon compliance with state and federal rules and regulations. The Parties agree to meet
and confer if any part of this structure is found to be noncompliant.

Pool Money for Merit Employees:

Waive Coverage:

” Effective Tease Ay 2016, employees i waive
health i insurance entirely shall receive $160. 00 per month or not less than what is provided
under the Public Employees’ Medical Hospital Care Act (“PEMHCA”) as prescribed by
Government Code Section 22892, whichever is greater as part of their salary.

210 of 266


--- page 211 ---
For the : For the City:

Peter Hoffmann Stacey Cue

Date: 1/10/24 Date: _1.10.2024

211 of 266


--- page 212 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 38 — Salaries

38.1 Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement

Effective the pay period including January 22, 2024, or the first full pay period following
Council adoption of this agreement, whichever is later, Apri+32022, all represented
classifications will receive an across the board increase of four percent (4%), plus an
additional one percent (1%) increase in recognition of additional community-based
training requirements implemented by the Department.

Effective the pay period including January 5, 2025, efJub-9,2623 all represented
classifications will receive an across the board increase of three percent (3%), feur
percent (4%) plus an additional one percent (1%) increase in recognition of additional
community-based training requirements implemented by the Department.

Effective the pay period including January 4, 2026, all represented classifications will
receive an across the board increase of three percent.(3%), plus an additional two percent
(2%) increase in recognition of additional community-based training requirements
implemented by the Department.

The salary of a Police Officer Trainee will remain fixed at 85% of step one of Police

Officers.
For the For the City:
Peter Hoffmann 4R acey Cue
Date: 1/10/24 Date: 1.10.2024

212 of 266


--- page 213 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICERS’ ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
Article 38.4 - PORAC Retiree Medical Trust

All employees covered by this MOU shall participate in a retiree medical expense
reimbursement plan administered by the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust (The Trust). The
Trust shall be and remain separate and apart from the City’s health insurance funding
program.

A. City Contribution
Effective the first full pay period upon Council approval of the MOU, the City
will contribute $509 $550, per employee per month for all classifications in
the bargaining unit to the Trust.

The employee assumes full responsibility and liability for tax consequences
related to contributions to and/or withdrawals from the PORAC Retiree
Medical Trust. There shall be no employee election or options to take the
amount in cash.

The Association shall pay for the administrative costs arising from the
enrollment of the Association in the PORAC Retirement Medical Trust.

For the POA: For the City:
Pa ay Bere
Peter Hoffmann Stacey Cue
1/10/24
1.10.2024

213 of 266


--- page 214 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION
2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 46 -Termination of Agreement

This agreement shall terminate as of the close of business at midnight January 3, 2027.

The existing and unmodified rules, regulations. resolutions. or ordinances relating to wages.
hours and conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for employees in this Unit
shall remain unchanged for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and

conferring as required by law.

Both parties agree to meet and begin formal negotiations no later than September 1, 2026.

For the : Fog the City:
Peter Hoffmann Stacey Cue

214 of 266


--- page 215 ---
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND —
THE SAN MATEO POLICE OFFICERS’ ASSOCIATION

The City of San Mateo (City) and the San Mateo Police Officers’ Association (POA) are parties
to a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). During the course of negotiations, the parties
exchanged proposals concerning the City’s interest in creating a Police Corporal job
classification and the SMPOA’s interest in modifying the benchmark agencies used for purposes
of market comparability. While the parties were not able to reach agreement on these matters,
pursuant to Article 45, they have agreed to continue discussions on these topics without any
obligation to agree or modify the terms of the MOU during the term of the agreement. The
parties agree to commence these discussions upon request of either party.

For the POAc For the City:
Peter Hoffmann ve tacey = oe
Date: __ 1/10/24 Date:__1.10.2024

215 of 266


--- page 216 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO and POLICE OFFICER’S ASSOCIATION

2023-24 MOU NEGOTIATIONS

TENTATIVE AGREEMENT

Article 36 — Economic Benefits other than Salary

36.3 Police Educational Incentive Program

A.

B.

Eligibility

The educational incentive program is open to all merit system employees of the
San Mateo Police Department classified as safety employees by the Public
Employees' Retirement System.

Qualifications

1,

Possession of a P.O.S.T. Intermediate Certificate shall qualify an
employee for four three-and-one-half percent (4 3.5%) of his or her baseie
salary, rounded to the nearest dollar, provided that no such payment shall
exceed four three-and-one-half percent (4 3.5%) of the maximum salary
for Police Sergeant.

Possession of a P.O.S.T. Advanced Certificate shall qualify an employee

for nine seven percent (97%) of his or her baseie salary, rounded to the
nearest dollar, provided that no such payment shall exceed nine seven
percent (97%) of the maximum salary for Police Sergeant.

Upon qualification an employee shall be entitled to educational incentive
pay from the first full pay period following the date of submittal and
acceptance. Educational incentive pay will be paid on a biweekly basis.

36.5 __ Non-Sworn Educational Incentive Program

In recognition of the Department’s interest in recruiting and retaining the most highly
qualified employees, all eligible employees of the San Mateo Police Department
Community Service Officer I/II, Senior Community Service Officer, Dispatcher I/II, and
Senior Dispatcher classifications will receive P.O.S.T. and/or Education Incentive Pay if
they have completed achieved-the following POST Certificates and/or earned the
following educational degrees, which the City and the Association mutually acknowledge
enhance the employee’s ability to perform their job.

A. Dispatcher POST Certification Incentive

216 of 266


--- page 217 ---
1.

Possession of P.O.S.T. Intermediate Public Safety Dispatcher Certificate shall
qualify an employee for one percent (1%) of the employee’s base salary, rounded
to the nearest dollar.

Possession of P.O.S.T. Advanced Public Safety Dispatcher Certificate shall
qualify an employee for two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the employee’s base
salary, rounded to the nearest dollar.

Upon qualification an employee shall be entitled to POST Certification incentive
pay from the first full pay period following the date of submittal and acceptance.
Educational incentive pay will be paid on a biweekly basis.

B. Community Service Officer Educational Incentive

1.

Possession of an Associate’s Degree shall qualify a Community Service Officer
I/II or a Senior Community Service Officer for two percent (2%) of the
employee’s base salary, rounded to the nearest dollar.

Upon qualification an employee shall be entitled to educational incentive pay
from the first full pay period following the date of submittal and acceptance.
Educational incentive pay will be paid on a biweekly basis.

For the POA: For the City:
fA

Peter Hoffmann Stacey Cue

Date: 1/10/24 Date; 1.10.2024

217 of 266


--- page 218 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 23-8304
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee – Ballot Results
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution certifying the tabulation results for the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee, ordering levy of 
the fee for Fiscal Year 2024-25; and designate the City Manager to administer fee collection.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo operates and maintains a stormwater system, which provides vital services to safeguard 
neighborhoods from flooding and protects local waterways from pollution. The system consists of complex infrastructure 
including surface drains, underground pipes and conduits, pump stations, creeks and channels, and the Marina Lagoon. 
The City’s stormwater system requires improvements to address flood control capacity limitations and deficiencies related 
to aging infrastructure, enhanced operations and maintenance, and improvements to minimize pollutants in stormwater 
runoff as required by state and federal mandates. 
In 2019, Public Works staff retained a public financing consultant firm, SCI Consulting Group (SCI), to conduct a financial 
analysis of the City’s stormwater activities to understand funding needs and options for revenue generation. The 
Stormwater Funding Analysis Report, with feedback from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC), was 
presented to City Council on May 17, 2021. Council directed staff to proceed with the next steps towards implementing a 
potential stormwater fee. 
On June 5, 2023, staff presented public opinion survey results to Council. After hearing the survey results, Council directed 
staff to work with SCI to complete a Stormwater Fee Report. The purpose of the Stormwater Fee Report was to calculate 
stormwater capital program, operation and maintenance, and regulatory compliance costs and the appropriate fee 
structure for different parcel classes to balance costs and revenue. 
Council approved and adopted the final Stormwater Fee Report on July 17, 2023, which recommended a fee structure 
based on a $96 annual fee for an average single-family home. Council directed staff to initiate a Proposition 218 
proceeding to establish a new property-related fee in accordance with the Stormwater Fee Report. During a public hearing 
on October 16, 2023, it was determined that a majority of property owners subject to the proposed fee had not submitted 
a written protest to its imposition, resulting in Council direction to staff to proceed with the required mail balloting 
process. Ballots for the stormwater fee were mailed to approximately 26,726 property owners on November 1, 2023, with 
a deadline for submittal of 5:00 PM on December 17, 2023. Since some property owners own multiple properties, the total 
number of parcels subject to the proposed fee and for which votes could be submitted is 28,994. 
Ballots could either be mailed directly to the independent Certified Public Accountant contracted to tally the ballots or 
returned in person to the City Clerk’s Office. A total of 10,032 votes were submitted, with votes categorized as in favor of 
218 of 266

--- page 219 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the fee (“Yes”), opposed to the fee (“No”), or invalid, which could result from a ballot not being signed, no clear indicated 
vote, or two designated votes (i.e., both “Yes” and “No” votes). Results for the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee 
are detailed in the attached tabulation report and summarized as follows: 
Total Number of Valid Votes
10,032 
Total Number of “Yes” Votes
5,195
Total Number of “No” Votes
4,837 
Total Number of “Invalid” Votes
85 
As determined by the ballots cast, 51.78% of the valid votes cast by property owners were in support of the measure, 
representing a majority. Since a majority protest, as defined by Article XIII D of the California Constitution, did not exist on 
the October 16th public hearing and a majority of valid ballots cast by property owners were in favor of the fee, City 
Council has jurisdiction to order levying the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee. Staff recommends City Council 
adopt the attached resolution to certify the tabulation results and order the levying of the Community Flood and Storm 
Protection Fee for Fiscal Year 2024-25. Staff would then proceed with providing the County Assessor’s Office the necessary 
fee details for each parcel to enable placement of the fee on the 2024-25 tax roll.   
BUDGET IMPACT:
If the proposed fee is levied, the revenue will be approximately $4,000,000 in the first fiscal year. The fee is subject to a 
maximum annual increase of 3% based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI), to be approved annually by Council. Staff will 
bring recommended stormwater fee assessments based on CPI annually to City Council for consideration. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Final Tabulation Report
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
219 of 266

--- page 220 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
CERTIFYING THE TABULATION RESULTS FOR THE COMMUNITY FLOOD AND STORM PROTECTION FEE, A 
PROPERTY-RELATED FEE CONFORMING TO ARTICLE XIII D, SECTION 6 OF THE CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION, 
AND ORDERING LEVIES OF THE COMMUNITY FLOOD AND STORM PROTECTION FEES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024-25
WHEREAS, on July 17, 2023, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution 80-2023 
initiating proceedings to obtain approval of the proposed new Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee 
(“Fee”), which is a property related fee conforming to Article XIII D, Section 6 of the California Constitution; 
approving the Fee Report for the Fee (“Fee Report,” dated July 2023); and setting a public hearing before the 
City Council on October 16, 2023 in the City Council Chambers at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo CA 94403 at 
7:00 pm to consider all property owner protests to the proposed fee; and
WHEREAS, on July 17, 2023, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopted Resolution 81-2023 
adopting ballot procedures applicable to the proposed fee pursuant to Article XIIID, Section 6(c) of the California 
Constitution; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII D of the California Constitution, the City has 
provided 45-day written mailed notice to each record owner of parcels of real property subject to the Fee of a 
public hearing, which was held at a regular meeting of the City Council on October 16, 2023 at 7:00 pm in the 
City Council Chambers on the issue of whether the proposed property related fee should be levied and collected 
as proposed in the Fee Report for Fiscal Year 2024-25; and
WHEREAS, the mailed notice of the public hearing contained the following information: (a) the total 
amount of fee proposed to be levied for fiscal year 2024-25; (b) the fee chargeable to each owner’s parcel; (c) 
the reason for the Fee; (d) the basis upon which the amount of the proposed Fee was calculated; (e) the date, 
time and place of the public hearing as specified in this resolution; and (f) a summary of the effect of a majority 
protest; and
WHEREAS, on October 16, 2023, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 112-2023 finding that a 
majority protest did not exist and, ordering a ballot proceeding to obtain property owner approval for the Fee 
consistent with Resolution 81-2023; and
WHEREAS, on November 1, 2023 a ballot and information guide were mailed to every owner of property 
that would be subject to the proposed Fee; and
WHEREAS, the balloting period for the proposed Fee closed on December 17, 2023 at 5:00 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, the tabulation of the ballots is complete.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
220 of 266

--- page 221 ---
1.
Tabulation of the Votes. For each valid ballot, each property subject to the proposed fee counted as 
one vote. Property owners with more than one property could have up to 14 properties listed on a 
ballot, with each property counting as one vote, resulting in more than one vote for that ballot. 
Therefore, since some ballots contained more than one vote, the total number of valid votes 
(10,032) is larger than the total number of valid ballots (9,232). The canvass of the fee ballots 
submitted by property owners, has been computer-tabulated and the votes cast are as follows:
Total Number of Valid Ballots Processed: 
9,232
Total Number of Valid Votes:
10,032
Total Number of Valid “Yes” Ballots Processed:
4,857
Total Number of “Yes” Votes Processed:
5,195
Total Percentage of “Yes” Votes Processed:
51.78%
Total Number of Valid “No” Ballots Processed:
4,375
Total Number of “No” Votes Processed:
4,837
Total Percentage of “No” Votes Processed:
48.22%
Total Number of “Invalid” Ballots Processed:
76
Total Number of “Invalid” Votes Processed:
85
2.
Ballot Return Rate. 9,308 fee ballots were returned and received prior to the close of the balloting 
period on December 17, 2023. This represents a 34.83% ballot return rate on the 26,726 ballots 
mailed. Of the fee ballots returned, 76 ballots were declared invalid, in that they were either not 
marked with a “Yes” or “No”, were marked with both a “Yes” and a “No,” were not signed, or the 
property ownership and barcode information was illegible.
3.
Ballots Results. As determined by ballots cast, 51.78% of the votes cast by property owners were in 
support of the measure. Since a majority of the property owners approved of the Fee, this Council 
thereby acquired jurisdiction to order the levy of the Fee.
4.
Findings. The City Council finds that the Fee is being implemented in compliance with the 
requirements of Proposition 218, as codified in Article XIII D of the California Constitution. Based on 
the oral and documentary evidence, including the Fee Report, received by the Council, the Council 
expressly finds and determines that it is in the best interest of the City and the public to order the 
fee to be levied.
5.
Ordering of the Levies. The Council hereby orders the fees for fiscal year 2024-25 shall be levied at 
the rates specified in the Fee Report.
6.
CPI. The authorized maximum fee amount to be levied in future fiscal years shall be increased 
annually based on the San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward Consumer Price Index for All Urban 
Consumers (CPI), not to exceed 3% per year. Any change in the CPI in excess of 3% shall be 
cumulatively reserved as the “Unused CPI” and be available to increase the maximum authorized 
rate in years in which the CPI is less than 3%. The fee amount charged in any year cannot exceed the 
221 of 266

--- page 222 ---
cost to provide the stormwater services and improvements and the City Council may authorize any 
fee up to the authorized fee in any given year.
7.
Corrections.  The Fee, as it applies to any parcel, may be corrected, cancelled or a refund granted as 
appropriate, by order of the City Council or its designee, the City Manager, upon a determination 
that the fee for that parcel should be revised to be consistent with the fee method established in 
the Fee Report. Any such corrections, cancellations or refunds shall be limited to the current fiscal 
year in which the correction, cancellation or refund was requested.
222 of 266

--- page 223 ---
CAROL KEANE ¢ ASSOCIATES

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

January 5, 2024

Jimmy Vo

City of San Mateo

330 W. 20" Ave

San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: REVISED Final Ballot Tabulation Results (ONLY to update number of ballots mailed — NO
impact on outcome of tabulation)
City of San Mateo Public Works Dept. ;
Proposed Proposition 218 Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee

We tabulated ballots that were received by December 17, 2023 at 5 p.m. We had at least two people
involved in the process of opening the envelopes containing the ballots; removing the ballots from the
envelopes; sorting them into piles for “yes” votes, “no” votes and invalid ballots; and scanning the
barcode on each ballot. These ballots have now been bundled in stacks of 100 ballots each and will be
sent to the City of San Mateo’s office for storage under separate cover.

We ran a computer program provided by SCI Consulting that processed the ballot data and provided a
report of partial scans, duplicate ballots and information that did not match the master assessment file.
After all issues that had been identified were resolved, we re-ran the tabulation program. The tabulation
report provided the following information:

Total Number of Valid Ballots Processed: 9,232
Total Number of Votes 10,032
Total Number of “YES” ballots Processed: 857
Total Number of “YES” votes: S195
Total Percentage of “Yes” Ballots: 51.78%
Total Number of “NO” ballots Processed: 4375
Total Number of “NO” Votes: 4837
Total Percentage of “No” Ballots: 48.22%

Total Number of “INVALID” Ballots Processed:
Total Number of “INVALID” votes:

eas
Wn ION

The total number of ballots received by December 17, 2023 at 5 p.m. was 9,308. This represents a
34.83 % ballot return rate on the 26,726 ballots that were actually mailed. Our previous report had listed
number of ballots mailed as 27,250 which had been the original estimate of ballots that would be mailed.

Sincerely,

nwa eH _
Carol M. Keane
cc: Chris Coulter, SCI Consulting

1660 Olympic Blvd., Suite 200 * Walnut Creek, CA 94596 « Telephone 925-937-5200 * Facsimile 925-937-5202
www.carolkeanecpa.com

223 of 266


--- page 224 ---
Presentation of Balloting Results
January 16, 2024
1
Proposition 218 New Stormwater Fee
Fiscal Years 2024-25
Presented By: Public Works – Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
224 of 266

--- page 225 ---
City Council to review the ballot results for the 
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee, and 
consider adopting a resolution, as amended, certifying 
the ballot results, order levies for fiscal years 2024-25, 
and designate the City Manager to administer the fee.
2
Purpose
225 of 266

--- page 226 ---
3
Background
Mail Balloting
•
26,726 ballots for the new stormwater fee for were mailed on November 1, 2023.
•
Deadline for ballots to be received was December 17, 2023 at 5:00 PM PST.
•
Single ballot mailed to each property owner, with each ballot listing each 
property/parcel owned by property owner. Vote cast on the single ballot applied to 
each property/parcel owned by homeowner.
•
34.83% ballot return rate on 26,726 mailed ballots.
•
Third-party CPA enlisted to tally votes.
226 of 266

--- page 227 ---
4
Ballot Results
•
Ballots Mailed  
26,726
•
Ballots Received 
9,308
•
Total Votes 
 
10,117
•
Total “Yes” Votes 
5,195 (51.78%)
•
Total “No” Votes 
4,837 (48.22%)
•
Total “Invalid” Votes 85
227 of 266

--- page 228 ---
5
Next Steps
•
Council to vote on Resolution to certify results and order levying of fee
•
Staff will send notifications out to all property owners of ballot results 
•
Fees will be sent to County to be included on 2024-2025 tax rolls
•
Property owners will see a split fee into two installments
•
City anticipates receiving approximately $4 million in revenue annually 
starting next fiscal year 
228 of 266

--- page 229 ---
City Council to review the ballot results for the 
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee, and 
consider adopting a resolution, as amended, certifying 
the ballot results, order levies for fiscal years 2024-25, 
and designate the City Manager to administer the fee.
6
Purpose
229 of 266

--- page 230 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-8342
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 16, 2024
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste – 2024 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on whether to increase solid waste rates by $5, $6, or $7 per month for residential solid waste 
customers; increase commercial solid waste and organics collection rates; and authorize staff to mail a notice to all 
property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates for 2024; 
and provide direction on the future approach to using the Solid Waste Fund reserves. 
BACKGROUND:
The City’s Solid Waste Program (Program) includes waste diversion, compost/recycling education and outreach, special 
collection events, construction and demolition recycling plan processing, litter reduction programs, illegal dumping 
abatement, hazardous materials management, and ensures compliance with all county, regional, state, and federal 
regulations. Solid waste, recycling, and organics collection, processing, and disposal services are available to all residents 
and commercial businesses in the City of San Mateo. The City is one of eleven local jurisdictions who are part of the joint 
powers authority, South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA), which oversees various aspects of solid waste 
services and programming for all members.
  
Each year, Council approves the solid waste rates to cover the costs of the collection services provided by Recology San 
Mateo County (Recology); the processing and disposal services provided by South Bayside Industries, Inc. (SBI); the City’s 
portion of the costs of membership in our joint powers authority, SBWMA; and the City fees, which include the City’s solid 
waste program, street sweeping, litter reduction, and illegal dumping programs, trash capture device maintenance, and 
franchise fees. The City retains HF&H Consultants (HF&H) to assist in developing a rate structure to fund the cost of solid 
waste services.   
  
In 2021, the City adopted a long-term plan for incremental adjustment to the residential solid waste rates to bring them into 
alignment over time with their true cost of service. A phased-in cost-of-service implementation plan was presented to City 
Council in May 2023 and staff received direction to continue to implement the plan. However, at that time, cost increases 
for collection services and processing and disposal were unknown, and not factored into the presentation. For 2024, the 
cost increases for collection, processing, and disposal services are significantly higher than the City has experienced in recent 
years. 
 
For instance, collection costs in 2024 will increase 9% compared to 2023. Recology’s annual compensation is set by the 
exclusive franchise agreement between the City and Recology. The agreement was renewed in 2019 and will expire in 2035. 
The agreement includes a methodology for allowable increases. These increases are due to high inflationary costs for labor, 
fuel, and other operating expenses, as well as increases in the number of drivers, additional routes, and route costs due to 
the increases in organics collection service mandated by Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383), which requires all customers to have 
230 of 266

--- page 231 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
separate organic material collection services to keep organic materials out of the landfill. Recology’s annual compensation 
is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors of the SBWMA. 
 
Additionally, the processing and disposal fees in 2024 will increase 25% compared to 2023.A competitive bid process 
conducted by the SBWMA, which included review and approval by City representatives, chose a new operator for the 
Shoreway Environmental Center where all materials collected by Recology in the City of San Mateo are taken for processing 
before recycling or disposal. The new operator is SBI, who began as of January 1, 2024. The City has a representative on the 
Board of Directors of the SBWMA and the former City Finance Director was a member of the SBWMA Finance Committee 
who reviewed the franchise agreement renewal, and the SBI contract.
 
Due to uncertain times during the COVID pandemic, the City suspended rate increases for two years. While this was prudent 
action taken by the Council at the time, this has resulted in the need for higher rate increases for customers to make up the 
shortfall that has been created.  
 
Maintaining rates at the 2023 level to meet the 2024 projected expenses would lead to an anticipated deficit of $3,880,569. 
However, staff worked to lower the deficit to $1,769,277 to lessen the impact on customer rate increases. The proposed 
reduction is a result of the following actions:
 

$660,669 from a one-year deferral of Recology collection cost increases which will require City Council approval, at 
a future meeting, of the “Cap Carry Forward” option identified below. 
 

$517,296 from a one-year reduction in processing and disposal fees from the use of SBWMA rate stabilization 
funds approved by the SBWMA in September 2023. This cost will need to be covered by San Mateo rate payers in 
the future-  rates yet to be established.
 

$933,427 by suspending the City’s landfill closure fee and reducing the trash capture device fee to cover only  
maintenance of existing devices. The landfill closure fee is collected to provide funds to maintain the 3rd Street 
landfill as required by state mandate. The current balance in the fund is sufficient for current and proposed 
projects. The trash capture device fee has been collected to pay for the construction of trash capture devices 
required by a state mandate to reduce trash entering the San Francisco Bay to zero. Funding for current identified 
trash capture devices has been collected and a reduction in this fee is proposed to cover annual maintenance of 
the devices. 
 
The collection, processing, and disposal fee reductions are temporary. Suspending collection of the landfill closure fee and 
trash capture device fee will need to be reviewed annually to fund future projects, if needed.
 
To establish 2024 customer rate increases, staff recommends the following  terms of addressing the revenue shortfall: 
  
1.
Adopt the “Cap Carry Forward” option allowed under the City’s franchise agreement which will limit Recology’s 
compensation to a 5% increase from the previous year’s compensation. This will defer $660,669 of Recology’s 
compensation until 2025 without incurring interest in the City’s balancing account with Recology. If approved, staff 
will notify the SBWMA and Recology as required under the franchise agreement. The alternative would require an 
additional $660,669 to be raised through rates in 2024. 
  
2.
Raise the 20-gallon commercial cart rate by $2.85, as shown in Table A. No additional commercial rate increases 
are recommended because current commercial rates cover their costs. After this increase, all commercial cart 
rates will meet their true cost of service.
 
3.
Remove the 25% discount on organics collection service subscription offered to all commercial accounts, which 
has been in place for many years. Under SB 1383, organics subscription is mandated so this incentive is not 
needed. Further, the current discounted rate does not cover the cost of the collection and processing. This change 
231 of 266

--- page 232 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
would increase all commercial organics rate, as shown in Table B. 
 
4.
Raise residential rates by $5.00, $6.00, or $7.00 per month based on the options presented in Tables C-E and in the 
chart below. The higher the 2024 rate City Council chooses will lead to lower annual increases in the following 
years if costs remain consistent with projections within the rate model. Depending on which option the Council 
authorizes, the Solid Waste Fund has sufficient reserves to reduce the impact on rate payers in 2024. However, the 
use of reserves acts only as a one-time rate relief as the revenue requirement remains the same going forward 
into future years.  
 
Tables A and B below summarize the current and proposed 2024 commercial solid waste and organic collection rates, 
respectively. The subsequent Tables C-E summarize the current and proposed 2024 residential rate options. These rates 
include collection, processing, and disposal of garbage, recycling, and organics. 
 
Table A – PROPOSED 2024 Commercial Solid Waste Rate Changes
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$25.49
$28.34
$2.85
32 Gallon Cart
$37.18
$37.18
$0.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Cart Rates
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
4 Yard
$680.90
$680.90
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
 
Table B – PROPOSED 2024 Commercial Organic Rate Changes
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.12
$28.34
$9.22
32 Gallon Cart
$27.89
$37.18
$9.29
64 Gallon Cart
$48.20
$64.26
$16.06
96 Gallon Cart
$70.85
$94.47
$23.62
Commercial Cart Rates
1 Yard
$127.63
$170.18
$42.54
2 Yard
$255.33
$340.45
$85.11
3 Yard
$382.99
$510.65
$127.66
4 Yard
$510.68
$680.90
$170.23
6 Yard
$765.98
$1,021.31
$255.33
 
 
 
 
 
 
232 of 266

--- page 233 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
Table C – PROPOSED 2024 Residential Solid Waste Rate Changes ($5/mo. Increase)
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$28.59
$5.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$37.93
$5.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$63.93
$5.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$94.08
$5.00
 
Table D – PROPOSED 2024 Residential Solid Waste Rate Changes ($6/mo. Increase)
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$29.59
$6.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$38.93
$6.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$64.93
$6.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$95.08
$6.00
 
Table E – PROPOSED 2024 Residential Solid Waste Rate Changes ($7/mo. Increase)
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$30.59
$7.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$39.93
$7.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$65.93
$7.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$96.08
$7.00
 
Balancing Account:
In accordance with the City’s franchise agreement, Recology maintains a balancing account which tracks the annual surplus 
or deficit between what Recology is owed and what the City collects from solid waste rates. Deficits increase the balancing 
account shortfall and are charged interest. City Council direction has been to keep the balancing account as low as possible 
to avoid excessive interest charges. 
  
Because the City chose to forego solid waste rate increases in 2020 and 2021 in both residential and commercial sectors due 
to the pandemic, the City’s balancing account deficit with Recology is over $1 million in arrears. In March, staff will bring 
forward to the City Council, a resolution requesting authorization to remit payment from the Solid Waste Fund reserves in 
the approximate amount of $1 million to Recology to reduce the balancing account deficit. This will avoid accruing additional 
interest on the deficit, and the City will not need to pass interest charges onto rate payers.
 
Based on discussions with the Finance Department, the Solid Waste Fund has $6.3 million available for rate stabilization and 
to reduce the balancing account deficit. Beyond use of the recommendation for the $1 million above, staff is requesting 
Council direction on how to use these  reserves in future years. Staff recommends that the Council consider strategically 
utilizing $4 million in Solid Waste Fund reserves, to be determined each year during the rate setting process, to help offset 
added costs for service and/or partially offset future rate increases over the next several years. Reserves are proposed to be 
used in this current year to pay the balancing account deficit as stated above.
 
Rate Setting Procedures: 
While the courts have not ruled that Proposition 218 applies to solid waste collection rates from a franchise hauler, in an 
233 of 266

--- page 234 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
abundance of caution, the City has historically followed the “majority protest” proceedings set forth in Proposition 218.  
Accordingly, with City Council’s direction, a public notification of the proposed maximum increase in solid waste rates will 
be mailed to property owners no later than February 1, 2024. The notification will instruct property owners wishing to submit 
a written protest that they must state the purpose of the letter; include the owner or customer’s name, service address, 
assessor’s parcel number, and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served; and mail the statement to the 
Office of the City Clerk. Statements of protest that include the above criteria will be accepted through the time of the public 
hearing currently scheduled for the March 18, 2024, City Council meeting.  
  
At the end of the public hearing, the City Clerk will tally and report the qualifying written protests and the City Council will 
certify whether the written protests in opposition to the increase meet or do not meet the majority protest threshold. In 
accordance with Article XIIID, Section 6, of the California Constitution, a "majority protest" exists if written protests against 
the proposed fee or charge are presented by a majority of owners of the identified parcels. If a majority protest is not 
received, the City Council may then approve adoption of the increased rates. If a majority protest is received, the City cannot 
increase the rates and the rates will remain unchanged. New rates will be effective April 1, 2024.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommendation to authorize staff to mail a notice to all property taxpayers proposing a not-to-exceed increase in 
solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates does not have a financial impact. If the proposed rate adjustments are 
approved, the Solid Waste Fund's revenues will increase toward the goal of aligning all rate classes with the costs of 
service.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action by the City in setting the maximum rates to be charged by Recology San Mateo County relates to funding an on-
going solid waste collection service and is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Public Hearing Notification – 5 dollar
Att 2 – Proposed Public Hearing Notification – 6 dollar
Att 3 1 Proposed Public Hearing Notification – 7 dollar
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7346
234 of 266

--- page 235 ---
Notice of Public Hearing
Proposed Increase for Solid Waste/Recycling/Compost 
Collection for Rate Year 2024
CITY OF SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94403
MARCH 18, 2024, 7:00 P.M.
The City of San Mateo is currently considering an increase to the charges set by the City and collected by 
Recology for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal. You are receiving this notice because City 
records indicate that you are a Recology customer in the city. 
On March 18, 2024 at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard, the San Mateo City Council 
will hold a Public Hearing to accept public input and testimony on a proposed increase on the maximum allowable 
charge for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal, to be effective April 1, 2024. Any interested 
person may present verbal or written input to the City Council. Although the City Council will consider all input, 
State law provides that only the written protests of property owners may be counted to determine whether a 
majority protest (50% of all parcels +1) to the proposed maximum exists.  If, at the conclusion of the public 
hearing, a majority protest of property owners does not exist, the City Council will consider adoption of the 
proposed increase in the maximum allowable charges.
How Solid Waste Rates are Determined 
The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management 
Authority (SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory 
compliance mandates.  These include the solid waste program, street sweeping, litter and illegal dumping 
abatement, trash capture device management, and franchise fees. Customer rates are adjusted as required to 
generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services. These services are available to or provided 
as a benefit to all City of San Mateo residents and commercial businesses. Recommended rates are reviewed by 
the South Bayside Waste Management Authority Board of Directors based on a financial evaluation of operating 
costs and projected revenues. Single family residential bills are based on the size of your solid waste cart and 
cover the cost of collection, processing, and disposal of solid waste, recycling, and organic material.  Commercial 
and multi-family bills are based on the size of your solid waste container and frequency of collection (e.g., 1 time 
per week, 2 times per week) and covers the cost of collecting solid waste and recycling.  In addition, commercial 
and multi-family bills include a charge for organic material collections based on the size and frequency of 
collection of the  organic material container.
Proposed Rate Increases 
The proposed change is directly related to the significant increases to Recology collection costs and disposal and 
processing costs due to: a new contracted operator at the Shoreway Environmental Center which have caused 
costs to exceed revenues; increases due to high inflationary costs for labor, fuel, and other operating expenses, 
and; increases in the number of drivers, additional routes, and route costs due to increases in organics collection 
service mandated by Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383), which requires all customers to have separate organic material 
235 of 266

--- page 236 ---
collection services. In addition, the proposed rate changes reflect the need for all rates to cover the cost of the 
actual services provided.
Impact of Proposed Increase on Solid Waste Bills
The following chart illustrates the monthly rates, including all City fees, for residential services and the most 
common service level rates for commercial customers. Residential cart rate increases for all carts will increase 
$5.00. Rates charged to commercial garbage customers with a 20-gallon cart will increase $2.85. All other 
Commercial/Multi-family garbage rates for larger containers or metal bin service rates will remain flat.  
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection rates will increase so that the cost of each organic cart or bin is 
equal to the commercial garbage rate and meets the actual cost to provide the service.  The full rate schedule, 
including all commercial services, is available for review at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the 
City Clerk’s Office at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 Recology provides additional services upon request that are not included in the City’s solid waste collection rate. 
Additional services include backyard or distance service, additional carts, and extra on-call pickups of bulk items. 
The fees for optional services will appear on the customer’s Recology San Mateo County bill as separate line 
items in addition to the standard cost of collection.  A complete list of all the additional services and their 2024 
cost is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the City Clerk’s Office located at 330 W. 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo. For questions, please call the City of San Mateo, Public Works Department at 650-522-
7346.
Residential and Commercial/Multi-family Garbage Collection (Single family homes are billed quarterly, 
assuming service one time per week, commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$28.59
$5.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$37.93
$5.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$63.93
$5.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$94.08
$5.00
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$25.49
$28.34
$2.85
32 Gallon Cart
$37.18
$37.18
$0.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Rates
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
4 Yard
$680.90
$680.90
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
236 of 266

--- page 237 ---
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection (Commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Organics Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.12
$28.34
$9.22
32 Gallon Cart
$27.89
$37.18
$9.29
64 Gallon Cart
$48.20
$64.26
$16.06
96 Gallon Cart
$70.85
$94.47
$23.62
Commercial Organics Bin Rates
1 Yard
$127.63
$170.18
$42.54
2 Yard
$255.33
$340.45
$85.11
3 Yard
$382.99
$510.65
$127.66
4 Yard
$510.68
$680.90
$170.23
6 Yard
$765.98
$1,021.31
$255.33
How to Protest the Rate Increase
A property owner or Recology customer may submit a written protest to the proposed increase in maximum rates 
to be charged by the City’s franchisee by U.S. mail, to be received prior to the meeting date, or hand delivered to 
the City Clerk, at any time before the end of the public hearing. The City Clerk’s address is: 330 West 20th Avenue, 
San Mateo, CA  94403. Only one protest per parcel will be counted. Written protest must include the owner or 
customer’s name, service address, assessor’s parcel number (the nine-digit number that appears on your property 
tax statement) and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served.  While protests may not be 
submitted by electronic means such as email or texts, as they are not an official rate protest mechanism under 
Proposition 218, the City values all residential input and will read all correspondence regarding rates.
237 of 266

--- page 238 ---
Notice of Public Hearing
Proposed Increase for Solid Waste/Recycling/Compost 
Collection for Rate Year 2024
CITY OF SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94403
MARCH 18, 2024, 7:00 P.M.
The City of San Mateo is currently considering an increase to the charges set by the City and collected by 
Recology for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal. You are receiving this notice because City 
records indicate that you are a Recology customer in the city. 
On March 18, 2024 at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard, the San Mateo City Council 
will hold a Public Hearing to accept public input and testimony on a proposed increase on the maximum allowable 
charge for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal, to be effective April 1, 2024. Any interested 
person may present verbal or written input to the City Council. Although the City Council will consider all input, 
State law provides that only the written protests of property owners may be counted to determine whether a 
majority protest (50% of all parcels +1) to the proposed maximum exists.  If, at the conclusion of the public 
hearing, a majority protest of property owners does not exist, the City Council will consider adoption of the 
proposed increase in the maximum allowable charges.
How Solid Waste Rates are Determined 
The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management 
Authority (SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory 
compliance mandates.  These include the solid waste program, street sweeping, litter and illegal dumping 
abatement, trash capture device management, and franchise fees. Customer rates are adjusted as required to 
generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services. These services are available to or provided 
as a benefit to all City of San Mateo residents and commercial businesses. Recommended rates are reviewed by 
the South Bayside Waste Management Authority Board of Directors based on a financial evaluation of operating 
costs and projected revenues. Single family residential bills are based on the size of your solid waste cart and 
cover the cost of collection, processing, and disposal of solid waste, recycling, and organic material.  Commercial 
and multi-family bills are based on the size of your solid waste container and frequency of collection (e.g., 1 time 
per week, 2 times per week) and covers the cost of collecting solid waste and recycling.  In addition, commercial 
and multi-family bills include a charge for organic material collections based on the size and frequency of 
collection of the  organic material container.
Proposed Rate Increases 
The proposed change is directly related to the significant increases to Recology collection costs and disposal and 
processing costs due to: a new contracted operator at the Shoreway Environmental Center which have caused 
costs to exceed revenues; increases due to high inflationary costs for labor, fuel, and other operating expenses, 
and; increases in the number of drivers, additional routes, and route costs due to increases in organics collection 
service mandated by Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383), which requires all customers to have separate organic material 
238 of 266

--- page 239 ---
collection services. In addition, the proposed rate changes reflect the need for all rates to cover the cost of the 
actual services provided.
Impact of Proposed Increase on Solid Waste Bills
The following chart illustrates the monthly rates, including all City fees, for residential services and the most 
common service level rates for commercial customers. Residential cart rate increases for all carts will increase 
$7.00. Rates charged to commercial garbage customers with a 20-gallon cart will increase $2.85. All other 
Commercial/Multi-family garbage rates for larger containers or metal bin service rates will remain flat.  
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection rates will increase so that the cost of each organic cart or bin is 
equal to the commercial garbage rate and meets the actual cost to provide the service.  The full rate schedule, 
including all commercial services, is available for review at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the 
City Clerk’s Office at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 Recology provides additional services upon request that are not included in the City’s solid waste collection rate. 
Additional services include backyard or distance service, additional carts, and extra on-call pickups of bulk items. 
The fees for optional services will appear on the customer’s Recology San Mateo County bill as separate line 
items in addition to the standard cost of collection.  A complete list of all the additional services and their 2024 
cost is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the City Clerk’s Office located at 330 W. 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo. For questions, please call the City of San Mateo, Public Works Department at 650-522-
7346.
Residential and Commercial/Multi-family Garbage Collection (Single family homes are billed quarterly, 
assuming service one time per week, commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$30.59
$7.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$39.93
$7.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$65.93
$7.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$96.08
$7.00
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$25.49
$28.34
$2.85
32 Gallon Cart
$37.18
$37.18
$0.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Rates
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
4 Yard
$680.90
$680.90
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
239 of 266

--- page 240 ---
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection (Commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Organics Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.12
$28.34
$9.22
32 Gallon Cart
$27.89
$37.18
$9.29
64 Gallon Cart
$48.20
$64.26
$16.06
96 Gallon Cart
$70.85
$94.47
$23.62
Commercial Organics Bin Rates
1 Yard
$127.63
$170.18
$42.54
2 Yard
$255.33
$340.45
$85.11
3 Yard
$382.99
$510.65
$127.66
4 Yard
$510.68
$680.90
$170.23
6 Yard
$765.98
$1,021.31
$255.33
How to Protest the Rate Increase
A property owner or Recology customer may submit a written protest to the proposed increase in maximum rates 
to be charged by the City’s franchisee by U.S. mail, to be received prior to the meeting date, or hand delivered to 
the City Clerk, at any time before the end of the public hearing. The City Clerk’s address is: 330 West 20th Avenue, 
San Mateo, CA  94403. Only one protest per parcel will be counted. Written protest must include the owner or 
customer’s name, service address, assessor’s parcel number (the nine-digit number that appears on your property 
tax statement) and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served.  While protests may not be 
submitted by electronic means such as email or texts, as they are not an official rate protest mechanism under 
Proposition 218, the City values all residential input and will read all correspondence regarding rates.
240 of 266

--- page 241 ---
Notice of Public Hearing
Proposed Increase for Solid Waste/Recycling/Compost 
Collection for Rate Year 2024
CITY OF SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94403
MARCH 18, 2024, 7:00 P.M.
The City of San Mateo is currently considering an increase to the charges set by the City and collected by 
Recology for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal. You are receiving this notice because City 
records indicate that you are a Recology customer in the city. 
On March 18, 2024 at 7:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter may be heard, the San Mateo City Council 
will hold a Public Hearing to accept public input and testimony on a proposed increase on the maximum allowable 
charge for solid waste/recycling/compost collection and disposal, to be effective April 1, 2024. Any interested 
person may present verbal or written input to the City Council. Although the City Council will consider all input, 
State law provides that only the written protests of property owners may be counted to determine whether a 
majority protest (50% of all parcels +1) to the proposed maximum exists.  If, at the conclusion of the public 
hearing, a majority protest of property owners does not exist, the City Council will consider adoption of the 
proposed increase in the maximum allowable charges.
How Solid Waste Rates are Determined 
The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management 
Authority (SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory 
compliance mandates.  These include the solid waste program, street sweeping, litter and illegal dumping 
abatement, trash capture device management, and franchise fees. Customer rates are adjusted as required to 
generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services. These services are available to or provided 
as a benefit to all City of San Mateo residents and commercial businesses. Recommended rates are reviewed by 
the South Bayside Waste Management Authority Board of Directors based on a financial evaluation of operating 
costs and projected revenues. Single family residential bills are based on the size of your solid waste cart and 
cover the cost of collection, processing, and disposal of solid waste, recycling, and organic material.  Commercial 
and multi-family bills are based on the size of your solid waste container and frequency of collection (e.g., 1 time 
per week, 2 times per week) and covers the cost of collecting solid waste and recycling.  In addition, commercial 
and multi-family bills include a charge for organic material collections based on the size and frequency of 
collection of the  organic material container.
Proposed Rate Increases 
The proposed change is directly related to the significant increases to Recology collection costs and disposal and 
processing costs due to: a new contracted operator at the Shoreway Environmental Center which have caused 
costs to exceed revenues; increases due to high inflationary costs for labor, fuel, and other operating expenses, 
and; increases in the number of drivers, additional routes, and route costs due to increases in organics collection 
service mandated by Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383), which requires all customers to have separate organic material 
241 of 266

--- page 242 ---
collection services. In addition, the proposed rate changes reflect the need for all rates to cover the cost of the 
actual services provided.
Impact of Proposed Increase on Solid Waste Bills
The following chart illustrates the monthly rates, including all City fees, for residential services and the most 
common service level rates for commercial customers. Residential cart rate increases for all carts will increase 
$6.00. Rates charged to commercial garbage customers with a 20-gallon cart will increase $2.85. All other 
Commercial/Multi-family garbage rates for larger containers or metal bin service rates will remain flat.  
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection rates will increase so that the cost of each organic cart or bin is 
equal to the commercial garbage rate and meets the actual cost to provide the service.  The full rate schedule, 
including all commercial services, is available for review at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the 
City Clerk’s Office at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 Recology provides additional services upon request that are not included in the City’s solid waste collection rate. 
Additional services include backyard or distance service, additional carts, and extra on-call pickups of bulk items. 
The fees for optional services will appear on the customer’s Recology San Mateo County bill as separate line 
items in addition to the standard cost of collection.  A complete list of all the additional services and their 2024 
cost is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/SolidWasteRates or at the City Clerk’s Office located at 330 W. 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo. For questions, please call the City of San Mateo, Public Works Department at 650-522-
7346.
Residential and Commercial/Multi-family Garbage Collection (Single family homes are billed quarterly, 
assuming service one time per week, commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Residential Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$23.59
$29.59
$6.00
32 Gallon Cart
$32.93
$38.93
$6.00
64 Gallon Cart
$58.93
$64.93
$6.00
96 Gallon Cart
$89.08
$95.08
$6.00
Commercial Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$25.49
$28.34
$2.85
32 Gallon Cart
$37.18
$37.18
$0.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Rates
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
4 Yard
$680.90
$680.90
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
242 of 266

--- page 243 ---
Commercial/Multi-family Organics Collection (Commercial customers billed monthly)
Size of 
Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Organics Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$19.12
$28.34
$9.22
32 Gallon Cart
$27.89
$37.18
$9.29
64 Gallon Cart
$48.20
$64.26
$16.06
96 Gallon Cart
$70.85
$94.47
$23.62
Commercial Organics Bin Rates
1 Yard
$127.63
$170.18
$42.54
2 Yard
$255.33
$340.45
$85.11
3 Yard
$382.99
$510.65
$127.66
4 Yard
$510.68
$680.90
$170.23
6 Yard
$765.98
$1,021.31
$255.33
How to Protest the Rate Increase
A property owner or Recology customer may submit a written protest to the proposed increase in maximum rates 
to be charged by the City’s franchisee by U.S. mail, to be received prior to the meeting date, or hand delivered to 
the City Clerk, at any time before the end of the public hearing. The City Clerk’s address is: 330 West 20th Avenue, 
San Mateo, CA  94403. Only one protest per parcel will be counted. Written protest must include the owner or 
customer’s name, service address, assessor’s parcel number (the nine-digit number that appears on your property 
tax statement) and the owner’s or customer’s signature for the property served.  While protests may not be 
submitted by electronic means such as email or texts, as they are not an official rate protest mechanism under 
Proposition 218, the City values all residential input and will read all correspondence regarding rates.
243 of 266

--- page 244 ---
2024 Solid Waste Rates
Increase Proposal

January 16, 2024

Brad Underwood
Director of Public Works

244 of 266


--- page 245 ---
Request of Council
• Provide direction on:
• Residential rate increase-- $5, $6, or $7
• Commercial rate increases
• 20 gallon cart increase of $2.85
• Removing organics discount
• Authorize staff to mail a Prop 218 notice to all property taxpayers 
proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and compost 
collection rates for 2024
• Provide direction on future use of Solid Waste Fund reserves
2
245 of 266

--- page 246 ---
The Solid Waste Process & What Rates Cover
3
246 of 266

--- page 247 ---
Annual Rate Review Process
• Council reviews and approves fees for 
all solid waste services
• City follows CA Prop 218 process 
• Rates must be based on cost-of-
service
4
247 of 266

--- page 248 ---
Background
• 2006 progressive “Pay as You Throw” system adopted
• 2016 & 2022 State imposed recycling and organics mandates 
• Proposition 218 - “...fees and charges must be proportional to the cost of 
providing the service attributable to the parcel…” 
• Large cost increases in 2024
5
248 of 266

--- page 249 ---
2024 Revenue Requirement
▪Recology collection costs are increasing 9% for 2024
▪Increase is approximately $1.4 million over 2023
▪Inflationary increases allowed in the franchise agreement
▪Disposal and Processing costs are increasing 25% 
▪Increase is approximately $ 2.2 million over 2023
▪New operator, SBI, took over site operations January 1
▪City Fees – solid waste program, street sweeping, franchise fees
▪
Decreased approximately $933,000 from 2023
6
249 of 266

--- page 250 ---
2024 Revenue Requirement Adjusted
$2.1 M reduced
▪One-year deferral of 
Recology increases 
▪
$660k saved
▪2024 temporary reduction 
in tipping fees by SBWMA
▪
$517k saved
▪Reduced City expenses, 
fees collected from 
Recology
▪
$933k saved
Remaining 2024 deficit
Original
2024 Revenue Requirement
Projections
Projections
$ Variance
1
Collection Costs
2
Recology's Base Compensation
$17,075,363
$17,075,363
$0
3
Cap Carry Forward Deferral
$0
($660,669)
($660,669)
4
Incentives/Disincentives
($29,961)
($29,961)
$0
5
Total Collection Costs - Recology Comp.
$17,045,402
$16,384,733
($660,669)
6
Disposal/Processing Fees
$10,345,929
$10,345,929
$0
7
(Less) 2024 rate stabilization-  5% savings
$0
($517,296)
($517,296)
8
City Expenses
$5,421,081
$4,487,654
($933,427)
9
Total Revenue Requirement
$32,812,412
$30,701,020
($2,111,392)
10 Projected Revenue at Current Rates
$28,931,843
$28,931,843
$0
11 Revenue Surplus/(Shortfall)
($3,880,569)
($1,769,177)
$2,111,392
7
250 of 266

--- page 251 ---
2024 Revenue Requirement
▪Recology maintains a balancing account payable to (or from) the 
City at the expiration of the agreement
▪Interest is charged to the City if the cumulative balance goes negative 
Revenue > 
Approved cost 
of service
Revenue ˂ 
Approved 
cost of 
service
Balancing Account Increases
Balancing Account Decreases
8
251 of 266

--- page 252 ---
Existing Balancing Account Deficit
Balancing Account Projection
Surplus/
(Shortfall)
2021 Reconciliation
($473,576)
2022 Reconciliation
$157,710
2023 Reconciliation (projected)
($760,530)
Estimated 2023 Balance Accrued/(Owed)
($1,076,396)
▪City is carrying an existing deficit before revenue shortfall of $1M in 2024 is incorporated.
9
252 of 266

--- page 253 ---
Commercial Rate Increases Proposed
• Increase 20-gallon cart $2.85/ mo.
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Solide Waste Cart Rates
20 Gallon Cart
$25.49
$28.34
$2.85
32 Gallon Cart
$37.18
$37.18
$0.00
64 Gallon Cart
$64.26
$64.26
$0.00
96 Gallon Cart
$94.47
$94.47
$0.00
Commercial Solid Waste Rates
1 Yard
$170.18
$170.18
$0.00
2 Yard
$340.45
$340.45
$0.00
3 Yard
$510.65
$510.65
$0.00
4 Yard
$680.90
$680.90
$0.00
6 Yard
$1,021.31
$1,021.31
$0.00
• Remove Comm Organics rates discount.
10
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Monthly 
Difference
Commercial Organics Cart Rates
32 Gallon Cart
$27.89
$37.18
$9.29
64 Gallon Cart
$48.20
$64.26
$16.06
96 Gallon Cart
$70.85
$94.47
$23.62
Commercial Organics Rates
1 Yard
$127.63
$170.18
$42.54
2 Yard
$255.33
$340.45
$85.11
3 Yard
$382.99
$510.65
$127.66
4 Yard
$510.68
$680.90
$170.23
6 Yard
$765.98
$1,021.31
$255.33
253 of 266

--- page 254 ---
2024 Solid 
Waste Rate 
Realignment 
Process
To meet Cost of Service:
•
2023 
•
20-gal needed a 152% increase 
•
32-gal needed a 90% increase
•
64-gal needed a 33% increase
•
96-gal needed a 13% increase
• Gradual re-alignment  over next 8-10 years
Single Family Residential
Residential Solid Current Rate
COS Rate
Difference
Waste Rates
($/mo.)
($/mo.)
$
%
20-gallon
$23.59
$54.05
$30.46
129%
32-gallon
$32.93
$60.59
$27.66
84%
64-gallon
$58.93
$81.47
$22.54
38%
96-gallon
$89.08
$105.77
$16.69
19%
•
20-gal accounts: 3,993 (19.3%) 
•
32-gal accounts: 11,667 (56.3%)
•
64-gal accounts: 4,407 (21.3%)
•
96-gal accounts: 654 (3.1%)
11
254 of 266

--- page 255 ---
Three Options to increase Residential Rates and 
Address Cost of Service
Each option would achieve the following:
• Use Solid Waste reserves to reduce increases to ratepayers
• Align rates closer to the cost of service
• Allow the City to generate revenues to meet expenses by rate year 2028.
2024 Rate Increase Options
$7/Mo Increase
$6/Mo Increase
$5/Mo Increase
First Year Increase to Residential Rates (2024)
$7.00
$6.00
$5.00
Annual Increases (2025-2028)
$5.89
$6.17
$6.41
5-Year Cumulative Increase to Residential Rates
$29.58
$30.68
$30.64
Amount of SW Fund Reserves Used (2024-2028)
$1,500,000
$1,850,000
$2,210,000
12
255 of 266

--- page 256 ---
City Solid Waste Reserve Fund
▪Available June 30, 2023 Balance: $6.2 million
▪City plans to use $1M in reserves in 2024 to reduce historical balancing account.
▪City plans to use up to $3M in future years to reduce rate increases and mitigate 
balancing account deficit.
▪City recommended to keep $2M in reserves for two reasons:
1.
Replace current street sweepers.
2.
City recommended to keep $1.6M or 6 months of solid waste expenses in reserves.
13
256 of 266

--- page 257 ---
Three Options to increase Residential Rates and 
Address Cost of Service
Each option would achieve the following:
• Use Solid Waste reserves to reduce increases to ratepayers
• Align rates closer to the cost of service
• Allow the City to generate revenues to meet expenses by 
rate year 2028.
• Reduce the balancing account deficit.
$7/Mo Increase $6/Mo Increase $5/Mo Increase
Size of Collection 
Cart/Bin
Customer 
Accounts
2023 Current 
Monthly Rate
2024
COS Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
Proposed 2024 
Monthly Rate
20 Gallon
3,993
$23.59
$54.05
$30.59
$29.59
$28.59
32 Gallon
11,667
$32.93
$60.59
$39.93
$38.93
$37.93
64 Gallon
4,407
$58.93
$81.47
$65.93
$64.93
$63.93
96 Gallon
654
$89.08
$105.77
$96.08
$95.08
$94.08
14
257 of 266

--- page 258 ---
Residential Rate Comparison (20-gallon)
$16.13 
$22.58 
$23.59 
$23.87 
$29.59 
$30.81 
$36.22 
$36.74 
$36.79 
$39.31 
$54.00 
$60.89 
Burlingame
Foster City (2024)
San Mateo (Current)
Redwood City
San Mateo (Proposed)
San Carlos
Belmont
Unincorporated County
No. Fair Oaks
Menlo Park
West Bay SD (2024)
Hillsborough (2024)
Average = $34.63
*All current rates reflect 
2023 unless noted.
$6/month increase 
assumed for San Mateo.
15
258 of 266

--- page 259 ---
Residential Rate Comparison (32-gallon)
*All current rates reflect 
2023 unless noted.
$6/month increase 
assumed for San Mateo.
$29.83 
$32.92 
$32.93 
$36.79 
$38.86 
$38.93 
$43.21 
$43.67 
$46.04 
$47.64 
$61.00 
$67.65 
Burlingame
Foster City (2024)
San Mateo (Current)
No. Fair Oaks
Redwood City
San Mateo (Proposed)
Belmont
Unincorporated County
San Carlos
Menlo Park
West Bay SD (2024)
Hillsborough (2024)
Average = $43.69
16
259 of 266

--- page 260 ---
Residential Rate Comparison (64-gallon)
*All current rates reflect 
2023 unless noted.
$6/month increase 
assumed for San Mateo.
$58.93 
$59.66 
$60.42 
$61.84 
$64.43 
$64.93 
$67.20 
$67.22 
$70.11 
$78.75 
$85.06 
$88.32 
San Mateo (Current)
Burlingame
Foster City (2024)
No. Fair Oaks
Unincorporated County
San Mateo (Proposed)
Redwood City
Menlo Park
San Carlos
West Bay SD (2024)
Belmont
Hillsborough (2024)
Average = $69.27
17
260 of 266

--- page 261 ---
Residential Rate Comparison (96-gallon)
*All current rates reflect 
2023 unless noted.
$6/month increase 
assumed for San Mateo.
$70.15 
$84.14 
$87.95 
$88.00 
$88.54 
$89.08 
$90.59 
$95.08 
$95.31 
$105.00 
$114.94 
$127.59 
Menlo Park
No. Fair Oaks
Foster City (2024)
Unincorporated County
Burlingame
San Mateo (Current)
San Carlos
San Mateo (Proposed)
Redwood City
West Bay SD (2024)
Hillsborough (2024)
Belmont
Average = $94.66
18
261 of 266

--- page 262 ---
Solid Waste Rates - Summary
• Rates must cover the cost of solid waste services
• Rates cannot be progressively “pay-as-you-throw”
• Proposed 2024 rates move the City closer to compliance
• Additional increases will be needed in future years
• Rates are still below many jurisdictions
19
262 of 266

--- page 263 ---
Solid Waste Rates – Summary of 2024 Rate Proposal
• Rate Increases recommended to Council
• Increase Commercial Solid Waste 20-gallon cart rate by $2.85/month.
• Remove Commercial Organics discount for all containers
• Organics rates = Solid Waste rates for each container size
• Increase Residential rates by $7,$6, or $5/month.
• Council to Remit $1M to Recology to reduce balancing account deficit 
in 2024. Action to be taken in March.
20
263 of 266

--- page 264 ---
Rate Adoption Timeline
• January 16, 2024: Council approval to mail public notice
• February 2, 2024: 45-day public notice mailing deadline
• March 18, 2024: City Council Public Hearing 
• April 1, 2024: Rates effective, if adopted
21
264 of 266

--- page 265 ---
Request of Council
• Provide direction on:
• Residential rate increase-- $5, $6, or $7
• Commercial rate increases
• 20 gallon cart increase of $2.85
• Removing organics discount
• Authorize staff to mail a Prop 218 notice to all property taxpayers 
proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and compost 
collection rates for 2024
• Provide direction on future use of Solid Waste Fund reserves
22
265 of 266

--- page 266 ---
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Stewards of your infrastructure 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7300
Thank you for your time.
You can reach me at: 
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
23
266 of 266