source: packet.pdf
sha256: 3007c802edf2c40ab05f495edee513e5aabd1974d4415c35c6774e6305b1d967
pages: 11
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
November 3, 2021
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
J. Christopher Massey, Chair
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair
Sarah Fields
Eric Holm
Heather Wolnick
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54953(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) – CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO
LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE. ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE
WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 3, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408)638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 881 3615 8332
Passcode: 659853
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 6, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at this
time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Parks, Open Spaces and Facility Naming Policy
Provide comments to inform the update to the existing Naming Parks, Open Spaces and Other Public Facilities
Policy.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
1 of 11

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City's website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
Accessibility: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 11

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5444
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 6, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - October 6, 2021 Regular Meeting Minutes Draft 
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
3 of 11

--- page 4 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/06/21 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
J. Christopher Massey, Chair  
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair  
Sarah Fields  
Eric Holm 
Heather Wolnick 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Park and Recreation Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Wednesday, October 6, 2021 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in 
which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Chair Massey called the meeting to order at 7:02 PM 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote:    Commissioners Present: Fields, Held, Holm, Massey, Wolnick  
Excused Absence:  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without 
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
2. Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of September 1, 2021 with one suggested 
edit regarding bicycle parking/storage. 5/0 Motion passed. 
 
Moved: Holm   Seconded: Held 
Ayes: Fields, Held, Holm, Massey, Wolnick 
  
Noes:  
Abstained:  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
Richard Hedges spoke regarding the Get Around Senior Transportation Program and requested the department 
consider expanding service to disabled residents of San Mateo. 
 
 OLD BUSINESS 
3. Non-Resident Surcharge Policy Pilot for Recreational Programs - Update  
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager presented a data analysis of the Non-Resident Surcharge Policy Pilot year-
to-date along with the staff recommendation to amend the policy to remove the surcharge due to the positive 
outcome of increased registration numbers during the pilot. Commissioners asked questions of staff and 
discussed whether there was any merit to extending the pilot due to the circumstances caused by the global 
pandemic but ultimately came to a consensus that amending the policy was best.  
Public Comment:  There were no speakers. 
4 of 11

--- page 5 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/06/21 
Page 2 
Motion:  Commissioner Holm motioned, seconded by Commissioner Fields to amend the Non-Resident 
Surcharge Policy, removing the surcharge and incorporating a resident priority registration period. 5/0 Motion 
passed. 
 
Moved: Holm Seconded: Held 
Ayes: Holm, Held, Fields, Wolnick, Massey 
Noes:  
Abstained: 
 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director reminded commissioners about the Boards and Commissions appreciation 
event being held on October 22, 2021. 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director updated commissioners on a change to the East Hillsdale Park CIP project saying there 
will be a community meeting presenting the different playground options and local neighbors of the park will 
receive a postcard inviting them to attend for feedback.  
• 
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager invited commissioner to the Dia de los Muertos event being held at 
King Community Center on Saturday October 9th, 2021 from 11am – 3pm 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:02 PM.  
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
Giovana Orozco  
5 of 11

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5408
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and Recreation 
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Parks, Open Spaces and Facility Naming Policy 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide comments to inform the update to the existing Naming Parks, Open Spaces and Other Public Facilities Policy. 
BACKGROUND:
Recently staff received two inquiries from individuals requesting consideration to name a park facility in memory/in honor 
of someone they believe is deserving.  In reviewing the criteria by which parks, open spaces and other park facilities can be 
named in honor of an individual, staff has determined that the existing policy from 1979 appears out of date and lacks the 
specificity that may be helpful to staff, the Commission and the City Council when considering requests for facility naming.  
Staff is seeking Commission input in order to help frame an update to the existing policy. 
The current policy distinguishes between the criteria for the naming of parks and open space lands versus public facilities 
or amenities within parks such as ballfields, trails, buildings, etc.  Parks are named after their geographical location or by 
their significant or unusual natural features.  Facilities or amenities may be named after selected individuals in their honor 
as desired or appropriate. (Attachment 1).  In general, park names have followed this protocol with only three exceptions, 
King Park, dedicated in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King; Bayside Joinville Park, in which the Joinville name was added in 
honor of Sgt. Gordon Joinville, a San Mateo police officer who died in the line of duty (Joinville Pool is also located in the 
park); and Trinta Park, named in honor of Manuel Trinta who donated  the land for use as a Little League field.  The last 
modification to park names occurred in 1980 in an effort to clean up duplicate and/or similar names, e.g. Tidelands 
(former name Mariners Island), Harborview Park (former name Bayside), Borel Park (former name Shafter Street), 
Washington Park (former name Parkside Playground), etc.  A full list of San Mateo parks is included as Attachment 2. 
Facility or amenity naming after selected individuals has been intermittent over the years.  Below is a list of recent facility 
dedications:

2013 - John Lee Dog Park at Bayside Joinville Park, named in honor of former Mayor and Council Member John Lee 
for his advancing the goal to create dog parks throughout the park system

2012 - Jim Chalmers Rotary Picnic Grove at Central Park, renamed in honor of former Mayor and member of the 
Rotary Club who personally took the lead in fundraising to refurbish/replace 36 picnic tables and 5 BBQ’s in Rotary 
Grove

2002 - Gary Yates Bocce Court Complex at Beresford Park, named in honor of former Mayor and Council member 
Gary Yates who died unexpectedly while serving in office who advocated for the expansion of bocce courts to 
meet growing community demand

1993 - Marion Panaretos Rose Garden at Central Park , named in honor of Mrs. Panaretos who was an avid 
horticulturalist, a founding member in establishing both the San Mateo Garden Center and the San Mateo 
6 of 11

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Arboretum Society and gave generously of both her time and financial resources to insure that gardeners and 
horticulturalists were given opportunities to enjoy their recreational pursuit.  
The other group of facility name changes occurred in 1980 with the renaming of three athletic fields-Los Prados Field in 
honor of George Ford, a long time Park division employee who upon his retirement, dedicated countless volunteer hours 
towards maintaining Central Park and the Fitzgerald Ball Field; Harborview Park Field in honor of John Dore, who donated 
the property for the park and the adjacent Boys and Girls Club; Lakeshore Field in honor of the Martens Family and their 
son Jerry for their volunteer contributions to youth sports organizations, Lakeshore Center activities and the Lakeshore 
neighborhood; and Mariners Island Park field in honor of Joe Benoit, a community activist who was instrumental in 
working with city staff for the purchase, design and development of Mariners Island Park. 
Prior to 1980, official records for documenting facility naming dedications are difficult to locate.  Staff is aware of several 
long standing facility dedications:  Central Park Ball Field in honor of Justin Fitzgerald, native born and former Mayor, 
professional baseball player, manager of the San Mateo Blues, a semi-pro baseball team that won several national 
championships under his leadership: Beresford Park Ball Field in honor Noe Chanteloup, long time San Mateo Fire Chief 
and supporter of youth sports; and the John Condon Fern Grove at Central Park in honor of former Mayor and long time 
Council Member John Condon. 
There have also been several occasions in which the City Council denied recommended name changes: 

1988 - Denied renaming the ballfield at Bayside Joinville Park to Toyonaka Field 

1983 - Denied renaming the former San Mateo Municipal Golf Course in honor of former head golf professional, 
Tom Fry 
The Park and Recreation Commission also denied the request to rename Central Recreation Center in honor of Bill 
Shumard, former Parks and Recreation Director in 1983. 
The current policy also lacks direction on the placement of any plaque at the renamed facility and who is responsible for 
paying.  It also does not define what happens to a facility name if/when the facility is decommissioned or demolished. 
The Commission will be asked to provide comments on the following general areas in order to help guide staff on the 
development of an updated policy:  

Should park and open space lands continue to be named primarily after their geographical location or by their 
significant or unusual natural features?  Should exceptions be considered for individuals, historical events, etc? 

Should public facilities or places within parks continue to be named in honor of selected individuals?  If so, what is 
the threshold of contribution, connection, service, etc. by an individual to the facility in question?  Should 
recognition be considered for individuals still living or only those deceased? 

Should the existing review and approval process remain or be modified?  Currently, a proposed name change is 
submitted to the Director of Parks and Recreation for researching background; forwarded to the Park and 
Recreation Commission to either support or take other action; and finally forwarded to the City Council for 
consideration and approval. 

Shall a facility naming plaque be required to be placed at the site?  If so, who is responsible for paying? 

What should occur if a named facility is decommissioned or demolished?  

Should there be an option for smaller recognitions that may not rise to the level of a facility name change, i.e. 
bench dedication, picnic table dedication, etc?  
Staff looks forward to hearing Commission comments and input on this topic. 
   
7 of 11

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
None. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378 (b)(5). 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City Council Resolution 49 (1979) Establishing Policy and Procedures for Naming City Owned Park and Open Space, 
Lands, Public Facilities and Places
Att 2 - List of Current City Parks and Open Spaces 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
8 of 11

--- page 9 ---
RESOLUTION NO. 49 (1979)

ESTABLISHING POLICY AND PROCEDURES FOR
NAMING CITY-OWNED PARK AND OPEN SPACE
LANDS, PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PLACES

RESOLVED, by the Council of the City of San Mateo, California,
that: :

WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has many parks and open space
lands, public facilities and places which are either unnamed or
designated by the general geographical location, with some duplica-
tions, resulting in staff and public Sonusion as to che precise
location of each site; and

. WHEREAS, no uniformly, consistent policy has been followed
in naming said sites as they have been named or designated on a
site-by-site basis, or simply referred to by geographical area,
and there is a need to establish a policy and procedure for naming
such sites to enable the public to locate them readily and to permit
permanent designation on maps and plans; and

WHEREAS, a study of the problem has been made by the Park
and Recreation Commission, and after a hearing thereon on March 7,
1979, has recommended the adoption of policies and procedures for
“Maming such lands, facilities and places, which appear necessary
and appropriate in the public interest and should, therefore, be
adopted for immediate implementation;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS acai DETERMINED and ORDERED, that:

1. This Council finds that ‘it is a matter of public interest,
convenience and necessity that a policy and procedures be established
for naming public lands, facilities and places to facilitate proper
reference and location for all purposes.

2. The policy and procedures for naming city-owned park and
open space lands, public facilities and public places shall be as
follows:

a. Each park and open space land shall be named after
its geographical location, without duplication in the
geographical area, or by its significant or unusual natural
features.

b. Each public facility or place within parks, such as
ball-playing fields, groves, walkways, trails and buildings
may be named after selected individuals in their honor as
desired and appropriate.

4/2'79-MKH

9 of 11


--- page 10 ---
c. The proposed names of said lands, facilities and
places shall first be submitted to the Director of Parks
and Recreation, who shall conduct the necessary research
and study to either support or propose alternatives thereto
for submission to the Park and Recreation Commission at
their next regular meeting following submission of the
proposal.

At such meeting, the Commission shail review the
proposed name or names for the site or sites being considered
and make the recommendations to the City Council for formal
adoption of the official name for the land, facility or
place. Upon adoption by the Council, the site shall there-
after be officially designated as such on all maps and plans.

3. The City Manager is hereby directed to cause the immediate
implementation of this policy by causing a survey to be made of all
such lands, facilities and places which require names for all
reference purposes, and to cause the initiation of, and invitation
to the public for proposals for naming said sites in accordance
with this policy and procedure. ‘

/s/ JANE BAKER
Mayor

ATTEST:

(SEAL) /s/ JOAN HINCKLEY
City Clerk

10 of 11


--- page 11 ---
Existing San Mateo City Parks
Park Name
Geographical, Historic, Natural Feature 
Connection
Bay Tree Park 
Natural Feature
Bay Meadows Park 
Historical Reference
Bayside Joinville Park
Geographic/Memorial Dedication
Beresford Park
Geographic/Historic Reference
Casanova Playground 
Geographic
Central Park
Geographic
Concar Playground 
Geographic
DeAnza Historical Area
Historical Reference
East Hillsdale Park
Geographic
Gateway Park
Geographic
Harborview Park
Geographic
Hayward Park Square
Geographic/Historical Reference
Indian Springs Park
Historical Reference
Lakeshore Park
Geographic
Landing Green Park 
Historical Reference
Laurelwood Park
Geographic
Los Prados Park 
Geographic
Martin Luther King Park
Memorial Dedication
Mariners Island Park
Geographic
Paddock Park
Historical Reference 
Parkside Aquatic Park
Geographic
Shoreview Park
Geographic
Shoreline Parks 
Geographic 
Sugarloaf Open Space
Natural Feature 
Sunnybrae Playground
Geographic
Trinta Park 
Memorial Dedication
West Hillsdale Park 
Geographic 
11 of 11