source: packet.pdf
sha256: 478458f7f5e0dca8677e54822f00e36b628aeadc19a490ef911c5eb56302f898
pages: 221
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Joint Session: Planning
Commission/Sustainability &
Infrastructure Commission
Special Meeting
April 9, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
PLANNING COMMISSION
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
SUSTAINABILITY &
INFRASTRUCTURE
COMMISSION
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Clifford Robbins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: April 9, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 843 4080 0756      Passcode: 467675
The Joint Session: Planning Commission and Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m.
unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
STUDY SESSION
1.
Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance – Proposed Ordinance and Policy Manual
Receive an update on the Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance effort, and provide feedback
to staff on the proposed ordinance components and policy manual.
CEQA: This Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance update is not a project subject to
CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical

--- page 2 ---
changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-8570
TO:
Planning Commission and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Matt Fabry
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 09, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance – Proposed Ordinance and Policy Manual
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance effort, and provide feedback to staff 
on the proposed ordinance components and policy manual.
BACKGROUND:
The purpose of this agenda report is to update the Planning and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissions on the 
current status of the Citywide Transportation Demand Management Ordinance and provide feedback to staff on the 
proposed ordinance components and associated draft Policy Manual. This information will also be shared with the City 
Council at its April 15, 2024 meeting.
Overview of Transportation Demand Management 
Transportation demand management, or TDM, is focused on reducing single-occupancy vehicle trips by helping people 
utilize the transportation infrastructure in place for other modes like transit, ridesharing, walking, biking, etc.  TDM 
Programs typically consist of information, encouragement, built infrastructure, and incentives to help make users aware of 
and use all transportation options available to optimize all modes. 
Currently, the City requires development of TDM plans for development projects in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development (TOD) area to reach a trip reduction goal of 25%. Additionally, policy from the City/County Association of 
Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) requires projects with 100 net new daily trips to prepare a TDM plan and meet 
certain trip reduction requirements by implementing TDM programs. Projects having a transportation impact under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) may be required to implement TDM measures to mitigate the impacts as well. 
However, outside of the Rail Corridor TOD area or for projects that do not meet the C/CAG thresholds for applicability, the 
City lacks required trip reduction goals or TDM implementation. 
General Plan Alignment
The Citywide TDM Ordinance effort is aligned with the newly adopted General Plan 2040, including the following specific 
goals and policies.
•
Goal C-2. Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number and length of single-occupancy 
vehicle trips through policy, zoning strategies, and targeted programs and incentives.
•
Policy C 2.1 - TDM Requirements. Require new or existing developments that meet specific size, capacity, and/or 
context conditions to implement TDM strategies.
•
Action C 2.2 – Implement TDM Ordinance. Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance for new 
developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT [vehicle miles traveled] reduction targets and monitoring that

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. Reduce parking requirements for projects that include 
TDM measures. 
•
Action C 2.3 – Education and Outreach. Pursue education for developers and employees about programs and 
strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the resulting benefits.
•
Action C 2.8 – Unbundled Parking. In conjunction with other TDM strategies that aim to reduce vehicle trips, 
encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage 
additional parking capacity created by unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces.
Project Approach
Aligned with City Council priorities to reduce traffic congestion by encouraging use of other modes of transportation, 
Public Works and Community Development staff sought grant funding through the Metropolitan Transportation 
Commission (MTC)’s Priority Development Area (PDA) technical assistance grant program to pursue development of a 
Citywide TDM Ordinance. Staff was notified in May 2021 that the application was successful, and MTC awarded the City 
$150,000 in technical assistance for the effort. Staff began working with MTC in June 2021 to develop the scope of work 
for the project. 
The Citywide TDM Ordinance envisions a comprehensive approach to transportation demand management by 
recommending trip reduction goals throughout the City, expanding on the requirements currently in place in the Rail 
Corridor TOD area. The project will propose updates to the San Mateo Municipal Code and develop a Policy Manual to 
provide detail and technical standards for staff and the development community to implement trip reduction goals for 
projects in San Mateo.  
The development of the proposed ordinance and Policy Manual are the final deliverables in a process that evaluated the 
current status of TDM in the City and the region, examined best practices in other like jurisdictions, and sought 
stakeholder feedback to develop the policy framework. Staff have provided interim deliverables documenting the process 
to date as attachments to this staff report for additional background. 
•
Existing Conditions Review (Attachment 1). This memorandum provides a comprehensive review of the existing 
technical and policy considerations that informed the development of the TDM Ordinance as well as the City’s 
current TDM-related efforts.
•
Best Practices Findings (Attachment 2). This document summarizes the investigation of best practices for TDM 
programs implemented by other Bay Area cities and national best practice examples. Research included both well-
established strategies and approaches as well as new and innovative examples. 
The research included the San Mateo County jurisdictions of East Palo Alto, Redwood City, and South San 
Francisco, all of whom have city specific TDM ordinances. Each of these cities have TDM requirements for new and 
existing development, require monitoring, and include penalties (financial and/or development limitation) for non-
compliance.  
•
Stakeholder Focus Group 1 Summary (Attachment 3). This memo summarizes the first phase of engagement with 
the primary stakeholder groups for the ordinance development. City and consultant team staff participated in 
three stakeholder focus groups with different audiences: business owners, transportation providers, and local 
developers. Additional stakeholder outreach was conducted with the draft policy components in early 2024.
•
TDM Policy Framework (Attachment 4). This memorandum documents the work completed to identify the list of 
TDM strategies proposed to be contained in the future policy, the quantitative assessment of trip reduction 
expected as a result of specific measures, and draft compliance and monitoring requirements. The purpose of this 
documentation is to consolidate input and highlight consensus on the structure of the future TDM ordinance. This 
memo includes a summary of the team’s introduction of the proposed policy to City Council in November 2023, 
feedback from which is detailed in the next section.
Commission and Council Feedback
Staff and the consultant team presented an introduction to the Citywide TDM Ordinance to the Planning Commission on 
July 11, 2023, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on July 12, 2023, and City Council on November 6, 2023. 
Feedback from Commissions and Council regarding the proposed policy is summarized in the following bullet points and

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
has been incorporated into the proposed ordinance components.
•
Focus on safety in the built environment by including unfunded physical infrastructure improvements as a TDM 
measure.
•
Include both new and existing development as subject to the TDM Ordinance requirements. Establish threshold for 
existing development based on number of employees and require minimum TDM measures.
•
Provide exemption for affordable housing projects, or consider minimal requirements on an alternate scale
•
Supported reduced monitoring for projects meeting compliance requirements.
•
Supported focus on education and compliance for non-compliant projects, such as a ‘three strikes’ approach 
where projects have three years to work with the City to attain compliance prior to penalties. 
•
Did not support revocation of certificate of occupancy for non-compliance.
•
Recommended creation of a program to highlight companies that are compliant with the Citywide TDM Ordinance.
Proposed Policy Components
City staff, in collaboration with a consultant team led by Fehr and Peers, have evaluated methodologies and potential 
thresholds that meet the needs of the City and its community. The staff presentation at this meeting will include 
information regarding the proposed ordinance and work to date; stakeholder engagement and feedback; overview of 
proposed policy components and deliverables; and next steps following this Commission review. 
During the course of developing the TDM framework, proposed Ordinance, and draft Policy Manual, staff and the 
consultant team conducted two rounds of community engagement. Given the nature of the policy and the audience to 
which it will apply, the engagement focused on stakeholder groups including transit providers, the business community, 
and developers. 
The Citywide TDM Ordinance is intended to replace and update Title 24 (Transportation System Management) in the City’s 
Municipal Code. Title 24 was adopted in 1989, updated in 1995, and intended to comply with Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District (BAAQMD) requirements for trip reduction. When an updated version of the Citywide TDM 
Ordinance is adopted, it will outline the City’s revised trip reduction and TDM requirements. Staff proposes the following 
components and requests Commission feedback on the parameters. 
•
Applicability. Outlines the types of projects that are proposed to be required to comply with the City’s new TDM 
policies. The following types of projects are proposed to be required to comply with the TDM requirements in 
some capacity.
o
New Development: Projects that meet the thresholds set in the draft policy manual would be required to 
comply. This includes residential projects with 26 units or more, and new non-residential developments of 
10,000 gross square feet. 
o
Change of Use: Projects considered to be a change of use or significant building additions of 10,000 gross 
square feet or more would be required to comply. 
o
Existing Non-Residential Uses: Existing non-residential development with a minimum of 26 employees 
would be required to comply with minimal required measures.
o
Exemptions: This chapter also identifies exceptions to the policy, such as providing a minimum of 50% 
affordable housing and smaller projects with less than 10,000 gross square feet. The proposed ordinance 
also includes an option for administrative exemptions if a project can make certain findings around 
hardship or infeasibility.
•
TDM Requirements. This chapter will set forth the structure of the TDM implementation, including selection of 
TDM measures and required targets for each type of project. Most projects are proposed to have required 
baseline TDM strategies that must be provided (unless eligible for an exemption), and additional strategies to 
meet the point target for the project. The specific proposed point targets and measures are detailed in the draft 
TDM Policy Manual (Attachment 1) for reference.
•
Compliance and Enforcement. Defines proposed expectations for compliance with the TDM policy and identifies 
how violations of the policy may be handled. This is proposed to include:

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
o
Compliance: Require that projects subject to the proposed ordinance are in compliance with 
requirements. The compliance status of a project will determine the TDM program monitoring frequency, 
any required TDM plan modifications, and determination of any noncompliance penalties.
o
Noncompliance: The proposed ordinance will define what constitutes non-compliance with the TDM 
policy. This is proposed to include:
▪
Failure to maintain one or more TDM Strategies as identified and defined in an approved TDM 
plan for a prolonged period;
▪
Failure to submit a required TDM Monitoring Report by the designated deadline without just 
cause as determined by PW Director or designee; or
▪
Falsifying or knowingly submitting inaccurate information as part of a TDM Plan or TDM 
Monitoring Report
o
Penalties: The ordinance proposes that projects found to be noncompliant would be subject to fines and 
penalties as defined in the draft Policy Manual. While the policy proposes a focus on education and 
assistance in meeting requirements, penalties are considered as an option for noncompliance.
•
Fees. The policy proposes monitoring of project compliance, either annually or at another frequency based on 
compliance status. In order to remain a cost-neutral program and not draw on the General Fund, the ordinance 
proposes an administrative fee that projects will pay to offset costs of monitoring. 
The draft TDM Policy Manual is intended to supplement the code language and further provide detail and education to 
users and practitioners for how the ordinance will functionally be applied. The Manual is a separate document that is 
expected to be a living file adopted by resolution that can be modified administratively in the future, as needed. The draft 
Policy Manual is attached to this staff report (Attachment 5) and includes the following components:
•
Determination of Applicability. Identifying the specific TDM requirements based on project type, size, and use. 
This includes an easily applied flowchart for a simplified approach.
•
Project Thresholds and Requirements. Outlines specific thresholds for policy applicability and TDM strategies that 
are both required and additive to meet the projects’ required trip reduction goal.
•
TDM Strategy Detail. Provides detailed information for both required baseline TDM strategies, and additional 
strategies projects can select to meet the TDM point target for the project type. 
o
Required baseline TDM strategies - Must be implemented for each project and vary based on the project 
size and location. Baseline TDM strategies do not count towards the required minimum TDM point target 
and cannot be swapped out for other measures. Baseline TDM strategies are largely in line with those 
required under the current C/CAG policy, including education and marketing, a TDM coordinator for the 
project, and non-driving transportation subsidies. Baseline TDM strategies for new development that is in 
addition to C/CAG requirements include provision of unbundled parking, providing less parking on-site 
than would be required, and implementing multimodal network improvements. The implementation of 
physical improvements is aligned with Commission and Council direction.
o
Additional TDM strategies – Each project is assigned a points target based on size, location, and land use. 
Projects will be required to provide baseline strategies, and then will select additional strategies to meet 
their points target. The TDM Program Policy manual assigns point values for each potential TDM strategy, 
which reflect the overall level of impact that the strategy is expected to have in achieving the City’s TDM 
goals. Each project must select and implement additional TDM strategies with a combined point value that 
meet or exceed the required minimum TDM points target, which is based on project size and location. 
o
Existing Development – Aligned with Commission and Council feedback, staff and the consultant team 
developed a threshold for requiring existing businesses to offer TDM measures to their employees.
▪
Small (25-99 employees): Provide pre-tax transportation benefits (the Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District already mandates this measure for businesses with more than 50 
employees)
▪
Large (100+ employees): Provide pre-tax transportation benefits, implement non-driving 
education and marketing programs, and select additional strategies to meet the required five 
points.
•
Compliance, Monitoring, and Reporting. Aligned with City Council direction, the policy proposes a four-stage

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
compliance framework to categorize the compliance status of each project subject to the TDM requirements. The 
compliance stage of a project will be used to determine the frequency of required TDM monitoring activities and, 
as needed, identify any penalties or corrective actions required as a result of noncompliance with TDM program 
requirements. The policy proposes less frequent monitoring for projects compliant for consecutive years.
o
Green: 3+ consecutive years of demonstrated compliance; less frequent monitoring (every 3rd year)
o
Light Green: New projects and projects compliant for 0-2 years; annual monitoring
o
Orange: Projects that are non-compliant for 2-3 consecutive years; annual monitoring
o
Red: Project that are non-compliant for 4 or more consecutive years; annual monitoring
•
Fees and Penalties. Establishes TDM program fees for application and monitoring to offset costs to the City for 
managing the TDM program. These fees were developed through a prior Public Works fee study conducted by 
Matrix Consulting, and were calculated to fully recover staff costs associated with monitoring and review. 
This section also explains how penalties will be assessed and applied for non-compliant projects on a sliding scale 
focused on emphasizing education and compliance. The proposed fees were developed based on evaluation of 
similar jurisdictions. The policy proposes corrective action in the form of working with the City to develop a 
corrective action plan after 2-3 consecutive years of non-compliance. After 4 or more consecutive years of non-
compliance, the policy recommends financial penalties.
Fees must be adopted separately via resolution to amend the City’s Adopted Fee Schedule.
Requested Feedback and Next Steps
Staff request the Planning and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners provide feedback on the following 
questions related to the proposed ordinance and policy manual: 
1.
Do the thresholds and requirements for projects that are proposed to be subject to the Citywide TDM Ordinance 
seem reasonable?
2.
Are the required TDM measures for each project type appropriate?
3.
Is the penalty structure sufficient to induce compliance?
4.
Is the supplementary Policy Manual clear regarding compliance with and implementation of the proposed 
policies? 
Following presentation of the proposed policy components of the ordinance to the Commissions and City Council, staff and 
the consultant team will incorporate feedback into the draft deliverables. Staff intends to return to the Commissions and 
City Council in June for consideration of the draft and final Ordinance.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with hearing this informational update. The Citywide TDM Ordinance is fully funded 
through a technical assistance grant from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Existing Conditions Summary
Att 2 – Best Practices Summary 
Att 3 - Stakeholder Feedback Summary
Att 4 – TDM Policy Framework Memo
Att 5 – Draft TDM Policy Manual

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288

--- page 9 ---
345 California Street | Suite 450 | San Francisco, CA 94104 | (415) 348-0300 | Fax (415) 773-1790   
www.fehrandpeers.com 
Memorandum 
 
Date:  
March 31, 2023 
To:  
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
CC:  
James Choe, MTC 
From:  
Matt Goyne and Molly Riddle, Fehr & Peers 
Subject:  
City of San Mateo Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance – 
Existing Conditions Document Review 
SF23-1283 
Introduction 
The City of San Mateo is developing a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance to 
encourage citywide mode shift and reduce vehicle travel, particularly via use of single-occupancy 
vehicles. TDM policies, programs, and strategies that reduce single occupancy vehicle travel and 
shift trips to transit, active transportation, and carpooling can provide a range of benefits, 
including but not limited to: alleviating traffic congestion, reducing vehicle miles traveled (VMT) 
and greenhouse gas emissions, managing parking demand, promoting more physically active 
communities, and making efficient use of the existing transportation system.  
Numerous plans and policies already in place at the local, regional, and State level provide a 
policy foundation or guidance for the future TDM Ordinance. This memorandum provides a 
comprehensive review of the existing technical and policy considerations that will inform the 
development of the TDM Ordinance as well as the City’s current TDM-related efforts. 
Table 1 summarizes the plans and policies that recommend and guide development strategies 
for inclusion in the City of San Mateo TDM Ordinance.

--- page 10 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 2 of 19  
Table 1: Existing Conditions Documents Reviewed  
Document Name 
Year Adopted 
State Plans and Policies 
Senate Bill 743 
2019 
Assembly Bill 2097 
2022 
Assembly Bill 2206 
2022 
CAPCOA’s Handbook for Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures 
2021 
Regional Plans and Policies 
Plan Bay Area 2050 
2021 
MTC Transit-Oriented Communities Policy (Resolution 4530) 
2022 
C/CAG Congestion Management Program 
2021 
C/CAG Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Policy  
2022 
C/CAG VMT Estimation Tool 
2022 
Local Plans and Policies 
City of San Mateo General Plan (2030) 
2010 
City of San Mateo General Plan (2040) 
Draft in-progress 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
2023 (Continuously updated) 
City of San Mateo Reach Codes 
2019 
City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines 
2020 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan 
2020 
Bicycle Master Plan 
2020 
Pedestrian Master Plans 
 
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan 
2012 
San Mateo Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan 
2022 
Sustainable Streets Plan 
2015 (Published, not adopted) 
Subarea Plans and Policies 
 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan 
2005 
City of San Mateo Hillsdale Station Area Plan 
2011 
City of San Mateo Downtown Area Plan 
2009 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment (Phase II)  
2005 
El Camino Real Master Plan (from Belmont to Highway 92)  
2001 
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan 
Adopted 1973, Updated 1995 
Shoreline Specific Plan 
Adopted 1971, Updated 1990 
Detroit Specific Plan 
Adopted 1984, Updated 1990 
North Central Community Based Transportation Plan 
2011 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023.

--- page 11 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 3 of 19  
State Plans and Policies 
The City of San Mateo will consider the following recent state laws and policies when developing 
the TDM ordinance.  
Senate Bill 743 (2019) 
California Senate Bill 743, adopted in 2019, seeks to balance the needs of congestion 
management with statewide goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote infill 
development, and improve public health by encouraging use of active transportation modes. SB 
743 also ensures that the environmental impacts of traffic such as noise, air pollution, and safety 
concerns continue to be addressed and mitigated through CEQA, with transportation impacts 
measured in terms of VMT. Development that would generate VMT exceeding an applicable 
threshold may be determined to have a significant impact which must be mitigated via the 
implementation of measures that would reduce VMT to the relevant target level. Development 
located within a transit priority area or that would reduce VMT, are presumed to have a less than 
significant VMT impact. The City of San Mateo adopted revised Transportation Impact Analysis 
(TIA) guidelines and amended the General Plan to be compliant with SB 743 in August 2020, as 
described in the Local Plans and Policies section. 
Per SB 743, lead agencies have the discretion to choose the methodology by which project VMT is 
evaluated including identifying a VMT metric, methodology for calculating VMT, establishing a 
VMT significance threshold, and mitigation options. One VMT mitigation option for land use 
projects involves requiring trip reduction strategies as part of a transportation demand 
management (TDM) program. The City of San Mateo identified TDM measures as an appropriate 
mitigation option within the City’s TIA guidelines. 
Assembly Bill 2097 (2022; Friedman) 
California Assembly Bill 2097, adopted in 2022, prohibits public agencies from imposing any 
minimum automobile parking requirement on most development projects located within a half-
mile of a major transit stop. Major transit stops are defined as serving rail, bus rapid transit (BRT), 
or ferry service or the intersection of two or more bus routes with frequencies of 15 minutes or 
less during AM and PM peak commute periods.1 This transit definition differs from SB 743’s 
transit priority area which is defined as proximity to a major transit stop or a fixed-route bus 
 
1 A "Major transit stop" is as defined in California Public Resource Code §21064.3 as a site containing any of 
the following: (a) An existing rail or bus rapid transit station, (b) A ferry terminal served by either a bus or 
rail transit service, (c) The intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service interval 
of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.

--- page 12 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 4 of 19  
service stop along a high-quality transit corridor with frequencies of 15 minutes or less during 
peak commute periods. AB 2097 does not apply to certain land uses such as hotels and does not 
affect electric vehicle (EV) or accessible parking requirements.  
AB 2097 has implications for on- and off-street parking supplies, development in-lieu fees, bicycle 
parking spaces where requirements are based on the number of on-site parking spaces provided, 
and VMT screening criteria that reference jurisdictions’ minimum parking requirements. The City 
of San Mateo Parking and TDM Ordinance must account for how AB 2097 would alter the parking 
and TDM landscape and consider the resulting curb management issues.  
Assembly Bill 2206 (2022; Lee, Alex) 
California Assembly Bill 2206, adopted in 2022, would require lessors to list parking costs for 
employers that are subject to California’s 1992 parking cash-out law (AB 2109, Katz). The existing 
law requires employers who provide subsidized parking for employees to offer a cash allowance 
in lieu of a parking space, thus incentivizing travel to work via modes other than a single-
occupancy vehicle. AB 2206 aims to address prior issues regarding the lack of transparency in 
parking pricing by unbundling this cost from that of office space and other amenities included in 
a given lease.   
Under AB 2206, developers or property management firms managing development projects in the 
City of San Mateo that implement parking cash-out policies must provide information on 
unbundled parking costs to tenant employers and facilitate implementation of parking cash-out 
programs. The ultimate aim is to facilitate compliance with existing law so the City and state can 
realize the desired traffic congestion relief and air pollution benefits. 
CAPCOA’s Handbook for Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Mitigation Measures (2021) 
The California Air Pollution Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions, 
Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity, adopted in 2021 by the 
California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA), provides data and methods to help 
communities enact policies that would reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, VMT, and 
advance social equity. The CAPCOA Handbook provides methods to quantify VMT and GHG 
emission reductions from a specified list of measures, project-level and community-level actions. 
The Handbook also includes a method to assess potential benefits of different climate 
vulnerability reduction measures, as well as measures that can be implemented to improve health 
and equity.

--- page 13 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 5 of 19  
Regional Plans and Policies 
The City of San Mateo will consider the following regional and countywide plans and policies 
when developing the TDM Ordinance.  
Plan Bay Area 2050 (2021) 
Plan Bay Area 2050, adopted in 2021, is the Bay Area’s regional long-range plan adopted by the 
Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) and the Association of Bay Area Governments 
(ABAG). The plan lays out a $1.4 trillion vision for a more equitable and resilient future for Bay 
Area residents. Plan Bay Area 2050 serves as the Bay Area’s Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), as 
required by federal regulations, and the Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as required by 
state statute. 
A core element of Plan Bay Area is a Regional Growth Framework designed to coordinate 
transportation, housing, and land use planning across all Bay Area communities to make the best 
use of available resources. The five elements of the Regional Growth Framework include:   
• 
Priority Conservation Areas (PCA) – Locations designated for the protection of natural 
habitats and the preservation of open space for future generations. 
• 
Priority Development Areas (PDA) – Places near public transit that are planned for new 
homes, jobs and community amenities. MTC has designated two types of PDAs: Transit-
Rich PDAs that have high-quality transportation infrastructure already in place, and 
Connected Community PDAs which offer basic transit services and have committed to 
policies that increase mobility options and reduce automobile travel. 
• 
Priority Production Areas (PPA) – Industrial areas prioritized for the preservation and 
expansion of businesses that are essential to the region’s economy. 
• 
Priority Sites – Places that are planned for a large number of homes that are affordable to 
households with a wide range of incomes. The plans also include essential services, green 
space, and local and regional destinations. 
• 
Transit-Oriented Communities Policy - Prioritizing housing development that is near to 
transportation, putting public transit in reach for more people and improving the quality 
of life in the Bay Area. 
The City of San Mateo is home to four PDAs, all of which are Transit-Rich PDAs: Downtown, El 
Camino Real, Grand Boulevard Initiative, and Rail Corridor.2 Development within these PDAs must 
be supportive of multimodal transportation access and a mode shift away from non-automobile 
 
2 For more information, see MTC’s Priority Development Areas (PDAs) webpage: 
https://mtc.ca.gov/planning/land-use/priority-development-areas-pdas

--- page 14 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 6 of 19  
travel, and will be subject to requirements related to TDM set forth in an implementation action 
such as MTC’s Transit-Oriented Communities Policy.  
MTC Transit-Oriented Communities Policy (Resolution 4530) 
MTC’s Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy, adopted in 2022, seeks to support the region’s 
transit investments by creating communities around transit stations and along transit corridors 
that not only support transit ridership, but that are places where Bay Area residents of all abilities, 
income levels, and racial and ethnic backgrounds can live, work and access services, such as 
education, childcare, and healthcare.3 The policy applies to areas within a half-mile of existing and 
planned fixed-guideway transit stops and stations serving regional rail, commuter rail, light-rail 
transit, bus rapid transit, and ferries. The policy establishes parameters for the following elements 
and compliance is advised by 2026 to be eligible for regional funding:4  
1. Minimum required and allowed residential and/or commercial office densities for new 
development;  
2. Policies focused on housing production, preservation and protection, and commercial 
anti-displacement and stabilization;  
3. Parking management, including parking maximums, shared parking, and TDM plans; and  
4. Transit station access and circulation. 
Within San Mateo, this policy applies to the areas surrounding the Caltrain stations but does not 
include El Camino Real bus stops, given the requirement for a fixed-guideway transit that 
occupies a separate right-of-way to qualify as bus rapid transit. Given this level of transit service, 
San Mateo is classified as Tier 3 city with a required residential density within TOC areas of 50 to 
75 units per net acre. The City of San Mateo TDM Ordinance will need to account for each one of 
these TOC elements as they pertain to the City and its subareas.  
 
3 For more information, visit: https://mtc.ca.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2022-
10/MTC_Resolution_4530.pdf. The TOC policy provides the following definition: “Fixed guideway means a 
public transportation facility that uses and occupies a separate right-of-way or rail line for the exclusive use 
of public transportation and other high occupancy vehicles or uses a fixed catenary system and a right of 
way usable by other forms of transportation. This includes, but is not limited to, rapid rail, light rail, 
commuter rail, automated guideway transit, people movers, ferry boat service, and fixed-guideway facilities 
for buses (such as bus rapid transit) and other high occupancy vehicles.” (49 CFR § 611.105) 
4 Per the MTC Administrative Guidance: Transit-Oriented Communities Policy update published on March 31, 
2023: “To ensure eligibility for OBAG 4 funding and any other discretionary funding that may be linked to 
TOC Policy compliance, jurisdictions should anticipate demonstrating compliance prior to adoption of 
OBAG 4, expected in 2026.” For more information see: 
https://mtc.ca.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2023-
03/MTC_Draft_TOC_Policy_Administrative_Guidance_Mar2023.pdf

--- page 15 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 7 of 19  
C/CAG Congestion Management Program 
The City and County Association of Governments of San Mateo (C/CAG) is responsible for 
overseeing the San Mateo Congestion Management Program (CMP) which is updated on a 
biennial basis. The purpose of the CMP is to identify strategies to respond to future transportation 
needs, develop procedures to alleviate and control congestion, and promote countywide 
solutions. The CMP is required to be consistent with the Metropolitan Transportation Commission 
(MTC) planning process that includes regional goals, policies, and projects for the Regional 
Transportation Improvement Program (RTIP). 
The CMP contains a Trip Reduction and Travel Demand Element which promotes the use of 
alternative transportation modes and ways to reduce future travel demand. This element 
highlights improving a county's jobs/employed residents balance and implementing TDM 
strategies as means of attaining these objectives. The CMP also contains a Land Use Impact 
Analysis Program to analyze the impacts of land use decisions made by local jurisdictions on 
regional transportation systems and estimate the costs associated with mitigating the projected 
impacts. The most recent Land Use Implementation – TDM Program (a.k.a., TDM Policy) is 
discussed below.  
C/CAG Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Policy and VMT Estimation 
Tool 
C/CAG TDM Policy 
The C/CAG Transportation Demand Management (TDM) policy, adopted in 2000 with new policy 
requirements implemented January 1, 2022, is a component of the C/CAG CMP which provides 
guidelines for analyzing the impacts of land use decisions made by C/CAG member jurisdictions. 
The TDM Policy provides community standards for consistent, system-wide review of 
development-related transportation impacts with the purpose of preserving acceptable 
performance on the countywide CMP network.  
The January 2022 guidelines require that member jurisdictions in San Mateo County notify C/CAG 
of any new development project within their purview that is estimated to generate at least 100 
net new Average Daily Trips (ADT). Previously, the threshold was 100 net peak hour trips or 
projects proposed as part of a General Plan Amendment (GPA). All C/CAG member jurisdictions, 
including San Mateo, are subject to this TDM Policy unless expressly exempted by C/CAG.  
Developments that meet the threshold must develop and implement a TDM plan using a land 
use-specific C/CAG checklist identifying appropriate strategies and their corresponding trip 
reduction credits. The trip reduction credits used in C/CAG’s TDM policy are intended for CMP 
compliance while VMT reduction estimates for CEQA must use the reduction factors presented in 
the C/CAG VMT Estimation Tool (described below) or other sources that include reductions 
supported by substantial evidence, such as the CAPCOA Handbook.

--- page 16 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 8 of 19  
C/CAG VMT Estimation Tool 
The C/CAG VMT Estimation Tool can be used to estimate the amount of VMT a project will 
generate, how much this VMT could be reduced by certain VMT-reducing measures (including 
TDM plans), and how the resulting VMT compares to the applicable jurisdiction’s threshold. The 
tool screens for limited items, such as proximity to a low VMT generating area and proximity to 
transit priority areas, but excludes other requirements that a jurisdiction may have, such as 
minimum parking or transit-supportive uses. Use of this tool, in compliance with jurisdiction-
specific requirements, allows jurisdictions to estimate the effectiveness of TDM measures for 
CEQA analysis based on the project type and location based on research presented in CAPCOA’s 
2010 Handbook. C/CAG plans to update the 2021 Handbook in the future.

--- page 17 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 9 of 19  
Local Plans and Policies 
City of San Mateo General Plan (2030) 
The City of San Mateo’s General Plan Policy C 2.10, C 2.11 and C 2.12 strive to promote TDM as a 
means of reducing the traffic impacts of development throughout the city, in line with C/CAG 
requirements, and within the Downtown, Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan area, 
and Hillsdale Station Area Plan area:  
C 2.10 - Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Participate in the TDM Program as 
outlined by the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG). Encourage TDM 
measures as a condition of approval for development projects, which are anticipated to cause 
substantial traffic impacts. C/CAG requires the preparation of a TDM program for all new 
development that would add 100 peak hour trips or more to the regional road network. 
 
C 2.11 - Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan (Corridor Plan). Establish and implement a TDM program consistent with 
the Corridor Plan policy and program requirements for development within Transit-Oriented 
Development (TOD) areas designated by the Corridor Plan, as well as for all properties within 
the Hillsdale Station Area Plan. 
 
C 2.12 - Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Downtown. Establish and implement 
a TDM program, a Transportation Management Association (TMA), and other measures to 
reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit use and promote bicycle and pedestrian 
accessibility for development within one-half mile of the Downtown transit center. 
The General Plan Policy C 3.1 also highlights how public information campaigns can be 
coordinated with TDM programs to promote transit ridership:  
C 3.1 – Increase Bus Ridership. Strongly promote increased bus ridership and improved 
accessibility to bus transit by encouraging SamTrans to implement the following bus service 
improvements: 
 
d. Promote increased bus ridership through an expanded Public Information Program 
such as at train stations, public institutions, and through TDM. 
City of San Mateo General Plan 2040 (draft in-progress) 
The City of San Mateo is currently engaged in a General Plan update, estimated to be completed 
in late 2023. To date, the planning process has identified a preferred land use scenario which

--- page 18 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 10 of 19  
concentrates higher density residential and commercial development Downtown, along 
transportation corridors, and within a half-mile radius of Caltrain stations. Draft goals, policies, 
and actions for General Plan 2040, published in July 2022, highlight the importance of 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) for City of San Mateo development, as noted below: 
• 
Goal C-2:  Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number and 
length of single-occupancy vehicle trips and encourage sustainable travel behaviors 
through policy, zoning strategies, and targeted context-appropriate programs and 
incentives. 
◦ 
Policy C-P2.1 – TDM Requirements. Require new or existing developments that meet 
specific size, capacity, and/or context conditions to implement TDM strategies. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.1 – Implement TDM Ordinance. Develop and implement a citywide 
TDM ordinance for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction 
targets and monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area 
plans. Consider parking requirement reductions for projects that include TDM 
measures. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.2 – TDM Education and Outreach. Pursue education for developers and 
employees about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the 
resulting benefits. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.3 – Leverage TDM Partnership Opportunities. Work with regional 
partners to identify and fund TDM strategies that can be implemented at new and 
existing developments. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.4 – Facilitate TDM Services. Facilitate the provision of TDM services to 
employees and residents through development agreements, TMAs, and 
coordination with regional partners. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.5 – Travel to Schools. Reduce private automobile school trips and 
support student health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase 
the number of students walking or bicycling to school through expanded 
implementation of Safe Routes to School. Prioritize school travel safety 
improvements in disadvantaged communities. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.6 – New Development Shuttle Services. As an option to fulfill TDM 
requirements, encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from 
activity centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or 
the Hillsdale Shopping Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and 
schedules of all riders, including service workers. 
▪ 
Action C-A2.7 Unbundled Parking. Encourage residential developments to 
unbundle the costs of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional 
parking capacity created by unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public 
parking spaces.

--- page 19 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 11 of 19  
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
Several sections of the City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code (hereafter referred to as “Code”) 
establishes development and programmatic requirements for land use developments that have 
implications for the City’s TDM Ordinance.  
Chapter 23 – Buildings and Construction establishes regulations for various aspects of property 
development within the City. Section 23.40 governs site development of private property, 
including design of the site relative to existing multimodal transportation facilities. Section 23.44 
establishes regulations for electric vehicle charging stations. Section 23.70 specifies how 
development within the City of San Mateo is subject to the California Green Building Standards 
Code, including regulations regarding the number and type of electric vehicle charging stations 
required for new residential and non-residential developments. The City recently adopted reach 
codes, described below, which update these requirements for electric vehicle readiness.  
Section 24.01 establishes a Transportation System Management (TSM) Program aimed at 
reducing vehicle trips and vehicle miles traveled and reducing the need for increasing gasoline 
taxes and costly major road improvements. The Ordinance codifies the City’s participation in 
countywide efforts to reduce vehicle trips via adherence to Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District Regulation 13, Rule 1 and the local TSM Ordinance. A TDM Ordinance may replace this 
code section.  
Section 27.64 specifies off-street parking and loading requirements for the purpose of alleviating 
or preventing congestion of public streets, and to promote the safety and welfare of the public. 
Section 27.64.100 - Parking Assessment and Special Districts and Section 27.64.110 Computation 
would need to be considered in the TDM Ordinance and in light of recently adopted AB 2097. 
Section 27.39.090 requires zero-setbacks unless a setback is provided for landscaping, and thus 
does not allow setbacks for TDM measures such as to provide additional sidewalk consistent with 
the City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines, Appendix B of the 2012 San Mateo Pedestrian Master 
Plan, described below.  
Section 27.90 establishes the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) district in line with the San 
Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan). Section 27.90.060 
establishes that all projects developed within the TOD area shall be consistent with the Rail 
Corridor Plan Chapter 7 (G) Transportation Demand Management (TDM), including participation 
in the Transportation Management Association (TMA). 
City of San Mateo Reach Codes  
City of San Mateo reach codes, adopted in 2019 and applicable to the January 1, 2020 to 
December 31, 2022 Code Cycle, establish mandatory local green building and energy code

--- page 20 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 12 of 19  
amendments.5 Reach codes pertinent to the TDM Ordinance speak to electric vehicle readiness 
and require a higher number of electric vehicle (EV) Capable parking spaces than what is required 
by the State for new construction projects. Per the codes, an EV Capable space contains electrical 
capacity and raceway but is not required to contain the actual electrical vehicle supply equipment 
(EVSE) installed. The reach codes also require new non-residential projects to install EVSE in a 
portion of their parking spaces.  
City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines (2020) 
The City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines provide guidance to city 
staff, applicants, and consultants on the requirements to evaluate transportation impacts for 
projects in the City of San Mateo. Adopted in August 2020 by the City Council, these guidelines 
are designed to align with SB 743 and use of VMT as the most appropriate measure of 
transportation impacts under CEQA. Consistent with State CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3, the 
City of San Mateo adopted thresholds of significance to determine when a project will have a 
significant transportation impact based on VMT. The City has developed screening criteria to 
streamline the analysis for projects that meet certain criteria, referred to as project screening. A 
project is exempt from a detailed VMT analysis if it meets at least one of the following criteria: 
1. Is considered a small project – generates fewer than 110 vehicle daily trips; 
2. Provides 100% affordable housing – 100% affordable housing components of 
development projects are exempt from detailed VMT screening; 
3. Is considered local-serving retail – the local-serving retail component must constitute 
50,000 square feet or less of gross floor area; 
4. Is located in a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) and:  
a. 
Has a floor area ratio (FAR) greater than 0.75; 
b. Does not provide greater than the minimum required parking for use by residents, 
customers, or employees (if the jurisdiction requires the project to supply parking); 
c. 
Is consistent with the applicable Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s (MTC) 
Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as determined by the City; or 
d. Does not replace affordable residential units with a smaller number of moderate- or 
high-income residential units. 
5. Is located in a low VMT area:  
a. 
Residential projects proposed in TAZs with total daily resident-based VMT per capita 
that is 15% less than the existing average baseline level for the County of San Mateo; 
b. Office or the employment portions of other non-residential uses with total daily 
employee-based VMT per employee that is 15% less than the existing average 
baseline level for the County of San Mateo. 
 
5 City of San Mateo Reach Codes (2020-2020), 2019, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4674/Reach-Codes-
2020-2022.

--- page 21 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 13 of 19  
The TIA Guidelines’ VMT maps in Attachment B denote TAZs that meet the geographic 
screening thresholds. 
For projects that require a VMT analysis, the thresholds of significance, designated by land use, 
are included in Table 2 of the TIA Guidelines and reproduced here:

--- page 22 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 14 of 19  
Impact Thresholds by Land Use Type 
Land Use Types 
Impact Threshold 
Residential 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project VMT/capita is greater than 15 
percent below the existing San Mateo County average. 
Regional Average: 15.5 VMT/capita 
Impact Threshold: 13.1 VMT/capita 
Office 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project VMT/employee is greater than 15 
percent below the existing San Mateo County average. 
Regional Average: 18.0 VMT/employee 
Impact Threshold: 15.3 VMT/employee 
Retail 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project causes a net increase in total VMT. 
The total VMT for the region without and with the project is calculated. The 
difference between the two scenarios is the net change in total VMT that is 
attributable to the project 
Other Land Uses 
The City will make a determination of the applicable thresholds on a case-by-case 
basis based on the land use type, project description and setting. Student housing 
and senior housing land uses may be treated as residential for screening and 
detailed VMT analysis. Research and development, industrial, medical offices, 
assisted living, and hospital projects may be evaluated as office projects using the 
VMT/employee metric. Projects such as hotels, private schools, grocery stores, local-
serving entertainment venues, religious institutions, regional parks, athletic clubs 
and medical offices should be treated as retail for detailed VMT analysis. The 
determination of the applicable threshold will be made at the time of each 
application review. 
Mixed-Use Projects 
Evaluate each component of a mixed-use project independently and apply the 
significance threshold for each land use type. Alternatively, the evaluation would 
apply only the project’s dominant use if it generates 80% of the total daily trips. 
Note: 
1. 
Impact thresholds provided in this table represent the level used to indicate a significant transportation impact under 
VMT metrics. VMT Threshold values may change over time as updated traffic models or new ABAG land uses are 
adopted. 
Source: City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, July 16, 2020, p. 9. 
The TIA Guidelines state that VMT impacts from development projects may be mitigated via 
implementation of low-VMT project characteristics, multimodal improvements, parking strategies, 
and Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures. No detailed guidance is provided on 
the measures to be included in TDM Plans or the structure of those plans, which will be clarified 
as a part of the TDM Ordinance.  
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (2020) 
The City of San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan establishes ST 6 - Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) as one of seven transportation-specific measures the City will leverage to 
achieve its emission reduction targets for the 2020 to 2050 timeline. Recommended actions 
associated with this target include:

--- page 23 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 15 of 19  
• 
Require new developments of at least six multi-family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space to implement a suite of TDM strategies to comply with the 
appropriate trip reduction target identified in applicable area plans. 
• 
Require developments of at least 20 multi-family units and/or 50,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space undergoing additions or alterations (as defined in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.0126) to implement TDM strategies consistent with the 
targets in relevant area plans. 
• 
Educate developers working on projects in San Mateo not located in a TDM area about 
ways to reduce vehicle miles traveled and the resultant benefits.  
• 
Publicize developments and businesses with successful TDM programs. 
• 
Work with regional partners to fund successful TDM strategies for existing developments 
that can be implemented with little or no cost to property owners. 
Bicycle Master Plan (2020) 
The City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, adopted in 2020, serves as a blueprint for expanding 
and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming years. The plan reflects 
a citywide interest in making bicycling, other forms of micromobility (e.g., bikeshare and electric 
scooters) and active travel safer, more convenient, and more connected throughout the city. Plan 
goals include: 
• 
Connectivity – Seamless bicycle connectivity to major destinations throughout the city. 
• 
Safety and Comfort – Safe and comfortable riding for people of all ages and abilities. 
• 
Community – Creation of a robust active transportation community in San Mateo. 
• 
Equity – Equitable infrastructure investments that prioritize underserved communities. 
• 
Ridership – A significant mode shift from driving to bicycling and other forms of 
micromobility for trips around town. 
The plan identifies a priority infrastructure network for citywide projects, emphasizing local, short 
trips to key destinations like schools and parks, connectivity within and between neighborhoods, 
and connections to transit. The Plan also includes policy and programmatic recommendations 
that support proposed network infrastructure as well as a prioritized project list, planning-level 
cost estimates, and a list of potential funding sources. The Bicycle Master Plan will be the primary 
resource when defining the bicycle facilities recommended for implementation as a part of TDM 
plans in the TDM Ordinance. 
 
6 This Code section was repealed in 2019 per Ordinance 2019-13 § 1(a).

--- page 24 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 16 of 19  
Pedestrian Master Plans  
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan (2012) 
The Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, adopted in 2012, is a blueprint for improving the pedestrian 
environment, securing funding for pedestrian safety and livable communities initiatives, and 
increase the number of walking trips in the City of San Mateo guided by the following six goals:  
• 
Goal 1: Mobility – Increase and improve pedestrian access to employment centers, transit, 
community destinations and recreation across the City of San Mateo for all ages and 
abilities. 
• 
Goal 2: Safety – Improve pedestrian safety through the design and maintenance of 
sidewalks, streets, intersections, and other roadway improvements such as signage and 
lighting, and landscaping; as well as best practice programs to enhance and improve the 
overall pedestrian safety. 
• 
Goal 3: Infrastructure and Support Facilities – Maintain and improve the quality, operation 
and integrity of the pedestrian network infrastructure that allows for convenient and 
direct connections throughout San Mateo. 
• 
Goal 4: Programs – Increase awareness of the value of pedestrian travel for commute and 
non-commute trips through encouragement, education, enforcement and evaluation 
programs that support walking. 
• 
Goal 5: Equity – Improve pedestrian accessibility for all residents through equity in public 
engagement, service delivery and capital investments. 
• 
Goal 6: Implementation – Implement the Pedestrian Plan over the next 20 years. 
The plan and its recommended priority projects, design guidelines, and implementation strategies 
aim to increase the viability, safety, and comfort of pedestrian travel in the City of San Mateo in 
line with facilitating a mode shift away from automobile travel. The Pedestrian Master Plan, 
including the City’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines (Appendix B of the Master Plan), will be the 
primary resource when defining the pedestrian facilities required as a part of TDM plans in the 
TDM Ordinance. 
Supplemental guidance for transit-oriented neighborhoods in San Mateo is provided through the 
San Mateo Rail Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan (2022). 
San Mateo Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan (2022) 
The Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan, adopted in 2022, serves as a roadmap 
to enhance pedestrian safety and create comfortable walking routes to transit for all ages and 
abilities. The Plan focuses on improving conditions for people walking to, from, and around the 
three Caltrain stations (Downtown, Hillsdale, Hayward Park) and on El Camino Real. This plan 
provides a list of priority projects, a toolbox of measures to address common pedestrian issues,

--- page 25 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 17 of 19  
and an implementation action plan for projects. The outcome of the plan is to help the City 
prioritize walking and transit use, improve safety and comfort for all ages and abilities, and reduce 
reliance on single-occupancy automobile travel surrounding high-quality transit stops. This plan 
serves as an important reference for future TDM implementation as TDM plans should 
incorporate the recommended projects and toolbox to enhance pedestrian facilities adjacent to 
new development within one-half mile of high-quality transit.  
Sustainable Streets Plan (2015) 
The Sustainable Streets Plan, published in 2015 but not formally adopted, provides guidance on 
how San Mateo could alter its transportation system over time to create more vibrant, 
sustainable, comfortable, safe, and economically productive streets. The plan outlines strategies 
the City could leverage the public rights-of-way to serve all users, present and future, and 
provides guidelines, policies and an implementation plan the City could use to support delivery of 
Sustainable Streets projects. This plan is rooted in the concepts of Complete Streets and Green 
Streets:  
• 
Complete Streets – routinely planned, designed, operated, and maintained with the 
consideration of the needs and safety of all travelers along and across the entire public 
right-of-way, including people of all ages and abilities who are walking, driving, bicycling, 
using transit, traveling with mobility aids, or hauling freight. 
• 
Green Streets – incorporate environmental features like trees, rain gardens, and 
infiltration planters to slow the course of runoff and filter it naturally before it reaches 
major waterways and sensitive plant and animal life. 
The plan’s Vision, Policies, and Objectives provide a sample framework which could serve as a 
reference for updating the City’s General Plan Circulation Element to achieve sustainable streets 
objectives. Recommended Sustainable Streets programs of relevance to a future TDM Ordinance 
include:  
• 
A new development review process and fee based around transportation performance 
metrics, including VMT per capita, that are more in line with Plan goals; 
• 
A citywide Transportation Demand Management Plan, requiring new development to 
include trip reduction programs and incentives; 
• 
Efforts to institutionalize Sustainable Streets in City agencies; and 
• 
Existing Program Revisions: Residential Parking Permit Program and Neighborhood 
Traffic Management Program. 
 
The City is currently developing a Complete Streets Plan that will provide a plan to allocate 
roadway space and synthesize the findings from this and other plans listed above. This on-going 
planning effort will be coordinated with the TDM Ordinance where feasible.

--- page 26 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 18 of 19  
Subarea Plans and Policies  
The following plans guide development in the corresponding subareas of the City of San Mateo.  
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (2005) 
The City of San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan Implementation Chapter 
7, Section G - Transportation Demand Management (TDM) establishes goals for the TOD area to 
help maximize opportunities for achieving transit-oriented goals and minimizing vehicle trips. The 
TDM framework includes:  
• 
Establishment of a 25 percent corridor-wide trip reduction goal; 
• 
Establishment of a Transportation Management Association with membership 
requirements; 
• 
Requirement for single-occupant vehicle trip reduction goals for individual projects that 
will also be required to submit a trip reduction and parking plan as part of their 
development application;  
• 
Definition of a range of TDM measures to achieve trip reduction goals; and  
• 
Requirements for ongoing monitoring to ensure compliance, and the actions to be taken 
for non-compliance. 
 
The Plan’s Technical Appendix includes a detailed discussion of recommended TDM measures 
and how they can be implemented in the San Mateo Rail Corridor, which will be considered as a 
part of the TDM Ordinance.  
City of San Mateo Hillsdale Station Area Plan (2011) 
The City of San Mateo Hillsdale Station Area Plan (SAP), adopted in 2011, includes parking 
management strategies of import to the future TDM Ordinance. Namely, the plan proposes that 
Policy 7.19 of the Rail Corridor Plan be expanded to cover all new development in the Hillsdale 
SAP, thus requiring new development in the Hillsdale area to complete a Trip Reduction and 
Parking Management Plan. The policy encourages flexibility but recommends specific measures 
for inclusion in employer and residential TDM Plans to help ensure the success of complementary 
TDM measures and support the vehicle trip reduction goals of the Rail Corridor Plan. 
Recommended measures include, but are not limited to, establishing preferential parking spaces 
for carpools, vanpools, and carshare vehicles, implementing parking pricing for residents 
(unbundled from rent) and employees if feasible, providing bicycle parking facilities for 
employees, visitors, and residents, reducing parking ratios, and sharing parking between adjacent 
commercial uses.  
The plan also lists potential TMA TDM Measures which could be provided by the Rail Corridor 
TMA and provides supporting analysis estimating the reductions that could be achieved should

--- page 27 ---
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
March 31, 2023 
Page 19 of 19  
strategies be implemented. Annual vehicle trip monitoring reports for the TMA are available for 
2015 through 2018 on the City’s website.  
City of San Mateo Downtown Area Plan (2009) 
The City of San Mateo Downtown Area Plan, adopted in 2009, is grounded in eight goals, the 
eighth of which is to:  
• 
Support Sustainable Initiatives in Downtown – Downtown projects and operations should 
support the City’s sustainability efforts. Specific projects related to the use of 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures pedestrian enhancements, use of 
public transit, support for high density development and high intensity uses (particularly 
in the vicinity of the Downtown Train Station) support this goal. City-wide sustainable 
initiatives shall be incorporated and shall be used in the implementation of Downtown 
Plan policies. Initiatives shall be incorporated and shall be used in the implementation of 
Downtown Specific Plan policies.  
Chapter 4 - Downtown Plan Policies discusses the provision of parking in Downtown San Mateo, 
participation in TDM measures, and development of a Downtown Transportation Management 
Agency (TMA). The plan highlights several parking strategies including a provision for reduced 
parking requirements within a half-mile of the Downtown Transit Center on a case-by-case basis. 
The plan also requires that development projects anticipated to generate significant parking and 
traffic impacts in Downtown San Mateo to participate in TDM measures such as car/van pooling, 
car sharing, staggered work hours and transit use, as a condition of approval. Projects with 
smaller impacts are also encouraged to seek out opportunities to incorporate TDM measures. 
Lastly, the plan establishes a Downtown TMA to provide support and oversight of the Downtown 
residential and commercial transportation opportunities and enhance the use of public transit 
and/or bicycles while reducing the use of single-occupant vehicles. 
Other Subarea Plans 
The plans and policies listed below provide additional guidance on the multimodal transportation 
facility and sustainable design principals to incorporate into development in specific subareas of 
the City of San Mateo.  
• 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment (Phase II) (adopted 2005) 
• 
El Camino Real Master Plan (from Belmont to Highway 92) (adopted 2001) 
• 
Mariner’s Island Specific Plan (adopted 1973, updated 1995) 
• 
Shoreline Specific Plan (adopted 1971, updated 1990) 
• 
Detroit Specific Plan (adopted 1984, updated 1990) 
• 
North Central Community Based Transportation Plan (adopted 2011)

--- page 28 ---
7
os O >
eee) f=: Cee ene

(NAN |) 184+ DONE" (—_ Ai (TL
WHOL. OOO Why) gc ih = ii jini

SS AS LS RS A SS RS SS SS SS ee ee ee

BEST PRACTICE CASE STUDIES



--- page 29 ---
INTRODUCTION
Task 1. Existing Conditions Review
Nelson\Nygaard led the investigation of best practices for TDM programs implemented by other Bay Area cities and national best practice 
examples. 
Research included both well-established strategies and approaches as well as new and innovative examples. 
Cities chosen include:
• East Palo Alto, CA
• Redwood City, CA
• South San Francisco, CA
• San Jose, CA
• Arlington, VA
• Atlanta, GA
2 -

--- page 30 ---
BEST PRACTICE CASE STUDIES
3 -
Case Study
Population
Transit Services Available
Relevance for San Mateo
San Mateo, CA
105,661
•
BART
•
SamTrans 
•
CalTrain
•
San Francisco Bay Ferry
N/A
East Palo Alto, CA
30,034
•
SamTrans
•
VTA
•
Dumbarton Express
•
Proximity to San Mateo
•
New TDM program
Redwood City, CA
84,292
•
Caltrain
•
SamTrans
•
Proximity to San Mateo
•
New TDM program
South San Francisco, 
CA
66,105
•
South City Shuttle
•
SamTrans
•
BART
•
Caltrain
•
San Francisco Bay Ferry
•
Proximity to San Mateo
•
Similar geographic and transit context
San Jose, CA
1,013,240
•
Altamont Corridor Express
•
Caltrain
•
VTA
•
BART (future)
•
Best practice example
•
Recently revised TDM program to tie TDM to land 
use and zoning
Arlington, VA
238,643
•
WMATA Metrorail and Metrobus
•
Arlington Transit
•
VRE Commuter Rail
•
Best practice example
•
Program with demonstrated success
•
Monitoring and compliance requirements
Atlanta, GA
498,715
•
MARTA rail and bus
•
GRTA Xpress
•
Best practice example
•
Recently revised TDM program to capture 
residential, commercial, and hotel land uses

--- page 31 ---
CASE STUDY FORMAT
Each case study includes:
Key Insights
Structure and Management
Applicability
Performance Metrics and Requirements
Monitoring and Compliance
Additional Questions
4 -

--- page 32 ---
BEST PRACTICES CASE STUDIES
5
Case Study City
Who manages 
the program?
Applicability
Performance 
Target/Metrics
Monitoring 
Requirements
Non-Compliance 
Consequences
East Palo Alto, CA
City-designated TDM 
program administrator
Residential and non-residential 
developments
•
Reduction in average daily 
trips
•
Review of annual TDM 
plans submitted
•
Audits
•
Penalty fee or in-lieu fee
•
Fines and civil penalties
Redwood City, CA
City and TMAs (if created)
New residential, commercial, 
office, and industrial 
developments and existing 
developments that request 
permits for changes
•
Target mode share goals for 
types of development
•
Required measures
•
Annual survey
•
Annual report
•
Financial penalties
•
Requirements to support 
community program
•
Limits on future development
South San Francisco, CA
City staff
Four tiers of applicability 
capture most land uses
•
Reduction in vehicle trips 
(via mode shift and trip cap 
targets)
•
Points requirements
•
Monitoring based on 
intensity of use
•
Modification of TDM plans
•
Coordination with outside TDM 
experts
•
Financial penalties
San Jose, CA
City staff
Home end uses
Commute end uses
Visit end uses
Other Uses
Special uses
•
Mode shift
•
Points requirements
•
Monitoring for Level 2 
projects
•
Compliance forms
•
Non-compliance measures
Arlington, VA
County TDM agency staff
Developments that require a 
site plan
•
Mode shift
•
Implementation of the plan
•
Annual reports
•
Transportation and 
parking performance 
monitoring study
•
Annual Site Visit
•
Non-compliant properties have 
additional monitoring 
requirements
•
Risk of revoked certificate of 
occupancy
Atlanta, GA
City staff and TMAs
Developments above 25,000 
square feet in certain areas
•
Implementation of the plan
•
Annual monitoring 
reports
•
Plans must be compliant with 
ordinance

--- page 33 ---
ipa atiat a areeoal ihdice for oyre se Rg Raa SRR issaSsissiiaay

in
;

Welcome to

: East Palo Alto |

Peel | *h *s _ % * af fA[2 DSS ern *
“ue . s - i eh be i: “io. = a
eePrregrterrss frrtertetesrsrssreesererrrsesrsssl rss eters sete re rere

CASE STUDY #1:
EAST PALO ALTO, CA



--- page 34 ---
- 7
EAST PALO ALTO, CA
SUMMARY OF KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
Developers are required to submit a developer TDM plan and alternative commute information plan
•
Plans must demonstrate how developers will require future employers to distribute commute 
alternative information about carpooling/ridesharing
•
TDM plans must be updated and submitted annually
•
Reductions are based on average daily trips (rather than VMT, points, or other)
•
City conducts periodic audits for compliance. Noncompliance results in a variety of financial penalties 
(in-lieu fees, fines, and other penalties)
•
TDM Plans are required before permitting for new developments or renewal of business licenses is 
completed by the city 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 35 ---
- 8
EAST PALO ALTO, CA
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
• Current TDM Ordinance updated in 2021 and effective in 2022
• Managed by a city-designated TDM program administrator
• RFP out for a consultant in spring 2022
APPLICABILITY:
• TDM required for new development that is projected to generate more than 110 average daily vehicle 
trips and meets the following thresholds:
• Developments with 10 or more residential units
• Nonresidential developments with greater than 10,000 square feet
• Existing non-residential developments with 100+ employees
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 36 ---
- 9
EAST PALO ALTO, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Applicable developments must submit a TDM plan to demonstrate how the development or worksite will achieve 
a 40% reduction in average daily trips
• Existing Non-Residential Developments
• Project owners with 100+ employees must submit a TDM plan annually
• TDM plan must demonstrate how the worksite will achieve a 40% reduction from baseline conditions in 
average daily trips 
• Non-Residential Developer Requirements
• Developers must submit an enforceable plan to have all future employers distribute commute alternative 
information on ridesharing, transit, bicycling and other commute alternatives
• Developers must submit a TDM plan that demonstrates how the site will achieve a 40% reduction in 
average daily commute trips
• Developer TDM plans must be approved  by the city TDM program administrator before approval of an 
entitlement permit
• Residential Developer Requirements
• Developers must develop an enforceable TDM plan with the city’s TDM program administrator that 
demonstrates compliance with TDM requirements and encourages mode shift to active transportation. 
• Developers must submit a TDM plan that demonstrates how the development will support TDM strategies 
in the city and will achieve a 40% reduction in average daily trips
• If achieving the reduction target cannot be demonstrated, an in-lieu fee for the difference between the 
actual and target trip reduction target may be assessed. This must be pated prior to project entitlements.
• Developers can apply for exemptions if they demonstrate significant hardship
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 37 ---
- 10
EAST PALO ALTO, CA
MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE:
• If 40% reduction in average daily trips is not met, a penalty fee or in-lieu fee is assessed for the difference 
between actual and target trip reduction
• All fees and fines are determined by the East Palo Alto City Council
• Developers who do not comply with the ordinance after 30 days of written notice are guilty of an 
infraction and fined
• After 90 days, this raises to a civil penalty, in addition to a fine
• All fees and fines are determined by the East Palo Alto City Council
• Property owners and employers may be subject to periodic audits to confirm compliance
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 38 ---
- 11
EAST PALO ALTO, CA
KEY QUESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH:
• The Ordinance was passed in 2021 and became effective in 2022. Are there separate TDM guidelines, or is 
everything contained in the ordinance?
• Why is the City looking to hire a consultant for program support? What duties will they fulfill, and what is 
the current status?
• What is the audit process? How do developments demonstrate that they are compliant with the trip 
reduction goal, outside of audits?
• Does "non-compliance" only mean they have not met their trip reduction goal? Or are they also "non-
compliant" if they have not implemented the strategies stated in their TDM plan? What is the 
accompanying fee for non-compliance?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 39 ---
—

‘DWOOD c

CASE STUDY #2:
REDWOOD CITY, CA



--- page 40 ---
- 13
REDWOOD CITY, CA
SUMMARY OF KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
Mode share targets differ by land use, ranging from a 33% SOV mode share target to a 52% SOV mode 
share target. These individual mode share goals are calibrated to achieve a combined citywide target 
mode share goal of 50% SOV trips by 2040
•
The ordinance allows the City to adjust mode share targets for individual sites as part of ongoing 
monitoring (based on performance)
•
The ordinance expresses a desire for TMA formation, but appears to lack specific incentives for them. 
TMAs are envisioned as key partners for TDM plan administration
•
Site TDM plans must be approved by the city before permits and certificates of occupancy are issued
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 41 ---
- 14
REDWOOD CITY, CA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• TDM ordinance approved in 2018
• Originally created as part of the RWCmoves
Citywide Transportation Plan
• Accompanying administrative guidelines support 
implementation, provide TDM requirement 
triggers describe individual measures, outline roles 
and responsibilities, and include information on 
compliance and monitoring
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 42 ---
- 15
REDWOOD CITY, CA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• TDM program is managed by the city,
• TMAs are encouraged in the ordinance, but no 
specific incentives given
• If TMAs are created, most TDM 
administration and support is handled by the 
TMA
• The city reviews Site TDM Plans (as required for 
developments that meet the triggers below) 
before permits and certificates of occupancy can 
be provided
• TMAs coordinate transportation programs and 
services and conduct monitoring and evaluation 
within the city
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 43 ---
- 16
REDWOOD CITY, CA
APPLICABILITY:
• Site TDM Plans are required for:
• New residential development with 25+ units for single and multi-family developments or 5+ units 
with a homeowner’s association
• New commercial, office, or industrial with 10,000 square feet or 10+ employees
• Existing residential, commercial, or industrial development that meets requirements for new 
development and requests a permit for change in parking supply, change in use/density, and/or 
change in number of units or square footage.
• TMAs may be created by developments to implement area-wide TDM programs.
• If TMAs are created, TMAs must create Area TDM plans. 
• Area TDM plans would include alternative targets and requirements for these areas.
• Redwood City’s Program Guidelines recommend creating TMAs and Area TDM Plans in areas that 
have high growth potential or have several sites with similar needs that would benefit from 
coordination. 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 44 ---
- 17
REDWOOD CITY, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Citywide goal: reduce drive-alone trips by 50% by 2040
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 45 ---
- 18
REDWOOD CITY, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Citywide goal: reduce drive-alone trips by 50% by 2040
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 46 ---
- 19
REDWOOD CITY, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Citywide goal: reduce drive-alone trips by 50% by 2040
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 47 ---
- 20
REDWOOD CITY, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Citywide goal: reduce drive-alone trips by 50% by 2040
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 48 ---
- 21
REDWOOD CITY, CA
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS:
• The Program Guidelines encourage creating TMAs. Have any TMAs been created in Redwood City?
• How does monitoring and enforcement work? How do developments demonstrate that they are compliant 
with the mode share goal? Or more simply, that they have implemented the strategies stated in their TDM 
plans?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 49 ---
SOUT!
SAN - F RANTIASUO
Ae ENE SS ERA A LL TL

*

CASE STUDY #3:

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA



--- page 50 ---
- 23
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
SMMARY OF KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
Only office and research and development uses are held to mode shift targets—other land uses simply 
need to implement TDM measures that meet minimum requirements
•
Requirements are based on a point system (for all tiers), mode split targets (some tiers), and trip caps 
(last tier)
•
Monitoring requirements increase as development intensity and size increases
•
TDM plans must be submitted to and approved by the city before building permits and/or business 
licenses are approved 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 51 ---
- 24
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
STRUCTURE AND STATUS:
• TDM ordinance most recently updated in 2022 as 
part of the Shape SSF 2040 General Plan
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
•
City-managed program
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 52 ---
- 25
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
APPLICABILITY:
• All projects subject to TDM requirements must incorporate measures that have a demonstratable effect on 
reducing vehicle trips generated
• Measures must be selected from a menu of options and achieve a total number of points required
• Points are associated with a measure’s estimated level of demand reduction impact, with each point 
roughly equivalent to a 1% demand reduction
•
Four tiers of applicability:
Best Practice Case Studies
Tier
Applicability
Tier 1 
Residential land uses with 20 or more units (excluding senior housing developments and affordable housing 
developments with greater than 50 percent of units below market rate)
Tier 2
All hotels, retail, warehouse/distribution, and industrial uses anticipated to generate greater than 100 daily 
trips; and small office and  R&D uses greater than 10,000 square feet but less than 50,000 square feet
Tier 3
Office and research and development uses between 50,000 and 400,000 square feet of gross floor area, and 
any Tier 2 land uses found to have a significant impact to vehicle miles traveled during environmental review
Tier 4
Office and research and development uses with at least 400,000 square feet of gross floor area

--- page 53 ---
- 26
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
Tier 1:
• Total of 20 Points
• Annual self-certification form 
is required for the first five 
years after occupancy
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 54 ---
- 27
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
Tier 2: 
• Total of 30 points
• Annual self-certification form 
is required for the first 20 
years of occupancy
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 55 ---
- 28
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
Tier 3: 
• Total of 40 points
• Annual monitoring to achieve 
a maximum of 60 percent of 
employees commuting via 
driving alone
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 56 ---
- 29
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
Tier 4: 
• Total of 50 points
• Annual monitoring to achieve 
a maximum of 50 percent of 
employees commuting via 
driving alone
• Annual monitoring of a site-
specific trip cap
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 57 ---
- 30
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE:
• Requirements: 
• Monitoring requirements are included in tier requirements
• Tier 1: Annual self-certification form for first 5 years of occupancy
• Tier 2: Annual self-certification form is required for the first 20 years of occupancy
• Tier 3: Annual monitoring to achieve a maximum of 60 percent of employees commuting via driving 
alone
• Tier 4: Annual monitoring to achieve a maximum of 50 percent of employees commuting via driving 
alone and annual monitoring of a site-specific trip cap
• Non-Compliance: 
• First violation: Participants modify TDM programs to achieve compliance​
• Second violation: Participants must coordinate with Commute.org or retain an outside consultant to 
identify additional program modifications​
• Third violation: The City may assess a financial penalty​
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 58 ---
- 31
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CA
KEY QUESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH:
• How successful has the program been at achieving mode share goals?
• How well has monitoring and compliance been? How common is non-compliance developments?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF

SAN JOSE

CAPITAL OF SILICON VALLEY

CASE STUDY #4:
SAN JOSE, CA



--- page 60 ---
- 33
SAN JOSE, CA
SUMMARY OF KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
San Jose’s TDM program was developed in parallel with a reassessment of citywide minimum parking 
requirements. This is a trend seen in other cities across the U.S.
•
Applicability is based on the end use, rather than the entitled land use. The idea is that the specific end 
use may be a more accurate determinant of whether the user will drive or take another mode
•
Some of San Jose’s proposed TDM measures include more involved strategies, like providing 
neighborhood schools or increasing residential density
•
TDM strategies are for the life of the project
•
Compliance for physical measures are confirmed at the end of the development process (certificate of 
occupancy); compliance for programmatic measures are documented on an ongoing basis
•
Developments must submit a TDM Plan before the city issues a development, ministerial, or building 
permit or a certificate of occupancy
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 61 ---
- 34
SAN JOSE, CA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
•
TDM ordinance with accompanying TDM program 
guidelines and handbook
•
San Jose reevaluated parking and TDM policies to 
advance Climate Smart San Jose and Envision San 
Jose 2040 General Plan
•
San Jose removed minimum parking 
requirements to allow more flexibility with the 
types of uses allowed in existing buildings
•
Also provides an opportunity for alternative 
uses of underutilized parking
•
New ordinance and new TDM program are 
effective April 10, 2023
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 62 ---
- 35
SAN JOSE, CA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
•
Managed by the City of San Jose
•
The city maintains a menu of TDM measures and sets point targets
•
These measures are memorialized in the guidelines/handbook rather than the ordinance, which 
means they can be updated at the administrative level (without council approval)
•
Project applicants must work with city staff to develop a TDM plan that meets their project’s point 
requirement
•
Prior to issuance of any use permit and/or Certificate of Occupancy, projects must execute and record a 
Covenant and Agreement that the approved TDM Plan and the TDM measures contained therein, have 
been provided and will be maintained throughout the life of the project
•
The City performs an inspection prior to issuing a Certificate of Occupancy to ensure that physical 
measures have been installed as part of construction. The project must also provide documentation of 
the programmatic measures
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 63 ---
- 36
SAN JOSE, CA
APPLICABILITY:
• TDM ordinance applies to all development that 
adds:
• Commute End Uses (such as offices) that 
add at least 10,000 square feet
• Visit End Uses (such as retail, 
restaurants, personal services) that add 
at least 100,000 square feet
• Residential End Uses (such homes or 
apartments) that add at least 25 multi-
family units or 15 single-family detached 
units
• Other Uses (most industrial uses) that 
add at least 30,000 square feet
• Projects with 100% restricted affordable 
units
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 64 ---
- 37
SAN JOSE, CA
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
• All projects must meet a point 
target
• Two tiers of projects (Level 1 
and Level 2) based on project 
size
• All developments must 
submit a TDM plan
• All developments must 
submit annual TDM plan 
compliance documentation
• Only Level 2 projects are 
required to submit TDM 
monitoring reports
• Current TDM menu and 
points totals are being 
developed
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 65 ---
- 38
SAN JOSE, CA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Proposed Menu of TDM Measures include:
• Increase residential density
• Increase development diversity
• Provide affordable housing
• Increase employment density
• Provide bike and micromobility network improvements
• Provide new street connections
• Provide transit network improvements
• Provide residential street improvements
• Provide walking network improvements
• Parking supply
• Provide bike parking facilities
• Shared parking
• Provide school pool programs
• Provide bike share programs
• Provide carshare programs
• Provide education, marketing, and outreach
• Join a TMA
• Provide parking cash-out
• Provide transit subsidy
• Provide flexible work schedules
• Provide private shuttles/transit services
• Price workplace parking
• Provide alternative transportation benefits
• Provide neighborhood schools
• Provide ride-sharing programs
• Subsidize public transit service upgrade or expansion
• Provide travel behavioral intervention
• Unbundle parking costs from property cost
• Provide vanpool incentives
• Provide voluntary travel behavior change programs
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 66 ---
- 39
SAN JOSE, CA
MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE:
• Projects that include a TDM Plan as a Condition of Approval must implement the selected TDM measures 
for the life of the project
• Annual Compliance Forms
• Projects required to provide at least one programmatic measure must submit a TDM Plan 
Compliance Form and associated administrative fees
• Compliance forms must include project size, point of contact, documentation of existing TDM 
measures
• Annual Monitoring Report
• Large projects that are required to provide at least one programmatic measure also must complete 
monitoring reports
• Annual monitoring reports must include building occupant/tenant travel strategies; driveway traffic 
counts; and evaluation of TDM plans
• Non-Compliance
• Non-compliant projects must submit a follow-up report that demonstrates compliance within a six-
month period
• If projects are still non-compliant, the city can withhold issuance of building, grading, demolition, 
foundation, use of land, change of use permits, and issuance of Certificates of Occupancy
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 67 ---
- 40
SAN JOSE, CA
KEY QUESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH:
• What does the transportation analysis handbook include? (to be published April 2023)
• From the City’s perspective, how resource-intensive is the program to operate and monitor? Is there a role 
for a TMA to support?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 68 ---
=—

= — > = at = ;
MYLAR RAT’! te

CASE STUDY #58:
ARLINGTON, VA



--- page 69 ---
- 42
ARLINGTON, VA
KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
Arlington’s county-wide TDM plan must be updated every six years. This is a state requirement
•
Arlington’s TDM for Site Plans program is optional, but developers receive a significant density bonus 
for opting into the program. This is a key reason why adoption is so high
•
If developments opt into the TDM for Developments program, developments must submit a TDM Plan 
as part of the Site Plan review process. This plan must be approved by the County TDM Planner before 
the County issues the first Certificate of Occupancy for the building Developers write individual site plans, 
but receive extensive support from county staff.
•
Arlington County handles monitoring, but developments must pay a set fee (about $10,000) for 
monitoring costs. This allows Arlington to contract with a consultant to do the majority of monitoring and 
annual reports
•
The program is extremely well-staffed and well-funded. The TDM Site Plan section has 12 full-time 
employees, in addition to the other employees who staff Arlington’s TDM and commute programs. The 
TDM Site Plan section has an average annual budget of about $550,000 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 70 ---
- 43
ARLINGTON, VA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• Arlington’s TDM program was first 
implemented in 1989
• No explicit TDM ordinance – included 
under Site Plan portion of Arlington 
County’s Code
• Arlington’s main TDM program is the TDM 
for Site Plans program
• Arlington also provides additional TDM 
programs to support the TDM for Site Plan 
Program
• These include commuter benefits 
programs; school TDM programs; 
and hotel TDM programs
• Educational/training programs and 
materials
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 71 ---
- 44
ARLINGTON, VA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• Arlington County Commuter Services (ACCS) runs 
the TDM for Site Plan Development program
• ACCS is a bureau within Arlington County’s 
Department of Transportation Division. 
• ACCS receives support from Arlington 
Transportation Partners for TDM
• Arlington Transportation Partners functions 
similarly to a TMA
• ACCS contracts with a consultant to do monitoring
• ACCS has about 12 full-time staff
• Volunteers can become “TDM champions” 
for their sites
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 72 ---
- 45
ARLINGTON, VA
APPLICABILITY:
• There is no TDM requirement – developments can choose to opt into the TDM for Site Plans programs. If 
developers opt in, they receive a significant density bonus
• Density bonuses can include increased floor-area ratio and height increases
• Any development that submits a site plan must include a proposed Transportation Demand Management 
Plan
• Following the approval of the site plan, the developer must prepare a TDM Plan, including a schedule and 
implementation details, and must identify and describe the responsible party for confirming that the 
conditions are met, ensuring that properties are committed to implementing the TDM Program. 
• The TDM Plan must be approved by the County TDM Planner before the County issues the first Certificate 
of Occupancy for the building. 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 73 ---
- 46
ARLINGTON, VA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
• Projects must track metrics including drive-alone commute mode share; average weekday single-
occupancy trips and miles reduced; daily reduction of emissions; and transit usage
• Developers must include TDM measures from a baseline of TDM strategies included in the TDM Policy 
Matrix 
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 74 ---
- 47
ARLINGTON, VA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 75 ---
- 48
ARLINGTON, VA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 76 ---
- 49
ARLINGTON, VA
MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE:
• Developers are required to submit an annual report
• Transportation and parking performance monitoring study 
• Done at two years, five years, and every subsequent five-year interval
• Developers are required to reimburse Arlington County for the cost of the study – about $10,000
• Study includes occupancy rates, average vehicle occupancy, average garage occupancy, parking 
availability, average duration of stay, pedestrian traffic, seven-day county of site-generated vehicle 
traffic, voluntary mode-split survey, and special event parking rates.
• Studies are typically done by a consultant that Arlington contracts with
• Annual site visit
• Meeting and tour of the property
• All TDM components of the site plan are reviewed
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 77 ---
- 50
ARLINGTON, VA
KEY QUESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL RESEARCH:
• How has the program changed over time, and why?
• What makes the program so successful in getting vehicles trips off the road?
• Has the TDM program matrix been updated since 2008?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 78 ---
\O
rh
>
QO
—
_
VY)
Lu
VY)
<
UO

ATLANTA, GA



--- page 79 ---
- 52
ATLANTA, GA
KEY INSIGHTS FOR SAN MATEO:
•
The TDM program only applies in dense areas with existing TMAs, and does not include all land uses
•
The narrow focus of the program has resulted in slow implementation of TDM. There are few new 
developments that qualify under the ordinance,  and this has slowed widespread implementation 
•
Monitoring has been challenging. Atlanta does not have a long history of TDM and the program has 
limited staff. Responsibilities are also split between two departments
•
Atlanta’s program includes parking ordinance updates that set parking maximums
•
Compliance is enforced by withholding Certificate of Occupancy until a Transportation Management Plan 
is approved, though the success of this approach is unclear
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 80 ---
- 53
ATLANTA, GA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• City of Atlanta TDM Strategic Plan 
• Developed in 2019
• Most recently updated in 2021
• Accompanying ordinance
• The 2021 plan update included new zoning 
requirements for TDM in new developments
• The Strategic Plan suggested parking reforms 
including reduced parking maximums; these 
recommendations are currently under legislative 
consideration
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 81 ---
- 54
ATLANTA, GA
STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT:
• City-managed program
• Developments in applicable areas must have an 
approved Transportation Management Plan for a 
Certificate of Occupancy to be issued
• The TDM program is supported by the local TMAs
• Atlanta staff shared that administrative changes to 
the requirements are needed long-term as some 
criteria are too easy to meet
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 82 ---
- 55
ATLANTA, GA
APPLICABILITY:
• Applies to only to developments in special interest districts 
that already require Transportation Management Plans
• There are limited adoption areas for the new TDM 
program
• Applies to office, hotel, and residential land uses larger 
than 25,000 square feet
• Long-term city goal is to expand TDM applicability beyond 
major business districts to cover bike access
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 83 ---
- 56
ATLANTA, GA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & 
REQUIREMENTS:
• TDM plans/programs are required for 
office, hotel, and residential uses
• Each use has required elements and 
optional elements
• Required elements: 
Transportation coordinator; 
information distribution; process 
and monitoring reporting; must 
meet existing zoning 
requirements for bicycle and 
carpool infrastructure
• In practice, hard to achieve 
elements like parking pricing, 
transit investment, and 
unbundling parking
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 84 ---
- 57
ATLANTA, GA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Office TDM Menu
Best Practice Case Studies
Required 
Elements (Must 
have all 6)

Require building management to 
appoint a Building Transportation 
Coordinator (BTC)

Require building management to 
distribute up-to-date commuter 
information as provided by 
Georgia Commute Options or a 
Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) 

Annually report on TMP 
implementation to the City of 
Atlanta OR participate in a 
Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) 

Provide bicycle storage that 
meets or exceeds the zoning 
ordinance 

Provide an on-site commuter 
shower and locker facility that 
meets or exceeds the zoning 
ordinance

Designate carpool/vanpool 
parking to meet or exceed the 
zoning ordinance
Level A 
Elements 
(Choose at least 
2)

Provide and maintain a bicycle 
fix-it station on-site

Offer free programs for bicyclists 
such as safety training and bicycle 
maintenance workshops 

Install a commuter information 
center in an appropriate and 
central location, including real-
time arrival screens 

Designate a micromobility 
parking area in coordination with 
the Atlanta Department of 
Transportation

Establish a commuter part-time 
parking/flexible parking 
arrangement
Level B Elements 
(Choose at least 2)

Install and maintain or financially 
contribute to the installation of new 
bus stop infrastructure (in 
coordination with the appropriate 
transit operator) 

Install multimodal wayfinding signage 

Execute a shared parking arrangement 
with an adjacent property or 
properties 

Financially contribute to a carpool 
program for building tenants 

Provide discounted or free parking for 
carpools and vanpools

Provide and maintain bicycle and/or 
micromobility fleet for tenant use 

Provide carshare on-site 

Eliminate parking space minimum 
requirements in leases 

Unbundle parking from building-space 
leases
Level C 
Elements 
(Choose at least 
1)

Install or contribute financially to 
the installation of a MARTA rail 
station connection

Provide an on-site daycare facility 

Charge for parking on a daily 
basis

Set parking fee structure so that 
the cost of monthly parking is not 
lower than the sum of daily 
parking for the month (21 
business days) 

Reduce parking supply below 80% 
of maximum allowable in the 
zoning ordinance 

Financially contribute to a shuttle 
from transit to site 

Provide one 20-trip Breeze card 
for free, one time to each of 
tenants’ employees and property 
management company and/or 
building operator employees 
during the building’s opening and 
the start of a new tenant’s 
occupancy

--- page 85 ---
- 58
ATLANTA, GA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Hotel TDM Menu
Best Practice Case Studies
Required 
Elements (Must 
have all 4)

Require hotel management to 
appoint a Building 
Transportation Coordinator 
(BTC) 

Require building management 
to distribute up-to-date 
commuter information to 
employees as provided by 
Georgia Commute Options or a 
Transportation Management 
Association (TMA)

Annually report on TMP 
implementation to the City of 
Atlanta OR participate in a 
Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) 

Provide bicycle storage that 
meets or exceeds the zoning 
ordinance
Level A 
Elements 
(Choose at least 
2)

Offer programs for bicyclists 
such as safety training and 
bicycle maintenance for staff 

Install commuter information 
center in an appropriate and 
central location, including real-
time arrival screens 

Designate a micromobility 
parking area in coordination 
with the Atlanta Department 
of Transportation 

Install multimodal wayfinding 
signage 

Establish commuter part-time 
parking/flexible parking 
arrangement
Level B Elements 
(Choose at least 1)

Install and maintain or financially 
contribute to the installation of new 
bus stop infrastructure (in 
coordination with the appropriate 
transit operator) 

Execute a shared parking arrangement 
with an adjacent property or 
properties 

Set employee parking fee structure so 
that the cost of parking is not lower 
than the sum of daily parking for the 
month (21 business days) 

Provide discounted or free parking for 
carpools and vanpools 

Provide and maintain bicycle and/or 
micromobility fleet for visitor use 
and/or subsidize 
Level C 
Elements 
(Choose at least 
1)

Charge for parking on a daily 
basis 

Reduce parking supply below 50% 
of maximum allowable in the 
zoning code 

Financially contribute to a shuttle 
from transit to site

--- page 86 ---
- 59
ATLANTA, GA
PERFORMANCE METRICS & REQUIREMENTS:
Residential TDM Menu
Best Practice Case Studies
Required Elements 
(Must have all 4)

Require building management to appoint a 
Building Transportation Coordinator (BTC) 

Require building management to distribute up-
to-date commuter information to staff as 
provided by Georgia Commute Options or a 
Transportation Management Association 
(TMA)  

Annually report on TMP implementation to the 
City of Atlanta OR participate in a 
Transportation Management Association 
(TMA) 

Provide bicycle storage that meets or exceeds 
the zoning ordinance
Level A Elements (Chose 
at least 2)

Provide and maintain a bicycle fix-it station on-
site

Install commuter information center in an 
appropriate and central location, including 
real-time arrival screens 

Designate a micromobility parking area in 
coordination with the Atlanta Department of 
Transportation 

Provide and maintain bicycle and/or 
micromobility fleet for resident use and/or 
subsidize 

Provide carshare on-site
Level B Elements 
(Choose at least 1)

Unbundle parking from building-space leases 
or deeds 

Install and maintain or financially contribute to 
the installation of new bus stop infrastructure 
(in coordination with the appropriate transit 
operator) 

Execute a shared parking arrangement with an 
adjacent property or properties 

Reduce parking supply below 50% of maximum 
allowable in the zoning ordinance 

Financially contribute to a shuttle from transit 
to site 

Provide one 20-trip MARTA Breeze card for 
free, one time to each tenant at the start of a 
new tenant’s occupancy

--- page 87 ---
- 60
ATLANTA, GA
MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE:
• Annual monitoring reports
• Monitoring is not occurring
• Limited staffing
• Limited culture/experience with TDM at the City of Atlanta
• Responsibilities are split
• TDM is reliant on the development process – developments not going through redevelopment are not 
touched by TDM
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 88 ---
- 61
ATLANTA, GA
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS:
• Were developments in special interest districts required to have transportation management plans before 
2019?
• How does the city’s effort fit into regional TDM efforts?
• How well has the program been working?
• How is compliance/non-compliance handled?
Best Practice Case Studies

--- page 89 ---
Memorandum  
DATE 
July 17, 2023 
TO 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal 
Transportation Planner 
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org 
FROM 
Carla Violet, Associate Principal 
Emily Culling, Assistant Planner 
RE: San Mateo Transportation Demand Management Focus Groups Summary (June 
and July 2023) 
 
OUTCOMES:  
 
Understand San Mateo’s Transportation Demand Management (TDM) ordinance project 
purpose, team, and timeline 
 
Review/Understand fundamentals of TDM 
 
Identify potential TDM measures feasible for San Mateo 
 
Identify opportunities and barriers to implementing TDM measures 
 
ATTENDEES:  
 
44 virtual attendees across 4 focus groups 
o Local Developers: 9 participants 
o Chamber of Commerce 30 business representatives 
o Transportation agencies: 3 representatives from SamTrans, SMCTA, and 
SamTrans 
o Commute.org: 2 representatives  
 
City Staff:  
o Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner 
o Evan Albert, Deputy Director of Public Works 
 
Consultants:  
o Carla Violet, Associate Principal (UPP) 
o Emily Culling, Assistant Planner (UPP) 
o Molly Riddle, Transportation Planner (Fehr and Peers)

--- page 90 ---
July 17, 2023 
Page 2 
 
SUMMARY:  
Carla Violet (UPP) presented a brief overview of San Mateo’s TDM ordinance project, team, and 
timeline, as well as the fundamentals of TDM and examples of key TDM measures. After the 
presentation, the group moved into an interactive activity using Miro, a collaborative virtual 
whiteboard. Each focus group was asked a series of questions tailored to their relationship with 
TDM measures, such as “What TDM measures are you familiar with implementing and why?” and 
“What services are tenants/residents requesting that could be helpful when developing the TDM 
ordinance?”. For each question, participants’ responses were documented using post-it notes and 
additional notes were taken. Using the same tool, participants were then presented with a list of 
TDM measures and asked to discuss opportunities, challenges, and examples of such measures. 
Focus groups concluded with a recap of the project timeline and reminders that feedback would be 
requested on the draft TDM Ordinance and Program Guidelines in the Winter of 2023/2024.  
Local Developers Focus Group Feedback:  
 
Tenants, employees, and residents have requested transit pass programs, shuttle service, 
more secured bike parking, EV charging stations and e-bike rebates, showers and lockers. 
 
Improved connections between transit options and better/wider sidewalks would help 
reduce automobile travel. 
 
Subsidized passes are frequently asked about, but the increase operational expenses can be 
difficult to accommodate, especially for larger developments. 
 
Creative measures suggested include a more bike/walk friendly El Camino, bike/pedestrian 
scaled-lighting, wider sidewalks, and neighborhood/site-specific TDM measures. 
 
Inability to change resident behavior poses a barrier to reducing parking and providing 
transit passes. 
Additional discussion included barriers to behavior change, such as the convenience of driving and 
residents’ desire to have parking. Subsidized transit passes were frequently discussed, with 
participants noting that barriers included the cost, especially towards residents that don’t use 
provided passes. One participant noted that they would like more announcements about how TDM 
fees are used and what improvement fees have contributed to.  
Chamber of Commerce Focus Group Feedback:  
 
More childcare, ride share meeting spots, last mile and regional transit connections, 
seamless inter-modality, discounted parking rates, East/West transit service, and on-
demand micro transit arose as measures helpful to business owners. 
 
Suggested free shuttle services, real-time transit information, shuttles for workforce lunch 
crews, and increased punctuality and frequency of existing transit options as options that 
would support employees. 
 
Lack of walkability and safe crosswalks cited as access barriers to their businesses. 
 
Creative measures suggested included shuttles into and around downtown, educating 
teens on how to use public transit, effort to support and keep siblings together in 
neighborhood schools, and retail discounts for transit riders.

--- page 91 ---
July 17, 2023 
Page 3 
 
Most feedback expressed a need for improvements to existing infrastructure and expanded 
capacity of existing bus service (i.e., More stops nearby, more express options, connections to 
office locations). Other creative measures discussed included Wi-Fi in public areas, a staggered 
workforce commute, catering to the needs of service workers, and shuttles around downtown to 
support restaurants and shopping centers.  
Transportation Agencies Focus Group Feedback:  
 
Unique barriers to San Mateo include differences in topography, no free community 
shuttles, El Camino as a barrier to bike/pedestrian connectivity,  way of purchasing transit 
passes is difficult for CalTrain and SamTrans. 
 
Measures that are geography-specific could address differences in topography. 
 
Flexible transit wallet options would be good, look to BayPass trial success. 
 
Creative measures could include addressing transit hesitancy through bus and bike 
trainings/education. 
 
Need for projects that have successfully implemented TDM measures to be used as 
examples for future developments. 
Participants also discussed the growing need for curb management. The group emphasized how 
lack of signage, knowledge of bike routes, how bike-bus connections limits accessibility; this could 
be mitigated by bike tours and education on how to bring bikes onto the bus. Chelsea Schultz and 
David Pape from SamTrans also discussed a current SamTrans study of all the bus stops, assessing 
need and frequency of use.  
Commute.Org Focus Group Feedback:  
 
Unique transportation context in San Mateo include 3 Caltrain stations, the division of the 
city by Highway 101, and the western portion of the city being isolated. 
 
TDM measures should be compliant with Bay  Area Commuter Benefits Program 
requirements. 
 
Some creative measures are ensuring bike parking facilities provide E-Bike charging, 
providing first/last mile transit options (private+public), flex cash subsidy/incentives (parkin 
cash out), and considering the trigger for implementing TDM, beyond just new 
development. 
 
Should affordable housing have same trip reduction measures as market-rate 
development? 
 
Challenges with TDM measures include San Mateo’s topography and the feasibility of 
walking/biking given where people live and work in San Mateo. 
 
Consider layering the land use type plus project size with the TDM ordinance and 3 tiers of 
geography in San Mateo. 
John and Carmen also provided input on various TDM measures including the opportunity of 
incorporating bikeshare memberships, shuttles, first/last mile options, parking automation, and 
awarding points to projects based on infrastructure improvements and transit subsidy amounts. 
Challenges included fare integration, marketability of unbundled parking, implementing parking 
cashouts (when employers offer free parking), and the City’s bandwidth to track measures.

--- page 92 ---
July 17, 2023 
Page 4 
 
KEY TAKEAWAYS:  
 
Challenges: 
o Barriers to accessibility and connectivity due to San Mateo’s topography and 
condition/lack of infrastructure: 
 
Need for seamless inter-modality and improvements to bike and pedestrian 
infrastructure such as sidewalk improvements, more bike lanes and 
signage, bike/ped-scale lighting, and wider sidewalks. 
 
Residents are asking for more connected walking paths and subsidized 
public transit options. 
 
Need for a more bike and ped friendly El Camino, especially around the 
CalTrain station to increase connectivity and safety. 
o Cost and payment barriers:  
 
Public transit subsidies/passes are frequently requested but the cost for 
developers to provide to all residents in a development is high and not all 
residents use them.  
 
Opportunities: 
o Measures that help address behavior change to make non-automobile transit easier 
and more accessible: 
 
Increasing knowledge of bus schedules 
 
Providing last mile connections 
 
Offering transit wallet options: simplify payment systems to be all in one  
 
Aligning service with needs, such as those of service workers  
 
Promoting existing shuttle services and expanding free services to and 
around Downtown. 
 
Creative TDM measures:  
o Create programs to help get people familiar and comfortable with riding public 
transit to address stigma and hesitation some residents feel: 
 
Formalize a “Bus to Work” day 
 
Educational programming for kids/teens on how to use transit, encourage 
use of public transit in schools (similar to a ‘bike bus’) 
o Provide E-Bike charging stations for all bike parking facilities 
o Discounts and incentives for bus/transit riders by businesses, at community events  
o Carpooling incentives and programming  
o Geography specific plus factor in land use type and project size

--- page 93 ---
5) What are some creative TDM measures you think could be helpful to 
implement in San Mateo (e.g., family supportive services, daycare)?
safe 
connections 
to bike 
network
Comfortable, 
shaded & 
greened 
sidewalk
More 
bike/walk 
friendly El 
Camino
wide 
sidewalks
safe, well-​
lit, 
protected 
bike lanes
Better 
connections to
transit 
(walking, bike, 
shuttle)
subsidized
public 
transit (+1)
< (related) Greater
access to 
information about
subsidized transit 
programs, how to 
apply, etc.
Bike 
Parking
secured 
bike 
parking
private 
shuttle 
stop
showers/lockers
TNC 
dropoff
TDM 
coordinator
Real-​time 
transit data
+ 
Wayfinding
Unbundled 
parking
Bike 
Storage
Showers
& 
Lockers
induced 
demand w/
parking 
spaces
Changing 
Behavior 
and market
conditions
Change in adding 
operational expenses 
(ownership 
perspective) subsidized
pass is hardest w/rising
costs
4) What do you see as the biggest barriers to complying with TDM programs in general, and 
any specific measures that have been discussed?
2) What services are tenants/employees/residents requesting that could be helpful to know 
about when developing the TDM ordinance?
3) What are people asking for to help reduce their automobile travel?
1) What TDM measures are you familiar with implementing and why?
Careshare
New 
Resident
Packets
Shuttle
service
Marketing
Bike lane 
routes 
information
Transit 
Pass 
programs
EV 
charging
Electric 
bike 
rebate
Lockers
Cargo 
bike 
parking
Issue w/ lack of 
ability to compel use
of a provided 
service. Can provide,
subsidy (ex) may not
be leveraged.
Separated
uses
We can offer 
but ultimately 
tenants need 
to accept
Connected/
coordinate
d Train/Bus
Schedule
Safety 
on 
transit
Unbundled 
Parking
Prioritize and 
Incentivize
development 
near train 
stops
mixed use / 
neighborhood 
services 
provided on 
site
Reevaluating TDM
measures based 
on evolving 
landscape/change
s in neighborhood
More 
ped/bike 
scaled 
lighting
childcare
options
Staggered 
drop-​
off/pick-​up 
(schools)
transit 
passes 
(100%, 
75%, etc)
Reduced
parking
Bike 
repair 
stations
Better 
promo of 
ex senior 
shuttle
increase # 
of EV stalls 
in public 
garages
Mobility
Wallet
Connected and 
Safe Walking
 Paths from bus or 
train
Cost
Convenience 
of driving for 
groceries, etc.
Developer Responses

--- page 94 ---
--
Opportunities
Challenges
Good Examples
TDM Measure
Multimodal Network Improvements
Provide Bike Network Improvements
Provide Pedestrian Network Improvements
Provide Traffic Calming Measures
Other
Developer TDM Fee
Parking
Provide Free/Preferential Parking for Carpools and Vanpools
Install Parking Count Equipment
Provide Shared Parking
Price Workplace Parking
Paid Parking at Market Rate
Provide Parking Cash-​out
Unbundle Parking Costs from Property Cost
Provide Short Term Daily Parking
Programs and Services - Other
Active Transportation Subsidies
Provide Targeted Behavioral Interventions
Provide Voluntary Travel Behavior Change Prg
Install EV Chargers
Provide Flexible Work Schedule
Telemedicine
Provide Alternative Transportation Benefits
Pre-​Tax Transportation Benefits
Programs and Services - Ridesharing
Provide School Pool Programs
Provide Ride-​Share Programs
Implement and School Bus Program
Provide Ridematching Services
Provide a Guaranteed Ride Home Program
Provide Vanpool Incentives
Promotion, Education, and Management
Provide On-​Site Travel and TDM information
Travel Training
Skill and Safety Training
Provide Education, Marketing & Outreach
Annual Commute Survey (Employer Survey)
Community Mobility Monthly Events
Bike Repair Clinics
Join Transp Mgmt Assoc (TMA) - Commute.org
Provide a Site TDM Coordinator or Contact
Site Enhancements
Provide Family-​Supportive Amenities
Provide Employee Lockers, Shower Facilities, and Changing Rooms
Provide Bike Repair Station
Passenger PUDO Zones
Provide Multimodal Wayfinding Signage
Provide Bike Parking Facilities
Pedestrian Oriented Uses and Amenities on Grd Flr
Provide On-​Site Amenities to Reduce Trips
Commercial PUDO Zones
Rethinking
curb use
Provide 
announcement 
on what is done 
with fees
Other utility 
infrastructure 
challenges with 
imp 10 ft lanes 
(Hayward)
Implementing 
project 
improvements 
within the context
of larger City 
plans
What does this
mean and 
what does it 
include?
Could be 
cost 
prohibitive?
Is it in lieu?
ongoing 
operational
costs
Developer Responses

--- page 95 ---
3) What are some creative TDM measures you think could be helpful to 
implement in San Mateo (e.g., family supportive services, daycare)?
2) What about San Mateo may make certain TDM measures more or less feasible or 
impactful?
1) What is unique about the San Mateo transportation context that we should know about?
Topography
Magnet schools 
that draw from 
across district 
and increase 
driving
Perception
towards 
transit
Specific TMAs 
could be 
expanded to 
other parts of 
city
topography
Caltrans
on ECR
Amt of 
approvals and 
coord is uphill 
battle/costly/le
ngthy
Inherent 
tension btw
diff modes 
of travel
Comprehensive 
bike or 
wayfinding plan
Thriving 
downtown 
w/regional 
transit access
Identity 
skews 
toward 
driving
No free 
community 
shuttles (aside 
from 
Commute.org, 
senior shuttle)
El Camino 
access - 
barriers to 
bike/walk
Transit 
TDM is 
feasible
More coord
w/relying 
on 
developers
Way of 
purchasing 
transit passes
is difficult
Gentrification 
concerns? Comes 
back to parking 
(more ppl in less 
space)
More 
bike 
signage
Communicat
ion/marketi
ng real time 
transit info
Transportation Agencies Responses

--- page 96 ---
Opportunities
Challenges
Good Examples
TDM Measure
Multimodal Network Improvements
Provide Bike Network Improvements
Provide Pedestrian Network Improvements
Provide Traffic Calming Measures
Parking
Provide Free/Preferential Parking for Carpools and Vanpools
Install Parking Count Equipment
Provide Shared Parking
Price Workplace Parking
Paid Parking at Market Rate
Provide Parking Cash-​out
Unbundle Parking Costs from Property Cost
Provide Short Term Daily Parking
Programs and Services - Other
Active Transportation Subsidies
Provide Targeted Behavioral Interventions
Provide Voluntary Travel Behavior Change Prg
Install EV Chargers
Provide Flexible Work Schedule
Telemedicine
Provide Alternative Transportation Benefits
Pre-​Tax Transportation Benefits
Programs and Services - Ridesharing
Provide School Pool Programs
Provide Ride-​Share Programs
Implement and School Bus Program
Provide Ridematching Services
Provide a Guaranteed Ride Home Program
Provide Vanpool Incentives
Promotion, Education, and Management
Provide On-​Site Travel and TDM information
Travel Training
Skill and Safety Training
Provide Education, Marketing & Outreach
Annual Commute Survey (Employer Survey)
Community Mobility Monthly Events
Bike Repair Clinics
Join Transp Mgmt Assoc (TMA) - Commute.org
Provide a Site TDM Coordinator or Contact
Transit 
Wallet? 
More flex 
thru Clipper
Open payment
for Clipper 
(monthly pass)
maybe end 
2024
MTC Pilot 
Program 
(Bay Pass)
Transit
passes
Bike 
valet
Bike repair 
clinics - pay to 
come to 
Farmer's 
Market
Add to ex 
community events
(show transit 
receipt to get free 
something)
SVBC 
help w/ 
funding
Instructional
videos 
(Rules of the
Road)
Partnering 
w/Advocacy 
grps as part of 
tour 
w/incentives
Promo w/transit
tour as large 
community 
event (similar to
bike tour)
Help 
w/taking 
bike on the 
bus
Encourage kids 
taking transit 
together 
(SamTrans "Ride
the Line")
Curb 
Mgmt
Autonomous 
Shuttles (to 
Caltrain)
Having projects 
to point to (lack 
of adopted 
plans for shovel 
ready projects)
Carpool 
Commute.org in
San Bruno. Hard
time getting ppl 
to sign up
Level of coord 
across 
agencies and 
reconcile 
visions
Other
Developer TDM Fee
Site Enhancements
Provide Family-​Supportive Amenities
Provide Employee Lockers, Shower Facilities, and Changing Rooms
Provide Bike Repair Station
Passenger PUDO Zones
Provide Multimodal Wayfinding Signage
Provide Bike Parking Facilities
Pedestrian Oriented Uses and Amenities on Grd Flr
Provide On-​Site Amenities to Reduce Trips
Commercial PUDO Zones
Complete Neighborhoods
Provide a Neighborhood School
Provide Housing Subsidies Near Employment
Affordable Housing
Provide Healthy Food Retail in Underserved Areas
Support Local Famers Market
Coordinate a CSA Pickup/Dropoff
Transportation Agencies Reponses

--- page 97 ---
4) What are some creative TDM measures you think could be helpful to 
implement in San Mateo (e.g., family supportive services, daycare)?
2) What TDM measures would you like to see implemented/would 
assist you and your employees to travel via non-​automotive modes?
3) What existing barriers impede access to your businesses/key 
destinations via non-​automotive modes?
1) What TDM measures would be most helpful to you (business owners)?
parking  
restrictions
shuttles
Knowing 
when traffic 
reports are 
triggered
Apps for 
parking 
availability
More last 
mile 
connection
Transit 
passes 
from 
employers
free 
shuttle 
service
More 
bus 
stops
real-​time 
transit 
information
more 
childcare, 
before and 
after school 
care
Incentivize and 
encourage 
pedestrian & bike 
connectivity 
through new 
development
clear processes and 
procedures to measure 
TDM performance (e.g. 
counts of single occupancy 
vehicle trip generation; 
measurement of actual 
TDM  parrticipation
formalize 
a "bus to 
work" day
incentivize 
car 
pooling
transit 
schedules 
don't always 
match the 
needs
Lack of flexibility
for those who 
need to run 
errands during 
the day
parking for 
carpools 
and 
vanpools
not walkable
friendly 
from bus 
stops
sidewalks 
and safe 
crosswalks
ride 
sharing
transit 
service 
east west
Discounted
parking 
rates
More 
childcare
options
effective and 
timely transit 
service w/in 
1/4 mile
more 
express 
options
more 
options/times/
connections 
for public 
transit
bike and
scooter 
share
greater effort 
to keep 
siblings 
together in 
one school
Prioritize 
development 
near high 
quality transit 
stops
how to 
overcome San 
Mateo Bridge 
congestion
staggered
workforce
commute
understanding
the needs of 
service 
workers
minimal/few
transit stops
nearby
Some want 
the "alone" 
time of 
driving
Convenience
broken 
sidewalks, 
other 
obstacles
no direct 
connection 
from most 
office locations
passenger 
behavior change
to take public 
transit instead 
of driving
Making public 
transit faster and 
more reliable 
than driving and 
SAFER
lack of law 
enforcement 
presence
continuous 
bike lanes
changing 
planning 
requirements
integration 
with County 
transit and 
bike 
infrastructure
ride share 
meeting spots 
in non high 
traffic areas
childcare/child 
safe options
shuttles for
workforce 
lunch 
crowd
subsidize
public 
transit
more time 
slots 
throughout
the day
services 
that are 
punctual
Regional issue 
- better 
shuttles from 
locality to 
locality
more 
options for 
older 
adults
incentivize 
bus use
Educating teens 
to use public 
transit to get 
around without 
adult supervision
promotion 
of bike to 
work 
capabilities
More use of 
neighborhood 
schools
look at 
reduction 
of reasons 
for rides
safer & 
connected 
sidewalks
Consistency 
across public 
transit 
providers with 
schedules
More 
carpooling 
opportunities
Seamless 
intermodality
on-​demand
micro 
transit
free hi-​
speed wifi 
in public 
areas
extended
hours
shuttles to 
downtown 
restaurants 
and shopping 
centers
retail 
discounts 
for bus 
riders
more 
connection 
to regional 
transit hubs
Chamber of Commerce Responses

--- page 98 ---
Opportunities
Challenges
Good Examples
TDM Measure
Multimodal Network Improvements
Provide Bike Network Improvements
Provide Pedestrian Network Improvements
Provide Traffic Calming Measures
Parking
Provide Free/Preferential Parking for Carpools and Vanpools
Install Parking Count Equipment
Provide Shared Parking
Price Workplace Parking
Paid Parking at Market Rate
Provide Parking Cash-​out
Unbundle Parking Costs from Property Cost
Provide Short Term Daily Parking
Programs and Services - Other
Active Transportation Subsidies
Provide Targeted Behavioral Interventions
Provide Voluntary Travel Behavior Change Prg
Install EV Chargers
Provide Flexible Work Schedule
Telemedicine
Provide Alternative Transportation Benefits
Pre-​Tax Transportation Benefits
Programs and Services - Ridesharing
Provide School Pool Programs
Provide Ride-​Share Programs
Implement and School Bus Program
Provide Ridematching Services
Provide a Guaranteed Ride Home Program
Provide Vanpool Incentives
Promotion, Education, and Management
Provide On-​Site Travel and TDM information
Travel Training
Skill and Safety Training
Provide Education, Marketing & Outreach
Annual Commute Survey (Employer Survey)
Community Mobility Monthly Events
Bike Repair Clinics
Join Transp Mgmt Assoc (TMA) - Commute.org
Provide a Site TDM Coordinator or Contact
Some people will 
feel like they're 
losing something 
(like parking or 
car lanes)
Bike 
facilities 
should be 
continuous
Other
Developer TDM Fee
Not always 
feasible -- 
especially for 
projects in 
TOD
Site Enhancements
Provide Family-​Supportive Amenities
Provide Employee Lockers, Shower Facilities, and Changing Rooms
Provide Bike Repair Station
Passenger PUDO Zones
Provide Multimodal Wayfinding Signage
Provide Bike Parking Facilities
Pedestrian Oriented Uses and Amenities on Grd Flr
Provide On-​Site Amenities to Reduce Trips
Commercial PUDO Zones
Complete Neighborhoods
Provide a Neighborhood School
Provide Housing Subsidies Near Employment
Affordable Housing
Provide Healthy Food Retail in Underserved Areas
Support Local Famers Market
Coordinate a CSA Pickup/Dropoff
Support 
neighborhood 
school
Chamber of Commerce Responses

--- page 99 ---
Opportunities
Challenges
Good Examples
TDM Measure
Multimodal Network Improvements
Provide Bike Network Improvements
Provide Pedestrian Network Improvements
Provide Traffic Calming Measures
Parking
Provide Free/Preferential Parking for Carpools and Vanpools
Install Parking Count Equipment
Provide Shared Parking
Price Workplace Parking
Paid Parking at Market Rate
Provide Parking Cash-​out
Unbundle Parking Costs from Property Cost
Provide Short Term Daily Parking
Programs and Services - Other
Active Transportation Subsidies
Provide Targeted Behavioral Interventions 
(commute guidance/concierge)
Provide Voluntary Travel Behavior Change Prg
Install EV Chargers
Provide Flexible Work Schedule
Telemedicine
Provide Alternative Transportation Benefits
Pre-​Tax Transportation Benefits
Programs and Services - Ridesharing
Provide School Pool Programs
Provide Ride-​Share Programs
Implement and School Bus Program
Provide Ridematching Services
Provide a Guaranteed Ride Home Program
Provide Vanpool Incentives
Promotion, Education, and Management
Provide On-​Site Travel and TDM information
Travel Training
Skill and Safety Training
Provide Education, Marketing & Outreach
Annual Commute Survey (Employer Survey)
Community Mobility Monthly Events
Bike Repair Clinics
Join Transp Mgmt Assoc (TMA) - Commute.org
Provide a Site TDM Coordinator or Contact
Parking
is #1
Parking 
automation 
critical to track
what's going 
on
Bikeshare 
memberships
More context
specific 
based on 
demographic
Bikeshare
Shuttles
Give certain # of 
points for 
infrastructure 
impvmts and amt 
for transit 
subsidies
1st/last 
mile 
options
Won't be 
able to 
lease w/o  
parking
Marketability 
of unbundled
parking
Only works 
w/unbundled
parking
Parking 
cashout not 
really workng. 
Emp will give 
free parking
C/CAG going
bi-​annual 
survey (1/yr 
is a lot!)
Consider City's
bandwidth to 
track these 
measures
Keep in 
mind fare 
integration
Other
Developer TDM Fee
Site Enhancements
Provide Family-​Supportive Amenities
Provide Employee Lockers, Shower Facilities, and Changing Rooms
Provide Bike Repair Station
Passenger PUDO Zones
Provide Multimodal Wayfinding Signage
Provide Bike Parking Facilities
Pedestrian Oriented Uses and Amenities on Grd Flr
Provide On-​Site Amenities to Reduce Trips
Commercial PUDO Zones
Complete Neighborhoods
Provide a Neighborhood School
Provide Housing Subsidies Near Employment
Affordable Housing
Provide Healthy Food Retail in Underserved Areas
Support Local Famers Market
Coordinate a CSA Pickup/Dropoff
More DA or
fee 
structure 
less TDM
Commute.Org Responses

--- page 100 ---
3) What are some creative TDM measures you think could be helpful to 
implement in San Mateo?
2) What measures are developers requesting to implement that could be helpful to know 
about when developing the TDM ordinance?
1) What is unique about the San Mateo transportation context that we should know about?
Western 
portion of City 
is isolated - 
opp+challenge
Hwy 101 
separates 2
parts of 
City
3 
Caltrain 
stations
Must be compliant 
with Bay Area 
Commuter Benefits 
Program req (w/Biz 
LIcense)
Ability to lease 
impacted? That's 
what we hear...most
on cost of 
operations but not 
substantiated.
How can we transfer 
resp to prop 
mgr/tenant and 
actually realize trip 
reduction? Needs to be 
in lease agrmt and set 
before project built.
Don't want to 
be responsible
for their 
tenants' travel 
options
Transit passes 
$$ esp from 
affordable dev
Consider 
trigger for imp 
TDM (not just 
new 
development)
Flex cash 
subsidy/incen
tive (parking 
cash out)
First/last mile 
transit options 
(not necessarily 
public, could be 
shared)
EBikes - ability 
for charging 
stations @ 
bike parking
4) What about San Mateo may make certain TDM measures more or less feasible or 
impactful?
Layer on LU 
type+project 
size w/3 tiers 
of geography 
for policy
Topography 
(hills)
Walking/biking
- how feasible 
given where 
ppl live/work?
Affordable 
housing (Same
trip red 
measures as 
market-​rate)
Commute.Org Responses

--- page 101 ---
345 California Street | Suite 450 | San Francisco, CA 94104 | (415) 348-0300 | Fax (415) 773-1790    
Memorandum 
 
Date:  
November 22, 2023 
To:  
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San Mateo Public Works 
CC:  
James Choe, MTC 
From:  
Matt Goyne and Molly Riddle, Fehr & Peers 
Subject:  
City of San Mateo Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance – 
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
SF23-1283 
This memorandum documents the findings from Tasks 3.1 through Task 3.3 for review by City 
staff and the project team in preparation for developing the Administrative Draft TDM Ordinance 
and Program Guidelines (Task 4.1a). The purpose of this documentation is to consolidate input 
and highlight consensus on the structure of the future TDM ordinance. Although this task does 
not explicitly call for review of stakeholder input, given the importance of incorporating and 
responding to feedback, a brief review of results from Task 2.2 engagement is included as well. 
Where applicable, content was updated to reflect direction received from the City of San Mateo 
City Council in response to a presentation of this project delivered Monday, November 6, 2023.  
Overview 
Tasks reviewed for this analysis include the following documents previously submitted to the 
project team: 
• 
Task 2.2 – Phase 1: Initial Stakeholder Engagement Meeting #1-3, Phase 1: Internal 
Working Group Meeting, and Phase 1: Public Hearing #1-2 – Presentation about the 
Project. 
• 
Task 3.1 – Final TDM Strategies List 
• 
Task 3.2 – TDM Quantitative Assessment  
• 
Task 3.3 – Draft Compliance and Monitoring Requirements 
 
Discussion of the process and outcome of each task is discussed below, followed by a summary of 
key findings, conclusions, and outstanding questions.

--- page 102 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 2 of 12  
Task Summary 
Task 2.2 – Phase 1: Initial Stakeholder Engagement Meeting #1-3, Phase 1: Internal Working Group 
Meeting, and Phase 1: Public Hearing #1-2 – Presentation about the Project. 
Engagement activities conducted in June and July of 2023 under Task 2.2 informed stakeholders 
about the TDM ordinance project and garnered input on next steps. Stakeholders included local 
developers, the City of San Mateo Chamber of Commerce, transportation agency staff, 
Commute.org staff, an internal working group of City of San Mateo staff, and the City of San 
Mateo Planning Commission and Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission. Key takeaways from 
each meeting shaped development of the Final TDM Strategies List (Task 3.1b) and Draft 
Compliance and Monitoring Requirements (Task 3.3a). Key input centered on the perceived 
barriers to implementing different TDM measures and complying with a future TDM ordinance. 
The latter was of particular concern to small business owners. 
The internal working group discussed all facets of the program, generating input on TDM 
measures that may present challenges for the City. Themes from this discussion included:  
• 
Alignment of the ordinance with sustainability and complete streets planning efforts. 
• 
Developer concerns about the marketability of unbundled and/or reduced parking. 
• 
The need for cohesive transit service connections and more multimodal first-/last-mile 
connections citywide. 
• 
Developers’ perceptions about the high cost and unclear efficacy of transit passes, and  
• 
The need for bicycle infrastructure and e-bike/cargo bike subsidies.  
The group also discussed that although a TDM ordinance may further greenhouse gas (GHG) 
reduction goals, that should not be its primary objective.1 TDM is firstly concerned with achieving 
a mode shift away from single-occupancy vehicles and corresponding decrease in VMT. 
Therefore, while providing preferential electric vehicle (EV) parking is correlated with vehicle 
emission reductions and environmental benefits, this kind of strategy does not reduce reliance on 
automobiles and should not be identified as a preferred TDM strategy.  
Presentations to the Planning Commission and Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission echoed 
some of the feedback above and provided additional new insights. In response, Commissions 
expressed an interest in the following which will be integrated into the TDM policy framework: 
 
1 The City of San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan (July 2023 update) does not require additional TDM measures 
beyond those that currently apply to projects in the City’s Rail Corridor Specific Plan area to meet its 
mandatory GHG reduction goals. Accessed on October 2023 by Fehr & Peers here: 
https://strivesanmateo.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/SanMateoCAP_2023_Update_Public-Review-
Draft-07-25-23.pdf

--- page 103 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 3 of 12  
• 
A clear narrative and driving goal behind the TDM ordinance so strategies, monitoring, 
and enforcement support its achievement (e.g., fewer trips, fewer vehicles, safer streets). 
• 
Achievement of infrastructure development over capturing TDM fees. 
• 
Identification of clear metrics for program success and alignment between those metrics 
and TDM strategies.  
• 
Qualitative monitoring of TDM plan implementation and outcomes, if feasible. 
• 
Application of the ordinance to existing businesses, potentially via requiring TMA 
participation and implementation of programmatic TDM measures. Consider the East 
Palo Alto example for applying the ordinance to existing businesses. 
• 
Clarity regarding the cost-benefit tradeoffs for the City of different TDM strategies. 
• 
Clarity on how the TDM ordinance relates to other City of San Mateo plans and policies. 
Task 3.1 – Final TDM Strategies List 
The Final TDM Strategies List (Task 3.1b) reflects consensus reached via discussions with City staff 
about strategies appropriate for application throughout the City and feedback received from 
stakeholders. Adjustments made between the draft and final TDM list included the consolidation 
of similar or related strategies and removal of strategies that would not further the ordinance’s 
goals (e.g., strategies that would reduce GHG emissions, but not vehicle trips). 
Feedback received from City staff incorporated into the Final TDM Strategies List included: 
requests for a strategy related to on-site shared mobility programs, e-bike subsidies, and on-site 
childcare options, as well as updates to bike parking and commercial delivery zone measures to 
better align them with City goals and existing practices.  
A last request is to incorporate the annual survey measure as a compliance and monitoring 
requirements rather than a TDM strategy, if deemed appropriate by the project team.  
Task 3.2 – TDM Quantitative Assessment 
The Final TDM Quantitative Assessment (Task 3.2b) provides a nuanced overview of when TDM 
measures would be required and what trip reductions they would be expected to provide. Key 
takeaways from the assessment include:  
• 
Quantification of VMT is only required for land uses that are high VMT land uses based 
on allowable zoning, including the low density residential, office projects, and regional 
retail projects that do not qualify for VMT screening categories (e.g., affordable housing, 
small projects, etc.). 
• 
Low density residential developments with fewer than ten dwelling units per acre would 
not support TDM strategies that could reduce VMT mitigation on-site, and therefore off-
site mitigation would be required. Residential projects with 10-25 dwelling units per acre

--- page 104 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 4 of 12  
in high VMT areas (e.g., the Campus Drive area) may require TDM strategies to reduce 
VMT to less than significant impacts. 
• 
Measures from the Final TDM Strategies List could reduce VMT by 30-40% for office and 
regional retail projects that would exceed VMT thresholds. 
The assessment also highlighted two additional considerations. First, CAPOA (2021)2 should be 
used as the definitive guide for the quantification of TDM strategy efficacy to ensure consistency 
between project-specific evaluations and the TDM ordinance. Second, the City does not have any 
policy goals for specific trip reduction that project outcomes are evaluated against, except those 
applicable to Rail Corridor TMA and the areas with potential VMT impacts as noted above. 
The above conclusions were incorporated into the Draft TDM Policy Demonstration 
Memorandum (Task 3.4) to set expectations for the targets that are achievable under the future 
ordinance compared to those indicated in existing TDM plans. These targets will also be 
incorporated into the TDM Policy Framework (Task 4.1) as the project team assigns points to TDM 
strategies, aligning them with VMT reduction efficacy and City goals for infrastructure 
development.  
Task 3.3 – Draft Compliance and Monitoring Requirements 
The Draft Compliance and Monitoring Requirements, currently under review by City staff, includes 
proposed approaches for the following:  
• 
Thresholds for which projects are subject to monitoring and compliance requirements. 
• 
A summary of resources and fees to support the financial sustainability of the program. 
• 
A four-stage compliance framework for defining and applying monitoring requirements 
and assigning noncompliance penalties. 
• 
A proposed cadence for monitoring and reporting of TDM plan implementation and 
project trips and the compliance status that would accompany monitoring outcomes.  
• 
Recommended data collection and reporting requirements including reporting 
tools/materials. 
• 
A schedule of non-compliance penalties that provide “teeth” for the TDM program. 
Initial review of the requirements with City staff raised issues for the project team to consider and 
elevate to City Council. The following four questions were presented to Council: 
1. What kinds of projects should comply with the TDM Ordinance? 
2. How often should San Mateo monitor for TDM plan compliance? 
 
2 California Air Pollution Control Officers Association, 2021, Handbook for Analyzing GHG Emission 
Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity, accessed by Fehr & Peers 
in September 2023 at:  
https://www.airquality.org/ClimateChange/Documents/Final%20Handbook_AB434.pdf

--- page 105 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 5 of 12  
3. How should the City treat projects that are out of compliance with TDM ordinance?  
4. How should consequences for serially non-compliant projects be structured? 
The City Council provided explicit direction for implementation by the project team to each of 
these questions which is summarized below and presented in more detail in Attachment A. 
What kinds of projects should comply with the TDM Ordinance? 
The TDM ordinance should apply to new construction projects, renewal of a business license, 
perhaps existing development. Requirements should be right-sized to ensure compliance with the 
ordinance is not too onerous and does not present a disincentive to maintain business in San 
Mateo. Affordable housing projects should either be given an exemption or subject to light and 
attainable requirements. Legal counsel will need to conduct research into the potential inclusion 
of existing development and follow up regarding the pros, cons, and overall feasibility. 
How often should San Mateo monitor for TDM plan compliance? 
The City Council provided direction that the ordinance should require more frequent initial 
monitoring which then becomes less frequent as a given project achieves compliance with the 
ordinance. The Council indicated initial monitoring could be annual or biennial. 
How should the City treat projects that are out of compliance with TDM ordinance?  
The City Council specified that revoking a Certificate of Occupancy should not be included as a 
punitive measure and overall recommended treating projects with a lighter touch. Consensus was 
to respond to noncompliance in a stepwise fashion akin to a ‘three-strikes’ approach that employs 
more incentives than disincentives.  
How should consequences for serially non-compliant projects be structured? 
Again, the City Council directed the project team to incorporate fines for noncompliance and 
additional pressures, but to not include revocation of a Certificate of Occupancy. 
Findings and Conclusions 
At the outset of this project, we developed an Outline for the TDM Policy Framework (Task 1.2) 
which included key questions to answer in service of developing a TDM ordinance that would 
serve the unique needs, goals, and objectives of the City of San Mateo. The following discussion 
highlights key questions which have been answered by work completed to date. 
What specific goals and outcomes are most important to the City? 
Early discussions with City staff and feedback received during internal working group meetings 
and presentations to the Planning Commission and Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
identified the following priorities for the ordinance.

--- page 106 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 6 of 12  
Goals & Outcomes 
Goals: 
• 
Develop a TDM ordinance to mitigate development’s transportation impacts. 
• 
Provide a citywide TDM program that encourages walking, bicycling, and transit use. 
• 
Ensure programs are tailored to San Mateo’s unique context and compliant with regional 
policies. 
 
Desired outcomes: 
• 
Reduce citywide VMT and drive-alone travel, with the secondary benefit of reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
• 
Improve the overall mobility network. 
• 
Right-size the amount of parking provided by new development. 
• 
Provide a framework that allows for the efficacy of TDM to be monitored and evaluated 
and for incentivized TDM strategies to be adjusted over time to keep moving the City 
toward its trip reduction targets. 
What will a Citywide TDM ordinance accomplish for the City that is not currently being done? 
As the key impetus for a TDM ordinance, this question was addressed throughout project work 
with the following conclusions:  
• 
Extend the benefits of TDM throughout San Mateo, commensurate with the existing land 
use distribution and future land use distribution included in the Draft 2040 General Plan. 
• 
Align regional policy goals, such as C/CAG’s TDM Policy and MTC’s Transit-Oriented 
Communities Policy, with local goals that account for the context and allows the City to 
better capture transportation impact mitigation which is ‘left on the table’ due to a lack of 
TDM requirements and limited opportunities for on-site mitigation. 
• 
Clearly and transparently present the City’s priorities for TDM in a manner that supports 
and garners compliance. 
• 
Provide policies with “teeth” to incentivize compliance and/or implement punitive 
measures for developments that are out of compliance with their TDM plan (as discussed 
with City Council, per the notes under Task 3.3). 
What projects are subject to the ordinance? When will compliance be assessed? Will different types 
of projects have different standards? Will larger and smaller projects have different standards? 
Based on findings from stakeholder engagement and conversations with City staff the preference 
is for all new construction projects, businesses pursuing a renewal of their business license, and 
projects with a building permit valued at or above a given value (e.g., $500,000) to be subject to 
the TDM ordinance. The valuation threshold for building permits is still under consideration. At

--- page 107 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 7 of 12  
the City Council hearing, the question of whether existing buildings could be required to comply 
with the ordinance, and the response from City of San Mateo City Attorney, was that one of the 
above actions from the City would be required through this ordinance. 
The Draft Compliance and Monitoring Requirements will include provisions for treating small and 
large projects differently, using C/CAG’s TDM framework thresholds as the basis for project size 
and corresponding program applicability. 
Based on the key purpose of the program, what metrics should be used to set a performance goal? 
Discussion with City staff revealed a clear preference for trips (e.g., vehicle trip reduction or VTR) 
to be the performance goal metric. The rationale is that, in comparison to vehicle miles traveled 
(VMT) or GHG emissions, trips are more tangible and less prone to subjective monitoring and 
evaluation. A VTR metric would require the use of future surveys and counts to evaluate TDM 
performance which is only feasible in locations with centralized parking.  
One challenge with this is that City of San Mateo policy does not yet specify VTR targets. A 
quantitative target also may conflict with the request received at the Planning Commission for a 
preference for qualitative monitoring to improve simplicity of the program.  
T Council indicated a preference for qualitative monitoring, to facilitate easier compliance and 
reduce the level of effort required for City staff to monitor compliance. 
Are there any measures that the City wants every project to provide? 
The consensus is that a flexible menu of TDM strategies would best serve the City and align with 
developers’ needs for the ability to select options that align well with a given project. The S&I 
Commission highlighted this as a preference for the program. Beyond this, the TDM ordinance is 
required to comply with C/CAG requirements, meaning it is designed to achieve to be as strict or 
stricter than the existing TDM strategy requirements. Lastly, the full project team and 
Commissioners agreed the baseline expectation is for all developments to provide code-required 
on-site infrastructure improvements such as long- and short-term bicycle parking, transit stop 
improvements, bike lane improvements adjacent the property, EV charging parking spaces, and 
facilities supporting adequate pedestrian and bicycle circulation. 
In addition to the above, the Final TDM Strategies List (Task 3.1b) includes numerous strategies 
which are highly ranked for two or more focus geographies but only lists the following four 
measures as highly recommended for development citywide (i.e., in all three focus geographies), 
with the following caveats:  
• 
P.3 – Parking – Reduce on-site vehicle parking – Addresses the desired outcome to 
“Right-size the amount of parking provided by new development.” However, this TDM

--- page 108 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 8 of 12  
ordinance will not set new parking standards, which will be completed through a separate 
planning effort starting in 2024. 
• 
S.6 – Services and programs – Provide shuttle service – Similar to C/CAG’s TDM policy, 
providing shuttle service may not be appropriate in areas that have the highest 
concentration of SamTrans service, such as Downtown San Mateo or Hillsdale. However, 
projects could provide transit-supportive infrastructure (such as shelters or access 
improvements) when they abut existing or planned transit routes.  
• 
M.1 – Marketing, Education, and Management – Implement education, marketing, and 
events for non-driving modes 
• 
E.4 – Site enhancements – Provide long-term bicycle and micromobility parking 
 
The project team revisited these measures and ultimately agreed that measures currently required 
by the C/CAG TDM Policy should be “required” under the ordinance, with some nuanced 
adjustments made to better tailor measures to the San Mateo context. All other items included in 
the Final TDM strategies List will be incorporated into the ordinance as recommended for 
implementation based on geographic Tier. 
How should applicants estimate the effectiveness / compliance of their plan? 
As noted above, the preferred performance metric for TDM program effectiveness is vehicle trip 
reduction (VTR), however, the Draft Compliance and Monitoring Requirements propose that 
compliance is evaluated based on whether a project has implemented TDM measures as required 
by a TDM plan. The guidelines also propose a structure in which data is collected to help monitor 
and evaluate performance at the citywide program level. The rationale is that achieving trip 
reduction, VMT reduction, or mode shift goals at the project level can depend on a range of 
external factors which may or may not be within the power of the project sponsor. 
Ongoing data collection and reporting recommendations most valuable for evaluation of 
compliance and performance include trip counts, VMT, parking occupancy, and mode share. 
Other data which may be collected for program evaluation, but which correlates less directly with 
performance includes qualitative survey data of end users and implementors, costs and financial 
data for TDM implementation, evaluation of TDM service and mode market demand, and proof of 
implementation (e.g., receipts, site surveys, etc.). 
During the October 12 working session, and per the City Council’s direction received on 
November 6, the project team resolved to focus monitoring requirements on qualitative rather 
than quantitative data. This will facilitate easier and more intuitive data collection and monitoring 
by property managers and City staff.

--- page 109 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 9 of 12  
How often does the City want to monitor implementation? 
The draft compliance and monitoring requirements recommend ongoing monitoring with a 
three-year cadence. For the initial three years, monitoring would occur annually until a state of 
compliance is established. Once compliance is confirmed, monitoring would occur every three 
years for the life of the project. Projected deemed non-compliance within the first three-year 
period would be subject to a different monitoring cadence with consequences for continued non-
compliance. 
What enforcement mechanisms does the City want to use? 
The draft compliance and monitoring requirements recommend the following elements related to 
noncompliance: 
• 
More frequent monitoring – at a cadence more frequent than the 3-year cycle for 
compliant projects.  
• 
Fines – application of fees in addition to standard monitoring fees. This would be 
approximately $10,000 for small projects and $50,000 for large projects.  
• 
Corrective TDM plan – requirement that noncompliant projects submit a remedial TDM 
plan to correct for mitigation not achieved due to failure to implement TDM strategies. 
• 
Revoke certificate of occupancy – noncompliant properties that fail to implement 
corrective measures would have their certificate of occupancy revoked.  
 
The City Council provided explicit direction to take a light touch with enforcement measures, 
create supportive structures for projects struggling with compliance, and not include revoking a 
certificate of occupancy as a punitive measure. The Council also called for the ordinance to 
incentivize compliance by creating a structure for championing projects that adhere to the TDM 
ordinance.  
Outstanding Questions 
The following questions need to be addressed prior to finalizing the TDM policy framework. This 
is not an exhaustive list and additional questions will arise as the framework is developed. 
Answering these, however, will streamline and focus framework development. 
Strategies – Are there strategies the City wants every project in a given land use category to 
provide? 
The Final TDM Strategies List identifies high, medium, or low priority strategies for Tier 1-3 focus 
geographies. As discussed above, required measures have been identified based on current 
C/CAG requirements, however, the project team has not yet assigned points targets to strategies 
which will be completed under Task 4.1.

--- page 110 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 10 of 12  
Over time the monitoring and evaluation of TDM program performance at the citywide level can 
be used to determine the efficacy of the program and indicate how points should be allocated to 
further incentivize strategies that would enhance program performance. For projects located 
outside of TOD areas, the TDM ordinance monitoring will be held to a strict standard to ensure 
the CEQA requirements for mitigation monitoring are achieved for VMT reduction. 
Based on the key purpose of the program, what metrics should be used to set a performance goal? 
The project team has agreed on pursuing a points prioritization scheme for TDM strategies 
recommended in the TDM ordinance and identifying the effectiveness of TDM plans based on 
monitoring of VTR. The City is subject to a range of VMT and trip reduction policies which will 
need to be considered in the development of points and VTR targets to ensure the ordinance is 
internally coherent and compliant. Policies to consider are shown below in Table 1. Additional 
details on citywide policies are available in the Task 1.1. – Existing Conditions Document Review 
memorandum.

--- page 111 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 11 of 12  
Table 1. Citywide Policies Related to VMT Reduction Goals 
Policy 
Desired Outcome 
Existing Citywide Policies 
City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis 
(TIA) Guidelines (2020) 
VMT: 15% below countywide level VMT1 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan (2005) 
VTR: 25% vehicle trip reduction 
Sustainable Streets Plan (2015) – Not Adopted 
VTR: 25% vehicle trip reduction 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (2020) 
Only assumes the Rail Corridor TMA is 
applied and that the City’s CAP would 
achieve GHG targets; No further 
reductions needed for the City to meet 
state requirements for GHG reduction. 
Pending Citywide Policies 
City of San Mateo Draft 2040 General Plan (2023) 
Policy goals mention VMT reduction 
targets, but do not specify thresholds. 
City of San Mateo Draft 2040 General Plan EIR (2023) No VMT impact in EIR;  
No specific reduction required for this 
document.  
Other 
C/CAG TDM Policy (2022) 
Trip reduction targets (25% or 30%) as 
checklist targets only. VMT reduction 
goals are determined by jurisdictions. 
California Air Resources Board Scoping Plan (2022) 
VMT: 30% below existing VMT1 
MTC Plan Bay Area 2050 (2021) 
No city-specific goals; policy compliance 
is based on concentrating development 
in PDA's and achieving TOC policy 
compliance.  
Notes:  
1. 
The City of San Mateo’s TIA Guidelines sets a threshold of 15% below the countywide average for employment and 
residential uses based on OPR’s 2018 Technical Advisory. OPR’s Technical Advisory notes that, “OPR recommends 
that a per capita VMT that is fifteen percent below that of existing development may be a reasonable threshold” and 
that “fifteen percent reductions are achievable at the project level in a variety of place types,” while also 
acknowledging that “emissions from statewide passenger vehicle travel per capita [have been] increasing and going 
in the wrong direction” based on the California’s Air Resource Board (ARB) 2018 Progress Report on California’s 
Sustainable Communities and Climate Protection Act. The 2022 ARB Scoping Plan Update indicated that California 
may now need to reduce VMT by 25% to 30% to meet statewide GHG targets; however, this guidance is not specific 
to San Mateo nor has OPR updated their technical advisory to reflect this update. The 2022 ARB Scoping Plan Update 
can be accessed here: https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/ab-32-climate-change-scoping-plan/2022-
scoping-plan-documents 
Source: Fehr & Peers, 2023.

--- page 112 ---
TDM Policy Framework Memorandum 
November 22, 2023 
Page 12 of 12  
What will need to be submitted at the time of application? How much detail should applicants 
show? 
Application elements have not yet been confirmed, but there is strong precedent to draw from 
when developing the draft TDM policy framework. Attention will be given to developing an 
ordinance that is easy to comply with, particularly for smaller, less resourced businesses. 
The draft compliance and monitoring requirements did specify a structure for fee collection, with 
a recommendation to collect a one-time application fee on the order of $500-$1,000. This would 
not apply to ‘exempt’ projects. Monitoring fees would be collected for subsequent years to cover 
ongoing monitoring program costs. 
What department and team will take responsibility for ongoing monitoring? 
The Department of Public Works would assume this task, though the level of effort and resources 
required to administer compliance monitoring has yet to be determined. This will be addressed in 
the coming months. 
What procedures and policies need to change?  
The project team developed a preliminary list of procedures and policies that would need to be 
updated to align with a new citywide TDM ordinance, however, more may be required. Proposed 
items include the following: 
• 
Development review procedures - new checklists, forms, and timelines need to be 
created. 
◦ 
This would include a new developer checklist to be developed along with the 
Complete Streets Plan effort. 
• 
Municipal Code – existing TDM and TMA references need to be adjusted; see the Existing 
Conditions analysis for reference to specific code sections. 
• 
Fee Schedule – will need to be revised per the monitoring and compliance requirements. 
 
Attachments:  
Attachment A – November 6, 2023 - City Council Meeting Minutes

--- page 113 ---
Attachment A:   
November 6, 2023 -
City Council 
Meeting Minutes

--- page 114 ---
San Mateo TDM  
City Council Meeting  
 
Overview 
The project team introduced the City Council to the San Mateo TDM 
ordinance planning effort and provided an update on recently completed 
work. The agenda included the following topics:  
1. Introduction  
2. Stakeholder Engagement 
3. Policy Analysis 
4. Remaining Schedule and What to Expect 
In addition, the identified four key questions for the Council to consider:  
1. What kinds of projects should comply with the TDM Ordinance?  
5. How often should San Mateo monitor for TDM plan compliance?  
6. How should the City treat projects that are out of compliance with TDM 
ordinance?   
7. How should consequences for serially non-compliant projects be 
structured?  
 
Answers to these four questions are summarized below, more detailed notes 
of the Council discussion are in the subsequent section.  
Council Deliberation/Answers to Key Questions 
What kinds of projects should comply with the TDM Ordinance? 
• 
General consensus 
• 
Right-size triggers to align with development size and/or number of 
employees.  
• 
IF existing businesses are included, treat them with a light touch.  
• 
Ensure affordable housing projects are subject to lighter, less 
burdensome requirements. 
Monday, 11/6/2023 
5:30 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. 
 
LOCATION: 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
PROJECT TEAM: 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, City of San 
Mateo 
Matt Goyne, Fehr & Peers 
 
CITY COUNCIL: 
Mayor A. Lee 
Deputy Mayor L.D. Nash 
Council Member A. Loraine 
Council Member R. Newsom Jr. 
Council Member R. Hedges

--- page 115 ---
San Mateo TDM  
City Council Meeting 
11/6/2023 
Page 2 of 5  
 
• 
Project types 
• 
New construction – absolutely 
• 
Renewed business license – right-size requirements to ensure this is not too onerous and does 
not present a disincentive to maintain business in San Mateo 
• 
Affordable housing – give this an exemption or set light/very attainable requirements 
• 
Existing development – Council was of two minds. Legal office would need to do research into 
pros, cons, and overall feasibility. 
• 
Opposed (ex. Nash) – Do not want ordinance applied to existing developments. If included, 
establish a higher threshold for participation correlated with the number of employees. 
• 
Supportive (ex. Hedges, Loraine, Newsom) – Want to include all developments possible. Hedges is 
conscious of the slate of recent developments in Bridgepointe which will not be subject to the 
new TDM ordinance. 
How often should San Mateo monitor for TDM plan compliance? 
Two options proposed: 
• 
(Most CMs) Annually, then set back to a 2- or 3-year cadence (ex. Loraine, Nash) 
• 
(Mayor) Begin with a 2-year monitoring cycle and step back to 3+ years for compliance 
• 
Thinks 1 year is a short timeframe over which to accomplish anything 
How should the City treat projects that are out of compliance with TDM ordinance?  
Consensus: 
• 
Treat noncompliant projects with a light touch 
• 
Apply a three-strikes approach, such as: 
• 
(1) Issue an initial ‘verbal’ warning 
• 
(2) Issue a second warning and connect the project to direct support for onboarding/achieving a 
compliant TDM plan. For example, connect the project with Commute.org staff and resources.  
• 
(3) Third strike, do something punitive (e.g., exact fees).  
• 
Do NOT include revoking a Certificate of Occupancy as a punitive measure 
• 
Overall, use incentives rather than disincentives whenever possible 
• 
Encourage compliance by championing compliant projects (e.g., spotlight these in reports,  
How should consequences for serially non-compliant projects be structured? 
• 
Exact fees, apply other pressures 
• 
Again, do NOT include revoking a Certificate of Occupancy as a punitive measure

--- page 116 ---
San Mateo TDM  
City Council Meeting 
11/6/2023 
Page 3 of 5  
 
Other Ideas Shared by Council 
• 
Prioritize safety and enhancement of multimodal transportation systems  
• 
Big picture, get the City government involved 
• 
Incentivize visiting/attending events via transit, bike, on foot, etc. 
• 
Conduct an annual public meeting – taste and talk – on transportation options in San Mateo to 
educate the public on available mobility options  
• 
Bring more micro mobility options back/to the City  
• 
Support/Increase shuttle options 
• 
Highlight TDM measures/transportation options within a guidebook that can be updated 
administratively so the ordinance is more of a living document 
• 
Encourage the development of a Downtown TMA and getting Commute.org involved to provide 
TDM measures accessible to small existing businesses 
• 
Using participation in this as a light threshold for TDM ordinance participation feels right 
 
Council Discussion and Questions for the Project Team 
Questions raised by the Council are paraphrased and organized into themes. 
Applicable Projects  
• 
Hedges – Could existing projects, such as those in Bridgepoint, be included?  
• 
SEA - Should the ordinance be applied to existing complexes? We have not seen that done for 
existing residential, but it could be done per Council recommendation. Commercial properties 
could be included via business license renewal or tenant improvements. 
• 
Newsom – Are there projects to which we can retroactively apply the TDM ordinance? What have 
other cities done?  
• 
SEA/MG – Yes, at the direction of Council. East Palo Alto and Redwood City both have 
mechanisms for this. In terms of how it has worked, we do not have that information in front of 
us.  
• 
Many recently developed projects have a TDM plan. Monitoring requirements are part of those 
projects’ conditions of approval so they likely could not be updated, unless at the direction of 
Council. Legal to investigate this. 
• 
Loraine – Could we consider exceptions for otherwise qualified participants such as affordable 
housing projects? Are there any other carveouts?  
• 
MG – Described C/CAG requirements and how these account for affordable housing. Highlighted 
considerations related to the onerous cost of transit passes.

--- page 117 ---
San Mateo TDM  
City Council Meeting 
11/6/2023 
Page 4 of 5  
 
Policy Considerations 
• 
Lee – How would the TDM ordinance influence or relate to the rail corridor TMA? Put another 
way, how would the ordinance help consolidate plans and priorities for the City – create synergy 
and consistency, a unified vision and plan to execute on that vision?  
• 
SEA – The ordinance would not affect the entity of the TMA but would help provide consolidated 
and consistent TDM requirements.  
• 
Lee – We want to strike a balance between our goals for affordable housing and transportation 
improvements. How can the TDM ordinance address deficiencies with the existing TMA?  
• 
SEA – Described requirements that would be imposed on affordable housing developments. 
Having right-sized/nuanced requirements for these kinds of projects is going to be a facet of the 
plan.  
• 
Loraine – Do we have a TMA downtown? Would we lead to one being formed Downtown or 
anywhere else? 
• 
SEA – No, the only one is in the Caltrain rail corridor. The ordinance could be used, long term, to 
prompt the creation of more TMAs, but more importantly, re-envision how to structure more 
effective TMAs. 
• 
Nash – Did you create a matrix of existing TDM strategies employed elsewhere?  
• 
SEA/MG – Yes, Best Practices research slide deck. 
• 
Nash – Did you consider that businesses may have an incentive to not come to San Mateo if they 
are subjected to TDM?  
• 
SEA – Not specifically, but the ordinance would include measures right-sized to the topography 
and project type to avoid exacting overly burdensome requirements.  
• 
Loraine – How does this plan relate to the pricing of parking in our downtown parking lots?  
• 
SEA – Described the role/value of pricing parking and the recently awarded MTC grant that will 
fund a citywide parking study. 
Data Collection & Monitoring 
• 
Newsom – What would be required of projects, from a reporting standpoint? Quantitative or 
qualitative data? How would that data be captured/presented for compliance? 
• 
MG – Described approach for qualitative vs quantitative data. Referred to how C/CAG 
requirements are tiered and evaluated. 
• 
Lee – Issued question about the nature of qualitative vs quantitative monitoring and the pros and 
cons of each. Asked in relationship to the direction provided by the SI Commission to prioritize 
qualitative monitoring.

--- page 118 ---
San Mateo TDM  
City Council Meeting 
11/6/2023 
Page 5 of 5  
 
• 
SEA – Described the difference with the consensus being that qualitative are easier to provide and 
evaluate.  
• 
Nash – Would compliance address or investigate why a project is noncompliant? There could be 
good reasons.  
• 
SEA – described compliance, highlighting that the ordinance would include targets for influenced 
by property managers rather than those that rely more on human behavior.  
• 
Lee – What staff and funding increases would need to be considered to support monitoring and 
compliance?  
• 
SEA – Need to check based on how the framework is configured.  
Stakeholder Engagement 
• 
Nash – Will you speak with the public? It would be great to do some and involve people who, if 
not directly involved with implementation, will feel the impact of TDM measures (e.g., they live 
near projects that will have TDM plans).  
• 
SEA – Not for this project. Outreach centered on robust but focused engagement with those 
affected by the ordinance (e.g., developers) or involved in implementation.

--- page 119 ---
1 
 
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) 
PROGRAM POLICY MANUAL 
WORKING DRAFT - FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
 
1. PURPOSE OF THE POLICY MANUAL 
On [DATE], the City of San Mateo City Council adopted Ordinance No. [NUMBER] establishing a 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) program in San Mateo. The purposes of the TDM 
program are: 
A. To equitably improve access, mobility, and connectivity in the City and the surrounding 
region; and 
B. To reduce single-occupancy vehicle trips and Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT), thereby reducing 
and alleviating associated roadway impacts, greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, safety 
risks, and noise impacts. 
As part of TDM program implementation, City staff are required to establish, maintain, and update 
this TDM Policy Manual to provide the necessary details regarding TDM requirements, processes, 
and procedures. The policy manual shall be reviewed and updated periodically to: 
C. Provide feasible and effective options to applicants to meet program requirements and 
achieve program goals, and 
D. Reflect best practices, emerging technologies, City transportation network conditions, 
and/or lessons learned from program monitoring and evaluation efforts. 
Projects shall meet all requirements of the version of the TDM Program Policy Manual which is in 
effect at the time of TDM plan submittal. If the policy manual is updated subsequent to the date of 
TDM plan submittal, the applicant may elect to have their Project be subject to all requirements of 
the current version of the TDM Program Policy Manual by submitting a revised TDM Plan for 
approval. 
How to Use the Policy Manual 
TDM requirements in San Mateo vary for each project depending on project type, size, and location. 
This policy manual is intended to provide all the necessary information for project applicants to 
successfully comply with all of the City’s TDM requirements. To understand what is required under 
the TDM program, each project applicant should take the following steps: 
1. Identify the project size (large or small). Table 1 summarizes the thresholds for small and 
large projects, as well as any exceptions to TDM requirements.

--- page 120 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
2 
2. Identify the TDM project location (Zone 1, 2, or 3). A map of TDM project areas can be 
found in Appendix B. 
3. Based on the project type, size, and location: 
a. Identify which baseline TDM strategies are required. This information is 
summarized in Table 3 and is based on project type, size, and location. 
b. Identify the TDM point target threshold. This information is summarized in Table 4 
and is based on project type, size, and location. 
c. Select additional TDM strategies for implementation. The point value for each 
TDM strategy is summarized in Error! Reference source not found. through Error! 
Reference source not found.. 
4. Identify whether a TDM plan is required. This information is summarized in Table 2 and is 
based on project type and size. 
a. If yes, prepare a TDM plan and complete the TDM checklist cover sheet. The cover 
sheet is included in Appendix C. 
b. If no, complete the TDM checklist cover sheet. The cover sheet is included in 
Appendix C. 
5. Submit the TDM cover sheet checklist and, if required, the TDM plan to City staff. These 
materials should be submitted concurrently with the planning application and will be 
approved along with the planning application. 
6. Begin TDM implementation, including monitoring and reporting. During implementation, 
be sure to document implementation efforts and submit documentation as part of regular 
monitoring reports.  
a. For new construction, implementation begins when a use permit or Certificate of 
Occupancy is received. Prior to issuance of any use permit and/or Certificate of 
Occupancy, projects must execute and record a Covenant and Agreement that the 
approved TDM Plan as required by the TDM Program, and the TDM measures 
contained therein, have been provided and will be maintained throughout the life 
of the project. This is to ensure that, as a property is sold or users change, there is a 
clear record attached to the property that documents the ongoing requirement to 
abide by the TDM Plan. 
b. If renovations to an existing use, implementation begins when a use permit or 
Certificate of Occupancy is received for the building. Prior to issuance of any use 
permit and/or Certificate of Occupancy, projects must execute and record a 
Covenant and Agreement that the approved TDM Plan as required by the TDM 
Program, and the TDM measures contained therein, have been provided and will be 
maintained throughout the life of the project.  This is to ensure that, as a property is 
sold or users change, there is a clear record attached to the property that 
documents the ongoing requirement to abide by the TDM Plan.

--- page 121 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
3 
If you encounter challenges during the planning and/or implementation process, contact the City of 
San Mateo and review educational materials. The goal of the TDM program is to successfully reduce 
VMT in San Mateo—wherever possible, City staff will work with project applicants to adapt TDM 
plans to better address new or unforeseen challenges to achieve overall project success.

--- page 122 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
4 
Figure 1: TDM Policy Manual Flow Chart

--- page 123 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
5 
2. TDM APPLICABILITY AND REQUIRED COMPONENTS 
Applicability 
Project-level thresholds for applying TDM requirements are described by the project type and size. 
These thresholds are summarized in Table 1. 
Because all parts of the City are subject to TDM requirements, project location is not included in the 
project applicability thresholds and size definitions. However, the City recognizes that there is 
significant variability in the transportation network conditions and availability of mobility services in 
different parts of San Mateo. The City has designated three TDM project zones, which reflect 
different land use patterns, proximity to transit service, potential for multimodal travel, and 
relationship with state and regional transportation and parking regulations. The minimum TDM point 
target for a project varies depending on which of these three zones the project is located in. A map 
of the three TDM project zones is included in Appendix B. 
Table 1 
Project Thresholds for Applicability and Exemptions 
Project Type 
Project Threshold for Applicability 
Exemptions 
Small Projects 
Large Projects 
New Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
▪ 26 - 49 dwelling 
units 
▪ 50+ dwelling units 
▪ 0 – 25 dwelling 
units 
▪ at least 50% 
affordable units 
▪ Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications 
New Developments (Non-
Residential Uses) 
(includes Office, Industrial, 
Institutional, Medical, 
Lodging, Service, Dining, and 
Retail) 
▪ 10,000 – 49,999 
GSF 
▪ 50,000+ GSF 
▪ 0 – 9,999 GSF 
▪ Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
▪ 25 – 99 
employees 
▪ 100+ employees 
▪ 0 – 24 employees 
▪ Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications 
Significant Changes in Use or 
Building Additions 
▪ 10,000 – 49,999 
GSF 
▪ 50,000+ GSF 
▪ 0 – 9,999 GSF 
▪ Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications

--- page 124 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
6 
Required Components of the TDM Program 
Each applicable project is subject to three steps for TDM implementation:  
(1) Submit a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Cover Sheet Checklist and, if 
applicable, a TDM Plan. A TDM Cover Sheet Checklist identifies which strategies will be 
implemented to fulfill project TDM requirements.  A TDM Plan is a document describing the 
proposed TDM approach and how the applicant will fulfill all TDM requirements. The TDM 
plan must be submitted concurrently with a planning application or building permit. 
Applicability and required components of a TDM plan are described below. 
(2) Implement TDM Strategies. Required strategies include: 
a. Required baseline TDM strategies, which must be implemented for each project 
and vary based on the project size and location. Baseline TDM strategies do not 
count towards the required minimum TDM point target and cannot be swapped out 
for other measures. 
b. Additional TDM strategies to meet the required minimum point target, which can 
be selected from the full list of TDM strategies. The TDM Program Policy manual 
assigns point values for each potential TDM strategy, which reflect the overall level 
of impact that the strategy is expected to have in achieving the City’s TDM goals. 
Each project must select and implement additional TDM strategies with a combined 
point value that meets or exceeds the required minimum TDM point target, which is 
based on project size and location. 
(3) Monitor the TDM Program and Submit Reports. Each project must conduct regular efforts 
to monitor TDM program performance and must submit the findings to the City. The 
required frequency and components of TDM program monitoring is based on the project 
size (size, type and location) and the project compliance level, as described in this policy 
manual. 
Exemptions and Modifications 
San Mateo’s TDM program aims to be effective at achieving the City’s transportation and mobility 
goals while providing reasonable flexibility to project sponsors. Recognizing that unforeseen 
complications or extenuating circumstances can impact the feasibility of successful TDM 
implementation, the City of San Mateo may grant exemptions or modifications to TDM program 
requirements on a case-by-case basis. Such exemptions shall be granted only when a developer 
believes there are circumstances that create an unreasonable hardship in meeting the TDM 
requirements. The burden is on the developer to show there is significant hardship. A significant 
hardship is defined as practical infeasibility or an end result inconsistent with the purposes of these 
guidelines. Hardship exemptions shall be granted in unusual circumstances based upon a showing 
that the public interest is not served by enforcing compliance or other compelling circumstances. 
The exemption request shall be decided by the approval authority for the development permit.

--- page 125 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
7 
 
3. TDM PLANS 
The purpose of a TDM plan is to describe a reasonable plan of action for successfully implementing 
the strategies identified in the TDM Cover Sheet Checklist. Table 2 identifies which projects are 
required to prepare a TDM plan. Completed TDM plans should be submitted concurrently with the 
project development application. City staff will review each TDM plan to confirm that all TDM 
program requirements are satisfied and that the selected additional TDM measures are supported by 
a reasonable rationale and plan for successful implementation. Each TDM plan must include, at a 
minimum: 
▪ 
A completed TDM checklist cover sheet (see Appendix C) 
▪ 
A brief description of why each strategy was selected, which may include reference to: 
− 
What contextual factors make the TDM strategy appropriate for the project 
− 
How each strategy aligns with the overall project vision 
− 
How each selected strategy will be successfully implemented. This description should 
include details like subsidy amounts, transit pass type, or how information will be 
distributed.  
Table 2 
TDM Plan Requirements by Project Type and Size 
Project Type 
Small Projects 
Large Projects 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential 
Uses) (includes Office, Industrial, 
Institutional, Medical, Lodging, Service, 
Dining, and Retail) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
Cover sheet checklist only 
Cover sheet checklist only 
Significant Changes in Use 
Required 
Required 
Modifications to Approved TDM Plans 
A request to modify an approved TDM plan may be submitted to and approved by the Planning 
Commission. Such a request shall only be granted if the modification will be at least as effective as 
the original TDM plan in meeting the objectives and purposes of this chapter.  A modification is 
defined as changing the selected TDM strategies in an existing TDM plan. All modifications or 
changes to selected strategies must include all required strategies and meet the selected point 
targets for each project type.

--- page 126 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
8 
4. REQUIRED STRATEGIES AND TDM POINT TARGETS 
Required Baseline TDM Strategies 
Each project must implement the required baseline TDM strategies to fulfill TDM program 
requirements. These required strategies vary based on project size, type, and location, and do not 
count towards minimum TDM point targets. Required strategies for projects based on size, type, and 
location are summarized in Table 3.

--- page 127 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
9 
Table 3 
Required Baseline TDM Strategies by Project Type and Size 
ID 
Strategy 
Small 
Large 
Required Baseline Strategies: New Developments (Residential Uses) 
P.6 
Unbundle parking costs from other property costs or leases 
Required 
Required 
P.7 
Eliminate parking space minimum requirements in leases 
Required 
Required 
S.1 
Provide non-driving transportation subsidies 
Required 
Required 
M.1 
Implement non-driving education/marketing/programs 
Required 
Required 
M.8 
Join a TMA or Commute.org Certified Development Program  
 
Required 
M.9 
Retain a TDM coordinator or contact 
Required 
Required 
E.1 
Implement multimodal network improvements 
Required 
Required 
E.4 
Provide long-term bicycle and micromobility parking in 
excess of city requirements 
Required 
Required 
Required Baseline Strategies: New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
P.1 
Require on-site, off-street parking to be shared 
 
Required 
P.2 
Provide preferential carpool/vanpool parking 
Required 
Required 
S.1 
Provide non-driving transportation subsidies 
Required 
Required 
S.2 
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits 
Required 
Required 
S.4 
Provide ride matching services 
Required 
Required 
M.1 
Implement non-driving education/marketing/programs 
 
Required 
M.8 
Join a TMA or Commute.org Certified Development Program 
Required 
Required 
M.9 
Retain a TDM coordinator or contact 
Required 
Required 
E.4 
Provide long-term bicycle and micromobility parking in 
excess of city requirements 
Required 
Required 
E.5 
Provide a bike repair station 
Required 
Required 
E.10 
Provide on-site family-supportive amenities 
Required 
Required 
Required Baseline Strategies: Existing Commercial Uses 
S.2 
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits 
Required 
Required 
M.1 
Implement non-driving education/marketing/programs 
 
Required 
Significant Changes in Use 
Must meet corresponding requirements for new use

--- page 128 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
10 
Required Minimum TDM Point Targets and Additional Strategies 
The TDM program uses a TDM point system to quantify the anticipated level of impact and priority 
of each potential TDM strategy. In addition to required baseline strategies, each project must 
implement a selection of additional TDM strategies that combine to meet or exceed the project-level 
required TDM point target. Baseline required TDM strategies do not count towards the project point 
target. Any combination of additional TDM strategies may be used to achieve the TDM point target. 
In the TDM plan, the project sponsor should provide a brief rationale for why each measure will be 
effective at achieving TDM program goals. The minimum number of TDM points that must be 
achieved for each project size, location, and type is summarized in Table 4. Required baseline 
strategies do not count towards a project’s TDM point target, and cannot be substituted in lieu of 
any of the baseline strategies. 
Table 4 
Point Targets by Project Size, Location, and Type 
Project Type 
Small Projects 
Large Projects 
Area 1 
Area 2 
Area 3 
Area 1 
Area 2 
Area 3 
New Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
11.5 
15 
15 
15 
20 
20 
New Developments 
(Non-Residential Uses) 
5 
10 
10 
0 
20 
20 
Existing Non-Residential 
Uses 
0 
0 
0 
5 
5 
5 
Significant Changes in 
Use 
Must meet corresponding point target for new use 
TDM Strategy List and Point Values 
The point value for each additional TDM strategy is provided in Error! Reference source not found. 
through Error! Reference source not found.. All strategies include a point value for a basic level of 
implementation. “Basic implementation” refers to the minimum standard to which a strategy must 
be implemented to achieve the intended TDM impact. Some strategies also include an enhanced 
implementation with a higher associated point value. This higher value reflects the higher level of 
TDM impact associated with going above and beyond basic TDM implementation. For additional 
detailed descriptions and definitions of baseline and enhanced strategy implementations, see 
Appendix A.

--- page 129 ---
1 
 
Table 5: TDM Strategies - Parking 
ID 
Strategy 
Points 
(Basic) 
Points 
(Enhanced) 
Required TDM Measures 
New Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
New Developments 
(Non-Residential Uses) 
Existing 
Commercial Uses 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
P.1 
Require on-site, off-street parking to 
be shared 
2 
5 
  
  
  
✓ 
  
  
P.2 
Provide preferential 
carpool/vanpool parking 
1 
  
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
P.3 
Reduce on-site vehicle parking 
10 
15 
  
  
  
  
  
  
P.4 
Charge for on-site parking   
15 
25 
  
  
  
  
  
  
P.5 
Provide a parking cash-out option 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
P.6 
Unbundle parking costs from other 
property costs or leases 
15 
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
  
  
P.7 
Eliminate parking space minimum 
requirements in leases 
1 
  
✓ 
✓

--- page 130 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
2 
Table 6: TDM Strategies - Services and Programs 
ID 
Strategy 
Points 
(Basic) 
Points 
(Enhanced) 
Required TDM Measure? 
New Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
New Developments (Non-
Residential Uses) 
Existing Commercial Uses 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
S.1 
Provide non-driving 
transportation subsidies 
10 
15 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
S.2 
Provide pre-tax 
transportation benefits 
1 
  
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
S.3 
Provide "school pool" 
shared ride programs 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
S.4 
Provide ride matching 
services 
2 
  
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
S.5 
Provide a guaranteed 
ride home program 
1 
3 
  
  
  
  
  
  
S.6 
Provide shuttle service 
or pay into a shuttle 
service if one exists 
10 
20 
  
  
  
  
  
  
S.7 
Provide free or 
subsidized car share 
membership 
1 
5 
  
  
  
  
  
  
S.8 
Provide car share 
vehicles on site 
1 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
S.9 
Provide an on-site bike 
library   
2

--- page 131 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
3 
Table 7: TDM Strategies – Marketing, Education, and Management 
ID 
Strategy 
Points (Basic) 
Points (Enhanced) 
Required TDM Measure? 
 
New 
Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
New 
Developments 
(Non-Residential 
Uses) 
Existing 
Commercial Uses 
 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
M.1 
Implement non-driving 
education/marketing/programs 
2 
4 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
M.3 
Provide on-site real-time travel 
and TDM information 
1 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
M.5 
Provide bicycle skill and safety 
training 
1 
4 
  
  
  
  
  
  
M.7 
Provide bike repair workshops 
or clinics 
1 
  
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
M.8 
Join a TMA or Commute.org 
Certified Development 
Program  
6.5 
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
M.9 
Retain a TDM coordinator or 
contact 
0.5 
2 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓

--- page 132 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
4 
Table 8: TDM Strategies - Site Enhancements 
ID 
Strategy 
Points 
(Basic) 
Points 
(Enhanced) 
Required TDM Measure? 
 New Developments 
(Residential Uses) 
New Developments (Non-
Residential Uses) 
Existing Commercial Uses 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
Small 
Projects 
Large 
Projects 
E.1 
Implement multimodal network 
improvements 
7 
10 
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
  
  
E.2 
Provide on-site delivery 
amenities 
1 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.3 
Provide short-term bicycle and 
micromobility parking in excess 
of city requirements 
1 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.4 
Provide long-term bicycle and 
micromobility parking in excess 
of city requirements 
1 
4 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
E.5 
Provide a bike repair station 
0.5 
1 
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
E.6 
Provide designated passenger 
pick-up/drop-off zones 
1 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.7 
Provide designated commercial 
pick-up/drop-off delivery zones 
on site 
1 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.8 
Provide multimodal wayfinding 
and signage 
1 
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.9 
Provide end-of-trip amenities 
(lockers, showers, and changing 
rooms) 
2 
4

--- page 133 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
5 
E.10 
Provide on-site family-supportive 
amenities 
3 
5 
  
  
✓ 
✓ 
  
  
E.11 
Provide pedestrian-supportive 
uses and amenities on the 
ground floor 
3 
5 
  
  
  
  
  
  
E.12 
Provide on-site uses and services 
that help reduce daily trips 
1 
5

--- page 134 ---
1 
 
Other TDM Strategies 
New TDM strategies may become available as technology evolves, new services emerge, and the 
City’s transportation network expands. Project sponsors may propose other TDM strategies which 
are not included in this Policy Manual. Such proposals should be clearly identified and described in 
the TDM plan, including at a minimum: 
▪ 
A detailed description of the strategy 
▪ 
An explanation of how the strategy reduces single-occupancy vehicle trips and/or VMT 
▪ 
If available, an example of where the strategy has been implemented elsewhere 
The TDM program manager may approve the proposed TDM strategy and award up to 5 points 
towards the overall project TDM point target. Points awarded will be commensurate with the 
estimated impact and effectiveness towards achieving overall program goals.

--- page 135 ---
1 
 
5. COMPLIANCE, MONITORING, AND REPORTING 
Compliance Framework 
The City will use a four-stage compliance framework to categorize the compliance status of each 
project subject to the TDM requirements. The compliance stage of a project will be used to 
determine the frequency of required TDM monitoring activities and, as needed, identify any 
penalties or corrective actions required as a result of noncompliance with TDM program 
requirements. The four-stage compliance framework is summarized in Table 9. 
Table 9 
TDM Program Compliance Framework 
Compliance 
Stage 
Description 
Monitoring 
Frequency 
Noncompliance 
Penalties 
Corrective 
Actions 
Green 
Projects with 3+ consecutive 
years of demonstrated 
compliance with all TDM 
program requirements 
Less 
frequent 
(every 3rd 
year) 
None 
None 
Light Green 
New projects and compliant 
projects with 0-2 years of 
demonstrated compliance 
More 
frequent 
(every year) 
None 
None 
Orange 
Projects that are noncompliant 
for 2-3 consecutive years 
More 
frequent 
(every year) 
None 
Corrective 
TDM plan 
Red 
Projects that are noncompliant 
for 4+ consecutive years 
More 
frequent 
(every year) 
$$$ 
Corrective 
TDM plan 
 
Monitoring And Reporting Procedures 
Regular TDM program monitoring and reporting is an essential component of the TDM program, and 
required for all approved TDM plans. Table 10 summarizes the required monitoring frequency and 
elements for all projects, by compliance stage. Monitoring and reporting requirements include: 
1. A copy of the TDM cover sheet checklist and, if applicable, the latest TDM Plan. 
2. Documentation of implemented TDM measures. The purpose of this information is to verify 
that all TDM strategies identified in the approved cover sheet checklist have been 
implemented as proposed and required. 
3. TDM survey results. All Large projects are required to complete a TDM survey as part of 
each monitoring and reporting effort. The survey should use the approved TDM survey

--- page 136 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
2 
template (Appendix D). Any changes to the survey should be clearly identified and a 
rationale or explanation provided.  
Table 10 
TDM Monitoring and Reporting Frequency 
Compliance 
Stage 
Description 
Monitoring 
and Reporting 
Frequency 
Required 
Elements: 
Small Projects 
Required 
Elements: 
Large Projects 
Green 
Projects with 3+ 
consecutive years of 
demonstrated 
compliance with all TDM 
program requirements 
Required once 
every 3 years  
▪ Copy of the latest TDM plan (if 
required) and cover sheet checklist 
▪ TDM documentation 
Light Green 
New projects and 
compliant projects with 
0-2 years of 
demonstrated 
compliance 
Required 
annually 
Orange 
Projects that are 
noncompliant for 2-3 
consecutive years 
Required 
annually 
▪ Copy of the latest TDM plan (if 
required) and cover sheet checklist 
▪ Corrective TDM plan 
▪ TDM documentation 
Red 
Projects that are 
noncompliant for 4+ 
consecutive years 
Required 
annually 
 
6. FEES AND PENALTIES 
Program Fees 
Implementation of San Mateo’s TDM program includes the establishment of TDM program fees for 
the purpose of defraying the cost to the City of managing the TDM program, including review of TDM 
plans and regular monitoring reports. The following fees shall apply to all projects that are subject to 
TDM program requirements: 
TDM application fee. The TDM application fee is required at the time of submittal of any TDM plan 
to the City, including any modifications or required updates to an existing TDM plan. The purpose of 
this fee is to offset the cost to the City in staff time and resources required to adequately review and 
approve all submitted TDM plans. The TDM application fee by project type is summarized in Table 
11. 
TDM Monitoring Fee. The TDM monitoring fee is required at the time of submission of each regular 
TDM monitoring report. The purpose of this fee is to offset the cost to the City in staff time and 
resources required to review monitoring reports, maintain citywide TDM performance data, and

--- page 137 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
3 
make regular adjustments to the TDM program Policy Manual based on this observed TDM 
performance. The fee is due at the time of submission of each TDM monitoring report. The TDM 
monitoring fee by project type is summarized in Table 12. 
Table 11 
Schedule of Fees – TDM Application Fee 
Project Type 
TDM Application Fee: 
Small Projects 
TDM Application Fee: 
Large Projects 
TDM Application Fee: 
Exempt Projects 
New Developments – 
Residential Uses 
$500 
$1,000 
$0 
New Developments – 
Non-Residential Uses  
$500 
$1,000 
$0 
Significant Changes in 
Use 
$500 
$1,000 
$0 
Existing Non-
Residential Uses 
$0 
$0 
$0 
Table 12 
Schedule of Fees – TDM Monitoring Fee 
Project Type 
TDM Monitoring Fee: 
Small Projects 
TDM Monitoring Fee: 
Large Projects 
TDM Monitoring Fee: 
Exempt Projects 
New Developments – 
Residential Uses 
$3,000 
$6,000 
$0 
New Developments – 
Non-Residential Uses  
$3,000 
$6,000 
$0 
Significant Changes in 
Use 
$3,000 
$6,000 
$0 
Existing Non-
Residential Uses 
$0 
$0 
$0 
Noncompliance Penalties 
The primary objective of the TDM program is to achieve meaningful progress towards reducing 
single-occupancy vehicle travel and VMT through the ongoing successful implementation of TDM 
strategies in the City. In support of this objective, the City may apply noncompliance penalties to 
projects that do not comply with program requirements. Fines for noncompliance are summarized in 
Table 13 below. 
At the discretion of the Public Works Director, fines for noncompliance may be modified or waived if 
it is determined that the Project Sponsor has acted in good faith to fulfill the requirements of this 
policy manual. Such modifications and/or waivers shall reflect and be in accordance with the stated 
purpose and goals of the TDM program.

--- page 138 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
4 
Table 13 
Noncompliance Fines 
Compliance 
Stage 
Description 
Noncompliance Fines 
Small Projects 
Large Projects 
Green 
Projects with 3+ consecutive 
years of demonstrated 
compliance 
None 
None 
Light Green 
New projects and projects with 
1-2 years of demonstrated 
compliance 
None 
None 
Orange 
Projects which are 
noncompliant for 1-2 
consecutive years 
None 
None 
Red 
Projects that are noncompliant 
for 3-4 consecutive years 
$5,000 per unfulfilled 
required TDM point  
$25,000 per unfulfilled 
required TDM point

--- page 139 ---
1 
 
APPENDIX A: 
TDM STRATEGY DETAILS

--- page 140 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
2 
STRATEGY P.1: 
Require on-site, off-street parking to be shared 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
5 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Designate off-street parking as shared. Shared parking includes: 
▪ 
Spaces which are not reserved for the exclusive use of a single user, affiliate group, or tenant 
at all times of day 
▪ 
Spaces which are available to the general public (free or priced) 
▪ 
Spaces which are made available to off-site users through leases or other formalized shared 
parking agreements 
▪ 
Spaces which are reserved for carpool, vanpool, or car share uses 
Implementation (Basic) 
▪ 
Designate at least 50% of off-street parking as shared parking. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
▪ 
Designate at least 90% of off-street parking as shared parking.

--- page 141 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
3 
STRATEGY P.2: 
Provide preferential carpool/vanpool parking 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide free or preferential parking, including reserved spaces or spaces near an entrance or in 
another desirable location, to incentivize carpooling and vanpooling.  
Implementation (Basic) 
Reserve dedicated carpool or vanpool parking spaces near main entrances and include signage.  
▪ 
For residential developments, at least 1 space per 20 dwelling units shall be provided.  
▪ 
For non-residential developments, at least 1 space per 20,000 gross square feet shall be 
provided. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 142 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
4 
STRATEGY P.3: 
Reduce on-site vehicle parking 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
10 
15 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide off-street parking below local zoning code parking minimums. If parking minimums are ever 
removed, provide off-street parking below the most recent ITE manual.  
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide no more than 80% of the total recommended parking supply for the project, per the most 
recent edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation Manual. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide no more than 50% of the total recommended parking supply for the project, per the most 
recent edition of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation Manual.

--- page 143 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
5 
STRATEGY P.4: 
Charge for on-site parking 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
15 
25 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Price parking at hourly or daily rates, and do not provide annual, or other long-term parking pass 
options. This may include:  
▪ 
Charging employees for daily parking 
▪ 
Implementing market or dynamic rate pricing 
▪ 
 
Implementation (Basic) 
Require all tenants to implement priced parking for all employees. Pricing includes hourly and daily 
rates as well as weekly and monthly permits. Tenants are required to provide a low-income option. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Require all tenants to implement priced parking for all employees. Priced parking includes hourly and 
daily rates (no weekly or monthly permits). Tenants are required to provide a low-income option.

--- page 144 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
6 
STRATEGY P.5: 
Provide a parking cash-out option 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Where free parking is provided, give employees the option to receive the cash value of free parking 
in-lieu of a parking space. Although not required, cash out works best in conjunction with unbundling 
(Strategy P.6) as it provides a market signal to forgo subsidizing parking and cashing out employees 
instead. Unbundling can help to implement a cash out program as it establishes a per stall price 
point. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Require all tenants to implement an employee cash-out program. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 145 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
7 
STRATEGY P.6: 
Unbundle parking costs from other property costs or 
leases 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
15 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Property should not “bundle” the price of parking spaces into the price paid by the tenant for 
building space. The cost should be a separate, optional line-item in the lease. This element 
encourages tenants to experience the cost savings of opting not to rent or purchase parking. 
Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs of providing dedicated parking spaces. 
Encourage additional parking capacity created by unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public 
parking spaces.  
Implementation (Basic) 
Lease or sell automobile parking spaces separately from the dwelling units/commercial/ office space 
for the life of the project, preserving the option for tenants to opt out of parking and realizing a 
commensurate cost savings. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 146 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
8 
STRATEGY P.7: 
Eliminate parking space minimum requirements in 
leases 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Like unbundling parking, properties should not require tenants to commit to or pay for a minimum 
number of spaces in their lease agreement. This is sometimes referred to as a “must-take” clause. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Do not require tenants to commit to or pay for a minimum number of parking spaces, and prohibit 
leases from requiring employees or subtenants to pay for a minimum number of parking spaces. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 147 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
9 
STRATEGY S.1: 
Provide non-driving transportation subsidies 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
10 
15 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide free or discounted passes or subsidies for non-driving modes, including transit, bikeshare, 
carshare, and other micromobility modes. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide a free recurring monthly or annual transit pass for all site tenants, or provide subsidies, 
funding, or discounts for other non-driving modes of at least an equivalent financial value to a 
recurring monthly or annual transit pass. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Implement a mobility wallet program that gives users access to a flexible variety of pass options, 
subsidies, and discounts, which may include transit passes, car share and bike share memberships 
and ride credits, ride hailing credits, and rebates for bicycle equipment and services.

--- page 148 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
10 
 
STRATEGY S.2: 
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
Required 
Required 
Description 
Allow employees to participate in a pre-tax transit and parking benefits program to save money and 
encourage the use of sustainable transportation modes. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Allow on-site employees to participate in a pre-tax transit and parking benefits program, up to $260 
per month. This amount should increase as California law and federal law increase commuter benefit 
program amounts. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 149 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
11 
STRATEGY S.3: 
Provide “school pool” shared ride services 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Create a rideshare or carpool program for school children. School pool helps match parents to 
transport students to schools that do not meet the requirements for bussing or to schools with few 
school bus routes. A school pool program can help reduce VMT by reducing private vehicle trips. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Enroll parents and students in an online ride matching service that connects people through a secure 
network to post and search for shared rides. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 150 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
12 
STRATEGY S.4: 
Provide ridematching services 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Create a rideshare or carpool program for school children. School pool helps match parents to 
transport students to schools where students cannot walk or bike but do not meet the requirements 
for bussing or to schools with few school bus routes. A school pool program can help reduce VMT by 
reducing private vehicle trips. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Enroll parents and students in an online ride matching service that connects people through a secure 
network to post and search for shared rides. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 151 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
13 
STRATEGY S.5: 
Provide a guaranteed ride home program 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
3 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Property owner or employer provides ride services, such as reimbursement of public transit, car 
share, taxi or ride hailing (Uber/Lyft) trips for tenants/employees who use sustainable transportation 
options.  
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide reimbursement for up to four emergency ride home trips per year per person. Qualifying 
trips include taxi or ride hail costs for on-site employees/ tenants who have commuted to work by 
bus, train, carpool, vanpool, bike, or on foot. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide reimbursement for up to 10 emergency ride home trips per year per person. Qualifying trips 
include public transit, car share, taxi or ridehailing costs for on-site employees/ tenants who have 
commuted to work by bus, train, carpool, vanpool, bike, or on foot.

--- page 152 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
14 
STRATEGY S.6: 
Provide shuttle service or pay into a shuttle service if 
one exists 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
10 
20 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide local shuttle service. The local shuttles will primarily provide service between the project site 
and regional transit hubs, commercial centers, and/or residential areas. Local shuttle service shall be 
free and open to the public. Shuttle stop locations shall be posted with shuttle schedules (or 
frequency and hours). 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide free neighborhood shuttle service at least every 30 minutes during peak periods on 
weekdays and at least every 60 minutes during off-peak periods on weekdays and weekends, serving 
destinations within 2 miles of the Project; or  
Provide free employer shuttle service during commute periods on weekdays, serving areas with high 
concentrations of Project employees; or  
Work with the school district or private schools to provide new or expanded free school shuttle 
service to transport on-site students to/from schools. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide free neighborhood shuttle service at least every 15 minutes during peak periods on 
weekdays and at least every 30 minutes during off-peak periods on weekdays and weekends, serving 
destinations within 2 miles of the Project; or  
Work with the school district or private schools to provide new or expanded free school shuttle 
service to transport both on-site students and other students in the local community to/from private 
schools, charter schools, and/or neighborhood schools.

--- page 153 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
15 
STRATEGY S.7: 
Provide free or subsidized car share membership 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
5 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide car share membership for residents and tenants. This strategy is especially valuable to 
complement the "provide car share vehicles on site" strategy (Strategy S.8), or in areas where car 
share stations are already nearby.  Subsidizing car share membership creates a higher demand for 
car share vehicles and may reduce the barrier for individuals to try car share services. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Offer a subsidy of no less than 50% of car share membership cost for on-site residents and 
employees. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Offer free carshare membership for on-site residents and employees.

--- page 154 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
16 
STRATEGY S.8: 
Provide car share vehicles on site 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide on-site car share or vehicle fleets. Availability of car-share vehicles reduces the need for 
individual vehicle ownership, which, in turn, reduces VMT. Car share provides vehicles for those trips 
that are less convenient to make by transit, walking, or bicycling, such as large shopping trips.   
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide a dedicated, publicly accessible parking space for a carshare vehicle, such as Zipcar. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 155 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
17 
STRATEGY S.9: 
Provide an on-site bike library 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Property owner provides on-site bikes, e-bikes, and/or e-cargo bikes for use by project tenants. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Implement an on-site bike library that includes at least five conventional pedal-powered bikes or two 
e-bikes and/or e-cargo bikes for use by on-site employees or residents. Conduct annual maintenance 
on bikes to ensure good working condition. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 156 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
18 
STRATEGY M.1: 
Implement non-driving education/marketing/programs 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
4 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
Required 
Description 
Provide ongoing programming to educate residents and employees, and anyone else regularly 
visiting the site about non-driving modes and promote available alternatives to driving alone. Can be 
implemented in partnership with community-based organizations. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Offer employees or residents an annual orientation or education session on transportation options 
at the property. This should explain the importance of trip reduction methods and provide 
information on alternative transport mode options available at the site, including transit schedules, 
maps, and trip planning. These orientation or education programs and materials can also highlight 
transportation-focused benefits or amenities available to employees or residents, such as pre-tax 
benefits, car share, bike share, or shuttle services. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Offer employees or residents a recurring annual orientation and monthly education sessions on 
transportation options at the property. This should explain the importance of trip reduction methods 
and provide information on alternative transport mode options available at the site, including transit 
schedules, maps, and trip planning. Monthly education sessions could highlight transportation-
focused benefits or amenities available to employees or residents, such as pre-tax benefits, car 
share, bike share, or shuttle services or provide travel training opportunities, but the topics will be 
chosen by the tenant or property owner.

--- page 157 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
19 
STRATEGY M.3: 
Provide on-site real-time travel and TDM information 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide real time transportation information on displays (e.g., large television screens or computer 
monitors) in prominent locations (e.g., entry/ exit areas, lobbies, elevator bays) on the project site to 
highlight sustainable transportation options and support informed trip-making. The displays shall 
include real time information on sustainable transportation options in the vicinity of the project site, 
which may include, but are not limited to, transit arrivals and departures for nearby transit routes, 
walking times to these locations, and the availability of car-share vehicles (within or adjacent to the 
building), shared bicycles, and shared scooters. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide real-time transportation information displays at strategic locations throughout the project 
site. Displays should meet City of San Mateo's signage guidelines to ensure the information is easily 
accessible and understandable by all users. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 158 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
20 
STRATEGY M.5: 
Provide bicycle skill and safety training 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
4 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Bike skill and safety training can encourage cautious but curious bike commuters. These skill and 
safety trainings should help encourage and/or educate new bike commuters and support existing 
commuters. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide annual workshop for residents and/or employees. Workshops can include topics like safe 
route planning and wayfinding; skills and riding etiquette; and basic bike maintenance. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
 Provide workshops on a quarterly basis for residents and/or employees. Workshops can include 
topics like safe route planning and wayfinding; skills and riding etiquette; and basic bike 
maintenance.

--- page 159 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
21 
STRATEGY M.7: 
Provide bike repair workshops or clinics 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Free recurring clinics on bike repair and maintenance that is advertised to all residents and 
employees. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide free bike repair events at least twice a year. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 160 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
22 
STRATEGY M.8: 
Join a TMA or Commute.Org Certified Development 
Program 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
6.5 
10 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Sites shall register with Commute.org or else join or create a Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) with equivalent TDM service, whose role is to coordinate transportation-related 
programs and services in specific geographic areas. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Partner with Commute.org or join a Transportation Management Association (TMA) with 
comparable Transportation Demand Services (TDM) services, whose role is to coordinate 
transportation-related programs and services in specific geographic areas. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
▪ 
Partner with Commute.org and obtain certification of participation with Commute.org, or 
equivalent program; 
▪ 
Provide commute assistance and ride-matching program; 
▪ 
Participate in or provide a dedicated shuttle program/consortium or equivalent transit 
service unless located within ½ mile of a Caltrain or BART station;  
▪ 
Provide Guaranteed Ride Home;  
▪ 
Supply orientation, education, and promotional programs and/or materials for tenants.

--- page 161 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
23 
STRATEGY M.9: 
Retain a TDM coordinator or contact 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
0.5 
2 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide a TDM coordinator or contact person. This individual may either be an employee of the 
development project or may be contracted through a third-party provider. The TDM coordinator 
should provide oversight and management of the project’s TDM Plan implementation. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Demonstrate at least 0.25 FTE staff commitment to coordinate TDM services. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide a dedicated full-time employee (100% of time) to coordinate TDM services.

--- page 162 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
24 
STRATEGY E.1: 
Implement multimodal network improvements 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
7 
10 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Design, fund, and/or construct bike, pedestrian, and transit network improvements beyond the 
project’s frontage. Improvements can include but are not limited to trails, sidewalks, bikeways, 
transit stations, bus stops, bus shelters, ADA-compliant curb ramps, protected intersections, 
protected bike lanes, wayfinding signage, lighting, street trees and landscaping, and traffic calming 
measures for achieving low traffic volumes and speeds. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Design, fund, and construct a combination of bike network improvements and pedestrian network 
improvements. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Design, fund, and construct a combination of bike network improvements, pedestrian street network 
improvements, transit network improvements, and traffic calming measures.

--- page 163 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
25 
STRATEGY E.2: 
Provide on-site delivery amenities 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Offer delivery supportive amenities, such as an area for receipt of deliveries, such as clothes lockers 
for laundry or dry cleaning, storage for package deliveries or temporary refrigeration for grocery 
deliveries. Delivery supportive amenities can help reduce the need for individual vehicle ownership 
and individual vehicle trips, buy consolidating trips to and one central location into one trip with 
multiple stops. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide delivery-supportive amenities such as parcel lockers, storage lockers, or other facilities to 
support consolidated delivery services. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 164 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
26 
STRATEGY E.3: 
Provide short-term bicycle and micromobility parking in 
excess of city requirements 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
2 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide safe and convenient short-term bicycle parking. Short-term bicycle parking should be near 
pedestrian entries and may be in the public right-of-way. Short-term bicycle parking may be used for 
visitors, couriers, or customers, typically for less than two hours. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide at least 1.5 times as many bike parking spaces as required by San Mateo's existing 
requirements for short-term bike parking. Include wayfinding signage for bike parking locations. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide at least 2 times as many secure short-term bicycle parking spaces on site as required by 
zoning. Include wayfinding signage.

--- page 165 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
27 
STRATEGY E.4: 
Provide long-term bicycle and micromobility parking in 
excess of city requirements 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
4 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide safe and convenient long-term bicycle parking. Long-term bicycle parking should meet City 
of San Mateo requirements in Section 27.64.262 of the City of San Mateo zoning code, including: 
▪ 
Each long-term bicycle parking space shall consist of a locker or a rack located within a 
locked enclosure, such as a secure room or controlled access area, providing protection for 
each bicycle from theft, vandalism and weather. Long-term bicycle parking is meant to 
accommodate employees, students, residents, commuters, and others expected to park 
more than two (2) hours. 
▪ 
All required long-term bicycle parking spaces, with the exception of individual bicycle 
lockers, shall permit the locking of the bicycle frame and one (1) wheel with a U-type lock 
and support the bicycle in a stable position without damage to wheels, frame, or 
components. 
▪ 
A short-term bicycle parking space shall be at least two and one-half (2.5) feet in width by 
six (6) feet in length to allow sufficient space between parked bicycles. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide at least 1.5 times as many long-term bike parking spaces as required by San Mateo's existing 
requirements for long-term bike parking. Ensure outlets are available for e-bike charging. Include 
wayfinding signage for bike parking locations. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide at least 2 times as many secure long-term bicycle parking spaces on site as required by 
zoning. Include wayfinding signage.

--- page 166 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
28 
STRATEGY E.5: 
Provide a bike repair station 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
0.5 
1 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Offer a bicycle repair station to encourage bicycling and support employees and residents who cycle. 
Tools and supplies can include those necessary for fixing a flat tire, adjusting a chain, and performing 
other basic bicycle maintenance. Maintenance services can also be offered to each resident or 
employee at least once annually, covering basic services such as a tune-up and inspection. Amenities 
at a bike repair station and in a vending machine should respond to employee wants and needs for 
bike repair. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide a bicycle repair station on-site in a covered area, if possible. Tools and supplies will include, 
at minimum, those needed to fix a flat tire, adjust a chain, and performing other basic maintenance. 
Available tools will include, at minimum, a bicycle pump, wrenches, a chain tool, tire levers, hex 
keys/Allen wrenches, screwdrivers, and spoke wrenches. Station will be checked annually to ensure 
tools are available and in good working condition. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Baseline implementation and provide vending machines selling items such as bike tubes, patch kits, 
lights, locks, hand warmers, and other bicycling gear.

--- page 167 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
29 
STRATEGY E.6: 
Provide designated passenger pick-up/drop-off zones 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
2 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Dedicate on-site curbside space to accommodate rideshare, ride hail, or taxi pickup and drop-off 
activity that can reduce personal-vehicle ownership rates among residents and parking demand 
from commuters and visitors. These zones help reduce conflict with curb users and direct 
loading activity away from travel lanes. PUDO zones should be convenient and near the main 
entrance. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Dedicate a space at the curb for rideshare, ride hail, or taxi pickup, with accompanying signage. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Baseline implementation + one additional space at the curb for rideshare, ride hail, or taxi pickup, 
with accompanying signage.

--- page 168 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
30 
STRATEGY E.7: 
Provide designated commercial pick-up/drop-off 
delivery zones 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
2 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Dedicate on-site curbside space for commercial-vehicle parking to facilitate pickup and delivery 
activity that can reduce vehicle trips and parking demand by facilitating greater delivery of food, 
goods, and services. These zones help reduce conflict with curb users and direct loading activity away 
from travel lanes. Commercial PUDO zones should be convenient and near the main entrance.  
Implementation (Basic) 
Dedicate a space on-site, at the curb for loading, with accompanying signage. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Dedicate multiple spaces on-site at the curb for loading, with accompanying signage. At least one 
should be large enough for a large delivery truck to use. Smart loading zone reservation technology is 
encouraged.

--- page 169 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
31 
STRATEGY E.8: 
Provide multimodal wayfinding and signage 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
2 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Provide multimodal wayfinding signage that is comprehensive and specifically tailored to convey 
information to users about the various transportation services and TDM-related infrastructure in the 
vicinity. Signs should be easy to read and show destinations as well as modes.  
Signage shall:  
4. Be placed in key locations inside and/or outside of the building (e.g.. lobbies);  
5. Be durable, weatherproof (if outside), and maintained;  
6. Be prominently displayed in a manner that is easily viewable and understandable by users;  
7. Be updated at least once every 5 years;  
8. Be provided in map form for the off-site facilities listed below, including standard map 
features like a scale and directional compass; and  
9. Include, at a minimum, the transportation amenities that are provided on-site and within at 
least 1/2-mile of the project. The signage for off-site amenities must be separate from the 
signage for on-site amenities. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide multimodal wayfinding signs that meet San Mateo's standards for on-street wayfinding 
signage at the main entrance. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Provide wayfinding signs that meet San Mateo's standards for on-street wayfinding signage at all 
entrances and exits to the development.

--- page 170 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
32 
STRATEGY E.9: 
Provide end-of-trip amenities (lockers, showers, and 
changing rooms) 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
2 
4 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
Required 
Required 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
These amenities serve as end of trip facilities for employees arriving by bike or other active 
transportation forms. Commuters who bicycle or walk may arrive wet, muddy or sweaty. Providing 
employees with a place to shower, change and store clothes can encourage bicycle commuting. Such 
facilities also benefit employees who exercise during breaks or may occasionally need to wash and 
change clothes for other reasons. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide at minimum one shower and at least six clothes lockers. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Baseline implementation and an additional shower and six clothes lockers. Additional showers and 
lockers should be added as employee demand increases.

--- page 171 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
33 
STRATEGY E.10: 
Provide on-site family-supportive amenities 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
3 
5 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
To address challenges that families face in making trips without a private vehicle, the property owner 
can provide family supportive amenities, such as on-site secure storage for personal car seats, 
strollers, cargo bicycles, or other large bicycles. Property owners can also provide shared building 
equipment, such as shopping carts or cargo bicycles for check out by residents. Amenities should be 
relevant to resident wants and needs for amenities, as well as surrounding land uses. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Provide one secure storage location for personal car seats, strollers, athletic or extracurricular gear 
and one secure cargo or other large bicycle parking space per every twenty dwelling units, with a 
minimum of two secure storage spaces and two secure cargo or other large bicycle parking spaces 
per building. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Baseline implementation and provide one collapsible shopping or utility cart for every 10 dwelling 
units and one cargo bike for every 20 dwelling units.

--- page 172 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
34 
STRATEGY E.11: 
Provide on-site uses that help reduce trips 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
3 
5 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
Include active, pedestrian-oriented commercial uses on the ground floor to create more walkable 
and inviting areas. Developments should form common and semi-continuous building “walls” along 
primary street frontages and have uses that promote a high level of customer use and promote 
pedestrian interest. Providing on-site amenities such as cafes, gyms, childcare, retail or banking 
institutions, for example, can encourage walking by making the street visually appealing and 
engaging to pedestrians and promote safety through active street-level uses. 
Implementation (Basic) 
Develop or demonstrate uses that promote a high level of customer use and promote pedestrian 
interest along the ground floor. 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
Develop or demonstrate uses that promote a high level of customer use and promote pedestrian 
interest along the ground floor. One must be a fitness center, convenience or grocery store, child 
care center, or centralized parcel drop-off station.

--- page 173 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
35 
STRATEGY O.1: 
Other 
TDM Point Values and Requirements 
 
Basic 
Enhanced 
TDM Point Value 
1 
5 
 
Small 
Large 
New Developments (Residential Uses) 
 
 
New Developments (Non-Residential Uses) 
 
 
Existing Non-Residential Uses 
 
 
Description 
N/A 
Implementation (Basic) 
N/A 
Implementation (Enhanced) 
N/A

--- page 174 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
36 
APPENDIX B: 
TDM PROJECT AREAS

--- page 175 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
37

--- page 176 ---
1 
 
APPENDIX C:  
TDM COVER SHEET

--- page 177 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
2

--- page 178 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
3

--- page 179 ---
San Mateo TDM Program Policy Manual DRAFT FOR INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY 
City of San Mateo 
4

--- page 180 ---
1 
 
APPENDIX D: 
TDM SURVEY 
[to be developed as needed]

--- page 181 ---
From: Paul Krupka 
 
Sent: Tuesday, April 9, 2024 4:28 PM 
To: Sue-Ellen Atkinson <seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Citywide TDM Ordinance 
  
Sue-Ellen:  
 
I reviewed the staff report for tonight’s joint Planning Commission and Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission. Overall, it indicates a lot of effort and a solid foundation of a well-
rounded ordinance for ultimate review and approval.  
 
Thinking about the questions posed for feedback, I have two questions about content that I wanted 
to share with you. 
 
• 
First, regarding question 3, what is the basis for the noncompliance fines structure shown 
in Table 13? I found no information other than the dollar figures. 
• 
Second, regarding question 4, what actual monitoring is required; or, what is included in a 
TDM Monitoring Report? I found no information about this in the Draft TDM Policy Manual. 
 
Good luck tonight! 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Paul 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paul J. Krupka, P.E 
(he/him/his) 
KRUPKA CONSULTING 
Trusted Advisor | Transportation

--- page 182 ---
SAN MATEO TDM ORDINANCE
JOINT COMMISSION MEETING
APRIL 9, 2024

--- page 183 ---
QUESTIONS FOR COMMISSIONERS
2 of 32
Do the thresholds and 
requirements for 
projects that are 
proposed to be subject 
to the Citywide TDM 
Ordinance seem 
reasonable?
Is the penalty structure 
sufficient to induce 
compliance?
Are the required TDM 
measures for each 
project type 
appropriate?
Is the supplementary 
Policy Manual clear 
regarding compliance 
with and 
implementation of the 
proposed policies?

--- page 184 ---
WHAT WILL WE COVER TODAY?
Project Approach and Status
3 of 32 
Remaining Schedule & What to Expect
What We Heard  
Proposed TDM Program – Ordinance & Policy 
Manual

--- page 185 ---
AND STATUS

eSNG

a

a.

PROJECT APPROACH



--- page 186 ---
PURPOSE OF THE TDM ORDINANCE
​The Citywide TDM Ordinance envisions a comprehensive approach to transportation 
demand management by recommending vehicle trip reduction goals for development 
throughout the City. 
Develop a TDM 
ordinance to mitigate 
development’s 
transportation 
impacts.
Support citywide 
goals to encourage 
walking, bicycling, 
and transit use.
Ensure programs 
are tailored to 
San Mateo’s 
unique context 
and compliant 
with regional 
policies.
5 of 32

--- page 187 ---
LOCAL AND REGIONAL CONTEXT
Local Planning Context:
•
Rail Corridor TOD Plan
•
General Plan 2040
•
Municipal Code & TIA Guidelines
•
Transportation Plans
Regional and State Context:
•
SB 743 (2020) 
•
AB 2097 (2022)
•
Plan Bay Area 2050 (2021) 
•
MTC’s Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) 
Policy
•
C/CAG Congestion Management Program 
and TDM Policy
6 of 32

--- page 188 ---
C/CAG’s TDM Policy
San Mateo must adhere to C/CAG’s TDM Policy to reduce development’s VMT impacts.
STATE AND REGIONAL COMPLIANCE
San Mateo’s TDM Ordinance, if exemption is allowed, would provide 
relief from C/CAG’s checklist requirement.
C/CAG Large Non-Residential Project Checklist
Today
San Mateo applies 
C/CAG TDM Policy 
to local 
development 
projects ≥ 100 daily 
trips
San Mateo adopts a 
local TDM program 
with equal or greater 
trip reduction impact 
than C/CAG’s TDM 
Policy
San Mateo submits a 
formal request for 
exemption from 
C/CAG’s Checklist 
Process
San Mateo is still 
required to notify 
C/CAG of projects 
with ≥ 100 daily trips 
(no checklist 
required)
C/CAG TDM Policy Pathways
Future
Project subject to 
C/CAG Checklist 
Process
7 of 32

--- page 189 ---
8 of 32 
ALIGNMENT WITH GENERAL PLAN 2040
GOAL C-2. 
Use transportation 
demand 
management (TDM) 
to reduce the 
number and length 
of single-occupancy 
vehicle trips through 
policy, zoning 
strategies, and 
targeted programs 
and incentives.
POLICY C 2.1 - TDM 
REQUIREMENTS. 
Require new or 
existing 
developments that 
meet specific size, 
capacity, and/or 
context conditions to 
implement TDM 
strategies.
ACTION C 2.2 – 
IMPLEMENT TDM 
ORDINANCE. 
Develop and 
implement a 
citywide TDM 
ordinance for new 
developments with 
tiered trip reduction 
and VMT (vehicle 
miles traveled) 
reduction targets 
and monitoring that 
are consistent with 
the targets in their 
relevant area plans. 
Reduce parking 
requirements for 
projects that include 
TDM measures. 
ACTION C 2.3 – 
EDUCATION AND 
OUTREACH. Pursue 
education for 
developers and 
employees about 
programs and 
strategies to reduce 
VMT, parking 
demand, and the 
resulting benefits.
ACTION C 2.8 – 
UNBUNDLED 
PARKING. In 
conjunction with 
other TDM strategies 
that aim to reduce 
vehicle trips, 
encourage 
residential 
developments to 
unbundle the costs 
of providing 
dedicated parking 
spaces. Encourage 
additional parking 
capacity created by 
unbundling to be 
reallocated as shared 
or public parking 
spaces.

--- page 190 ---
PROJECT APPROACH AND STATUS
9 of 32
Where we are today
Policy Manual

--- page 191 ---
WHAT WE HEARD



--- page 192 ---
CITY COUNCIL & COMMISSION FEEDBACK
11 of 32 
Include Building 
Infrastructure 
as TDM
Focus on Safety 
in the Built 
Environment
Establish 
Qualitative 
Monitoring
Identify Clear 
Metrics for 
Success
Consider East 
Palo Alto-Style
TMA
Consider a Trigger 
Beyond Just New 
Development
Identify Who is 
Served by 
Measures

--- page 193 ---
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS
12 of 32
Small & Local 
Business Owners
Transportation 
Providers & 
Regional Agencies
Local 
Developers

--- page 194 ---
STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK ON DRAFT TDM 
PROGRAM
Appreciate 
exemption of 
50% affordable 
projects
What does 
“multimodal 
improvements” 
cover?
Appreciate 
menu of TDM 
options
What do 
Developers get 
credit for in 
TIA process?
13 of 32 
Suggest 
providing a 
TDM consult
What is the 
noncompliance 
penalty?
Suggest visuals 
to support 
compliance

--- page 195 ---


--- page 196 ---
PROPOSED TDM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
15 of 32 
TDM Ordinance
Will replace and 
update City Municipal 
Code Title 24
TDM Policy Manual 
Supplemental detail 
and educational 
materials for users 
and practitioners
Additional 
Resources* 
Checklist and 
video to support 
compliance
*Anticipated June 2024
•
Applicability
•
TDM Requirements
•
Compliance & Enforcement
•
Fees

--- page 197 ---
TDM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS – STEP BY STEP
16 of 32 
Identify Project 
Characteristics 
and Location
Identify Baseline 
Required Strategies 
Identify Additional 
Strategies per Points 
Target
Submit 
Documentation 
Required
Implement TDM
Monitor, Reporting, 
and Compliance
1
2
3
4
5
6

--- page 198 ---
STEP 1A - PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS (CURRENT)
17 of 32  
Project Type
Small Projects
Large Projects
Exemptions
New Developments – 
Residential Uses
~20-49* 
dwelling units
~50+ 
dwelling units
•
0-20 dwelling units
New Developments –  
Non-Residential Uses 
(includes Office, Industrial, 
Institutional, Medical, 
Lodging, Service, Dining, and 
Retail)
~10,000-49,999 
GSF
~30-99 
employees for 
retail
~50,000+ 
GSF
~100+ employees 
for retail
•
0-9,999 GSF
•
0-30 employees
*C/CAG thresholds are based on 100 Average Daily Trips for small projects and 500 average daily 
trips for large projects. These fluctuate based on project characteristics and location due to walking, 
bicycling, and transit use. Approximate number of units and size are shown for comparison 
purposes.

--- page 199 ---
STEP 1A - PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS (PROPOSED)
18 of 32  
Project Type
Small Projects
Large Projects
Exemptions
New Developments – 
Residential Uses
26-49 
dwelling units
50+ 
dwelling units
•
0-25 dwelling units
•
At least 50% 
affordable units
•
Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications*
New Developments –  
Non-Residential Uses 
(includes Office, Industrial, 
Institutional, Medical, 
Lodging, Service, Dining, and 
Retail)
10,000-49,999 
GSF
50,000+ 
GSF
•
0-9,999 GSF
•
Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications*
Existing Non-Residential 
Uses
25-99 
employees
100+ 
employees
•
0-24 employees
•
Administrative 
exemption or 
modifications*
Significant Changes in Use
10,000-49,999 
GSF
50,000+ 
GSF
•
0-9,999 GSF
•
Administrative 
exemptions or 
modifications*
*Exempt projects are not subject to any requirements
**For mixed-use projects, the highest trip-generating land use would determine the project type

--- page 200 ---
STEP 1B - PROJECT LOCATION (MINOR CHANGES)
19 of 32

--- page 201 ---
TDM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS – STEPS 2 AND 3
20 of 32 
Identify Project 
Characteristics 
and Location
Identify Baseline 
Required Strategies 
Identify Additional 
Strategies per Points 
Target
Submit 
Documentation 
Required
Implement TDM
Monitor, Reporting, 
and Compliance
1
2
3
4
5
6

--- page 202 ---
STEP 2 & 3 – IDENTIFY BASELINE & ADDITIONAL 
STRATEGIES
21 of 32 
*Projects with at least 50% affordable units are exempt in San Mateo's program
Residential Multi-Family – Large (50+ units)*
Location: Zone 1 (Downtown/ECR Corridor)
EXAMPLE 1
Baseline
Additional
•
Orientation, Education, Promo Programs 
and/or Materials
•
TDM Coordinator
•
Participate in Commute.org or TMA
•
Transit or Ridesharing Passes/Subsidies
•
Secure Bike Storage​
•
Design Streets to Encourage 
Bike/Ped Access​
•
Choose from 
among 14 
strategies to 
achieve target
C/CAG Requirements
Baseline
Additional
•
Non-driving 
education/marketing/programs
•
TDM Coordinator
•
Participate in Commute.org or TMA
•
Transit or Ridesharing Passes/Subsidies
•
Secure Bike Storage​ (Code-required)
•
Implement multimodal network 
improvements​
•
Unbundle parking costs
•
Eliminate parking space minimum in 
leases​
•
Choose from 
among 14 26 
strategies to 
achieve target
San Mateo TDM Requirements

--- page 203 ---
STEP 2 & 3 – IDENTIFY BASELINE & ADDITIONAL 
STRATEGIES
22 of 32 
*Projects with at least 50% affordable units are exempt in San Mateo's program
EXAMPLE 2
Baseline
Additional
•
Not applicable – land use category not 
recognized within C/CAG requirements
•
Not applicable
C/CAG Requirements
Baseline
Additional
•
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits
•
None
San Mateo TDM Requirements
Existing Non-Residential Use - Small
Location: Zone 2 (Redevelopment Areas)

--- page 204 ---
STEP 2 & 3 – IDENTIFY BASELINE & ADDITIONAL 
STRATEGIES
23 of 32 
*Projects with at least 50% affordable units are exempt in San Mateo's program
EXAMPLE 2
Baseline
Additional
•
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits
•
5 points
C/CAG Requirements
San Mateo TDM Requirements
Existing Non-Residential Use - Large
Location: Zone 2 (Redevelopment Areas)

--- page 205 ---
STEP 3 – POINT TARGETS FOR ADDITIONAL 
STRATEGIES*
24 of 32 
Project Type
Small Projects
Large Projects
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
New Developments – 
Residential Uses
11.5
15
20
New Developments –
 Non-Residential Uses 
(includes Office, 
Industrial, Institutional, 
Medical, Lodging, 
Service, Dining, and 
Retail)
5
10
0
20
Existing Non-
Residential Uses
0
5
Significant Changes 
in Use
Must meet corresponding point target for new use
* Points are calibrated to achieve the City’s trip reduction goals for each project type

--- page 206 ---
STEP 3 - SELECT ADDITIONAL TDM STRATEGIES
25 of 32
Parking (P)
7 options 
Marketing, Education, 
and Management (M)
6 options
Services and programs (S)
9 options
Site Enhancements (E)
12 options 
P
•
Reduce on-site 
parking*
•
Parking cash-out
•
Charge for parking*
•
Provide or fund Shuttle 
service*
•
Car share vehicles or 
membership*
•
On-site bike library
•
Guaranteed ride home
•
Non-driving education, 
marketing*
•
Real-time travel 
information*
•
Bicycle skills training
•
Delivery amenities*
•
Passenger and/or 
commercial loading zones
•
End-of-trip amenities*
* Included in C/CAG recommended or additional measures

--- page 207 ---
TDM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS – STEP 4
26 of 32 
Identify Project 
Characteristics 
and Location
Identify Baseline 
Required Strategies 
Identify Additional 
Strategies per Points 
Target
Submit 
Documentation 
Required
Implement TDM
Monitor, Reporting, 
and Compliance
1
2
3
4
5
6

--- page 208 ---
STEP 4 – DOCUMENTATION
27 of 32  
Project Type
Current
Proposed
New Developments – Residential Uses
TDM Plan
•
Existing conditions
•
Trip generation
•
Description of TDM 
strategy 
implementation 
and effectiveness
TDM Plan 
•
TDM checklist
•
Description of 
strategy 
implementation
New Developments –  
Non-Residential Uses (includes Office, 
Industrial, Institutional, Medical, 
Lodging, Service, Dining, and Retail)
Existing Non-Residential Uses
None
•
TDM checklist
Significant Changes in Use
None
TDM Plan 
•
TDM checklist
•
Description of 
strategy 
implementation

--- page 209 ---
TDM PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS – STEP BY STEP
28 of 32 
Identify Project 
Characteristics 
and Location
Identify Baseline 
Required Strategies 
Identify Additional 
Strategies per Points 
Target
Submit 
Documentation 
Required
Implement TDM
Monitor, Reporting, 
and Compliance
1
2
3
4
5
6

--- page 210 ---
STEP 6 – MONITORING, REPORTING, AND EVALUATING 
COMPLIANCE
29 of 32 
Compliance 
Stage
Description
Monitoring 
Frequency
Noncompliance 
Penalties
Corrective 
Actions
 Green
Projects with 3+ 
consecutive years 
of demonstrated 
compliance
Less frequent 
(every 3rd 
year)
None
None
Light 
       Green
New projects and 
projects with 0-2 
years of 
demonstrated 
compliance
More 
frequent 
(every year)
None
None
  Orange
Projects that are 
noncompliant for 
2-3 years
More 
frequent 
(every year)
None
Corrective 
TDM plan
Red
Projects that are 
noncompliant for 
4+ consecutive 
years
More 
frequent 
(every year)
$$$
Corrective 
TDM plan
After 4+ years of 
noncompliance Project 
incurs a fine

--- page 211 ---
WHAT TO EXPECT
April 2024
•
Review Draft TDM Ordinance & Program Guidelines with City Council 
and Commissions
•
Receive additional feedback for incorporation into final ordinance
•
Fiscal analysis for TDM program implementation
 May-June 2024
•
Finalize the TDM Ordinance & Program Guidelines
•
Return to City Council and Commissions with Updated Material
•
Pursue TDM Ordinance Adoption
•
Develop Educational Materials for TDM Participants
•
Share Materials via Engagement with Stakeholders
30 of 32

--- page 212 ---
QUESTIONS FOR COMMISSIONERS
31 of 32
Do the thresholds and 
requirements for 
projects that are 
proposed to be subject 
to the Citywide TDM 
Ordinance seem 
reasonable?
Is the penalty structure 
sufficient to induce 
compliance?
Are the required TDM 
measures for each 
project type 
appropriate?
Is the supplementary 
Policy Manual clear 
regarding compliance 
with and 
implementation of the 
proposed policies?

--- page 213 ---
THANK YOU!
MAIN CONTACTS: 
SUE-ELLEN ATKINSON
PRINCIPAL TRANSPORTATION PLANNER
SEATKINSON@CITYOFSANMATEO.ORG
RENDELL BUSTOS
SENIOR PLANNER
RBUSTOS@CITYOFSANMATEO.ORG

--- page 214 ---
Ws
>
2
UO
a
~



--- page 215 ---
TDM STRATEGIES: PARKING (P)
ID
Strategy
Points 
(Basic)
Points 
(Enhanced)
P.1
Require on-site, off-street parking to be 
shared
2
5
P.2
Provide preferential carpool/vanpool parking
1
P.3
Reduce on-site vehicle parking
10
15
P.4
Charge for on-site parking
15
25
P.5
Provide a parking cash-out option
2
P.6
Unbundle parking costs from other property 
costs or leases
15
P.7
Eliminate parking space minimum 
requirements in leases
1
P

--- page 216 ---
TDM STRATEGIES: SERVICES AND PROGRAMS (S)
ID
Strategy
Points 
(Basic)
Points 
(Enhanced)
S.1
Provide non-driving transportation subsidies
10
15
S.2
Provide pre-tax transportation benefits
1
S.3
Provide "school pool" shared ride programs
2
S.4
Provide ride matching services
2
S.5
Provide a guaranteed ride home program
1
3
S.6
Provide shuttle service or pay into a shuttle 
service if one exists
10
20
S.7
Provide free or subsidized car share 
membership
1
5
S.8
Provide car share vehicles on site
1
S.9
Provide an on-site bike library
2

--- page 217 ---
TDM STRATEGIES: MARKETING, EDUCATION, AND 
MANAGEMENT (M)
ID
Strategy
Points 
(Basic)
Points 
(Enhanced)
M.1
Implement non-driving 
education/marketing/programs
2
4
M.3
Provide on-site real-time travel and TDM 
information
1
M.5
Provide bicycle skill and safety training
1
4
M.7
Provide bike repair workshops or clinics
1
M.8
Join a TMA or Commute.org Certified 
Development Program 
6.5
M.9
Retain a TDM coordinator or contact
0.5
2

--- page 218 ---
TDM STRATEGIES: SITE ENHANCEMENTS
ID
Strategy
Points 
(Basic)
Points 
(Enhanced)
E.1
Implement multimodal network 
improvements
7
10
E.2
Provide on-site delivery amenities
1
E.3
Provide short-term bicycle and micromobility 
parking in excess of city requirements
1
2
E.4
Provide long-term bicycle and micromobility 
parking in excess of city requirements
1
4
E.5
Provide a bike repair station
0.5
1
E.6
Provide designated passenger pick-up/drop-
off zones
1
2
E.7
Provide designated commercial pick-
up/drop-off delivery zones on site
1
2
E.8
Provide multimodal wayfinding and signage
1
2
E.9
Provide end-of-trip amenities (lockers, 
showers, and changing rooms)
2
4
E.10
Provide on-site family-supportive amenities
3
5
E.11
Provide pedestrian-supportive uses and 
amenities on the ground floor
3
5
E.12
Provide on-site uses and services that help 
reduce daily trips
1
5

--- page 219 ---
EXISTING C/CAG CHECKLIST
38 - • Stakeholder Engagement

--- page 220 ---
IDENTIFY IF A TDM PLAN IS REQUIRED
Project Type
Small Projects
Large Projects
New Developments – Residential 
Uses
Required
Required
New Developments –  Non-
Residential Uses (includes Office, 
Industrial, Institutional, Medical, 
Lodging, Service, Dining, and 
Retail)
Required
Required
Existing Non-Residential Uses
Cover sheet 
checklist only
Cover sheet 
checklist only
Significant Changes in Use
Required
Required

--- page 221 ---
Year
Serially Noncompliant
Results
Status
1
Noncompliant
2
Noncompliant
3
Compliant
4
Compliant
5
Noncompliant
6
Noncompliant
7
Noncompliant
8
Noncompliant
9
Noncompliant
10
11
12
13
14
15
POSSIBLE MONITORING CADENCES
X
Year
Generally Compliant
Results
Status
1
Compliant
2
Compliant
3
Noncompliant
4
Compliant
5
Compliant
6
Compliant
7
(off year)
8
(off year)
9
Compliant
10
(off year)
11
(off year)
12
Noncompliant
13
Compliant
14
Compliant
15
Compliant
After 4+ years
Project incurs 
a fine