source: packet.pdf
sha256: b9796e8b7fe2fa1024887567985f232cd8842b96e432d3152a2551da42e8abf4
pages: 65
ocr_pages: 26
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
September 15, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 15, 2025 
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 864 2204 7641      Passcode: 049945
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of action from
Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel — Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9)
Name of case: Neville v. City of San Mateo et al. (San Mateo Superior Court Case No. 25-CIV-05067)
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
2.
Street Vending: Current Regulations, Enforcement Challenges, and Policy Options – Presentation
Receive a presentation and provide direction to staff on policy options for responding to complaints and
enforcing regulations related to street vendors.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
1 of 65

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form.
Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation, with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that
time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in
attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City
Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 65

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 26-3134
File ID: 25-10315
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 15, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Street Vending: Current Regulations, Enforcement Challenges, and Policy Options – Presentation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation and provide direction to staff on policy options for responding to complaints and enforcing 
regulations related to street vendors.
BACKGROUND:
Over the past year, the City has been receiving an uptick in complaints related to street food vendors driving trucks, 
pushing carts, setting up tents, opening home restaurants, operating on private properties, public sidewalks and streets, 
and in City parks. The complainants have reported vendors blocking sidewalks, staying in one location for many hours, 
generating trash, noise, and odors, competing with brick-and-mortar businesses, depositing grease into the storm drains, 
and operating without health or tax permits. This report describes current state and local regulations, the protocol for 
handling complaints, and the challenges faced by staff with regards to enforcement. 
Local Regulations vs. State Law 
The City receives complaints about all food vendors, without distinguishing between motorized or nonmotorized, or being 
on private or public property. For the purposes of regulation, however, these differences matter. Motorized food trucks 
are different from nonmotorized trailers; food tents on a private property are different from ones in a City park; and fruit 
carts on a residential sidewalk are different from ones on a commercial parking lot. A 2018 state law, known as SB 946, 
expressly protects nonmotorized vendors on public sidewalks and in parks, but it does not protect the same vendors on 
private properties, nor does it protect motorized trucks anywhere. Another state law, the 2018 Microenterprise Home 
Kitchen Operations Act (MEHKO), prohibits cities from enforcing their zoning regulations against home restaurants. When 
the enforceability of a municipal rule is considered, then, these differences among various activities taking place at 
different locations, as well as the limitations imposed on cities by state laws, must be factored in. 
Sidewalk Vendors 
Both the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) and the County Health Department have provisions to regulate sidewalk 
vendors. The SMMC uses for this activity has various names—“street vendor,” “sidewalk vendor,” “peddler,” “open air 
vendor,” or “food vending vehicle”—depending on its character and location. While the SMMC does not have a unified 
ordinance addressing these activities, it has sections that set certain regulations for their certain aspects. For example, the 
SMMC requires that a vendor pay the City a $10 daily fee or $30 annual fee; that the vendor not stay in one place for more 
than 10 minutes; and that if the vendor is on private property, they obtain permission from the owner. 
However, SB 946 and SB 972 place restrictions on local governments’ ability to enforce rules or limit sidewalk vending. SB 
946 defines “sidewalk vendor” as “a person who sells food or merchandise from a pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven 
cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized conveyance, or from one’s person, upon a public sidewalk or other 
3 of 65

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
pedestrian path.” SB 946 prohibits cities from regulating the location of sidewalk vendors unless the regulations are 
related to “objective health, safety, or welfare concerns,” with certain limited exceptions. The state law says specifically 
that economic competition or community animus are not “objective concerns”; that cities cannot prohibit vending on 
residential streets or in public parks (although a stationary vendor could be prohibited from being in a park if the park has 
a permanent concessionaire); and that a vendor can be cited only with an administrative citation, never an infraction or 
misdemeanor. Finally, SB 946 makes the payment of an administrative citation subject to the vendor’s ability to pay. While 
SB 946 allows a local authority to adopt a regulatory program, it must be in compliance with SB 946. 
Similar limitations on enforcement apply to the County Health Department. A 2023 state law (known as SB 972) further 
decriminalized sidewalk vending relating to the California Retail Food Code and created a new category (“compact mobile 
food operation”) allowing food vending from a pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack or other 
nonmotorized conveyance. Per its definition of “limited food preparation,” a vendor is allowed heating, frying, baking, 
roasting, shaving of ice, blending, steaming of hot dogs or assembly of non-prepackaged food. Although the County Health 
Department requires a Mobile Food Facility (MFF) permit for vendors selling unpackaged food (or packaged food with a 
display larger than 25 square feet), the County makes no proactive efforts to contact sidewalk vendors or check on their 
permits. The County does not issue administrative citations, and health inspectors have no enforcement power over this 
type of activity. They provide education only, leaving enforcement concerns to cities. Another limitation of the County 
protocol is the Health Department’s position that they do not issue permits to stationary vendor. To apply for an MFF 
permit, the vendor’s equipment must be on wheels. A temporary food stand (a table under a tent) would not qualify for an 
annual permit and could not be permitted outside of a community event even if the vendor wished to do so.
Microenterprise Home Kitchen Operations (MEHKO) 
Similarly to sidewalk vending, MEHKOs are also protected by state law and permitted through a program by the County. 
These home-run kitchens and micro-restaurants are commercial entities, yet for the purposes of zoning they are treated as 
residential properties. While the SMMC has provisions limiting home occupations, they cannot be applied to MEHKOs. For 
example, the SMMC requires that home occupations be done only by the occupants of the residence, it does not permit 
employees, and it limits the number of customers to five per day. But the MEHKO Act allows a home cook to have one 
employee (plus any number of family or household members) and serve 30 meals per day, or 90 meals per week. 
California Health and Safety Code 114367.4. (a) (1) states explicitly: 
“A city […] shall not prohibit the operation of, require a permit to operate, require a rezone of the property for, or 
levy any fees on, or impose any other restriction on, a microenterprise home kitchen operation in any residential 
dwelling for zoning purposes. A microenterprise home kitchen operation shall be a permitted use of residential 
property in any residential dwelling for zoning purposes if the microenterprise home kitchen operation […] 
abstain[s] from posting signage or other outdoor displays advertising the microenterprise home kitchen operation, 
[and is] in compliance with applicable local noise ordinances.” 
Whenever there is a conflict between local regulations and state law, state law preempts local regulations if it is a law of 
statewide concern, which these state laws were intended. As such, only a few regulations in the SMMC and the County 
Health Department can be enforced. 
Food Trucks
The SMMC requires that food truck operators obtain a business tax certificate (BTC), and the County Health Department 
requires a health permit. No state law limits local regulation with respect to the operation of motorized food trucks; 
however, the City’s ability to regulate location and parking is limited by the California Vehicle Code. While the SMMC 
prohibits any vendor from staying in the same location for more than 10 minutes, this appears to be the only city 
regulation directly applicable to food truck operations. 
How Other Cities Regulate Sidewalk Vending
Staff has done a preliminary review of other jurisdictions’ codes and interviewed some of their enforcement personnel. 
The goal was to answer several key questions: Do they have an ordinance regulating sidewalk vending? If so, how does it 
articulate “objective health, safety, or welfare concerns” as required by SB 946? Does the ordinance require insurance? 
4 of 65

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Does it restrict vending in city parks? 
Those cities that have sidewalk vending ordinances have passed them since 2019, and those ordinances do align with SB 
946. They articulate objective health, safety, and welfare concerns generally as follows. 
Stationary vending food carts must be operated within 200 feet of a toilet and handwashing facility. Carts or equipment 
must leave no less than 4-foot path clearance and must not impede access to abutting properties. No vending cart can be 
placed within 5 feet of a fire hydrant or within 10 feet of a crosswalk, ADA access ramp, or a public transit stop. No vending 
is allowed within 300 feet of a city-sponsored event or farmers' market or within 25-200 feet of another sidewalk vendor 
at any city park. Some also prohibit the activity within 300 feet of a school. 
In addition to the operational requirements above, cities require a seller’s permit from the State Department of Tax and 
Fee and a health permit from the County (if they sell food). Some cities require general liability insurance and workers’ 
compensation insurance meeting the requirements of the State of California. When no insurance is required, cities have 
applicants indemnify them from liability. A persistent theme voiced by those who administer the ordinances is that 
regardless of rules existing on paper, their effectiveness depends on the jurisdiction’s willingness to enforce them in the 
field. They also voiced that there also have been unintended consequences due to the buffer zones where it pushes the 
food vending directly into neighborhoods and parks.
Current Response Protocol
Currently, the Code Enforcement Division (CE) takes the lead in responding to all complaints related to sidewalk vendors 
and food trucks, with support provided by the Police Department, Parks and Recreation (Park Rangers), Fire Department, 
and County Health inspectors, as needed. 
Food trucks are usually not delinquent on their health permits or BTCs; they renew them by mail regularly. And the 
complaints received about them usually are not about paperwork. They are about the trucks staying in one location for a 
long time and attracting lines of customers. They may be parked and selling food near brick-and-mortar restaurants or City 
parks, or on residential streets. Because food trucks are not protected by SB 946, CE can and does enforce the 10-minute 
rule. When this violation occurs during normal business hours, CE follows its usual procedure of issuing warnings and 
administrative citations. In one recent case, a food truck stayed in the same location on a residential street for several days 
in a row, operating as a stationary restaurant, with an electrical cord running over the sidewalk to get power from the 
house. Parking Enforcement cited the truck owner fourteen (14) times, with each of the citations having been paid by the 
owner, as he himself stated, as the cost of doing business. After CE warned the owner several more times, cited him with 
$100, $200, and $500 fines and promised to continue citing him with $500 per day, the truck finally moved out of the city. 
As for sidewalk vendors who are protected by SB 946, when CE receives a complaint or encounters them in the field, staff 
encourage them to obtain a BTC and (if they sell food) a health permit. Although these requirements are not preempted by 
SB 946, their enforcement is challenging for other reasons described below. 
Challenges of Enforcement
In addition to the limitations imposed on local jurisdictions by SB 946, MEHKO Act, and SB 972, City staff have encountered 
practical difficulties while regulating food vending. 
One persistent challenge has been the refusal on the part of a sidewalk vendor to produce a valid identification. Even 
when CE issues an administrative citation (for example, for not having a BTC), it is not clear if the vendor’s name or address 
are accurate. CE relies on whatever information the vendor provides verbally. Four recent citations issued in this manner 
to the operators of a popular food stand near a major shopping center have not been paid, and no debt collection on them 
appears possible. 
Another challenge is that the majority of food vending takes place at night and on weekends, when CE staff is not 
available. The outcome of the case described above where a food truck was finally sent on his way was possible only 
because CE staff investigated and gathered evidence late at night (also assisted by the Police Department). Under normal 
5 of 65

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
circumstances, this would require overtime or additional staff working at odd hours. 
A third challenge has been to ensure that enforcement does not create more problems than it solves. As noted above, the 
City receives complaints about all types of vendors, without differentiating between motorized or nonmotorized or 
between private or public property. But state law and local regulations do differentiate between them, allowing 
enforcement against food trucks but only limited enforcement for pushcarts or tents, and on private property but limited 
enforcement on public property. Considering that these activities can easily morph from one to another, CE must consider 
the extent of its regulation. The officer could, in theory, force a food truck not to stay in one location for more than 10 
minutes while vending out of its window. But if the same truck closes up and sets its grill on the sidewalk, the same 
operation would then be considered a stationary sidewalk vendor without a time restriction. Thus, strict enforcement of 
the 10-minute rule would only exacerbate the issue and generate more complaints. 
The same quandary applies to food trailers. CE can cite a food truck staying in one location for more than 10 minutes 
because it is motorized. But a trailer, pulled in by a vehicle and then disconnected from it, could stay there all day—it is no 
longer motorized. Should CE insist that the food truck leave but allow the trailer to stay, any casual onlooker—and the 
food truck owner—would accuse the City of selective enforcement. For another example, there have been complaints 
about food tents and trucks set up on large parking lots near shopping centers. These are private properties, and food 
vendors generally require permission from the property owner. The SMMC has a requirement that an open-air vendor 
(defined as a vendor who sells prepared food, fresh cut flower or plants) receive permission from the owner and obtain a 
special permit from the Planning Commission. The former requirement can be easily complied with since many property 
owners would not mind attracting more customers to their parking lot. But as a practical matter, a pop-up tent is unlikely 
to have a letter of approval in hand. If, however, CE were to insist that the vendor leave the private property due to a lack 
of property owner permission (or a special permit, if applicable for open air vendors), the vendor may simply move the 
tent twenty feet away onto the public sidewalk and serve food from there without anyone’s permission. On public 
property the vendor is protected by SB 946.
As enforceable types of vending can easily transform into unenforceable ones, the challenge for CE has been to calibrate 
its approach when to enforce anything in order to not make things worse.
Finally, because most food vending activities happen after hours and on weekends, consistent enforcement would have to 
involve the Police Department, whose officers are on duty during these times, to monitor and track food truck activity 
across multiple neighborhoods. Aside from the perception of heavy-handed enforcement if police officers were to start 
issuing citations for administrative (not criminal) violations, current staffing levels make it impractical to provide consistent 
coverage without diverting officers from their public safety duties. To address this, two additional full-time Community 
Service Officers (CSOs) would be needed to allow focused enforcement without impacting sworn-officer deployment at 
night. Additional staff would also be necessary to provide coverage on weekends.
City Council Direction
Based on the information provided in this agenda report, staff is seeking Council direction on how to proceed with regards 
to regulation and enforcement of street vendors. The options outlined below will address different aspects of this issue, 
but there are no clear solutions available to the City to fully regulate these activities. Increasing enforcement and 
enhancing our protocols will also require additional staff resources and budgetary costs.
1.
Option 1: Continue Current Protocol. Staff would continue to respond to complaints and, within the legal and 
practical limits outlined above, guide vendors towards obtaining business tax certificates and health permits.  
2.
Option 2: Modify Current Protocol. These are additional actions that staff could take utilizing existing rules and 
regulations, but would require additional resources to implement. Options to consider include:
a)
Enhance enforcement of the 72-hour parking rule, which could be effective against trucks and trailers, but not 
stationary or roaming vendors. 
b)
Explore how to improve collection of sales taxes through enforcement where vendors fail to obtain a business 
tax certificate. 
6 of 65

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
c)
Prohibit vendors from operating on private property without permission from the property owner, which may 
prompt them to move to the public right-of-way.
d)
Engage with County Health to explore ways to strengthen communication and collaboration on permitting and 
enforcement of food vendors. 
  
3.
Option 3: Develop a New Protocol.  These are additional actions that would require the development of new rules 
and regulations and/or would be the most resource intensive to implement. Options to consider include: 
a)
Develop a new ordinance, consistent with state law, that consolidates applicable regulations currently spread 
throughout the Code in one chapter and impose stricter requirements related to the time, place, and manner 
of food vending operations.  However, it should be noted that these new rules may still not reduce the overall 
number of food vendors, prohibit mobile vendors from operating on streets or in parks, or restrict mobile 
vendors or home kitchens from operating in residential areas. It would also require night and weekend staff, 
with Police Department backup, to be enforced.
b)
Enforce the 10-min limit of staying in one location against food trucks only, but not stationery or mobile 
vendors. This would require a city-wide effort to ensure equitable application to all food trucks. Such effort will 
likely produce pushback from both operators and customers because a truck serving lunch at a construction 
site or at an office building cannot be reasonably expected to do so within 10 minutes. 
c)
To effectively enforce updated rules, staff working nights and weekends would be required. Creating two new 
community officer positions at the Police Department would annually cost an estimated $400,000 (personnel 
and vehicles included). Such an increase in enforcement, however, will likely not reduce the overall number of 
food vendors, prohibit mobile vendors from being on streets or in parks, or restrict mobile vendors or home 
kitchens from being in residential areas.
d)
Explore the option of having a permanent concessionaire in parks, which could allow the City to prohibit 
stationary vendors in the park, but not mobile vendors or stationary vendors adjacent to parks. 
4.
Option 4: State Legislative Engagement. Explore additional language for the City Council to include in the 
upcoming development of the state legislative platform in support of greater ability for cities to enforce their own 
food vending ordinance.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Staff work to research and prepare this report was fully funded by the Community Development Department’s annual 
operating budget. Future impacts on the General Fund will depend on the direction the City Council provides in this study 
session. Code amendments and expanded enforcement activities would require additional staff time and resources. Hiring 
additional enforcement personnel (Community Service Officers) for night and weekend enforcement would cost an 
estimated $400,000 annually.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Eugene Alper, Code Enforcement Manager
ealper@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7154
7 of 65

--- page 8 ---
Street Vending:
Current Response, 
Challenges, and 
Policy Options
Eugene Alper
Code Enforcement Manager
Kristen Aiu
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
8 of 65

--- page 9 ---
Proliferation of street vendors & complaints
Current Response: State Law’s limitations on 
cities, challenges of enforcement
Options: 
(1) Continue current protocol
(2) Modify current protocol
(3) Develop a new protocol (Ordinance)
(4) Explore state legislative engagement
9 of 65

--- page 10 ---
Complaints

Residents

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ———

10 of 65


--- page 11 ---
Complaints

Residents

s |
SSRs Ge

CITY OF SAN MATEO

11 of 65


--- page 12 ---
yy
4
i

Complaints

Residents

CITY OF SAN MATEO

12 of 65


--- page 13 ---
ompl

Residents

SS

CITY OF

13 of 65


--- page 14 ---
ints

Compla

idents

Res

inesses

Bus

CITY OF SAN MATEO

14 of 65


--- page 15 ---
Complaints

Residents

Businesses

SAN MATEO

15 of 65


--- page 16 ---
Complaints

Residents

Businesses

CITY OF SAN MATEO

16 of 65


--- page 17 ---
Complaints

Residents

Food Safety

CITY OF SAN MATEO

17 of 65


--- page 18 ---
omplaints

Residents

Food Safety

CITY OF SAN MATEO

18 of 65


--- page 19 ---
Complaints
Residents
Businesses
Parks and Recreation
19 of 65

--- page 20 ---
Complaints
Residents
Businesses
Parks and Recreation
20 of 65

--- page 21 ---
Complaints
Residents
Businesses
Parks and Recreation
Public Works
21 of 65

--- page 22 ---
Code Enforcement
Parking Enforcement
Police Department
Complaints
~ 50 - 55
N/A
~ 86 - 90
(merchandise & food)
Vendors Contacted
~ 35-40
16 +
~ 86 - 90
Citations Issued
7
16
N/A
June 2024 – August 2025
Response
22 of 65

--- page 23 ---
State Law
2013 Cottage Food Act
2018 Sidewalk Vendors Act (SB 946)
2018 MicroEnterprise Home Kitchen Operations (MEHKO)
2022 Compact Mobile Food Operation (SB 972)
23 of 65

--- page 24 ---
Municipal Code
Home occupation: no employees permitted and 
no more than 5 visitors per day 
2018 Microenterprise Home Kitchen Act
permits one employee (plus any number of 
household members) and serving 
30 meals per day
State Law Preempts Municipal Code
24 of 65

--- page 25 ---
2018 Microenterprise Home Kitchen Act: 
“A city shall not prohibit the operation of, require a permit to operate, 
require a rezone of the property for, or levy any fees on, or impose any 
other restriction on, a home kitchen operation in any residential dwelling 
for zoning purposes. A home kitchen shall be a permitted use of 
residential property in any residential dwelling for zoning purposes if the 
home kitchen abstains from posting signage advertising it and is in 
compliance with applicable local noise ordinances.”
State Law Preempts Municipal Code
25 of 65

--- page 26 ---
2018 Microenterprise 
Home Kitchen Act: 
“A microenterprise home 
kitchen operation may 
operate an open-air 
barbecue or outdoor wood-
burning oven.”
State Law Preempts Municipal Code
26 of 65

--- page 27 ---
1937 Municipal Code:
“No person shall stand or park 
any vehicle, wagon or 
pushcart from which goods, 
wares, merchandise, fruits, 
vegetables or foodstuffs are 
sold to exceed 10 minutes at 
any one place.”
State Law Preempts Municipal Code
27 of 65

--- page 28 ---
A local authority shall not: 
•
Restrict vendors to operate only in designated neighborhoods;
•
Prohibit vendors in parks (except stationary ones where there is an exclusive 
concessionaire or, by ordinance, to prevent an undue concentration of 
commercial activity interfering with scenic or recreational character);
•
Prohibit stationary vendors in commercial zones;
•
Adopt requirements regulating the time, place, and manner of sidewalk 
vending that are unduly restrictive. In commercial areas, limitations on the 
hours of operation for sidewalk vending shall not be more restrictive than any 
limitations on hours of operation for other businesses.
2018 Sidewalk Vendors Act (SB 946) Allows 
Stationary Sidewalk Vending
28 of 65

--- page 29 ---
State Law Preempts Municipal Code

CITY OF SAN MATEO

29 of 65


--- page 30 ---
Strict Enforcement Impractical

CITY OF

30 of 65


--- page 31 ---
Strict Enforcement Impractical

CITY OF SAN MATEO

31 of 65


--- page 32 ---
Strict Enforcement Impractica

CITY OF

32 of 65


--- page 33 ---
trict Enforcement Impractical

CITY OF

33 of 65


--- page 34 ---
Strict Enforcement Impractical
• State laws protect home kitchens, roaming pushcarts, and 
stationary tents on public ways and in parks;
• Boundaries between private property vs. public way and 
between motorized vs. nonmotorized are permeable;
• Violators have no ID;
• Code Enforcement has no night or weekend staff.
34 of 65

--- page 35 ---
What Can We Enforce?
• Business tax certificate ($31 to comply)
• 10-minute limit (food trucks only)
• 72-hour parking (food trucks & trailers only) 
• Owner’s permission on private property (special use permit)
• Obstructions of public sidewalks (e.g., electrical cords)
• County Health permits (education only)
35 of 65

--- page 36 ---
Test Case

CITY OF SAN MATEO

36 of 65


--- page 37 ---
Test Case

O
Lu
E
<£
=
rae
<
179)
LL
O
>
a
O

37 of 65


--- page 38 ---
City
Have a sidewalk ordinance?
Belmont
No
Redwood City
No
Daly City
No
Millbrae
No
San Bruno
Yes
Foster City
Yes
San Carlos
Yes
Burlingame
Yes
Santa Cruz
Yes
Pacifica
Yes
Fresno
Yes
What Do Other Cities Do?
38 of 65

--- page 39 ---
• Within 200 feet of a toilet and handwashing facility; 
• 4-foot min sidewalk clearance/access to fire hydrant;
• Access to properties; 10 ft from a crosswalk, ADA ramp, bus stop;
• 300 feet away of a city-sponsored event, farmers' market, school;
• 25-100-200 feet of another vendor at any city park;
• Seller’s permit, health permit, business license, tax certificate, 
insurance, workers’ comp, and indemnity for the City.
“An ordinance is only as good as its enforcement”
What Do Other Cities Do?
39 of 65

--- page 40 ---
1. Continue current protocol
2. Modify current protocol
3. Develop a new protocol
4. State legislative engagement
Options: 
40 of 65

--- page 41 ---
Option 1. Continue current protocol:
Respond to complaints and, within the legal and 
practical limits, guide vendors towards obtaining 
business tax certificates and health permits. 
41 of 65

--- page 42 ---
Option 2. Modify current protocol:
a) Enforce 72-hour parking rule against trucks and trailers, not 
stationary or roaming vendors. 
b) Improve collection of sales taxes through enforcement where 
vendors fail to obtain a BTC.
c) Prohibit vendors from operating on private property without 
permission from the property owner, which may prompt them to 
move to the public right-of-way. 
d) Explore strengthening communication and collaboration with 
County Health on permitting and enforcement of food vendors. 
42 of 65

--- page 43 ---
Option 3. Develop a new protocol:
a) Develop a new ordinance regulating time, place, and manner of street vending;
may not reduce the number of vendors, prohibit mobile ones in residential areas or parks; 
would require night and weekend staff.
b) Enforce the 10-min limit against food trucks only, not stationery or mobile vendors; 
would require a city-wide effort to ensure equitable application; may produce pushback 
from operators and customers as a truck serving lunch or dinner cannot do so within 10 
minutes. 
c) Staff working nights and weekends would be required; two new community officer 
positions would cost an estimated $400,000 (personnel and vehicles included); unlikely to 
reduce the overall number of food vendors, prohibit mobile vendors from being on streets 
or in parks, or restrict mobile vendors or home kitchens in residential areas. 
d) Explore having permanent concessionaires in parks; will prohibit stationary vendors, 
but not roaming ones in a park, or stationary near a park.
43 of 65

--- page 44 ---
Option 4. State legislative engagement
Explore additional language to be included in the upcoming 
development of the state legislative platform in support of 
greater ability for cities to enforce their own food vending 
ordinance. 
44 of 65

--- page 45 ---
Option 1. Continue current protocol:
Respond to complaints, guide vendors 
towards obtaining business tax certificates 
and health permits. 
Option 2. Modify current protocol:
a) 72-hour parking rule (trucks & trailers, not 
stationary or roaming vendors); 
b) Improve collection of sales taxes through 
enforcement where vendors fail to obtain a BTC;
c) Prohibit vendors on private property without 
owner permission;
d) Strengthen collaboration with County Health. 
Option 3. Develop a new protocol:
a) Ordinance regulating time, place, and 
manner; may not reduce numbers or 
prohibit mobile ones; would require 
night and weekend staff;
b) 10-min limit (food trucks); 
c) Staff nights and weekends would be 
required; 
d) Park concessionaire.
Option 4. State legislative engagement:
Add language to development of the state 
legislative platform to support cities’ 
ability to regulate street vending. 
Council Direction
45 of 65

--- page 46 ---
Thank you!

CITY OF

46 of 65


--- page 47 ---
THE FOLLOWING ARE
BACKUP/RESERVE SLIDES



--- page 48 ---
B3ySHOTE vy
OAK GROVE
MANOR

Coyote Point)
Washington Park

Recreation Area °)

Vendors in San Mateo

eal Point Park
\ SHOREVIEW een

Mariners Point @
Golf Center
€ Sraiave
EAST SAN Zoox Headquarters\ ©)
VINTAGE PARK
HILLSBOROUGH
HEIGHTS
BREWER é
SUBDIVISION >
<
é
SS BAYWOOD
= ~ ARAGON
é tec
&

A

Fy Picrim

esdleg@)% TRITON
y

PARROTT

DRIVE AREA

TOBIN VA
CLARK estate Theffeninsula Golf

*
@*
fe. Country Club

\
College of San Mateo ©) }

BERESFORD PARK
WESTERN HILLS
Baywood Park

lisa, 2
BF 2 °“% SOUTH SAN HILLSDALE
y MATEO
SUGARLOAF
%
sfeway @

CITY OF

48 of 65


--- page 49 ---
19
2
7
1
Food truck
Cart
Trailer
Food stand
Vendors in San Mateo: 29
49 of 65

--- page 50 ---
3
5
21
Unknown
Yes
No
Vendors in San Mateo with BTCs: 5
50 of 65

--- page 51 ---
4
17
4
Unknown
Yes
No
Vendors with County Health Permits: 17
51 of 65

--- page 52 ---
• Mobile Food Facility (MFF) permits are issued in the County in total: 435
• MFF permits with a city of San Mateo address: 
 
  
 
44
• MEHKO permits issued in SM County in total: 
 
 
 
47
• MEHKO permits issued in the city of San Mateo:  
 
 
5
• Home kitchens without MEHKO permits in San Mateo:  
 
2
• Complaints about unlawful food vendors (July 2024-Present):  
25
• Complaints received about food poisoning (July 2024-Present): 
44
County Health Department Data
•
Pushcart permit: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$383
•
MEHKO permit:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$1,273 
•
Food truck or trailer permit: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$1,573
52 of 65

--- page 53 ---
Can MEHKO Customers Dine Outside?
San Mateo County
No opinion; defers to the City
Alameda County
Does not allow in front yard, but allows in back yard
Santa Clara County
Allows for onsite dining; does not specify the areas
Fresno County
Has not opted-in yet (will decide early 2026);
Opinion: considering other jurisdictions’ “garage 
operations” where a permitted MEHKO cooks and serves 
in garage/front yard, outside dining area may be allowed, 
but food preparation, handling, and assembly to be in 
the kitchen
53 of 65

--- page 54 ---
2018 Sidewalk Vendors Act (SB 946):
•
“Sidewalk vending provides important entrepreneurship and economic development 
opportunities to low-income and immigrant communities.
•
Sidewalk vending increases access to desired goods, such as culturally significant food and 
merchandise.
•
Sidewalk vending contributes to a safe and dynamic public space.
•
The safety and welfare of the general public is promoted by prohibiting criminal penalties 
for violations of sidewalk vending ordinances and regulations.
•
It is the intent of the Legislature to promote entrepreneurship and support immigrant and 
low-income communities.
•
A local authority shall not require a sidewalk vendor to operate within specific parts of 
the public right-of-way, except when that restriction is directly related to objective health, 
safety, or welfare concerns.
•
Perceived community animus or economic competition does not constitute an objective 
health, safety, or welfare concern.”
54 of 65

--- page 55 ---
2018 MEHKO Act:
•
“Small-scale, home-cooking operations can create significant economic opportunities for 
Californians that need them most — often women, immigrants, and people of color.
•
Because the bar for entry to restaurant ownership is high, and the cost of renting a retail 
kitchen is so great, an informal economy of locally produced and prepared hot foods exists 
in the form of meal preparation services, food carts, and communally shared meals.
•
However, due to a lack of appropriate regulations, many experienced cooks in California 
are unable to legally participate in the locally prepared food economy and to earn an 
income legally.
•
Many of these cooks are unable to enter the traditional food economy based on disability, 
family responsibilities, or lack of opportunity.
•
It is the intent of the Legislature that this act authorize the use of home kitchens for small-
scale, direct food sales by home cooks to consumers, providing appropriate flexibility in 
food types and appropriate health and sanitation standards.”
55 of 65

--- page 56 ---
June 2024 – August 2025
Parking Citations Issued
56 of 65

--- page 57 ---
Tents on
CalTrans
Property

CITY OF

57 of 65


--- page 58 ---
—

Trailers |
Streets

O
Lu
E
<£
=
rae
<
7p)
LL
O
>
a
O

58 of 65


--- page 59 ---
Pushcarts
in Streets

CITY OF SAN MATEO

59 of 65


--- page 60 ---
Trailers in 
Streets 
Tables on 
Sidewalks
60 of 65

--- page 61 ---
From 
motorized 
to 
stationary
Strict Enforcement Impractical
61 of 65

--- page 62 ---
Strict Enforcement Impractical

ec

Selene

ied or se See SATAN, SAO ds oy re t eee -

CITY OF SAN MATEO

62 of 65


--- page 63 ---
Complaints

CITY OF

63 of 65


--- page 64 ---
Complaints

ate
Aug 6, 2025 at 13:09:11

——— CITY OF ———_

64 of 65


--- page 65 ---
j

CITY OF SAN MATEO

65 of 65
