source: packet.pdf
sha256: 28cc250091e900b0f36e3e84b183e1a99903f79b3cbdac394885f5e3c81c837e
pages: 11
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
December 1, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
J. Christopher Massey, Chair
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair
Sarah Fields
Eric Holm
Heather Wolnick
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: December 1, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408)636-0968
Enter Conference ID: 868 5409 6885
Passcode: 124522
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Special and Regular Meeting Minutes of November 3, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at this
time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Facility Naming Policy for Parks, Open Spaces and Public Facilities - Draft
Review and comment on the 1st Draft of a Revised Facility Naming Policy for Parks, Open Spaces and Public
Facilities
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 11

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City's website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
Accessibility: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 11

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 2018 - 21-5563
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
December 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Special and Regular Meeting Minutes of November 3, 2021. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Nov. 3, 2021 Special Meeting Minutes Draft
Att 2 - Nov. 3, 2021 Regular Meeting Minutes Draft
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
3 of 11

--- page 4 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Special Meeting Minutes – 11/03/21 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
J. Christopher Massey, Chair  
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair  
Sarah Fields  
Eric Holm 
Heather Wolnick 
 
City of San Mateo  
Special Meeting Minutes 
Park and Recreation Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 
Remote 6:50 PM 
Special Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in 
which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Chair Massey called the meeting to order at 6:50 PM. 
 
 
Commissioners Present: Fields, Holm, Massey, Wolnick  
Excused Absence: Held 
 
 
 NEW BUSINESS 
1. Presentation: Get Around Senior Transportation 
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager presented on the Get Around Senior Transportation Program. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff and discussion ensued.  
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 7:13 PM.  
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
Giovana Orozco  
4 of 11

--- page 5 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/03/21 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
J. Christopher Massey, Chair  
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair  
Sarah Fields  
Eric Holm 
Heather Wolnick 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Park and Recreation Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Wednesday, November 3, 2021 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in 
which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Chair Massey called the meeting to order at 7:13 PM. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote:    Commissioners Present: Fields, Holm, Massey, Wolnick  
Excused Absence: Held 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without 
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
2. Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 6, 2021. 
 4/0 Motion passed. 
 
Moved: Wolnick   Seconded: Holm 
Ayes: Fields, Holm, Massey, Wolnick 
  
Noes:  
Abstained:  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
Ryen Motzek, Michael Manidis, Tony, Patrick, Andy, and Andrew spoke in regard to the current City 
skateparks and expressed belief that there is a need to build a new, modern skatepark in San Mateo. They also 
requested that the skateboarding community is included in the discussion of the planned upgrades to the 
current skateparks.  
 
 NEW BUSINESS 
3. Parks, Open Spaces and Facility Naming Policy 
Sheila Canzian, Director presented the Parks, Open Spaces and Facility Naming Policy. Commissioners asked 
questions of staff and discussion ensued. Commissioners generally agreed that naming of parks and open spaces 
should remain based on geographical location and/or significant natural features. Commissioners also agreed 
that the naming of a facility should be considered an honor and the preference would be based on connection to 
service or contribution to that specific location or Parks and Recreation in general. Discussion on allowing the 
5 of 11

--- page 6 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 11/03/21 
Page 2 
naming of facilities for considerable monetary donations by people or organizations took place. There was 
consensus amongst commissioners that asking staff to research past history for possible community individuals 
who may have been overlooked for a naming opportunity was not a high priority. Commissioners discussed the 
matter of naming facilities after people that are alive or are deceased on but there was no consensus.   
Public Comment:  Drew, recommended if it was possible to do a small review of historical members of the 
community that might not have been considered for naming of facilities. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director, reported on the upcoming Winter Wonderland on December 4, 2021 and the re-
opening of the ice-skating rink. 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director, let commissioners know that the East Hillsdale Park Playground Community Meeting 
took place providing the department great feedback and that they would receive more information when it 
became available. 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:57 PM.  
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
Giovana Orozco  
6 of 11

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5562
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and Recreation 
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
December 01, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Facility Naming Policy for Parks, Open Spaces and Public Facilities - Draft
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and comment on the 1st Draft of a Revised Facility Naming Policy for Parks, Open Spaces and Public Facilities
BACKGROUND:
At the November 3, 2021 meeting, Commissioners provided comment and feedback on various questions to guide staff in 
updating the existing Naming Parks, Open Spaces and Other Public Facilities Policy.  The current policy dates from 1979 
and appears out of date and lacks the specificity that may be helpful to staff, the Commission and the City Council when 
considering requests for facility naming. 
The attached 1st Draft of a Revised Facility Naming Policy is staff’s attempt to respond to the general direction and 
comments provided by the Commission.  Subsequent to the Commission meeting, staff also reviewed existing policies 
from other agencies that helped inform some of the wording.  At this first draft, staff is looking for comments and 
feedback on the general policy direction and whether it appears to meet the Commission’s interests.  Is there a major 
policy item that was overlooked?  Does it provide the correct balance between providing specificity while still allowing for 
some flexibility? Does it anticipate future actions or conditions? 
While staff chose a general format to provide the information, the final format, i.e. headings, the placement of individual 
policy items, etc. may look different as a result of further review by internal departments such as the City Clerk and City 
Manager’s offices.  It should also be noted that the 1st  draft policy has not yet been reviewed by the City Attorney’s office 
relative to any legal considerations. 
Staff looks forward to hearing Commission comments and input on this 1st Draft.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
None at this time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organization or administrative activity that will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378 (b) (5) .
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
7 of 11

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 1 - 1st Draft of Revised Facility Naming Policy for Parks, Open Spaces and Public Facilities 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Parks and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
8 of 11

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PARKS, OPEN SPACE LANDS AND PUBLIC FACILITY NAMING POLICY
Section I:  Purpose and Application 
A. Purpose: To provide guidelines and procedures for the naming of City Parks, Open 
Space lands and public facilities and amenities within parks. 
B. Application: This policy has been created to guide staff, the Park and Recreation 
Commission and the City Council in taking action concerning requests to name City 
parks, open space lands and public facilities and amenities within parks.  This 
process does not apply to the naming of streets or other non-park civic facilities. 
C. The City Council shall have the final authority to approve names of parks, open space 
lands and public facilities and amenities within parks after review and 
recommendation by the Park and Recreation Commission and Department of Parks 
and Recreation staff.  
Section II: Definitions 
A. Parks: Real property owned and managed by the City used for public recreation 
purposes, whether developed or undeveloped, including lands identified as open 
space. 
B. Public Facilities and Amenities: City owned facilities/amenities that are located 
within a park or within part of a facility.  Examples include, but are not limited to, 
athletic/ball fields, recreation buildings, picnic areas, trails, sports courts, 
playgrounds, gardens and meeting rooms within a facility.  
Section III: Policy
A. Parks:
1)  Each park and open space shall be named after its geographical location or 
by its significant or unusual natural, cultural, historical or environmental 
feature.  Names shall not be duplicated and shall be compatible with the area 
in which they are located. 
2) Naming parks after individuals or organizations may be considered under 
special circumstances such as a significant donation of land or funding to the 
City and Department of Parks and Recreation or in recognition of a deceased 
individual who contributed extraordinary service to the City of San Mateo. 
3) Renaming of parks where existing names have common community usage 
and acceptance is discouraged. 
9 of 11

--- page 10 ---
B. Public Facilities and Amenities: 
1) Public facilities and amenities within parks may be named after selected 
individuals or organizations in their honor, as desired and appropriate. 
Naming is a special recognition that is considered for persons and 
organizations deserving exceptional recognition for their unique, “substantial 
or outstanding contribution” to the Department of Parks and Recreation or 
to a specific park or amenity.  Criteria that will be considered when 
evaluating “substantial or outstanding contribution” include, but are not 
limited to: donation of significant financial gifts to improve a facility; a 
donation of land; a record of meaningful volunteer service to the 
Department of Parks and Recreation or to a facility; and substantial and 
noteworthy public service as an elected official.
2) Satisfying one or more of the criteria listed above does not assure approval 
of any naming recommendation. 
3) Preference is for an individual to be deceased, but is not a requirement. 
4) In the case where an existing named facility is demolished or 
decommissioned, the City Council may choose to discontinue the use of the 
name, re-use the name for a replacement facility or re-assign the name to 
another similar facility. 
Section IV: Process for Naming Parks and Facilities  
A.  Any member of the public may submit a written request for naming a park or facility 
to the Director of Parks and Recreation for consideration. Nominators should 
provide sufficient background and justification that supports one or more of the 
criteria outlined above in Section B.1. The Director will conduct any research 
necessary to make an informed recommendation to the Park and Recreation 
Commission. The Commission will review the proposed naming recommendation, 
conduct a public hearing and make a recommendation to the City Council to either 
support or deny the request
The City Council will review the proposed naming recommendation, conduct a public 
hearing and vote whether to approve or deny the name change.  Nothing in the 
policy shall preclude either the Park and Recreation Commission or City Council from 
initiating a naming request on their own.    
B. Upon approval by the City Council, the site shall officially be designated as such on 
all maps and records. 
C. A dedication plaque consistent with the existing setting and landscape shall be 
placed at each named facility and where possible, include information on the 
contributions of the individual.  Responsibility for the purchase and installation of 
any dedication plaque shall be borne by the requesting party unless otherwise 
10 of 11

--- page 11 ---
negotiated with the Department of Parks and Recreation.  The location, size and 
type of recognition objects shall be approved by the Department of Parks and 
Recreation. 
The City will make every effort to preserve any dedication plaque or other object 
placed at the site.  If necessary, due to repair of the surrounding area, construction 
or re-design of a facility, the plaque may be relocated.  In the case where a facility is 
decommissioned or demolished, the City will make every effort to preserve the 
plaque somewhere on the site.  
Section V: Naming Rights as Part of a Fundraising Campaign 
A. When undertaking major park or facility renovations and/or new construction, the 
Department of Parks and Recreation may choose to engage in fundraising campaigns  
in order to raise community awareness and provide financial assistance to the City.  
This policy allows for Naming Rights to fund amenities within a park, such as 
buildings, playgrounds, athletic/ballfields, picnic areas, etc.  Naming Right 
opportunities and levels of sponsorship shall be identified in advance and publicized 
as part of the fundraising campaign.  Recognition should be commensurate with said 
donations or funding.  
An agreement between the City and major donors shall be negotiated which 
outlines the terms of the donation, including the length of time the Naming Right 
shall be in effect. 
 
B. Naming Rights that promote political organizations, religious affiliations and alcohol, 
tobacco and cannabis products will not be considered.  Names must be tasteful and 
non-controversial. The City Council shall have the right to approve or deny any 
proposed facility name. 
Section VI: Non-Facility Naming Opportunities
A. As an alternative to the facility naming opportunities described above, the City may 
choose to recognize individuals, either living or deceased or organizations by the 
placement of objects such as public benches, flagpoles, rocks, trees, etc. within a 
park or facility.  The approval, placement and identification of these dedications will 
be at the discretion of the Parks and Recreation Department staff.  A dedication 
plaque, appropriate to the setting and landscape will be installed.  When such 
recognitions are initiated by the City, the City shall pay for the purchase and 
installation costs.  
    
    
11 of 11