source: packet.pdf
sha256: cf662913b9ed29647bbfc871e91bbf5ab7bb2792968ee3896d7efd8d2dd582e7
pages: 204
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
April 14, 2021
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Adam Loraine
Kimiko Narita
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: April 14, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 816 9215 2621
Passcode: 983287
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Minutes - Approval
Approve the Minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of March 10, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way – Update to SMMC Chapter 17.10 and Design
Standards and Application Requirements
Discuss and review revisions to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 17.10 "Wireless Communications
Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way" and Design Standards and Application Requirements for Wireless
Communications Facilities and recommend approval to the City Council.
3.
Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) Long-Term Reliable Water Supply Strategy - Update
Receive an update from the Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) on the long-term reliable
water supply strategy for the Bay Area.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
1 of 204

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 204

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 21-4454
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 14, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Minutes - Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting of March 10, 2021. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the March 10, 2021 meeting
3 of 204

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
March 10, 2021 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Jackie Nuñez, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Adam Loraine 
MINUTES 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Present 5 – Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Loraine, Robbins, and Reyes.   
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Commissioner Nuñez made a motion to approve the minutes of February 10, 2021, seconded by Commissioner 
Reyes.  Motion carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:  5 - Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nunez, Commissioners Reyes, Robbins, and Loraine. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
No public comment. 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
2. 5G Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Applications – Exception from Design Standards. 
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer, Matthew Trieu, Engineering Tech, and JoAnna Wang, Director of 
Government and Community Affairs and Jacob Olander, Project Manager from Modus LLC, made a 
presentation to the Commission to consider 5G minor wireless permit applications and approve the applications.  
Bill Hammett, from Hammett Edison, was also available to answer questions. 
 
Public Comment.  No public comment. 
 
Commissioners commented on vendors monopolizing ideal locations and may be worthy of some review; would 
be better to have competitive landscape; and have flexible design guidelines. 
 
4 of 204

--- page 5 ---
Commissioner Robbins made a motion to approve the applications, seconded by Commissioner Reyes.  Motion 
carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:   5 -  Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Nuñez, Commissioners Loraine, Robbins, and Reyes. 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
3. Update from the California Water Service Company. 
Ken Jenkins, Director of Water Resource Sustainability and Ross Moilan, Bayshore District Manager, from 
California Water Service, made a presentation asking the Commission to receive informational update from the 
California Water Service Company. 
 
Public Comment. Carol Steinfeld and Sarah Fields spoke to the item. 
 
No motion needed for this informational item. 
 
4. San Mateo County Highway 101 Express Lanes – Update. 
Amy Linehan from Sam Trans, Autumn Bernstein from ARUP, and Lacy Vong and Matthew Click from HNTB, 
asked the Commission to receive an update on the San Mateo County 101 Express Lanes project and information 
on the Equity Study and provide Caltrans staff feedback. 
 
Public Comment.  Carol Steinfeld spoke to the item. 
 
Comments from the Commission included:  supported a hybrid of option #1 and #2, potentially have one 
program benefit another, ie. frequent bus users could get credit on their responders for driving infrequently; 
important to get community groups involved on preferred options; prioritize short term needs first with #1 and 
#2 before looking at other options. 
 
No motion needed for this informational item. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Commissioners and staff wished Vice Chair Nuñez well at her new position in Ventura County.  Commenting it 
was an honor to serve with Ms. Nuñez and appreciate her thoughtful and complex comments and questions. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:57 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 204

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 21-4273
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 14, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way – Update to SMMC Chapter 17.10 and Design Standards 
and Application Requirements
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss and review revisions to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 17.10 "Wireless Communications Facilities in 
the Public Right-Of-Way" and Design Standards and Application Requirements for Wireless Communications Facilities and 
recommend approval to the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
The City adopted an ordinance in 2018 that established a process for wireless telecommunication sites in the public right-
of-way. In accordance with State Public Utilities Code section 7901, telephone companies, which include wireless 
telecommunications service providers, have a statutory right to place equipment in the public right-of-way. However, in 
accordance with Public Utilities Code section 7901.1, cities have the “right to exercise reasonable control as to the time, 
place, and manner”. Shortly after the City adopted San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) 17.10 and the corresponding 
standards, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted its September 26, 2018 order, the Declaratory Ruling 
and Third Report and Order In the Matter of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to 
Infrastructure Investment (the “FCC Order”), regarding small cell wireless facilities deployment (i.e. “small cells”).
Based on the FCC Order, effective as of January 2019, all City permits and authorizations for small cells placed on an existing 
structure must be issued within 60 days from the submittal of the application materials. The total processing time for small 
cells placed on a new or replacement structure is 90 days from submittal. If the City does not meet the shot clock, the City 
will not have complied with federal law and risks the wireless carrier taking the position that the application is deemed 
approved. The City’s current approval process takes between 90 to 150 days, which is well beyond the FCC shot clock 
requirements. 
The FCC Order also imposed restrictions on fees and costs charged by cities related to the small cells requiring the charges 
to be reasonable and reflect actual costs to the cities. The City’s prior fee schedule will need to be reviewed and may 
require changes to the fees for the application, permit, and license, as well as the terms of the Master License Agreement, 
all to be consistent with the FCC Order.  The FCC Order confirmed that local governments may regulate aesthetic standards 
for small cells but subject to certain limitations – they must be reasonable, objective, no more burdensome than on other 
similar infrastructure, and published in advance.  
In October 2020, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed most of the FCC’s requirements, including the FCC shot 
clocks.    However, the Court did reject the “no more burdensome” and “objective” requirements related to the aesthetic 
standards, so the City may have a bit more discretion concerning aesthetic standards.  
6 of 204

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Given the recent FCC Order and the Ninth Circuit ruling, as well as a letter from Verizon’s attorney that the City is not in 
compliance with the law, staff is recommending changes to SMMC 17.10 and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements (Design Standards) to provide a streamlined process and comprehensive set of standards.  Public Works staff 
worked with Barbara Choi and Stephanie Hall of Atchison, Barisone & Condotti, outside legal counsel for the City, on revisions 
to the Code and Design Standards.
A summary of the substantial Code revisions includes the following: 
1.
SMMC 17.10.020 – Permits will be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or the Director’s designee. 
Originally, the Director of Public Works approved Minor permits and the Sustainability & Infrastructure (S&I) 
Commission approved Major permits. Appeals will continue to be heard by the S&I Commission. 
2.
SMMC 17.10.040 – There will be one wireless permit, including Section 6409 approvals. Minor and Major permit 
types have been deleted.
3.
SMMC 17.10.050 – Meetings were streamlined and simplified. In order to meet the FCC shot clocks, pre-submittal 
and neighborhood meetings are no longer required, but voluntary and highly encouraged. A submittal appointment 
is required for all applications. 
4.
SMMC 17.10.060 – Notices were streamlined and simplified. A notice is required to be mailed to all residents and 
property owners within 500’ of the project site within five (5) days of the application submittal. Approval of 
applications will be posted on the City’s Small Cell webpage.
5.
SMMC 17.10.070 – Protests and appeals were streamlined and simplified. All appeals to be reviewed by the S&I 
Commission.
6.
SMMC 17.10.090 – Site location guidelines have been deleted and placed in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements document.
7.
SMMC 17.10.100 – Design regulations have been deleted and placed in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements document. 
8.
SMMC 17.10.110 – Temporary wireless facilities are allowed only for emergencies and do not require a wireless 
permit.
9.
SMMC 17.10.120 – Amortization of nonconforming wireless facilities has been deleted. Language regarding 
nonconforming facilities has been added to the Design Standards and Applications Requirements document.
A summary of the substantive revisions to the Design Standards document is summarized below. 
1.
Updated Formatting, Appearance, and Name.  The Design Standards were modified to include new formatting, 
expanded table of contents to include a list of figures and tables for easy reference, additional figures of acceptable 
and unacceptable designs, and updated Wireless Permit and Checklist.  The name of the document was changed 
from “Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements” to “Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.”
2.
Chapter 2 (Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards).  Siting location and design standards were moved from 
the Code to the Design Standards document.  The Design Standards were generally updated to be more objective 
and clearer.
3.
Chapter 3 (Application Process and Requirements).  Added this chapter to include information previously found in 
the Code and to specify the process for applicants, as well as the public.  The most significant change is that 
neighborhood meetings are no longer mandatory but are voluntary due to shot clock limitations imposed by the 
FCC.
4.
Chapter 4 (Installations on Streetlight Poles).  The design requirements were updated in Table 4.1 for installations 
on streetlight poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, antenna placement, and 
7 of 204

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
cables/wiring.  Figures 4.2 and 4.3 were added to display acceptable designs since the Standard Drawings were 
deleted.  Table 4.2 was added to clarify the procedures for attachments to streetlight poles.
5.
Chapter 5 (Installations on Utility Poles).  The design requirements were updated in Table 5.1 for installations on 
utility poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, antenna placement, and 
cables/wiring, as well as authorization from the pole owner.  Figures 5.1 and 5.2 were added to display unacceptable 
and acceptable designs since the Standard Drawings were deleted.  Table 5.2 was added to clarify the procedures 
for attachments to utility poles.
6.
Chapter 6 (Installations of Freestanding Poles).  The design requirements were updated in Table 6.1 for installations 
on freestanding poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, pole height, antenna 
placement, and equipment cabinets.  Table 6.2 was added to clarify the procedures for freestanding poles.
7.
Chapter 7 (Section 6409 Approval).  Added this chapter to include information previously found in the Code and to 
specify the procedures for 6409 approvals.
8.
Chapter 8 (Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities).  Added this chapter to include information previously found in the 
Code and to specify that any non-conforming wireless facilities shall be brought into conformance with current 
design standards within 10 years.
9.
Appendix.  The Permit Application, Checklist and Standard Conditions of Approval were updated.  The Detail 
Standard Drawings and Flowchart were removed.
Public Works staff will present proposed revisions to the Code and the Design Standards and Application Requirements to 
the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission and seek a recommendation for approval to the City Council.  A redlined 
version of the Code and the proposed Design Standards are attached for reference.  A redlined version of the Design 
Standards was not included due to the substantial reorganization of the document.  A copy of the current Design and 
Engineering Standards and Application Requirements is attached for comparison purposes.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with review of the proposed ordinance and design standards.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review of an ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In addition, notice of this meeting was sent to individuals signed up for 
notification and posted on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Redline of SMMC 17.10 Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way
Att 2 – Proposed Design Standards and Application Requirements For Wireless Communications Facilities
Att 3 – Current Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements 
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
8 of 204

--- page 9 ---
Chapter 17.10 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY 
17.10.010 PURPOSE AND INTENT. 
(a) The City of San Mateo intends this Chapter 17.10 to establish reasonable, uniform and 
comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, construction, installation, 
collocation, modification, operation, relocation, and removal within the City's territorial 
boundariespublic right-of-way, consistent with and to the extent permitted under federal and California 
state law. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7), the City may not regulate the placement, construction, and 
modification of wireless service facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency 
emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal Communications Commission’s 
regulations concerning such emissions. To the extent permitted by federal law, tThe standards and 
procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should be applied to, protect and promote 
public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced wireless 
services with the City's local values, which include without limitation, the aesthetic character of the City, 
its neighborhoods and community. This Chapter is also intended to reflect and promote the community 
interest by (1) ensuring that the balance between public and private interest is maintained on a case-by-
case basis; (2) protecting the City's visual character from potential adverse impacts or visual blight 
created or exacerbated by wireless communications infrastructure; (3) protecting and preserving the 
City's environmental resources; and (4) promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for 
the City's residents, businesses and visitors. 
 
(b) This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: (1) prohibit or effectively 
prohibit any personal wireless service provider's ability to provide personal wireless services; (2) prohibit 
or effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications 
service, subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules, regulations or other legal 
requirements for rights-of-way management; (3) unreasonably discriminate among providers of 
functionally equivalent services; (4) deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify 
personal wireless service facilities on the basis of environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to 
the extent that such wireless facilities comply with existing or future FCC's regulations concerning such 
emissions; (5) prohibit any collocation or modification that the City may not deny under federal or 
California state law; (6) impose any unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory or anticompetitive fees that 
exceed the reasonable cost to provide the services for which the fee is charged; or (7) otherwise 
authorize the City to preempt any applicable federal or California law. 
 
17.10.020 GENERAL DEFINITIONS. 
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Cchapter will have the meanings assigned to 
them in this Ssection unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this 
sSection will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to 
time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition 
assigned to any phrase, term or word in this Ssection conflicts with any federal or state-mandated 
definition, the federal or state-mandated definition will control. 
9 of 204

--- page 10 ---
(a) "accessory equipment" means any equipment other than the antenna(s) associated with a wireless 
facility, which includes, but is not limited to, cabling, generators, fans, air conditioning units, electrical 
panels, equipment cabinets, pedestals, meters, vaults, splice boxes and surface location markers. 
 
(b) "approval authority" means the commission, board or official responsible for review of permit 
applications and vested with the authority to approve or deny such applications. The approval authority 
for a major wireless permit is the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission or, on appeal, the City 
Council. The approval authority for a minor wireless permit is the Public Works Director or, on protest, 
the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. The approval authority for a section 6409 approval or 
a temporary wireless permit is the Public Works Director or, on appeal, the City Manager. 
 
(ca) "base station" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(1), as may be 
amended. 
 
(bd) “City Council” means the City Council of the City of San Mateo.  
 
 
"City Manager" means the City Manager of the City of San Mateo, or the City Manager's designee. 
 
(cefe) "collocation" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6400012(g)(b)(2), as may be 
amended. 
 
(gf) "CPCN" means a "Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity" granted by the CPUC or its duly 
appointed successor agency pursuant to California Public Utilities Code §§ 1001 et seq., as may be 
amended. 
 
(dfhg) "CPUC" means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California Constitution, 
Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency. 
 
(ih) "Department" means the Department of Public Works of the City of San Mateo or its duly appointed 
successor agency. 
 
10 of 204

--- page 11 ---
(egji) “Design Standards and Application Requirements” means the aesthetic and design standards and 
the wireless permit application requirements for wireless facilities adopted by the Director of Public 
Works, consistent with this Chapter. 
 
(fhk) "Director" means the Director of Public Works of the City of San Mateo, or the Director's designee. 
 
(jgil) "FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency. 
 
(hjmk) "FCC Shot Clock" means the reasonable time frame within which the City generally must act on a 
given wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended from time to time. 
 
(ik) “Wireless Permit” means the permit issued by the Ddepartment of Ppublic Wworks for any work 
required in the public right-of-way for the installation or in support or otherwise related to a wireless 
facility, consistent with the Design Standards and Application Requirements adopted by the Director of 
Public Works consistent with this Chapter.  
 (l) (jln) "personal wireless services" means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be 
amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and 
common carrier wireless exchange access services. 
 
(kmom) "personal wireless service facilities" means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as 
may be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal wireless services. 
(l) “Pole License” or “City Pole License” means the license that the department of public works may issue 
for any wireless facility installation on a City-owned pole located within the public right of way, 
consistent with the requirements of this Chapter. 
  
 
(mn) “Public right-of-way” or “city right-of-way” means any public street, public way, public alley, or 
public place and the space on, above or below it, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, 
under the ownership or control of the city of San Mateo and in its jurisdiction. 
(non) "RF" means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz in 
the electromagnetic spectrum range or otherwise within applicable legal exposure standards and limits. 
 
(opo) "Section 6409" means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, 
Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as may be amended. 
11 of 204

--- page 12 ---
(pqp) “small cell wireless facility(ies)” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(l), as 
may be amended. 
 
(qrs) "temporary wireless facilities" means portable wireless facilities intended or used to provide 
personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis, such as a large-scale special event in 
which more users than usual gather in a confined location or when a disaster disables permanent 
wireless facilities. Temporary wireless facilities include, without limitation, cells-on-wheels ("COWs"), 
sites-on-wheels ("SOWs"), cells-on-light-trucks ("COLTs") or other similarly portable wireless facilities 
not permanently affixed to the site on which they are located. 
 
(rs)q) "tower" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(9), as may be 
amended. 
 
(str)) "transmission equipment" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(8), 
as may be amended. 
 
(tus) "wireless" means any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service transmitted over 
frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum. 
 
17.10.030 APPLICABILITY. 
(a) Applicable Wireless Facilities. The provisions in this Chapter shall be applied to all existing wireless 
facilities , including, without limitation, all new facilities and existing facilities, within the City's public 
rights-of-way, including small cell wireless facilities, and all applications to construct, install, operate, 
collocate, modify, reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy wireless facilities within the City's public 
rights-of-way, including Section 6409 requests, except as may be expressly provided otherwise in this 
Chapter.  
 
(b) Exempt Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), the provisions in this Chapter will 
not be applicable to: (1) wireless facilities not proposed or currently located in the public right-of-way; 
(2) wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for public purposes; (3) amateur radio facilities; 
and (4) wireless facilities or equipment owned and operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for 
use in connection with electrical power generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject to 
CPUC General Order 131-D. 
 
12 of 204

--- page 13 ---
(c) Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), all requests for 
approval to collocate, replace, or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base 
station located in the public right-of-way and submitted pursuant to Section 6409 will be reviewed 
under the general wireless permit application procedures provided in this Chapter, as well as the special 
Section 6409 provisions provided in Section 17.10.050 and the standards in Section 17.10.1310 and the 
Design Standards and Application Requirements. To the extent that the applicant's request does not 
qualify for approval under Section 6409, the applicant may submit the same or a substantially similar 
application for a major or minor wireless permit under the general provisions in this Chapter. 
 
17.10.040 REQUIRED APPROVALS. 
(a) Minor Wireless Permit. A minor wireless permit, subject to the City’s the Director's prior review and 
approval in accordance with the procedures and design regulations in this Chapter and the City’s Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, is required for: any applicant seeking to construct, install, 
modify, maintain or engage in an activity relating to a wireless facility in, on, under, or above the public 
right-of-way prior to conducting any work related to such wireless facility. 
 
 
(1) any new wireless facility proposed on an existing or replacement support structure with accessory 
equipment that does not cumulatively exceed nine cubic feet in volume; and 
 
(2) any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless facility not subject to Section 
6409 with accessory equipment that would not cumulatively exceed nine cubic feet in volume; and 
 
(3) any wireless facility installed on City-owned support structures or other personal property in the 
public rights-of-way pursuant to a valid master license agreement with the City. 
 
(b) Major Wireless Permit. A major wireless permit, subject to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission's prior review and approval in accordance with the procedures and design regulations in 
this Chapter, is required for: 
 
(1) any new wireless facility and any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless 
facility not subject to a minor wireless permit or Section 6409; and 
 
(2) any new wireless facility and any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless 
facility that require a limited exception pursuant to Section 17.10.070(c). 
13 of 204

--- page 14 ---
(c) Temporary Wireless Permit. A temporary wireless permit, subject to the Director's prior review and 
approval in accordance with the procedures and standards in Section 17.10.110 is required for any 
temporary wireless facility, unless deployed in connection with an emergency pursuant to Section 
17.10.110(b). 
 
(bd) City Pole License. Before any wireless facility is installed on a City owned pole located within the 
public right-of-way, wireless communications providers shall obtain a City pole license by entering into a 
master license agreement with the City in a form as approved by the City attorney, for the use of a City 
pole in a specified license area, and pay a license fee subject to the City’s fee schedule. Any applicant 
seeking a master license agreement shall additionally pay a master license agreement administrative fee 
subject to the City’s fee schedule to reimburse the City for reasonable costs in connection with its 
preparation, review of, and action upon the request for such an agreement. The applicant seeking a City 
pole license must also apply for and obtain a wireless permit.  
(c) Other Permits and Regulatory Approvals. In addition to any minor wireless permit, major wireless 
permit, section 6409 approval (as that term is defined in Section 17.10.130), temporary wireless permit 
or other permit or approval required under this Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other permits and 
regulatory approvals as may be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which 
includes without limitation other any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments 
or divisions. Furthermore, any permit or approval granted under this Chapter or deemed to be granted 
or deemed approved by law shall remain subject to any and all lawful conditions and/or legal 
requirements associated with such other permits or approvals. 
(d) Fees. All required fees, security instruments, and cash deposits related to the wireless permit, the 
City pole license, and other required permits and approvals consistent with this Chapter must be paid in 
full or be satisfied in order for a wireless permit or a City pole license to be issued by the City. In 
addition, City may seek reimbursement of the actual reasonable costs related to licensing, permitting, 
and administering wireless facilities in the public right-of-way as set by the City Council. Failure to 
comply with this provision shall be a basis to deny, revoke, or terminate the wireless permit, the City 
pole license or other applicable permit. 
 
 
17.10.050 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS. 
(a) Permit Application FormRequired. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed wireless 
permit application in a form approved by the City, which may be updated from time to time.  
(b) Generally Applicable Design Standards and Application Requirements. All new wireless facilities and 
collocations, modifications or other changes to existing wireless facilities must conform to the City’s 
Design Standards and Application Requirements.  
 
14 of 204

--- page 15 ---
(b) Application Content. All applications for a minor wireless permit, major wireless permit, section 6409 
approval or temporary wireless permit must include all the information and materials required by the 
Director for the application. The City Council authorizes the Director to develop, publish and from time 
to time update or amend permit application requirements, forms, checklists, guidelines, informational 
handouts and other related materials that the Director finds necessary, appropriate or useful for 
processing any application governed under this Chapter.  All applications shall, at a minimum, (1) require 
the applicant to demonstrate that the proposed project will be in planned compliance with all applicable 
health and safety laws, regulations or other rules, which includes without limitation all building codes, 
electric codes and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions and (2) contain sufficient evidence 
(such as a valid CPCN) of the applicant's regulatory status as a telephone corporation under the 
California Public Utilities Code. The City Council further authorizes the Director to establish other 
reasonable rules and regulations, which may include without limitation regular hours for appointments 
with applicants, as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to organize, document and manage the 
application intake process. All such rules and regulations must be in written form and publicly stated to 
provide applicants with prior notice. 
 
(c)  Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. Any application for a major wireless permit, minor wireless 
permit or section 6409 approval will not be considered duly filed or complete unless submitted in 
accordance with any and all written rules and policies the City may adopt consistent with this Chapter, 
including but not limited toin accordance with the procedures in this Section the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.  All new wireless facilities and collocations, modifications or other changes to 
existing wireless facilities must conform to the City’s Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
Any application for a temporary wireless permit must be filed in accordance with the procedures in 
Section 17.10.110. 
 
(1) Pre-Submittal Conference. Before application submittal, the applicant must schedule and attend a 
pre-submittal conference with the Director for all proposed projects (a) subject to a major wireless 
permit; (b) that involve the deployment of more than five (5) facilities in the public right-of-way; or (c) 
that involve collocation, modification or other change to an existing concealed facility submitted with a 
request for approval pursuant to Section 6409. Pre-submittal conferences for all other proposed 
projects are strongly encouraged but not required. The pre-submittal conference is intended to 
streamline the review process through informal discussion that includes, without limitation, the 
appropriate project classification and review process, any latent issues in connection with the proposed 
or existing wireless tower or base station, including compliance with generally applicable rules for public 
health and safety; potential concealment issues or concerns (if applicable); coordination with other City 
departments responsible for application review; and application completeness issues. To mitigate 
unnecessary delays due to application incompleteness, applicants are encouraged (but not required) to 
bring any draft applications or other materials so that City staff may provide informal feedback and 
guidance about whether such applications or other materials may be incomplete or unacceptable. The 
Department shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment within five (5) 
Commented [SH1]: Moved to City Council resolution. 
Commented [SH2]: Moved to Application Requirements 
Commented [SH3]: Moved to Application Requirements. 
Commented [SH4]: A voluntary pre-submittal meeting 
with City Staff is discussed in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
15 of 204

--- page 16 ---
working days after receiving a written request and any applicable fee or deposit to reimburse the City 
for its reasonable costs to provide the services rendered in the pre-submittal conference. 
 
(e2) Submittal Appointment. All applications must be submitted to the City at a pre-scheduled 
appointment with the Director. Applicants may generally submit one application per appointment but 
may schedule successive appointments for multiple applications whenever feasible and not prejudicial 
to other applicants. The Director shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the Director receives a written request and, if applicable, 
confirms that the applicant complied with the pre-submittal conference requirement. Any application 
received without an appointment, whether delivered in-person, by mail or through any other means, 
will not be considered duly filed unless the applicant received a written exemption from the Director at 
a pre-submittal conference. 
 
(fd) Informational Neighborhood Meeting. For any application subject to a minor wireless permit or 
major wireless permit proposed in or within 500 feet from a residential zone, the applicant must provide 
notice and an opportunity for an informational neighborhood meeting. Informational neighborhood 
meetings shall occur before any application is deemed complete and are intended to provide the 
community in the immediately affected area an opportunity to learn about the applicant's proposal and 
give the applicant feedback. 
 
(1) Notice. The applicant shall provide written notice posted at the proposed project site and 
mailed by first class U.S. mail to all residents, property owners and other persons or entities 
entitled to receive notice under Section 17.10.060 and the Director. The notice shall: (1) clearly 
state the applicant's name; (2) describe the proposed site location and the proposed 
improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, which shall include photo 
simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished installation in context with the 
surrounding natural and built environment; (3) identify when the construction, installation, 
excavation or other work would begin and end; (4) provide a contact name and telephone 
number for the applicant's representative and the Department; and (5) clearly state that the 
notice recipient has 15 calendar days from the date on the notice to submit a written request to 
the City for an informational neighborhood meeting or else no such meeting will be held. 
 
(2) Request for Meeting. If the City receives a timely request for an informational neighborhood 
meeting, the City will inform the applicant and the applicant shall provide at least 10 days prior 
written notice to all persons entitled to notice under Section 17.10.060 that such a meeting will 
take place. The notice shall: (1) contain all the same information required under Section 
17.10.060(c); and (2) provide the meeting date, time and location to present and discuss the 
proposed wireless facility. If the City does not receive a timely request for an informational 
neighborhood meeting, no meeting will be required. 
 
Commented [SH5]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
Commented [SH6]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
16 of 204

--- page 17 ---
(3) Meetings. Informational neighborhood meetings shall be held at an accessible location 
within the City, preferably at or near the location where the proposed site is or will be located. 
The applicant shall conduct the meeting, bring a scaled, three-dimensional mock-up of the 
proposed installation, and be prepared to answer questions posed by attendees. The meeting 
shall be held for at least one hour; provided, however, that the meeting may be closed earlier if 
no one arrives within the first 20 minutes after the noticed start time or if all attendees have 
had a reasonable opportunity to be heard. City staff may attend in an observational capacity. No 
official action may be taken by the City at any informational neighborhood meeting. 
  
(e) Applications Deemed Withdrawn. To promote efficient review and timely decisions, any application 
governed under this Chapter will be automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the 
applicant fails to tender a substantive response to the Department within 90 calendar days after the 
Director deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The Director may, in the Director's discretion, grant 
a written extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written 
request prior to the 90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances 
outside the applicant's reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension. 
 
17.10.060 PEER AND INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT REVIEW.  
 
(1) Authorization. The City Council authorizes the Director to, in the Director's discretion, to select and 
retain an independent consultant with specialized training, experience and/or expertise in 
telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any permit application. 
 
(2) Scope. The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves 
specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications 
for wireless facilities, as further provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements. , which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction 
planned compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-
construction actual compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) 
whether and to what extent a proposed project will address a gap in the applicant's wireless services; (e) 
whether and to what extent any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or 
concealment techniques may exist; (f) the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, 
analyses or methodologies used by the applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the 
City's discretion to review; and (g) any other issue identified by the Director that requires expert or 
specialized knowledge. The Director may request that the independent consultant prepare written 
reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend meetings with City staff and/or 
the applicant. 
 
Commented [SH7]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
Commented [SH8]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
17 of 204

--- page 18 ---
(3) Consultant Fees; Deposit. In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in 
connection with any permit application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in 
connection with the services provided as detailed in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. , which may include without limitation any costs incurred by the independent consultant 
to attend and participate in any meetings or hearings. Before the independent consultant may perform 
any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in an amount equal to the estimated cost 
for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The Director may request additional 
deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to cover the reasonable costs 
in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the deposit exceeds the total 
costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to the applicant after 
the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City official or his 
or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services exceed 
the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any 
construction or grading permit to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
 
 17.10.060 NOTICE. 
(a) Notice Requirements for Minor Wireless Permits. The Director shall administratively review a 
complete and duly filed application for a minor wireless permit and may act on such application without 
prior notice, except as provided in Section 17.10.050(d), or a public hearing. Within five days after the 
Director's decision, notice of the decision shall be posted at the project site and mailed to all properties 
within 500 feet from the proposed project site measured radially from the centerline of the public right-
of-way in both directions. The mailed and posted notice must contain: (1) a general description for the 
proposed project, which shall include photo simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment; (2) the Director's decision; 
(3) the applicant's name and contact information as provided on the application submitted to the City; 
(4) contact information for the Department; and (5) instructions for how and when to file a protest with 
the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. 
 
(b) Notice Requirements for Major Wireless Permits. Public notice and a hearing before the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be required for all major wireless permit applications. 
In addition to posted notice at the proposed project site, notice shall be mailed to all properties within 
500 feet of the proposed project site measured radially from the centerline of the public right-of-way in 
both directions. The mailed and posted notice must contain: (1) a general description for the proposed 
project, which shall include photo simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished installation 
in context with the surrounding natural and built environment; (2) the applicant's name and contact 
information as provided on the application submitted to the City; (4) contact information for the 
Department; and (5) the date, time and location for the public hearing. 
 
(c) Deemed-Approval Notice. Not more than 30 days before the applicable FCC Shot Clock expires, and 
in addition to any public notice required prior to a decision, an applicant for a minor wireless permit or a 
Commented [SH9]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
Commented [SH10]: Notice requirements moved to 
Design Standards and Application Requirements.  
18 of 204

--- page 19 ---
major wireless permit must provide a posted notice at the project site that contains: (1) a statement the 
project will be automatically deemed approved pursuant to California Government Code § 65964.1 
unless the City approves or denies the application or the applicant voluntarily agrees to toll the 
timeframe for review within the next 30 days; (2) a general description for the proposed project; (3) the 
applicant's name and contact information as provided on the application submitted to the City; and (4) 
contact information for the Department. The public notice required under this Section will be deemed 
given when the applicant delivers written notice to the Director that shows the appropriate notice has 
been posted at the project site. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Chapter, the approval 
authority shall be permitted to act on an application for a minor wireless permit or a major wireless 
permit at any time so long as any applicable prior public notice in this Section has occurred. 
 
(d) Decision Notices to the Applicant. Within five days after the approval authority acts on an application 
governed under this Chapter or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever occurs first), the approval 
authority or its designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the approval 
authority denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must 
contain: (1) the reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an appeal. 
 
 
17.10.070 DECISIONS; DECISION NOTICES; LIMITED EXCEPTIONS; PROTESTS; APPEALS. 
(a) Decisions. The Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a complete application for a 
wireless permit. A wireless permit shall be acted on within all processing timelines required by the FCC 
shot clocks, applicable state or federal laws, or other applicable timelines. 
(b) Required Findings for Approval. The Directorapproval authority may approve or conditionally 
approve an application for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit submitted under this 
Chapter when the approval authorityDirector finds all of the following: 
 
(1) the applicant and the proposed wireless facility complyies with all applicable requirements of this 
Chapter and the site location Permit Gguidelines in Section 17.10.090 and City Ddesign Standards and 
Application Requirementsregulations in Section 17.10.100; and 
(2) the application is deemed complete by the Director; and 
 
(32) the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, 
rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building Standards 
Code or any local building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety 
requirements, including Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be 
amended or superseded); General Plan and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo Municipal Code; 
and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other governmental approval issued by any public 
agency with jurisdiction over the project; and 
Commented [SH11]: Moved to Section below. 
19 of 204

--- page 20 ---
(4) the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with all 
applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; and. 
 
 
(3) the applicant has proposed to place the wireless facility in the most-preferred location or, if the 
wireless facility is not proposed in the most-preferred location, the applicant has demonstrated a good-
faith effort to identify and evaluate more-preferred alternative locations through a meaningful 
comparative analysis; and 
 
(4) the applicant has provided the approval authority with a meaningful comparative analysis that shows 
all more-preferred alternative designs identified in the administrative record are either technically 
infeasible or unavailable. 
 
 
 
(cb) Conditional Approvals; Denials without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal or California 
laws, nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the Director’sapproval authority's ability to 
conditionally approve or deny without prejudice any application governed under this Chapter as may be 
necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to advance 
the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this 
sSection. 
 
(dc) Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. In the event that an applicant claims that 
strict compliance with this Chapter and the design regulations in Section 17.10.100Design Standards and 
Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless 
services, the Sustainability and Infrastructure CommissionDirector may grant a limited exception from 
such requirements in accordance with this Sub Sectionthe required findings provided in the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements. A 
 
(1) Required Findings. The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall not grant any limited 
exception unless the applicant shows that: 
 
(A) the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and 
 
Commented [SH12]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements document. 
Commented [SH13]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
20 of 204

--- page 21 ---
(B) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a reasonable and 
clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
 
(C) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a written 
statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility 
cannot be deployed in compliance with the applicable provisions in this Chapter; and 
 
(D) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a meaningful 
comparative analysis with the factual reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in 
the administrative record (whether suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other 
source) are not technically feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's 
reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless 
facility; and 
 
(E) the applicant has demonstrated to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission that the 
proposed location and design is the least non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the 
applicant's reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed 
wireless facility, which includes without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple 
smaller or less intrusive wireless facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area. 
 
 (2) Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any 
deviations from the design regulations in Section 17.10.100 are no greater than necessary to avoid an 
effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless services. Limited exceptions shall be based on 
the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its demonstrated technical service objectives at the time 
the exception is granted and the proposed wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any 
precedent for similar deviations for the same or any other applicant, location or wireless facility. 
(e) Decision Notices to the Applicant. After the director acts on an application, and within the timeframe 
provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements or before the FCC Shot Clock expires 
(whichever occurs first), the Director or its designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the 
event that the Director denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the 
applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an 
appeal. 
 
(d) Right to Protest Director's Decision. Any interested person or entity may protest any decision by the 
Director to approve or deny an application for a minor wireless permit. Protests must be filed with the 
Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission within ten calendar days following the 
City's mailing of the decision notice required under Section 17.10.060. No fee shall be required to file 
any protest under this Section. On the next available meeting date after the protest period lapses, or as 
Commented [SH14]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
21 of 204

--- page 22 ---
soon as reasonably feasible thereafter, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall hold a de 
novo public hearing to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings for 
the project. Protests from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the protest is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. The protest 
decision may be appealed to the City Council under Section 17.10.070. 
 
(fde) Appeals. The applicant or any person who received notice of an application under this ChapterAny 
interested person or entity may appeal any decision by the approval authorityDirector to approve or 
deny an application for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit. Appeals and the applicable 
filing fee must be filed with the City ClerkSecretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
within fiveten calendar days following the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission'sDirector’s 
decision. The SecretaryCity Clerk shall set the appeal for hearing on the agenda On for the next regular 
or specialavailable meeting  of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a 
time frame needed to comply with all applicable state or federal lawsdate after the appeal period 
lapses, or as soon as reasonably feasible thereafter, the City Council shall hold a de novo public hearing 
to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings for the project. Appeals 
from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on environmental effects 
from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. 
 
17.10.080 STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL. 
(a) Standard Conditions Adopted by City Council Resolution. The City Council may, either on its own 
motion or upon a recommendation from the Director, adopt by resolution standard conditions of 
approval for wireless facilities subject to this Chapter. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the 
approval authority Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall be automatically 
subject to all such standard conditions of approval as may be adopted in a resolution by the City 
Councilas provided in Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The approval authorityDirector (or the appellate authority 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend any 
standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to protect 
and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of the approved 
wireless facility, maintain compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies in the 
General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this Chapter. 
 
17.10.090 REVOCATION; ABANDONMENT. 
(a) Revocation. Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way 
granted under this Chapter may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section. 
22 of 204

--- page 23 ---
(1) Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director. 
 
(2) Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed. 
 
(3) Required Findings. The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if 
it makes any of the findings provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
(4) Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. 
 
(5)    A permittee whose permit or right has been revoked may have the revocation reviewed, upon 
written appeal to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission as set forth in this Chapter. 
 
(b) Abandonment. Wireless facilities no longer used to provide service shall be removed by the last 
known owner of record of such facility, at the sole cost of said owner and to the satisfaction of the City. 
17.10.090 SITE LOCATION GUIDELINES. 
(a) Preferred Locations. When evaluating compliance with this Chapter, the approval authority will take 
into account whether any or more preferred locations are technically feasible and potentially available. 
All applicants for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit must propose new wireless facilities 
in locations within the public rights-of-way according to the following preferences, ordered from most 
preferred to least preferred: 
 
(1) manufacturing districts; 
 
(2) transportation corridor or transit-oriented development districts; 
 
(3) executive districts; 
 
(4) central business districts; 
 
(5) commercial districts; 
23 of 204

--- page 24 ---
(6) agricultural and open space districts; 
 
(7) shoreline districts; 
 
(8) residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
 
(9) residential districts with single family residential uses. 
 
(b) Preferred Support Structures. When evaluating compliance with this Chapter, the approval authority 
will take into account whether any or more preferred support structures are technically feasible and 
potentially available. All applicants for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit must propose 
new wireless facilities on support structures within the public rights-of-way according to the following 
preferences, ordered from most preferred to least preferred: 
 
(1) new facilities on streetlights or traffic signals; 
 
(2) new facilities on other existing support structures; 
 
(3) new facilities on replacement support structures; 
 
(4) collocations on existing support structures; 
 
(5) collocations on replacement support structures; 
 
(6) new facilities on new support structures. 
 
17.10.100 DESIGN REGULATIONS. 
(a) Generally Applicable Design Regulations. All new wireless facilities and collocations, modifications or 
other changes to existing wireless facilities not covered under Section 6409 must conform to the 
Commented [SH15]: Moved to Design Standards. 
24 of 204

--- page 25 ---
generally applicable design regulations in this Section and the design and engineering standards adopted 
by the Director of Public Works. 
 
(1) General Concealment. All wireless facilities must be concealed to the maximum extent feasible with 
design elements and techniques that mimic or blend with the underlying support structure, surrounding 
environment and adjacent uses and should promote attractive, harmonious, and economic use of 
property, buildings, civic facilities, and conform with an preserve the overall aesthetics and character of 
City neighborhoods. In addition, wireless facilities may not unreasonably subject the public use, for any 
purpose including expressive or aesthetic purposes, to inconvenience, discomfort, trouble, annoyance, 
hindrance, impediment or obstruction. 
 
(A) Undergrounded Equipment. To conceal the equipment to the maximum degree feasible, applicants 
must install all equipment (other than the antenna, antenna supports, ancillary wires, cables and any 
electric meter) underground in any area in which the existing utilities are not primarily located above 
ground. In all other areas, applicants shall install all equipment (other than the antenna, antenna 
supports, ancillary wires, cables and any electric meter) underground when the approval authority finds 
that the above-ground equipment would unreasonably interfere with the public's ability to use the right-
of-way for uses that include without limitation travel, social, expressive and/or aesthetic uses. When 
making a determination on whether to require undergrounded equipment, the approval authority shall 
take into account whether and to what extent any other above-ground utilities exist near the proposed 
site. Mere additional expense to install and maintain an underground equipment enclosure does not 
exempt an applicant from this requirement. 
 
(B) Pole-Mounted Equipment. All pole-mounted equipment must be installed as close to the pole as 
technically and legally feasible to minimize the overall visual profile. All pole-mounted equipment and 
required or permitted signage must face toward the street or otherwise placed to minimize visibility 
from adjacent sidewalks and structures. All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through 
conduits within pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires 
and other connectors must be concealed from public view to the extent feasible. Equipment mounted 
below any streetlight must not interfere with the illumination provided to the public rights-of-way from 
such streetlight. 
 
(C) Ground-Mounted Equipment. In general, the City strongly disfavors all ground-mounted equipment. 
To the extent that the equipment cannot be placed underground or mounted on the pole, applicants 
may be permitted to install ground-mounted equipment in a location that does not obstruct pedestrian 
or vehicular traffic. All ground-mounted equipment must be placed in the least conspicuous location 
available within a reasonable distance from the pole and/or be installed within an existing or 
replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, kiosks, 
advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment. The approval authority may 
Commented [SH16]: Compliance with design standards 
already mentioned in 17.10.050 above. 
25 of 204

--- page 26 ---
condition approval on new or enhanced landscaping to conceal ground-mounted equipment. Ground-
mounted cabinets installed on residential frontage are strongly disfavored. 
 
(2) Overall Height. Wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way may not exceed either (i) the minimum 
separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 95, as may be amended or superseded, 
plus four feet or (ii) four feet above the height of the existing support structure. Legally required 
lightning arresters and beacons shall be included when calculating the height of facilities. 
 
(3) Overall Volume. All above ground accessory equipment associated with the proposed wireless facility 
cannot exceed 17 cubic feet in volume. 
 
(4) Noise. Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply with 
all noise regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the applicable ambient 
noise level in the subject zoning district. The approval authority may require the applicant to incorporate 
appropriate noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any ambient noise 
from equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level. 
 
(5) Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance 
plan when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The approval authority may require additional 
landscape features to screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse 
impacts on adjacent properties or otherwise enhance the concealment required under this Section. All 
plants proposed or required must be native and/or drought-resistant. 
 
(6) Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security 
measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. 
All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The approval authority may 
require additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The approval authority 
shall not approve barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures. 
 
(7) Backup Power Sources. The approval authority may not approve permanent backup power sources 
within the public rights-of-way. 
 
(8) Lights. Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under FAA, 
FCC, other applicable governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or 
worker safety. All exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and 
within enclosures that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent 
26 of 204

--- page 27 ---
feasible. Any lights associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public 
view. The provisions in this subsection shall not be interpreted to prohibit installations on street lights or 
the installation of luminaires on new poles when required by the approval authority. 
 
(9) Signage; Advertisements. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the 
equipment owner/operator, the owner/operator's site name or identification number and a toll-free 
number to the owner/operator's network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other 
signage or advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended 
under existing and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF 
emissions regulations. 
 
(10) Future Collocations and Equipment. To the extent feasible and aesthetically desirable, all new 
wireless facilities should be designed and sited in a manner that accommodates potential future 
collocations and equipment installations that can be integrated into the proposed wireless facility or its 
associated structures with no or negligible visual changes to the outward appearance. The approval 
authority may waive the requirements in this Section when the approval authority determines future 
collocations at a proposed wireless facility would be aesthetically undesirable. 
 
(11) Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities must be 
routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated 
wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly into 
the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and other associated 
improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible. The approval authority 
shall not approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the 
undergrounding requirements would increase the project cost. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is 
discouraged when it would involve a separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
(12) Compliance with Laws. All wireless facilities must be designed and sited in compliance with all 
applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes 
without limitation the California Building Standards Code, Americans with Disabilities Act, General Plan 
and any applicable specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and any conditions or restrictions in any 
permit or other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project. 
 
(13) Public Safety. All wireless facilities shall not interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire 
escape, water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety 
facility. No person shall install, use or maintain any facilities, which in whole or in part rest upon, in or 
over any public right-of-way, when such installation, use or maintenance endangers or is reasonably 
likely to endanger the safety of persons or property, or when such site or location is used for public 
utility purposes, public transportation purposes or other governmental use, or when such facilities 
27 of 204

--- page 28 ---
unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including 
any legally parked or stopped vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, 
the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted 
street furniture or other objects permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are 
located. 
 
(b) Facilities on Existing Support Structures. All wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way must be 
installed on existing above-ground structures (such as light standards or utility poles) whenever possible 
and aesthetically desirable. The approval authority shall not approve any wireless facility proposed to be 
installed on a traffic control pole unless the approval authority finds, in the approval authority's 
discretion, that the traffic control pole has sufficient capacity to support the wireless facility. Wireless 
facilities shall not be installed on existing decorative street light standards. 
 
(c) Facilities on Replacement Support Structures. Existing above-ground structures may be replaced with 
structurally hardened, fitted or reinforced support structures so long as the replacement structure is, in 
the approval authority's discretion, substantially similar to the existing structure to be replaced. Unless 
an applicant can demonstrate that the installation of a steel pole is not feasible or the approval 
authority determines that a wood pole is needed to match the existing poles in the vicinity, new wood 
poles shall only be allowed to replace existing wood poles. 
 
(d) Facilities on New Support Structures. The approval authority shall not approve any new, non-
replacement support structures unless: (1) the applicant demonstrates that above-ground support 
structures within 500 feet from the proposed site location either do not exist or are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to the applicant; or (2) the approval authority specifically finds that a 
new, non-replacement support structure would be more aesthetically desirable and consistent with the 
objectives in the General Plan and any applicable specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and this 
Chapter than installations on existing structures near the project site. The approval authority shall have 
the discretion to require that any new support structure must be: (a) concealed as decorative street 
furniture and/or (b) a streetlight that conforms to the City's streetlight standards and specifications, 
which the City shall maintain for street illumination and public safety purposes. 
 
(e) Administrative Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements. The Director may 
develop, and from time to time amend, design and engineering standards and application requirements 
consistent with the generally applicable design regulations to clarify the aesthetic and public safety goals 
and standards in this Chapter for City staff, applicants and the public. In the event that a conflict arises 
between the design regulations adopted under Section 17.10.100 and the administrative design and 
engineering standards adopted under this Section 17.10.100.(e), the design regulations under Section 
17.10.100 shall control. 
 
Commented [SH17]: Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
28 of 204

--- page 29 ---
17.10.1010 TEMPORARY WIRELESS FACILITIES. 
(a) General Requirements for Temporary Wireless Facilities. Except as provided in this Section, the 
requirements, procedures and standards in this section shall be applicable to all applications for a 
temporary wireless permit for a temporary wireless facility. 
 
(1) Applications for Temporary Wireless Facilities. The Director shall not approve any temporary wireless 
facility subject to a temporary wireless permit except upon a duly filed application consistent with this 
Section and any other written application requirements or procedures the Director may publish in any 
publicly-stated format. Applicants for a temporary wireless permit must submit, at a minimum: (1) a 
temporary wireless permit application on the most current form prepared by the Department; (2) the 
applicable fee for the application; (3) a site plan that shows the proposed temporary wireless facility and 
its equipment, physical dimensions and placement on the proposed site relative to property lines and 
existing structures; (4) an RF compliance report in accordance with the City's requirements; and (5) an 
insurance certificate and endorsements as required by the City  for general commercial liability that 
names the City as an additional insured, includes verifying coverage for the time period in which the 
temporary wireless facility will be placed and a carries at least $1,000,000 in coverage per occurrence. 
Applications must be submitted in person to the Director unless the Director grants written consent to 
receive an application by mail or electronic means. No pre-submittal conference or appointment is 
required for a temporary wireless permit application. 
 
(2) Administrative Review for Temporary Wireless Facilities. After the Director receives a duly filed 
application for a temporary wireless permit, the Director shall review the application for completeness. 
After the Director deems the application complete, the Director shall review the application for 
conformance with the required findings in this Section and render a written decision to the applicant. 
Any denials must include the reasons for the denial. The review shall be administrative in nature and 
shall not require notice or a public hearing. 
 
(3) Required Findings for Temporary Wireless Facilities. The Director may approve or conditionally 
approve a temporary wireless permit for a temporary wireless facility only when the Director finds all of 
the following: 
 
(A) the proposed temporary wireless facility will not exceed 50 feet in overall height above ground level; 
and 
 
(B) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be placed as far away from adjacent property lines as 
possible, or otherwise in a location that will be least likely to cause adverse impacts on adjacent 
properties; and 
 
29 of 204

--- page 30 ---
(C) any excavation or ground disturbance associated with the temporary facility will not exceed two feet 
below grade; and 
 
(D) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be compliant with all generally applicable public health 
and safety laws and regulations, which includes without limitation compliance with maximum 
permissible exposure limits for human exposure to RF emissions established by the FCC; and 
 
(E) the proposed temporary wireless facility will not create any nuisance or violate any noise limits 
applicable to the proposed location; and 
 
(F) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be identified with a sign that clearly identifies the (i) site 
operator, (ii) the operator's site identification name or number and (iii) a working telephone number 
answered 24 hours per day, seven days per week by a live person who can exert power-down control 
over the antennas; and 
 
(G) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be removed within 30 days after the Director grants the 
temporary wireless permit, or such longer time as the Director finds reasonably related to the 
applicant's need or purpose for the temporary wireless facility; and 
 
(H) the applicant has not been denied a use permit for any permanent wireless facility in the same or 
substantially the same location within the previous 365 days. 
 
(4) Appeals for Temporary Wireless Facilities. Any applicant may appeal the Director's written decision 
to deny an application for a temporary wireless permit. The written appeal together with any applicable 
appeal fee must be tendered to the City within ten days from the Director's written decision, and must 
state in plain terms the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The City Manager 
shall be the appellate authority for all appeals from the Director's written decision to deny a temporary 
wireless permit. The City Manager shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the City 
Manager's decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be approved or denied in 
accordance with the provisions in this Chapter and any other applicable laws. The City Manager shall 
issue a written decision that contains the reasons for the decision, and such decision shall be final and 
not subject to any further administrative appeals. 
 
(b) Temporary Wireless Facilities for Emergencies. Temporary wireless facilities may be placed and 
operated within the City without a temporary wireless permit only when a duly authorized federal, 
state, county or City official declaresdetermines an emergency exists within a region that includes the 
City in whole or in part. The applicant must still obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may 
30 of 204

--- page 31 ---
be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which includes without limitation 
other any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments or divisions. Any temporary 
wireless facilities placed pursuant to this Section must be removed within 15thirty calendar days after 
the date the emergency is lifted by a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official. Any person or 
entity that places temporary wireless facilities pursuant to this Ssection must send a written notice that 
identifies the site location and person responsible for its operation to the Director as soon as reasonably 
practicable. 
17.10.120 AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES. 
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time this Chapter becomes effective must be 
brought into conformance with this Chapter in accordance with the amortization schedule in this 
Section. As used in this section, the "fair market value" will be the construction costs listed on the 
building permit or application for the subject wireless facility and the "minimum years" allowed will be 
measured from the date on which this Chapter becomes effective. 
 
Fair Market Value on Effective Date 
Minimum Years Allowed 
Less than $50,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
5 
$50,000 to $500,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
10 
Greater than $500,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
15 
The Director may grant a written extension to a date certain when the wireless facility owner shows: (1) 
a good faith effort to cure non-conformance; (2) the application of this section would violate applicable 
laws; or (3) extreme economic hardship would result from strict compliance with the amortization 
schedule. Any extension must be the minimum time period necessary to avoid such extreme economic 
hardship. The Director may not grant any permanent exemption from this section. 
 
Nothing in this section is intended to limit any permit term to less than ten (10) years. In the event that 
the amortization required in this section would reduce the permit term to less than 10 years for any 
permit granted on or after January 1, 2007, then the minimum years allowed will be automatically 
extended by the difference between ten (10) years and the number of years since the City granted such 
permit. Nothing in this section is intended or may be applied to prohibit any collocation or modification 
covered under 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a) on the basis that the subject wireless facility is a legal nonconforming 
wireless facility. 
 
17.10.1310 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SECTION 6409 APPROVALS. 
(a) Applicability. This Section applies to all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove 
transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way 
submitted pursuant to Section 6409. However, theFor all such requests, the applicant may voluntarily 
elect toshall  seek a major or minor wireless permit under Section 17.10.0430(a), and comply with all 
Commented [SH18]: Nonconforming Wireless Facilities 
section covered in Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. 
31 of 204

--- page 32 ---
requirements in this Chapter and any special Section 6409 requirements as provided in the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
(b) Additional Section 6409 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Section 17.10.020, the 
abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Section will have the following meanings assigned 
to them unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Ssection will have 
the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not 
defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any 
phrase, term or word in this Ssection conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal 
or state-mandated definition will control. 
 
(1) "eligible facilities request" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as may 
be amended. 
 
(12) "eligible support structure" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(4), 
as may be amended. 
 
(23) "existing" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(45), as may be 
amended. 
 
(4) "site" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(6), as may be amended. 
(3) “Section 6409 request” means all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove transmission 
equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way submitted 
pursuant to Section 6409. 
(54) "substantial change" or “substantially change” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.610040001(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
(c) Required Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove transmission equipment at an 
existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way submitted with a written 
request for approval under Section 6409 as indicated in the application form, shall require approval of a 
wireless permit under the general standards and procedures of this Chapter, as well as any additional 
Section 6409 special provisions as provided in this Section and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. an administrative approval in such form determined by the Director consistent with all 
valid and enforceable terms and conditions of the underlying permit or other prior regulatory 
authorization for the tower or base station (each amendment a "section 6409 approval"). Each section 
6409 approval shall be subject to the Director's approval, conditional approval or denial without 
prejudice pursuant to the standards and procedures in this Section. However, the applicant may 
32 of 204

--- page 33 ---
voluntarily elect to seek a major or minor wireless permit subject to the general standards and 
procedures in this Chapter. 
 
(d) Decisions; Appeals. 
 
(1) Administrative Review. The approval authority shall administratively review a complete and duly filed 
application for a section 6409 approval, and may act on such application without prior notice or a public 
hearing. 
 
(2) Decision Notices. Within five days after the approval authority acts on an application for a section 
6409 approval or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever occurs first), the approval authority shall 
send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the approval authority denies the application, 
the written notice to the applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision; (2) a statement that 
denial will be without prejudice; and (3) instructions for how and when to file an appeal. 
 
(3) Additional Required Findings for Section 6409 Request Approval. The approval authorityDirector may 
approve or conditionally approve a wireless permit application forany application for a sSection 6409 
approvalrequest when the approval authorityDirector finds that the proposed project meets the 
approval requirements in this Chapter and the Design Standards and Application Requirements, as well 
as the following additional required findings: 
  
(A) involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an existing wireless 
tower or base station; 
 
(B) does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing wireless tower or base station; 
and 
 
(C) remains in compliance with all applicable FCC RF standards. 
 
(4) Criteria for Denial without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter, and 
consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the approval authorityDirector may deny 
without prejudice any application for a Ssection 6409 approvalrequest when the approval 
authorityDirector finds that the proposed project: 
 
Commented [SH19]: Discussed in Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
33 of 204

--- page 34 ---
(A) does not meet the findings required in Section 17.10.1130(d)(3); 
 
(B) involves the replacement of the entire eligible support structure; or 
 
(C) violates any legally enforceable law, regulation, rule, standard or permit condition reasonably related 
to public health or safety. 
 
(5) Conditional Approvals. Subject to any applicable limitations in federal or state law, nothing in this 
Section is intended to limit the approval authority's authority to conditionally approve an application for 
a section 6409 approval to protect and promote the public health and safety. 
 
(6) Appeals. Any applicant may appeal the approval authority'sDirector’s written decision to deny 
without prejudice an application for Ssection 6409 approvalrequest in accordance with Section 
17.10.070(f). The written appeal together with any applicable appeal fee must be tendered to the City 
Clerk within ten calendar days from the approval authority's written decision and must state in plain 
terms the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The City Manager shall be the 
appellate authority for all appeals from the approval authority's written decision to deny without 
prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. The City Manager shall review the application de 
novo; provided, however, that the City Manager's decision shall be limited to only whether the 
application should be approved or denied in accordance with the provisions in this Section and any 
other applicable laws. The City Manager shall issue a written decision that contains the reasons for the 
decision, and such decision shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals. 
17.10.120 REVIEW OF ORDINANCE.  
Wireless communications technology is currently subject to rapid change. Innovations may render the 
need for specific sections of this Chapter to be reviewed and revised. The City Council may amend this 
Chapter or its rules and policies by resolution after a change to the FCC’s regulations or standards, or 
any applicable state or federal laws. 
34 of 204

--- page 35 ---
a city of San Mateo

rVee

WORKS puaeee Works Departement

www cityofsanmateo.org
c



--- page 36 ---
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1 
Background and Purpose.................................................................................... 1 
Chapter 2 
Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards .............................................. 3 
Chapter 3 
Application Process and Requirements .............................................................. 7 
Chapter 4 
Installations on Streetlight Poles ....................................................................... 13 
Chapter 5 
Installations on Utility Poles .............................................................................. 20 
Chapter 6 
Installations of Freestanding Poles .................................................................... 24 
Chapter 7 
Section 6409 Approvals ..................................................................................... 33 
Chapter 8 
Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities ................................................................... 35 
 
Appendix .............................................................................................................................. 34 
App A 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
App B 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist  
App C 
Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities  
 
 
36 of 204

--- page 37 ---
List of Figures 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on Streetlight Pole 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Replacement Pole 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Location between Property Lines 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles  
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards For Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals 
 
37 of 204

--- page 38 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this document, the Design Standards and Application Requirements, is to establish requirements 
and design standards for installing wireless communication facilities in the City of San Mateo’s right-of-way 
(ROW).  The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install wireless communications facilities, 
within the public right-of-way, in order to provide cellular coverage and capacity throughout the City, while 
ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not 
significantly detract from City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner and 
aesthetics of wireless communications facilities.  
These design standards and requirements are 
intended to convey design preferences and 
application requirements.   
 
However, the City recommends and prefers that wireless carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would 
be in front of architecturally significant features, or in locations where they would have visual impacts of 
significance, such as residential neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of wireless facilities on City 
owned streetlights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless providers shall work 
with the City to establish a license agreement for the use of City owned streetlights. Secondly, the City 
recommends and prefers installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or parks. Residential 
areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless communications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located within the public 
right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be necessary based on the 
circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the applicant, or as deemed necessary by the 
City.   
 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way” was 
adopted by City Council in 2021 (hereinafter the “Code”).  The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in 
these Design Standards and Application Requirements will have the same meanings assigned to them in Chapter 
17.10 of the Code. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this document will have the meanings assigned to 
them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their 
ordinary meanings. If there are any discrepancies between the standards and requirements in this document 
and the Code, the Code shall prevail. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in this document, or as modified 
by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute grounds for revocation of 
an applicable permit or license.  In the event that radio frequency (RF) emissions for the site exceed Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) standards, the applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing wireless facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right-of-way. 
1 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE   
38 of 204

--- page 39 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 2 
 
 
 
operation of the facility until such time that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works. 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the City to operate a specific wireless communications facility installation 
may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed by the California Public Utilities Commission 
(CPUC) and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City in advance of 
such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out by the new 
carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless communications providers in planning facility locations and compiling 
the necessary information to obtain a Wireless Permit as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”. Wireless communications providers are also 
directed to review and comply with all other requirements as provided in Chapter 17.10,  that can be found on 
the City’s website. 
 
Three different types of wireless facility infrastructure installations are permitted within San Mateo rights of 
way. These types include: 
 
1. Attachments to streetlight poles 
2. Attachments to utility poles and utility lines 
3. Freestanding wireless facility infrastructure 
 
An overview of each type is included on the following pages. 
 
 
39 of 204

--- page 40 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 3 
 
 
 
2 SITE LOCATION, POLE SELECTION, & DESIGN 
STANDARDS 
 
To aid in minimizing visual and aesthetic impacts, all wireless communications facilities shall be designed, 
installed and located based on the following design preferences and standards below. In instances where a 
facility is proposed for installation at a location or in a manner that is not the highest preference as listed below, 
the applicant shall make a factual showing that all higher preferences are infeasible: 
 
Site Location 
 
1. The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
 
Pole Selection 
 
1. Wireless facilities should be installed on existing standard streetlights or utility poles whenever feasible.  
If existing streetlights or utility poles are not feasible, the wireless facility designer shall choose new free-
standing poles that are located outside of driveways and intersection sight lines. New free-standing poles 
shall be located near property corners or side property lines, and not directly in front of residences and 
businesses. 
 
2. Wireless facilities shall not be located on non-standard, decorative streetlights, wooden streetlights or 
traffic signals. 
 
 
40 of 204

--- page 41 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 4 
 
 
 
Design Standards 
 
1. Least Obtrusive.  Proposed installations should be the least obtrusive possible with regard to 
appearance, size, and location.   If installations are available (e.g., have been installed in other 
jurisdictions) that are less obtrusive than those allowed by the City’s wireless communications facilities 
ordinance, applicants must use those installations unless the City determines that those installations are 
not feasible. 
 
2. Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing utility pole 
shall not exceed (i) the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 95 (GO 
95), as may be amended or superseded. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall be 
included when calculating the height of facilities. 
 
3. Obstruction of Views.  New wireless communications facilities installations shall not obstruct views from 
habitable living areas (such as bedrooms, balconies, living rooms) to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
4. Protection of Trees.  Wireless communications facilities shall not damage existing trees.  If pruning is 
required for the installation, a separate Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and Recreation. 
 
5. Interference with City Facilities.  Proposed installations shall not cause any interference with the 
operation of City facilities, including signs, banners, lighting, communication, etc. 
 
6. Accessory Equipment.  Accessory equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical 
arrangement to the maximum extent feasible.  Accessory equipment shall not collectively exceed 9 cubic 
feet in volume. Accessory equipment greater than 9 cubic feet, but not to exceed 17 cubic feet in overall 
volume. 
 
7. Ground Mounted Equipment.  Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the maximum 
extent possible.  If utilized, ground mounted equipment shall be placed in a location that does not 
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic and shall be located in the least conspicuous location available 
within a reasonable distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an 
existing or replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, 
benches, kiosks, advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   
 
8. Cables, Wires and Connectors.  All cables, wires and other connectors shall be routed through conduits 
within a pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires and other 
connectors must be concealed from public view to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
9. Lights.  Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), other applicable 
governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or worker safety. All 
exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures 
that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent feasible. Any lights 
associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public view. Flashing 
lights shall be installed. 
 
41 of 204

--- page 42 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 5 
 
 
 
10. Signage and Stickers. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the equipment 
owner/operator, the owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the 
owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage or 
advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended under existing 
and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF emissions 
regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not at pedestrian eye level, 
unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies.  Large repetitive warning stickers shall not be 
installed. 
 
11. Smart Meters.  Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no electric 
meter, if feasible.  
 
12. Noise.  Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply with all 
City noise control standards and regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the 
applicable ambient noise level in the subject zoning district. The applicant shall incorporate appropriate 
noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any ambient noise from 
equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level.  Fans shall not be utilized to the maximum 
extent possible. 
 
13. Antennas.  Antennas shall be placed at the top of the pole and shall be shrouded to the maximum extent 
feasible. 
 
14. Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance plan 
when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The City may require additional landscape features to 
screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent 
properties or otherwise enhance the concealment. All plants proposed or required must be native 
and/or drought resistant. 
 
15. Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security 
measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. 
All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The City may require 
additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The City shall not approve 
barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures. 
 
16. Backup Power Sources. Permanent backup power sources within the public rights-of-way shall not be 
utilized. 
 
17. Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities must be 
routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated 
wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly into 
the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and other associated 
improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible. The City shall not 
approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the undergrounding 
requirements would increase the project cost. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is discouraged 
when it would involve a separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
42 of 204

--- page 43 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 6 
 
 
 
18. Public Safety. Nowireless facilities shall not interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire 
escape, water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety 
facility. No wireless facility installation, use or maintenance shall endanger or shall be reasonably likely 
to endanger the safety of persons or property. No wireless facilities shall unreasonably interfere with or 
unreasonably impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally parked or stopped 
vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, the use of poles, posts, traffic 
signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted street furniture or other 
objects permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are located. 
 
19. Compliance with Applicable Laws. All wireless facilities shall be installed and maintained in compliance 
with all applicable laws, regulations, codes or other rules, which include, at a minimum, the Uniform 
Building, National Electrical Code, and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions. All wireless 
facilities and their locations shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.  
 
 
 
43 of 204

--- page 44 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 7 
 
 
 
3 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS
 
 
Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to meet with City staff in order to present the 
scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit application and 
checklist requirements.   This voluntary informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock 
to begin.   
 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting  
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to hold a 
community meeting for a proposed wireless facility.  This voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the 
FCC Shot clock to begin. 
 
The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners and residents, and to receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
 
 Establishment of dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property owners and residents.  
 Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
 Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff may be present as a resource only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 
 Meetings should be held on Monday through Thursdays starting no earlier than 6:30 p.m. 
 Meetings should be held at City Hall or conducted virtually. 
 Meetings should be 1 to 2 hours maximum. 
 After 15 minutes, if there are no attendees, the meeting may be ended. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the City’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 
for 
the 
City 
Council, 
Sustainability 
and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations Commission, and 
Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 15th-
January 1st. 
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting.  
44 of 204

--- page 45 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
The applicant is encouraged to bring presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, including an 
existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the proposed facility, and a PowerPoint 
presentation. A mock-up of the proposed installation is highly recommended. The applicant is encouraged to 
record the meeting to aid in developing the meeting summary.  If recorded, applicant must post a notice at the 
meeting site that indicates the meeting is being recorded.  
 
All attendees shall sign in to ensure a complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the 
project team. Attendees shall be asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A 
member of the applicant’s team must be dedicated to taking detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a 
Meeting Summary.  
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 
 The applicant will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and introducing 
the team members. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to answer any questions 
regarding wireless facility standards and the application process. 
 The applicant will manage the remainder of the meeting. The City recommends that the applicant’s 
PowerPoint presentation on the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the 
installation, the way the design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. 
The applicant’s presentation team shall include the following staff:  project manager, RF engineer, area 
manager, technical staff, and dedicated staff for recording meeting notes. 
 After the formal presentation, the applicant may open the discussion to attendees, being available to 
answer questions or take comments.   If questions are raised related to the application process or City 
regulations that are more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 Once discussion has finished, the applicant will typically close the meeting by describing the next steps 
in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any community meeting. 
 
The City requests that the applicant submit to the City a written summary of the meeting within seven (7) 
calendar days of the meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, 
any questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the sign-
in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The applicant is encouraged to email 
the meeting summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address.  
 
 
Application Submittal 
The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed permit application using the Wireless Communications 
Facilities Permit Application Form attached hereto in Appendix A, which may be updated from time to time by 
the Director. The applicant shall comply with any additional instructions or requirements provided on the 
application form. 
 
The application shall include all required materials as listed in the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit 
Application Checklist attached hereto in Appendix B. The applicant shall also comply with the Application 
Requirements-Required Materials provided in Appendix B. 
 
45 of 204

--- page 46 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 9 
 
 
 
All applications, along with any required materials and deposits, must be submitted to the City at a pre-
scheduled appointment with City Staff. The City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with 
an appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
 
Applications Deemed Withdrawn  
To promote efficient review and timely decisions, an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by 
the applicant when the applicant fails to tender a substantive response to City Staff within 90 calendar days 
after City Staff deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The City Staff may, in its discretion, grant a written 
extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 
90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's 
reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension. 
 
Notice Requirements For Wireless Permits 
Within five (5) calendar days of submitting a wireless permit application, the applicant shall provide notice by 
first class US mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of the proposed project site.  In 
addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the project site.  The notices at a 
minimum shall contain the following: 
 
1. A general description of the project, improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, 
including the proposed site location, photo simulations, samples or renderings depicting the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment. 
2. Identify when construction, installation, excavation or other work would begin and end. 
3. The applicant’s name and contact information as provided to the City on the application. 
4. The contact name and information for the applicant’s representative. 
5. A statement that interested parties may submit comments regarding the project within five (5) calendar 
days of the notice to the applicant, and instructions on how to do so. 
6. A statement that, “The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects from 
radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.” 
 
Applicant shall provide notification documentation to the City prior to approval of any permit.  Such 
documentation includes: 
 
1. A copy of the notice.  Notice shall be approved by City staff prior to mailing. 
2. Proof of notification such as an affidavit attesting that the notice was mailed to all property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site.  Proof shall include a list of recipients. 
3. A log of concerns, comments, questions, and responses with information on the method of delivery, 
person and date. 
 
Standard Conditions of Approval [SMMC 17.10.080] 
All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall 
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in the Standard Conditions of 
Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities, attached hereto in Appendix C. 
 
46 of 204

--- page 47 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 10 
 
 
 
Decision Notices to the Applicant [SMMC 17.10.070(e)] 
City staff shall provide written notice to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after acting on the application.  
If the application is denied, the notice shall include the reasons for the decision and instructions for filing an 
appeal. 
 
Notice of Conditional Approval to the Public 
City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with the appeal process on the Small Cell Infrastructure 
webpage when the decision notice is sent to the applicant.  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-
Infrastructure 
 
The posted notice shall include the following: 
1. Date of the posting and date by which appeals must be filed. 
2. Location of the site. 
3. Link to application materials. 
4. Directions for filing an appeal. 
5. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
Members of the public interested in receiving updates on applications should sign up for notifications on the 
Small Cell Infrastructure webpage. 
 
Peer and Independent Consultant Review [SMMC 17.10.060] 
The Director may, in its discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with specialized training, 
experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any 
permit application.  
 
The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves specialized or expert 
knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities, which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction planned 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-construction actual 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) whether and to what extent 
any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or concealment techniques may exist; (e) 
the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, analyses or methodologies used by the 
applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the City's discretion to review; and (f) any other issue 
identified by the Director that requires expert or specialized knowledge.  The Director may request that the 
independent consultant prepare written reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend 
meetings with City staff and/or the applicant. 
 
In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in connection with any permit 
application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided. 
Before the independent consultant may perform any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in 
an amount equal to the estimated cost for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The 
Director may request additional deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to 
cover the reasonable costs in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the 
deposit exceeds the total costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to 
the applicant after the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City 
47 of 204

--- page 48 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 11 
 
 
 
official or his or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services 
exceed the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any permit 
to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
 
Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities [SMMC 17.10.070(d)] 
In the event that an applicant claims that strict compliance with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design 
Standards and Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal 
wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception from such requirements in accordance with the 
following: 
 
1.  Required Findings. The Director shall not grant any limited exception unless the applicant shows that:  
 
(A)  the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and 
 
(B)  the applicant has provided the Director with a reasonable and clearly defined technical service 
objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
 
(C)  the applicant has provided the Director with a written statement that contains a detailed and fact-
specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility cannot be deployed in compliance with 
the applicable provisions in SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; and 
 
(D)  the applicant has provided the Director with a meaningful comparative analysis with the factual 
reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in the administrative record (whether 
suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other source) are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly defined 
technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
 
(E)  the applicant has demonstrated to the Director that the proposed location and design is the least 
non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly 
defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive wireless 
facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.  
 
2.  Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any deviations 
from the requirements in SMMC Chapter 17.10 or the Design Standards and Application Requirements 
are no greater than necessary to avoid an effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless 
services. Limited exceptions shall be based on the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its 
demonstrated technical service objectives at the time the exception is granted and the proposed 
wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any precedent for similar deviations for the same 
or any other applicant, location or wireless facility. 
 
Appeals [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
The applicant or property owners/residents within a 500 foot radius of the proposed project site who received 
notice of an application, as provided in the Code, may appeal any decision to approve or deny an application for 
a Wireless Permit.  The appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
48 of 204

--- page 49 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 12 
 
 
 
Commission within five (5) calendar days of the City’s Notice of Conditional Approval.  Appeals received after 
the five (5) calendar days will not be considered.  The appeal hearing shall be placed on the agenda for the next 
regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame 
needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws.  
 
An appeal shall include the following at a minimum in order to be considered: 
 
1. Location of the site being appealed. 
2. A written statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific description of the reason for the appeal 
with reference to specific Code or Design Standard violations. 
3. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Important Note:  The FCC does not allow appeals if it is based on environmental effects from RF emissions 
that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. 
 
Revocation of Permits or Other Authorized Use 
Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way granted under SMMC 
Chapter 17.10 may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the following: 
 
1. Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director. 
 
2. Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed. 
 
3. Required Findings.  The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if it 
makes any of the following findings: 
 
(A) 
The permittee obtained the approval by means of fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact; 
(B) 
The permittee substantially expanded or altered the use or structure beyond what is set forth in 
the permit or substantially changed the installation’s character; 
(C) 
The use in question has ceased to exist or has been suspended or abandoned; 
(D) 
Failure to comply with any condition of a permit issued; 
(E) 
Failure to comply with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and/or the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; 
(F) 
A substantive change of law affecting a utility’s authority to occupy or use the public right-of-way 
or the City’s ability to impose regulations relating to such occupation or use; 
(G) 
A facility’s interference with a City project; 
(H) 
A facility’s interference with vehicular or pedestrian use of the public right-of-way;  
Failure to make a safe and timely restoration of the public right-of-way; or 
(I) 
For permits approved for a wireless facility on a City pole, termination of the applicable master 
license agreement or revocation of a City-owned pole license. 
 
4. Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within ten (10) calendar days of such determination. 
 
 
 
49 of 204

--- page 50 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 13 
 
 
 
4 INSTALLATIONS  ON STREETLIGHT POLES 
The following are design requirements for installations on streetlight poles.  
 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate and enclosed in a braided sleeve.  
• Applicant shall survey and document all loads connected to circuit involved, including any 
non-streetlight load.  
• Circuit tracing shall be completed using proper circuit tracing equipment.  
• Applicant shall conduct load analysis to evaluate loading level and voltage drop on the entire 
circuit the meter is receiving power from. Maximum voltage drop allowed for the entire 
streetlighting circuit is 3% (cumulative). 
• Calculations shall be completed by an electrical engineer.  
• Reserve at minimum 40% of circuit load capacity (not breaker rating) for City’s use.   
• Replacement of light fixtures with LEDs is allowed to free up capacity in the circuit.  LED 
fixtures shall meet City standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements independent of City 
facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasible. 
Hand Holes 
• A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and electrical service 
for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight aesthetics. 
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural 
engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design 
parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The analysis shall comply with 
current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, anchor 
bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be designed in 
accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, 
Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest 
standard), plus amendment for other local conditions.  
• Any pole not meeting these requirements may not be used for a wireless facility installation 
or must be replaced. 
• Certification is required for replacement poles. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
50 of 204

--- page 51 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 14 
 
 
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF warning 
sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing to the street near 
the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate with the provider’s name, 
location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No 
advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign must not 
change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside the pole, labeled for identification and enclosed in a 
separate braided sleeve.  
• External conduit attachment to the pole is not permitted. 
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the pole.  
• Splicing is permitted in the pull box at base of pole.. Splicing of small wiring to streetlight 
wiring in the pole is not permitted. If the pull box is not present, a new pull box will need to 
be installed, and conduit proved and rewired.  
• Any existing conduit that is not usable shall  be replaced with new conduit.  
• Foundations without conduit will need to have new conduit added to the existing foundation, 
or a new foundation installed in accordance with these Design Standards. 
• Fuses shall be located behind the hand hole or in the pull box. 
• Existing wires in pole must be removed before any drilling or welding takes place on pole. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade or per 
PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means of 
temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and 
does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular travel way. 
 
 
51 of 204

--- page 52 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 15 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on a Streetlight 
 
  
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
if feasible 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and 
other hardware must be hidden or in 
a shroud 
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware shall be located internally 
within pole 
52 of 204

--- page 53 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 16 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Replacement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole and have smooth transition 
between pole and antennas  
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware are  located internally 
within pole 
Accessory equipment is located 
entirely in a cabinet at base of pole 
53 of 204

--- page 54 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 17 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole 
Accessary equipment is hidden by 
existing signage 
54 of 204

--- page 55 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 18 
 
 
 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Master License Agreement.  Applicant executes a license agreement with the City for any City-owned poles 
in the public right-of-way.  To start the process for preparation of a license agreement, applicant shall pay 
required fee per current Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
2. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting with City Staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
3. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
4. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits application, checklist, required materials, and deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
5. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of proposed project 
and posts in at least three locations near the project site. 
6. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete.  If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review 
the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
8. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
9. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
10. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
11. Notice of Conditional Approval.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after 
the City acts on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on 
the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when the decision notice is sent to the applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
12. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
13. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with the Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval  If no appeals, project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the 
project is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Building Permit 
14. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
Encroachment 
Permit 
15. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
16. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
55 of 204

--- page 56 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 19 
 
 
 
Post 
Application 
17. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
18. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
56 of 204

--- page 57 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 20 
 
 
 
5 INSTALLATIONS ON UTILITY POLES 
The following are general specifications for installations on utility poles.  
 
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate.  
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements 
independent of City facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasible. 
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility pole 
aesthetics. 
• All electrical equipment, boxes, and other appurtenances shall have an 
appropriate National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) rating for 
outdoor uses and provide adequate protection.  
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint in accordance with NEMA standards. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized in accordance with NEMA standards. 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole or strand-mounted to the 
maximum extent feasible. 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with (1)  a 
RF warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. 
Facing to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch 
(maximum) plate with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 
24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a 
sign must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside a conduit painted to match the pole.  
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the conduit to the maximum 
extent feasible. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means 
of temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular 
travel way. 
Safety Zones 
• A safety zone is required per the latest CPUC GO 95 
Pole Owner 
• Applicant shall provide written authorization from the pole owner. 
• Authorization shall indicate that the pole is structurally sound for additional loads. 
57 of 204

--- page 58 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessary equipment is not painted 
to match the wood pole 
Wires are not in a conduit 
Abrupt 
transition 
from 
pole 
to 
antenna 
58 of 204

--- page 59 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 22 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strand mounted wireless facility 
Wiring is located in a conduit 
Accessary equipment is painted to 
match the wood pole and shrouded 
59 of 204

--- page 60 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 23 
 
 
 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) calendar days after City Staff receives a written request. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides  notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
7. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
8. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
9. Notice of Conditional Approval.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after 
the City acts on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on the 
Small 
Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
10. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.   If no appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project 
is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
12. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  A 
separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
13. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
14. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA A.3 
and B.5. 
15. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
60 of 204

--- page 61 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 24 
 
 
 
6 INTALLATIONS OF FREESTANDING POLES 
The following are general specifications for the installations of wireless facilities on new privately-owned 
freestanding poles.  
 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards for Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Ownership of Pole 
• Freestanding poles shall not be owned by the City and shall be owned by the 
applicant.  
  
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
 
Electrical Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
• Tie in to an existing City electrical circuit is not allowed.  
 
Pole Type 
• Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
• Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other 
equipment required by the owner of the freestanding pole. 
 
Shroud/Cover 
 
• All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all required 
wireless facility equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either be 
hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
 
Color 
• Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
• Equipment shall be painted to match existing pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder 
coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
 
Pole Height 
• The pole height inclusive of all equipment shall not exceed 35 feet. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed 
structural engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or 
exceed design parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The 
analysis shall comply with current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall 
be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, 
anchor bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be 
designed in accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural 
Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 
7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest standard), plus amendment for other local conditions. 
 
 
Conduits Sweeps 
• Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
wireless facility carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
 
61 of 204

--- page 62 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 25 
 
 
 
Antenna 
• The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible.   
• A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be included if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent feasible. 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF 
warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing 
to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate 
with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency 
telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign 
must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• A pole number label shall be installed. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet. 
• All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements.  
Removal of Freestanding 
Poles 
• Poles shall be promptly removed under a separate encroachment permit once 
applicant is no longer using the pole to actively provide telecommunications service. 
 
62 of 204

--- page 63 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 26 
 
 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding wireless facility poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by the City of San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. Freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following requirements: 
 
1. In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
2. So as not to be located along the frontage of a historic building, deemed historic on a federal, state, or 
local level. 
 
3. So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines. 
 
4. At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
5. Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
6. In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
7. Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
8. With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
9. Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) or 30-
foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) at intersection 
corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
10. 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
11. Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency service 
facility. 
 
12. No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding wireless facility . 
 
13. Avoid placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
63 of 204

--- page 64 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 27 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located 
a minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement 
of freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 
feet does not apply. 
64 of 204

--- page 65 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 28 
 
 
 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the usual 
pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the public ROW, violate 
applicable law, violate or conflict with the City’s separate public ROW design standards, specifications, or design 
district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or in any way create a risk to 
public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing wireless facilities shall be located within the ROW and off set 
from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
 
65 of 204

--- page 66 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 29 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding wireless facilities shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate wireless 
facilities in clear sight triangle.  Wireless facilities shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to 
prevent disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The wireless facilities shall not be installed between 
the perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence as 
shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless facility Location between Property Lines 
66 of 204

--- page 67 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 30 
 
 
 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be taken to 
locate the wireless facility such that it does not negatively impact the business. More specifically, wireless 
facilities shall not be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or 
in such a way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Wireless facilities should be located between 
properties as much as possible as shown above. Wireless facilities shall match the architecture of the 
surrounding neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of 
wireless facility installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
 
67 of 204

--- page 68 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 31 
 
 
 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process.  This 
meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  This voluntary informational 
meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties.  
This meeting is highly recommended for new freestanding poles. This voluntary neighborhood meeting 
does not cause the FCC Shot clock to begin. 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. 
 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
7. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
8. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC Shot Clock limits. 
9. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
10. Notice of Conditional Approval.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after 
the City acts on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on 
the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when the decision notice is sent to the applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
 
11. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
12. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days following the decision.  If no 
appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public hearing with S&IC 
to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the appeal is denied by 
the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project is denied and the 
applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
 
 
Building Permit 
13. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
 
68 of 204

--- page 69 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 32 
 
 
 
Encroachment 
Permit 
14. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
15. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
16. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
17. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
 
 
 
69 of 204

--- page 70 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 33 
 
 
 
7 SECTION 6409 APPROVALS 
 
Section 6409 Approvals shall comply with SMMC 17.10.110 and all design standards and application 
requirements in this document.   
 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Information Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with the City staff to review proposed modifications to the existing facility and 
streamline the review process.  This meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  
This voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary informational neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.  
 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. Alternative sites analysis is not 
required for Section 6409 approvals.  A Section 6409 Evaluation indicating whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the FCC is required. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits.  
6. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
7. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
8. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
9. Notice of Conditional Approval.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after 
the City acts on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on 
the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when the decision notice is sent to the applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
 
10. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the notice of Conditional 
Approval.  If no appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the 
project is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
70 of 204

--- page 71 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 34 
 
 
 
Encroachment 
Permit 
12. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
13. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
14. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
15. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
71 of 204

--- page 72 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 35 
 
 
 
8 NON-CONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES 
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements become effective shall be brought into conformance with the current Design Standards within 
ten (10) years upon receiving written notice from the City, or otherwise in accordance with applicable law. 
 
Applicants are not only required to comply with these Design Standards and Application Requirements during 
the initial application, but are also required to continue to monitor compliance with application Design 
Standards in the future in accordance with applicable law. 
72 of 204

--- page 73 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 36 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
73 of 204

--- page 74 ---
Appendix A:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application 
74 of 204

--- page 75 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
  
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT         □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER __________________________________________________________________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □   60 days       □  90 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________ 
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________ 
Application Submittal _____________________________________________ 
 
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________ 
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________ 
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________ 
Appeal _________________________________________________________ 
75 of 204

--- page 76 ---
Appendix B:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
76 of 204

--- page 77 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged.  The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT      □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL        
□  OTHER(describe request)       __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 
  APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
  PROJECT PLANS 
 
  VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY 
[Attachment 1] 
 
  PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
[Attachment 2] 
 
  PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS 
[Attachment 3] 
 
  PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d] 
 
  PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
[Attachment 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
  INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
[Attachment 6] 
 
  RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 7] 
 
  NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 8] 
 
  SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 9] 
 
  PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
[Attachment 10] 
 
  ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
[Attachment 11] 
 
  STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 12] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
77 of 204

--- page 78 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
  a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project 
  site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable) 
2. Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment) 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey must 
include: 
  property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out 
  boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
  any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
  all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof 
  all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
  wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
  general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards 
 
78 of 204

--- page 79 ---
3. Site Development Plan 
A complete site development plan must include: 
  plan-view drawings, which include: 
  the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
  detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets  
  detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
  all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out 
  callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not primarily 
designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the following 
information for each component: 
  manufacturer and model number 
  basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
  table showing volumes of all equipment 
 
 
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – 
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”. 
 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – 
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following: 
 
79 of 204

--- page 80 ---
1.  Current Site Photographs 
Current site photographs must include: 
  photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
Photo simulations must include: 
  an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
3. Section 6409 Photo Simulation  
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or techniques 
intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS 
 
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the 
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting permits 
and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project plans approved 
by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that sets forth the reasons 
why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was constructed or modified. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all planned 
operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully satisfied. If not 
satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC Licenses” and attach it to 
this application. 
 
80 of 204

--- page 81 ---
3. FAA Forms 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation Regulation 
Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation “Attachment 4c – FAA 
Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 4d 
– CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions:  For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department.  
 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application.  
 
The RF compliance report must include:  
  the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site. 
  exhibits that show:  
  the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas;  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC);  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). 
 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions. 
81 of 204

--- page 82 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this 
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Project Purpose 
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will:  
  add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage; 
  add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage. 
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information and/or 
materials: 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”); 
  full-color signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that show current and predicted service 
coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant signal level or quality indicator) and 
with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict 
signal levels on such propagation maps; 
  a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed; 
  a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s). 
82 of 204

--- page 83 ---
3. Network Map 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows (1) 
all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that are 
reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that distinguishes 
between “macro” cells and small cell facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting.  In addition, the analysis must include 
all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show: 
  all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
  the search ring used for this particular project 
  all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
 
  for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following: 
  the nearest physical address 
  zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
  support structure type considered 
  general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
  overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
  the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
  for each alternative site within the search ring, signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that 
show current and predicted service coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant 
signal level or quality indicator) with and without the alternative site and with a legend that describes the objective 
signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps. The 
signal propagation maps required must be directly comparable with the signal propagation maps submitted to 
show before-and-after service from the applicant’s proposed site. If the applicant did not locate any alternatives 
within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no such alternatives were considered. 
83 of 204

--- page 84 ---
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION 
 
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
 
 
84 of 204

--- page 85 ---
Appendix C: Standard Conditions of Approval 
for Wireless Communications 
Facilities
 
 
85 of 204

--- page 86 ---
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN 
THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 
17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Wireless Facilities Permits.  
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from its issuance 
if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 120 days prior to permit 
expiration, except when California Government Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or 
superseded in the future, authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety 
or substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted or deemed-approved 
under federal or state law, will not extend this term limit unless expressly provided 
otherwise in such permit or approval or required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction 
in connection with this permit, the permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions 
associated with this permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other 
changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other 
departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the City finds that the requested 
alteration, modification or other change deviates from the Approved Plans or implicates 
a significant or substantial land-use concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation that the wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in 
compliance with the Approved Plans.  Such documentation must include as-built 
drawings,  GIS data, post installation RF study, and site photographs. 
 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from the approval or 
deemed-granted date. The City may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not 
to exceed one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend the 
limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to 
the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. During any maintenance or repair operations, 
the permittee shall keep the site, which includes without limitation any and all 
improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in 
a neat, clean and safe condition. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism on its equipment within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other 
vandalism occurred.  
 
86 of 204

--- page 87 ---
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this permit, which includes 
without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly 
construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to 
reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance 
with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance 
with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit 
condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not be relieved 
from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction work hours authorized by the 
San Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit 
any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any 
work during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for 
any activities that violates this condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee,  or promptly 
after  an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not 
be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements or 
87 of 204

--- page 88 ---
equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee, if 
present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee while any such 
inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and 
employees from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and/or 
employees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s 
approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for personal 
injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or 
its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. 
Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the extent such Claims are 
caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. In the event the 
City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the 
permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to 
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing 
the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly 
reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City 
in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification obligations 
will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this permit, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove 
the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate from a 
qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written estimate 
must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which includes 
without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, 
brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings 
and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in 
connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas affected 
by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or 
adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
88 of 204

--- page 89 ---
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
14. 
Permit Revocation. The City may review this permit at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to this permit. In 
accordance with all applicable laws, the City may revoke this permit or amend these 
conditions as the City deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such 
noncompliance. 
 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain, for the duration of the permit term, 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that copies 
kept in the City’s possession will control over any conflicts, and originals will control over 
all other copies in any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports. Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole 
cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street, 
sidewalk, or right of way owned by the City or any other public agency, which includes 
without limitation any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles 
and utility systems for gas, water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any 
other work deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). 
The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any admission on its part 
that the City would not have such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In 
the event that the City determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility 
to be rearranged and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or 
relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange 
and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the 
City may (but will not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be 
performed at the permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the 
City determines that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or 
safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection 
89 of 204

--- page 90 ---
with such work within 10 calendar days after a written demand for reimbursement and 
reasonable documentation to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall 
indemnify, defend and hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other 
utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility, except to the extent such Claims 
are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply with the City of 
San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) and property 
damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-
completed operations, personal   & advertising injury, contractual liability, 
property damage, death, bodily injury, and limited pollution liability 
endorsement, with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence; 
$10,000,000 aggregate.  If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Limited Pollution Liability Coverage: Insurance in the amount of 
$5,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate covering third party claims for 
bodily injury, property damage or cleanup costs as required by law, where 
the pollution is caused during and by permittee’s work and for permittee’s 
products and completed operations. (This may satisfy the requirement for 
a limited pollution liability endorsement on the Commercial General 
Liability insurance policy.) 
iii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 
1), or if permittee has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned 
autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury and property damage. 
iv. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. The Workers 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor 
of City (and its elected and appointed officials, employees, and volunteers). 
The insurers shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against City and 
90 of 204

--- page 91 ---
its officials, officers, employees, and volunteers for all work performed by 
permittee and its employees, agents, and contractors. 
v. 
Professional Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any professional services including 
engineers, surveyors, or consultants relating to this agreement) with limits 
of $2,000,000 per claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
vi. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any removal, remediation, abatement, 
transportation or disposal of any hazardous materials and/or projects 
involving environmental hazards relating to permit) with limits of $2,000,000 
per occurrence and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.   
vii. 
“All Risk” Property Insurance: against all risks of loss or damage to any 
wireless communication facility(ies) or betterments, personal property, 
trade fixtures, equipment, and/or merchandise located in, on, at, under, 
above, or about the City’s right of way, license area, and/or City-owned 
pole(s) (including, but not limited to, loss resulting from fire, windstorm, hail, 
lightning, vandalism, malicious mischief, and such other perils ordinarily 
included in extended coverage casualty insurance policies).  Such 
insurance shall be maintained in an amount sufficient to cover not less than 
one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof 
(whichever is greater) with no coinsurance penalty provision.  Permittee 
may self-insure this risk with prior notice to the City. 
 
 
If the permittee maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the permittee. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and agents are to be 
covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the permittee; and on the COL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
permittee including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement 
to the permittee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to the permit, the permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, 
and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or agents shall be excess of the permittee’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given 
to the City. 
 
91 of 204

--- page 92 ---
Waiver of Subrogation 
Permittee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any 
commercial general liability, automobile liability, and worker’s compensation insurer of 
said permittee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.    Permittee agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not 
the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the permittee to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Claims Made Policies.  If any insurance coverage required herein is written on a “claims 
made” policy:  (a) the retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the 
execution date of the permit or the beginning of the permitted project or work; (b) 
insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least 
the duration of any applicable Master License Agreement and/or the applicable permit(s)) 
and five (5) years after completion of the subject work; and (c) if coverage is canceled or 
non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a retroactive 
date prior to the permit effective, or start of work date, permittee must purchase extended 
reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of any work; 
and (d) a copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for 
review upon request.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Permittee shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements 
or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.   However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the permittee's obligation to provide them.  The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
Contractors and Subcontractors.  Permittee shall require and verify that all contractors 
and subcontractors (if any) maintain the same insurance limits as required of permittee, 
unless otherwise agreed to by the City. 
 
Special Risk or Circumstances. City, upon prior written notice to, review and written  
acceptance by permittee, reserves the right to modify these insurance requirements at 
any time, including, but not limited to, limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
92 of 204

--- page 93 ---
22. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures allowed, must 
allow through traffic at all times.  Permittee must notify City of San Mateo's Police (650) 
522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo County Communications (650) 363-4961, 
at least 24 – 48 hours in advance of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon 
removal of lane closure or detour. 
 
23. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any of the following 
criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with the “Guidelines for Submittal 
of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway classifications 
are defined in the Circulation Element of the General Plan. A map of roadway 
classifications 
can 
be 
seen 
here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 and is attached 
to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed necessary. 
 
24. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before commencing work, the 
permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert (USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify 
elevations and locations of all existing utilities 
 
25. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private sewer laterals in 
the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service Alert (USA) program. Permittee 
is to take precautions to locate and protect private sewer laterals from damage during 
construction. In the event any damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to 
immediately dig and repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are 
being installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video inspect any 
sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as part of this project, a copy of 
this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
The above conditions are in addition to all other standards, requirements, and conditions adopted by 
the City, all wireless facilities permits, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or the 
appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-
case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and 
safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and applicable 
provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other conditions adopted 
by the City, all section 6409 approvals, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by 
the operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or 
the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on 
a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect 
public health and safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with 
the goals and applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval 
constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or other prior 
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station, and will be regarded as a 
93 of 204

--- page 94 ---
modification to the underlying approval for the subject tower or base station. The City’s 
grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit 
term, if any, for any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station. This 
condition shall not be applied or interpreted in any way that would cause the term of the 
underlying permit for the modified facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court of competent 
jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or any FCC rule that interprets 
Section 6409 such that federal law would not mandate approval for any section 6409 
approval(s), such approval(s) shall automatically expire one year from the effective date 
of the judicial order, unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the City grants an extension upon written 
request from the permittee that shows good cause for the extension, which includes 
without limitation extreme financial hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous 
sentence to the contrary, the City may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements approved under 
the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained the applicable permit(s) or 
submitted an application for such permit(s) before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 
6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the 
City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules that interpret Section 6409 or any section 
6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
permits required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, 
the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all conditions associated with 
this section 6409 approval and any approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance, as determined by the City, with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by 
the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over 
the wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior 
review and approval.  The City may revoke the section 6409 approval if the City finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause a substantial change 
as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation reasonably acceptable to the City that the wireless facility has been 
installed and/or constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject 
to the City’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be limited to, as-
built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and 
approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the approved wireless facility, 
which includes without limitation any permits or approvals required by any federal, state 
or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or 
94 of 204

--- page 95 ---
its use. The City may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the permittee 
shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written request for an extension 
submitted at least 30 calendar days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes 
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences 
and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the 
Approved Plans and all conditions in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept 
in “like new” condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter 
and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and remediate 
any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee receives 
notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The 
permittee and property owner shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance 
with an approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, foliage or 
other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 30 calendar days after 
written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which 
includes without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are 
intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain 
compliance with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce 
compliance with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not 
be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or 
regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction hours authorized by the San 
95 of 204

--- page 96 ---
Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any 
work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for any 
activities that violates this condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee, or at any 
time during an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but 
will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, 
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The 
permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee 
while any such inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s approval 
of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for 
personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the 
permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, 
licensees’, or customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the 
extent such Claims are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of 
the City.  In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts 
to promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably 
cooperate in the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
the legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee 
(as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and 
necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly 
acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s indemnification obligations under this 
condition are a material consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 
96 of 204

--- page 97 ---
approval, and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this section 6409 approval, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety 
and in a form acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost 
to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written 
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which 
includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, 
mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed 
in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas 
affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing 
or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The City may recall this section 6409 
approval for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with applicable 
laws or any approval conditions attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and 
an opportunity to cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the noncompliance, the City 
may revoke this section 6409 approval or amend these conditions as the City deems 
necessary or appropriate to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must, for the duration of the permit term, maintain 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard 
copies or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any conflicts 
between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s electronic copies, and 
complete originals will control over all other copies in any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports. Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole 
cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
97 of 204

--- page 98 ---
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street owned 
by the City or any other public agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm 
drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, water, 
electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work deemed necessary, 
useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). The City reserves the rights to 
do any and all City Work without any admission on its part that the City would not have 
such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In the event that the City 
determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged and/or 
relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or cause to be done all 
things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or relocation. If the permittee 
fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the 
permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the City may (but will 
not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or 
relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the City determines 
that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or safety. The 
permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection with such work 
within 10 days after a written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation 
to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the City, 
its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers harmless from and against any 
Claims in connection with rearranging or relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on 
or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other utility service in connection with the 
permittee’s facility. 
 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
98 of 204

--- page 99 ---
{00027262;2} 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
330 W. 20TH AVENUE 
SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Approved by City Council July 16, 2018 
 
DESIGN AND ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR 
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES ON CITY OWNED POLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
1 
Background and Purpose 
 
 
2 
2 
Design Elements 
 
 
 
4 
3 
Attachments to Streetlight Poles 
 
6 
4 
Attachments to Utility Poles  
 
8 
5 
Freestanding Small Cell Pole  
 
9 
6 
Meetings Noticing 
 
 
 
15 
 
Appendix A: Details 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B:  Flowchart 
 
 
 
 
Appendix C:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
 
Appendix D:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Appendix E: Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities 
 
99 of 204

--- page 100 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 2 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
 
 
The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install small wireless communications 
facilities, within the public right-of-way, in order to provide robust cellular coverage and capacity 
throughout the City, while ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not significantly detract from 
City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner 
and aesthetics of wireless communications 
facilities.  These requirements are intended 
only to convey design preferences that may 
not necessarily apply to every facility.   
 
These requirements also do not address pole selection.  However, the City recommends that wireless 
carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would be in front of architecturally significant features, 
or in locations where they would have visual impacts of significance, such as residential 
neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of small cell facilities 
on City owned street lights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless 
providers should work with the City to establish an agreement for the use of City owned street lights. 
Secondly, the City recommends installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or 
parks. Residential areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located 
within the public right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be 
necessary based on the circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the 
applicant, or as deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in these requirements, 
or as modified by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute 
grounds for revocation.  In the event that RF emissions for the site exceed FCC Standards, the 
applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist operation of the facility until such time 
that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works. 
 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the Director of Public Works to operate a specific wireless 
communications facility installation may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing small cell facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right of way. 
100 of 204

--- page 101 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 3 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
by the CPUC and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City 
in advance of such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out 
by the new carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless providers in planning facility locations and compiling the 
necessary information to obtain a Wireless Communication Facilities permit for wireless facilities on 
poles in the public right of way.  Wireless communications providers are also directed to review and 
comply with the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10,  “Wireless Telecommunications Facilities 
in the Public Right of Way” that can be found on the City’s website. 
 
 
101 of 204

--- page 102 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 4 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
To aid in minimizing visual impacts, equipment shall be placed as follows: 
 
 Proposed installations must be the least intrusive possible with regard to appearance, size, and 
location.   If installations are available (e.g., have been installed in other jurisdictions) that are 
less intrusive than those allowed by the City’s telecommunications ordinance, applicants must 
use those installations unless the Director determines that those installations are not feasible. 
 
 Equipment shall be located within the antenna shroud and behind street signs located on the 
pole. 
 
 The wireless facility designer shall choose poles that are located outside of driveways and 
intersection sight lines. Where feasible, poles shall be located near property corners or side 
property lines, and not directly in front of residences and businesses. 
 
 Equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical arrangement.  Accessory equipment 
shall not collectively exceed 9 cubic feet in volume for Director-level review. Accessory 
equipment greater than 9 cubic feet, but not to exceed 17 cubic feet in overall volume, requires 
approval from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC). 
 
 Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the maximum extent possible.  If 
utilized, ground mounted equipment must be placed in a location that does not obstruct 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic and in the least conspicuous location available within a reasonable 
distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an existing or 
replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, 
kiosks, advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   
 
 All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through conduits within pole whenever 
possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires and other connectors must 
be concealed from public view to the extent feasible. 
 
 New facility installations shall not obstruct views from habitable living areas (such as bedrooms 
or living rooms) of residential units which directly face the antenna within 100 feet horizontal 
distance. 
 
 Flashing lights or large repetitive warning stickers shall not be installed. All wireless facilities 
must include signage that accurately identifies the equipment owner/operator, the 
102 of 204

--- page 103 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 5 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the 
owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage 
or advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended 
under existing and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance 
with RF emissions regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not 
at pedestrian eye level, unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies. 
 
 Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing 
pole shall not exceed (i) the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General 
Order 95 (“GO 95”), as may be amended or superseded, plus four feet or (ii) four feet above the 
height of the existing support structure. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall 
be included when calculating the height of facilities. 
 
 Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no electric 
meter, if available.   
 
 Small cells shall not be located on decorative streetlights. 
 
 Small cells shall not damage existing trees.  If pruning is required for the installation, a separate 
Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and Recreation. 
 
 Fans shall not be utilized, to the maximum extent possible. 
 
 The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least 
preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
 
 
 
 
 
103 of 204

--- page 104 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 6 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to streetlight poles. See Appendix A for 
Standard Drawing 200. 
 
Table 3.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
Per San Mateo standards. 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Separation of Service 
All new electrical conduit shall be separate. 
Shroud/Cover 
All hardware shall be hidden.  
Hand Holes 
A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and 
electrical service for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight 
aesthetics, paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment 
cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall be measured from top of the foundation to the top of 
the antenna.  
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and 
amendments for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the 
pole. Antennas shall be shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole 
and antenna shall be included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side. 
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of 
the pole. Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory 
equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. If required, fans shall not emit noise 
higher than City standards.  Passive louvers and/or other passive 
ventilation systems shall be primary means of temperature control.  
Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian 
or vehicular travel way. 
 
 
 
104 of 204

--- page 105 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 7 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 3.1 - Example of unacceptable installation 
 
 
 
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and other 
hardware must be hidden or in a shroud 
All conduit, wires and other hardware 
shall be located internally within pole 
105 of 204

--- page 106 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 8 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to utility poles. See Appendix A for Standard 
Drawing 201. 
Table 4.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Utility Poles 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Separation of Service 
All new electrical conduit shall be separate. 
Shroud/Cover 
 
All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all 
required small cell accessory equipment, shall be installed per pole. 
Safety zones 
A 6 ft. safety zone is required per GO 95 between the top of electric supply 
lines to bottom of antenna and mounting equipment.  A 2 ft. safety zone is 
required per GO 95 between the small cell equipment and communication 
lines. 
Color 
Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility 
pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment 
cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall be measured from top of the foundation to the top of 
the antenna.  
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and 
amendments for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the minimum 
separation from supply lines required by GO 95. Antennas shall be 
shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be 
included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side.  
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of 
the pole. Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory 
equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. If required, fans shall not emit noise 
higher than City standards.  Passive louvers and/or other passive 
ventilation systems shall be primary means of temperature control.  
Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian 
or vehicular travel way. 
106 of 204

--- page 107 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 9 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to new freestanding small cell poles. See 
Appendix A for Standard Drawing 202A and 202B. 
 
Table 5.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Freestanding Small Cell Poles 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Pole Type 
Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
Shroud/Cover 
 
All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all 
required small cell equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either 
be hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
Color 
Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
Equipment shall be painted to match existing streetlight aesthetics, paint shall be 
powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall not exceed 35 feet. 
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and amendments 
for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. While SM accepts cast-in-place foundations, precast concrete foundations 
are preferred and should be installed whenever possible. 
Conduits Sweeps 
Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
small cell carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
Antennas shall be shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole and antenna 
shall be included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side.  
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of the pole. 
Existing traffic signs on separate poles nearby may be relocated to small cell pole 
to screen accessory equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet to meet Utility 
Requirements. All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements. 
Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other equipment 
required by the Owner. 
107 of 204

--- page 108 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 10 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding small cell poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
17.10.100(d). If approved, freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following 
requirements: 
 
 In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
 So as not to be located along the frontage of a Historic building, deemed historic on a federal, 
state, or local level. 
 
 So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines. 
 
 At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
 Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
 In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
 Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
 With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
 Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) 
or 30-foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) 
at intersection corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
 Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency 
service facility. 
 
 No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding small cell. 
 
 Avoid placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
108 of 204

--- page 109 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 11 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Figure 5.1 – Freestanding Small Cell Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located a 
minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement of 
freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 feet 
does not apply. 
109 of 204

--- page 110 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 12 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Freestanding Small Cell in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding small cells shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the 
usual pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the 
public ROW, violate applicable law, violate or conflict with public ROW design standards, 
specifications, or design district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990, or in any way create a risk to public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing small cells shall be 
located within the ROW and off set from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 of 204

--- page 111 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 13 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 5.3 – Standalone Small Cell Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
Freestanding small cells shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding small cell shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate small cell in 
clear sight triangle.  Small cells shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to prevent 
disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The small cells shall not be installed between the 
perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence 
as shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 5.4 – Freestanding Small Cell Location between Property Lines 
111 of 204

--- page 112 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 14 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 5.5 – Small Cell in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be 
taken to locate the small cell such that it does not negatively impact the business. Small cells shall not 
be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or in such a 
way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Small cells should be located between properties 
as much as possible as shown above. Small cells shall match the architecture of the surrounding 
neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of small cell 
installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
112 of 204

--- page 113 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 15 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are required to meet with City staff in order to present 
the scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit 
application and checklist requirements.  The meeting is required for projects subject to a major wireless 
permit; that involve the deployment of more than 5 proposed installations; modification requests to 
existing concealed facilities pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 1455 (“Section 6409”); and recommended for all 
others.  
 
Meeting with Community 
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are required to hold 
a community meeting for sites located in or within 500 feet from a residential zone. The neighborhood 
meeting is only required if timely requested by a resident after the mailed notice. 
 
The purpose of the community meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners, residents, business owners, neighborhood associations, and interested persons and 
receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
1. Establishment of a positive dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property 
owners and residents, business owners, neighborhood associations and interested parties. 
2. Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
3. Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff will be present as a resource 
only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with you to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 Meetings must be held on Monday through Thursdays starting at either 7:00 p.m. or 7:30 p.m. 
and held at the project site, in a City or School District facility, or a similar public venue located 
within the project vicinity with sufficient parking and ADA access. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the city’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 for the City Council, Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations 
Commission, and Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 
15th-January 1st. 
113 of 204

--- page 114 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 16 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Public Works staff will work with you to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting. 
Typically, the City will mail this notice, as the City generally prefers that a single notice be mailed that 
contains both the community meeting date and tentative Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
meeting date. The notices must be mailed via first class mail a minimum of 15 calendar days prior to 
the meeting. 
 
A posted notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location at or near the proposed site. 
 
The meeting notice(s) are required to be mailed to the following groups on the City’s official public 
noticing lists: 
 Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site. 
 
 The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood 
Associations, local utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide projects. 
 
 The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City 
regarding this site or project or requested to be added to the project notification list. 
 
The applicant is responsible for bringing presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, 
including at minimum an existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the 
proposed facility, as well as a mock-up of the proposed installation. You may wish to provide 
refreshments for the meeting participants (no alcoholic beverages please). 
 
Public Works staff will provide the meeting sign in sheet. Please have all attendees sign in to ensure a 
complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the project team. Attendees are 
asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A member of the applicant’s 
team must take detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a Meeting Summary. Public Works staff 
will provide you with a sample Meeting Summary to replicate. 
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 Public Works staff will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and 
introducing the project applicants. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to 
answer any questions regarding small cell standards and the application process. 
 
 The applicant will then manage the remainder of the meeting. The applicant’s presentation on 
the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the installation, the way the 
design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. The applicant 
should then open the discussion to the residents, being available to answer questions or take 
comments. If questions are raised related to the application process or City regulations that are 
more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 
114 of 204

--- page 115 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 17 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 Once discussion has finished, the Public Works staff will typically close the meeting by 
describing the next steps in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any 
community meeting. 
 
The applicant must prepare and distribute a written summary of the meeting within one week of the 
meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, any 
questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the 
sign-in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The City will post the 
meeting summary on-line on the City’s website. The applicant is responsible for emailing the meeting 
summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address. The applicant is responsible for 
mailing the Meeting Summary via USPS to the mailing address provided for those attendees without 
email. 
 
Post Meeting Noticing 
After the required community meetings are held notice shall be provided in accordance with San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 17.10.060, as applicable based on the permit required.  Property owners shall 
be notified by registered mail via the U.S. Postal Service. 
 
The notice will provide a description of the proposed facility and a map identifying the proposed 
location of the cabinet, if any.  In addition, photo simulations of the proposed equipment and site are 
to be included.  The notification shall also include a telephone number or email address for the 
Applicant’s Community Liaison, with whom property owners can contact with questions or concerns 
regarding the facility.  The Applicant’s Community Liaison shall reply to all inquirers within 48 hours 
of contact.  Additionally, the notification shall include a contact number for the Public Works 
Department (650) 520-7300 - so that property owners can contact the City directly, if they so prefer.  
The applicant shall log all contact with property owners, which shall include the date, owner/resident’s 
name, address and the specific questions or concerns the owner/resident has regarding the facility.  The 
applicant shall inform the Public Works Department of all inquiries received during the notification 
period, so that the Public Works Department may assess the comments and concerns regarding the 
application, and work with the applicant to address these concerns to the maximum extent practicable. 
 
The applicant will provide to the City a mailing list for both owners and tenants (occupant designation 
for tenants is acceptable) to be notified of the proposed facility installation. 
 
In addition, a posted notice in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 17.10.060, as 
applicable, shall be placed in a conspicuous location at or near the proposed site. 
115 of 204

--- page 116 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 18 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Appendix A – Details 
 
Drawing 200 – Telecommunication Facilities on Street Lights Poles 
Drawing 201 – Telecommunication Facilities on Utility Poles 
Drawing 202A – Telecommunication Facilities on Freestanding Pole 
Drawing 202B – Pull/Splice Box Typical Dimensions 
 
 
  
  
 
116 of 204

--- page 117 ---
(N) OMNI-DIRECTIONAL
ANTENNA TO BE
INSTALLED
(N) ANTENNA SHROUD. SEE. SEE GN-4,
PG&E
UTILITY BULLETIN TD-027911B-004,
GENERAL INFORMATION NOTE #2.
(N) PG&E SMART METER
(E) SPUN ALUMINUM POLE & MAST
ARM, PER CITY STANDARDS
(N) FCC RF NOTICE SIGNAGE
(2) (N) 1/2" DIA, COAX
CABLES ROUTED INSIDE POLE
(N) UE RELAY, BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(PAINTED TO MATCH POLE)
(N) 1/2" DIA. ARMORED ETHERNET CABLING
(N) RADIO,
BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(N) DISCONNECT SWITCH
BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(N) 1/2" POWER CABLE TO BE
ROUTED IN EXISTING STREET
LIGHT CONDUIT INSIDE POLE
(N) 7 AMP IN-LINE FUSE
WITHIN PG&E N16 BOX
(N) POINT OF CONTACT TO BE UTILIZED FOR
POWER VIA STREET LIGHT PULLBOX TO
INTERCEPT EXISTING POWER, SEE GN-4
STREET, PG&E UTILITY BULLETIN
TD-027911B-004, GENERAL INFORMATION
NOTE #3
(E) CONCRETE SIDEWALK
(E) POLE FOUNDATION
NOTES:
1.
ALL HARDWARE SHALL BE STAINLESS STEEL.
2.
ALL CABLES SHALL BE LOCATED INSIDE POLE.
3.
ALL EQUIPMENT SYSTEM COMPONENTS SHOULD BE
PAINTED TO MATCH EXISTING POLE.
4.
EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGNS TO BE RELOCATED AS
REQUIRED
    TO SCREEN REMOTE RADIO UNITS.
5.   APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS FOR POLE
    FOUNDATION.
TBD IN FIELD
TOP OF ANTENNA
BOTTOM OF ANTENNA
TOP OF (E) POLE
(N) ALL WEATHER GASKET
(10 MIL OR HIGHER),
CUT TO FIT AND INSERTED
IN OPENING AT LUMINAIRE.
CL OF (N) UE RELAY
CL OF (N) RADIO HEAD
10'-0"
BOTTOM OF DISCONNECT
SWITCH
48" MAX
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
5'-0"
30"
GRADE
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
200
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
STREET LIGHT POLES
117 of 204

--- page 118 ---
BOTTOM OF (N) DISCONNECT
7'-0"
TOP OF (N) LOAD CENTER AND FIBER DISTRIBUTION PANEL
TOP OF (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT 32
TOP OF (N) DIPLEXERS
18'-0"
(N) 2'-0" COMMUNICATIONS
SAFETY ZONE PER GO95
TOP OF (E) BOX
TOP OF (E) CROSSARM
TOP OF (E) ANCHOR POINT (BACKSIDE OF POLE)
TOP OF (E) INSULATORS
TOP OF (E) CROSSARM
TOP OF (E) WOOD UTILITY POLE
RAD CENTER OF (N) ANTENNA
TOP OF (N) ANTENNA
VARIES PER SITE
(N) RF WARNING SIGN
FACING STREET
(N) ANTENNA MOUNTED TO
 EXTENSION ON TOP OF (E)
UTILITY POLE
 DIPLEXERS
(2) (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT-32 WITH
PSU-08 MOUNTED TO (E)
WOOD POLE
(N) GROUND BAR
(N) ELECTRIC LOAD CENTER
(N) DISCONNECT SWITCH
(N) FIBER DISTRIBUTION PANEL
CABINETS
NOT TO EXCEED
17 CUBIC FEET
REQUIRES SIC APPROVAL
(NOT RECOMMENDED)
GROUND
18'-0"
7'-0"
UTILITY LINE
VARIES PER SITE
(N) PG&E SMART METER
TOP OF (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT 32
TOP OF (N) DISCONNECT
NOTES:
1.
ALL CABLES SHALL BE SECURED TO POLE
EVERY 36" OR LESS. CABLES SHALL BE
LOCATED IN CONDUIT.
2. EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGNS TO BE RELOCATED
AS REQUIRED TO SCREEN REMOTE RADIO
UNITS.
3. APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS
FOR POLE FOUNDATION.
4. BATTERY BACKUP SHALL BE POLE MOUNTED.
(N) 6'-0" POWER SAFETY
ZONE PER GO95
TBD IN FIELD
>35' REQUIRES PWC
APPROVAL
≤35' REQUIRES PW DIRECTOR
APPROVAL
48" MAX
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
201
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
UTILITY POLES
118 of 204

--- page 119 ---
30 FT. STANDARD
30'-0"
(N) FOUNDATION WITH BREAKAWAY BASE
FINAL GRADE
(N) 2" PVC (MIN.)
(N) PROVIDE (1) TYPE 1,2 OR 3
PULL PLICE BOX
ADJACENT TO EACH POLE.
3' MIN.
5'-8"
MAX.)
(N) ELECTRICAL
CONDUIT
2" PVC (MIN.)
NOTES:
1.
ALL ANCHOR BOLT HARDWARE SHALL BE
CONCEALED.
2.
ALL ELECTRICAL WIRING AND FIBER IN UPPER POLE
SHALL BE SEPARATED BY OWNER.
3.
ALL SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT SHALL BE HOUSED
INTERNAL TO THE EQUIPMENT CABINET OR HIDDEN
BEHIND THE ANTENNA.
4.
APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS FOR POLE
FOUNDATION.
LOADS:
A. WIND LOAD SHALL BE 115 MPH ULTIMATE.
B. MAXIMUM DEAD LOAD AT TOP OF FOUNDATION 
    (INCLUDING POLE, POLE BASE, ANTENNA & 
            EQUIPMENT) IS ASSUMED TO BE 2600 LBS.
C. AASH TO RISK CATEGORY WITH MCAN
  
     RECURRENCE  INTERVAL=700Y.
5.
ANY HARDSCAPE SHALL BE REPLACE IN FULL PANELS
OF SAME TYPE, COLOR, SIZE AS BEFORE.
6.
SEPARATE CONDUIT SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR
STREETLIGHT ELECTRICAL CONDUIT, CITY FIBER,
SMALL CELL ELECTRICAL CONDUIT & SMALL CELL
CARRIER FIBER.
7.
ALL CONDUIT, LANDSCAPE RESTORATION, ASPHALT
RESTORATION & CONCRETE RESTORATION SHALL BE
INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS.
8.
ALL FOUNDATIONS SHALL HAVE GROUNDING IN
CONFORMANCE WITH NEC.
9.
ANCHOR BOLTS, ANCHOR PLATE, NUTS & WASHERS
SHALL BE GALVANIZED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ASTMA153.
(N) ANTENNA
(14" DIA. MAX.)
(N) PG&E SMART METER
(N) UPPER POLE
(10" DIA. PREFERRED)
(N) TYPICAL FREESTANDING SMALL CELL
STANDARD. GALVANIZED STRAIGHT STEEL
POLE.
COLOR:
UNPAINTED GALVANIZED (OR
PAINTED OVER GALVANIZED TO MATCH
EXISTING STREETLIGHTS).
(N) EQUIPMENT CABINET
16" DIA. PREFERRED
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
202A
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
FREESTANDING POLE
119 of 204

--- page 120 ---
W
L
D
CW
CL
IDL
IDW
PULL BOX PLICE BOX - COMPOSITE
MINIMUM DIMENSIONS
TYPE 1
TYPE 2
TYPE 3
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
20"
13"
12"
17"
10"
18"
11"
25"
15"
12"
21"
11"
23"
13"
32"
19"
12"
28"
15"
30"
17"
CITY ELECTRIC
NOTES:
1.
BOX COVERS MUST BE POLYMER CONCRETE WITH FIBERGLASS REINFORCEMENT,
INCIDENTAL TRAFFIC RATED TO TIER 22 AND BOLTED. PG&E PULL BOXLICE BOX SHALL
BE TIER 8 RATED.
2.
BOX COVERS SHALL BE LABELED AS FOLLOWS:
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING STREETLIGHT ELECTRIC SERVICE SHALL BE LABELED
"STREETLIGHT"
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING CITY FIBER SHALL BE LABELED "CITY FIBER"
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING SMALL CELL CARRIER FIBER SHALL BE LABELED WITH
THE NAME OF THE CARRIER. LABELING MUST BE CAST INTO THE COVER AND NOT
A SEPARATE INDEPENDENT TAG.
3.
PULL AND JUNCTION BOXES AND CONDUIT BODIES MINIMUM SIZE FOR BOX SIZE
REQUIREMENTS BASED ON CONDUIT AND WIRE SIZES.
4.
THE WIRE TERMINATIONS IN THIS BOX SHALL BE MADE USING SUBMERSIBLE
INSULATED PEDESTAL LUG CONNECTIONS. PROVIDE ONE MULTI-LUG CONNECTOR FOR
EACH PHASE, NEUTRAL AND GROUND CONDUCTOR TO BE SPLICED IN THIS IN-GRADE
SPLICE BOX.
5.
REFER TO PG&E FOR PGE PULL BOX / SPLICE REQUIREMENTS.
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
202B
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
PULL BOX / SPLICE BOX TYPICAL DIMENSIONS
120 of 204

--- page 121 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 23 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix B – Flowchart  
 
 
121 of 204

--- page 122 ---
Applicant
Proposes
Telecom
Facilities
Flowchart for installation of Wireless
Telecommunication Facilities in the public right of way
(in compliance with SMMC 17.10)
Deemed
Complete?
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
Shot Clock Requirements
-Shot clock starts at app submittal
-Staff may deem the app incomplete within 30
days upon submittal and within 10 days upon
resubmittal
-Staff has 60 days process 6409 apps from
submittal date
-Staff has 90 days to process non-6409
collocation apps from submittal date
-Staff has 150 days to process new apps from
submittal date
-Shot clocks may be paused if the app is timely
deemed incomplete
Pre app meeting required if:
(1) If more than ﬁve facilities
(2) If major wireless permit
requested
(3) If Section 6409 request to an
existing concealed facility
If in residential zone, applicant
shall conduct neighborhood
meeting prior to submittal.
Applicant shall mail/post notice
to all residents within 500' of
proposed location 15 days prior 
  Type of Permit?
            MINOR PERMIT
-Director of PW Approval
-Shrouded/camouﬂaged facility
located on existing pole in
PROW < 9 cf 
PW reviews application for
completeness.  Application
requirements shall comply with
SMMC 17.10.050 & the Design
& Engineering Standards
           SECTION 6409
-Staff Approval
-Modiﬁcations of existing
facilities that do not substantially
change size
-Approved or Denied
-No noticing
-Applicant may appeal
            MAJOR PERMIT
-PWC Approval
-Shrouded/camouﬂaged facility
located on existing pole in PROW
> 9 cf
-New pole
Director reviews application
     Approved?
PW processes permit for
installation
Applicant or any interested
party can appeal to PWC
within 10 days after decision
by Director
Yes
No
     Approved?
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
PW can remove facilities in
accordance with COA and/or
code enforcement action
Permit is good for 10 years.
Extension must be requested
within 90 days of expiring
   Complete
License agreement is required for
City owned poles. Utility pole
applications must submit franchise
agreement
Mailed/Posted notice to
properties within 500'.  Final
Approval after 10 days
Applicant can appeal to City
Council within 10 days after
decision by PWC
Public hearing scheduled with
PWC. Mailed/Posted notices
to properties within 500'
     Approved?
PW processes permit for
installation
Applicant or any interested
party can appeal to City
Council within 10 days after
decision by PWC
Yes
No
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
PW can remove facilities in
accordance with COA and/or
code enforcement action
Permit is good for 10 years.
Extension must be requested
within 90 days of expiring
   Complete
Mailed/Posted notice to
properties within 500'.  Final
Approval after 10 days
     Approved?
   Complete
*
*
*
Not required for 6409 apps
122 of 204

--- page 123 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 25 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix C:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
 
 
123 of 204

--- page 124 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
  
 
Created: May 2018 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials in the Design and Engineering, a meeting with staff is 
required.  Some projects may require a community meeting as well.  
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Property Owner (or pole owner if project is located in the ROW): 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Property Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Project Description: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  MINOR PERMIT        □  MAJORPERMIT       □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER (describe request below) 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □  60 days        □   90 days       □  150 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Pre-Application Meeting Date ______________________________________ 
Community Meeting Date _________________________________________ 
 
Application Submittal Date ________________________________________ 
Completeness Review DUE (30 days) ________________________________ 
124 of 204

--- page 125 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 27 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix D:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
 
 
125 of 204

--- page 126 ---
{00025055;2} 
 
 
 Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
Created: May 2018 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials in the Design and Engineering, a meeting with staff is 
required.  Some projects may require a community meeting as well.  
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  MINOR PERMIT     □  MAJOR PERMIT    □  OTHER (describe request below)   
□  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL           __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 NEIGBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY*  
(if applicable) 
 
 APPLICATION FORM AND FEE 
 
 PROJECT PLANS 
 
 PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
 PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
 
 PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
 INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
 RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
 NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
 SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
 
 ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
STAFF USE ONLY 
 
 
 
126 of 204

--- page 127 ---
{00025055;2}     
City of San Mateo 
Page 2 of 9 
Revised May 2018 
 
Public Works Department 
 
Engineering Division 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7300 
 
 
APPLICATION GUIDELINES – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Guidelines contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit 
application. For the application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable 
application materials in the Application Checklist in accordance with the Application Guidelines along with 
all other generally applicable materials required for the requested permit or approval. See the City’s 
website or inquire with the Public Works Department for any generally applicable application materials not 
contained in this application. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the 
requested permit, the applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as 
applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if 
applicable. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to 
the application. 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND FEE 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application Cover Page available on the City’s 
website or at the Public Works Department, and submit the corresponding application fee for the 
requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the 
Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 
1/16" equals one foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans 
must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
 
 a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications 
including without limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all 
cables, mounts, and all other elements of the proposed project 
 
 site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 
datum), zoning classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  
site map, and pole number (if applicable) 
 
127 of 204

--- page 128 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 3 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
2. Site Survey 
 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete 
site survey must include: 
 
 property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps 
or other markers clearly shown and called out 
 
 boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called 
out 
 
 approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
 any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
 
 all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block 
partially or entirely occupied by the project and any elements thereof 
 
 all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
 
 a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
 wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
 
 general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and 
standards 
 
3. Site Development Plan 
 
A complete site development plan must include: 
 
 plan-view drawings, which include: 
 
 the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
 
 detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, 
pedestals and/or vaults 
 
 all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership 
identifications clearly called out 
 
 boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access 
and utilities in connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and 
called out 
 
 all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all 
cables, connectors, risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, 
transformers, disconnect switches, panels, meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, 
generators and/or generator sockets  
 
128 of 204

--- page 129 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 4 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
 
 all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions 
clearly called out 
 
 all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership 
identifications clearly called out 
 
 all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, 
primary and secondary power lines clearly called out 
 
 callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
 
 a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other 
objects not primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must 
be inventoried with the following information for each component: 
 
 manufacturer and model number 
 
 basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
 
5. Traffic Control Plans 
 
For facilities with traffic impacts to the public right-of-way, provide two copies of engineered traffic control 
plans that show the traffic control for the project and a digital file of such plans in portable document 
format (PDF). The plans must be drawn in accordance with the latest version of the CA MUTCD by a 
registered California civil engineer or traffic engineer. The preparer’s stamp and signature must be shown 
on the plans. 
 
6. Fiber Network Plan 
 
For facilities proposed to be located in the public right-of-way, and to the extent that the project requires 
running new fiber optic cables to the proposed node, the plans must include a street map view that shows 
all the proposed nodes in the deployment, clearly labeled with pole number and/or site ID, the hub or base 
station that serves the nodes in the deployment, all fiber optic cable routes that connect the nodes to the 
hub, and a legend that identifies any symbols, colors or other items on the map. The fiber plans should 
clearly identify all meet-me points and points of connection. Even if the fiber deployment will be performed 
by a third-party vendor, the applicant for wireless nodes must disclose all known or reasonably 
foreseeable fiber network elements. A separate utility encroachment permit will be required for fiber 
installation. 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations 
must be in a high resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations 
that would accurately and reliably reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-
built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – Photo Simulations” and attach them to this 
129 of 204

--- page 130 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 5 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all the following: 
 
1.  Current Site Photographs 
 
Current site photographs must include: 
 
 photographs of the existing site from at least three different reasonable line-of-sight locations 
from public streets or other adjacent viewpoints 
 
 a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the 
direction to the site from each photo location 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
 
Photo simulations must include: 
 
 an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same 
reasonable line-of-sight locations used in the current site photographs and must include 
without limitation all interconnecting cables, conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment 
such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like 
 
 a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the 
direction to the site from each photo location 
 
3. Concealment Maintenance  
 
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that 
demonstrates the impact of the proposed modification on the all the concealment elements of the support 
structure. Concealment elements include but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, 
landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or techniques intended to blend with the surrounding 
built and/or natural environment. 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals 
(original siting permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding 
conditions of approval and project plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the 
applicant may submit a written justification that sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were 
not required for the wireless facility at the time it was constructed or modified. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 2a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of 
licenses for all planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and 
whether they have been fully satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2b – FCC Licenses” and attach it to this application. 
130 of 204

--- page 131 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 6 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 
3. FAA Forms 
 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal 
Aviation Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s 
CPCN and/or WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions: Provide a letter of authorization that authorizes the applicant to perform the installation or 
modification. The letter must be executed by the owner of the subject real property or, if the facility is 
proposed to be located in the public right-of-way (i.e. utility pole, streetlight, traffic signal, etc.), the owner 
of the support structure. The property owner’s signature must be duly notarized. In lieu of a letter of 
authorization for facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s 
standard authorization form issued in the property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that 
the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or modification. Label this authorization 
“Attachment 3 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. 
Label this form “Attachment 4 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The 
Environmental Information Form may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or in person at the 
Public Works Department. Based on the nature and scope of the project, the City will determine whether 
the proposed project is categorically exempt under Article 19 of the CEQA Guidelines, or whether the 
proposed project will require a Negative Declaration, Mitigated Negative Declaration or an Environmental 
Impact Report. 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that 
certifies that the proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from 
adjacent areas, will comply with applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a 
minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide the same information and in the same form as 
the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects on or attached to poles 
subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General Order 
95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 5 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application. 
The RF compliance report must include:  
 
 the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power 
(ERP)), and the actual or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed 
antennas at the site 
  
 exhibits that show:  
 
131 of 204

--- page 132 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 7 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas  
 
 the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in 
excess of the uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the 
FCC)  
 
 the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in 
excess of the controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC) 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the 
project site, whether owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project 
site contains collocated transmitters from multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must 
evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative emissions. 
 
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment 
including all environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and 
permanent backup power generators in order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. 
The noise compliance report must be prepared and certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the 
manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a depiction of the proposed equipment 
relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant may submit 
evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed 
equipment will not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 6 – Noise Compliance Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax 
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and 
submit the City’s Section 6409 worksheet for the proposed facility or prepare a separate justification that 
evaluates whether the proposed modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the 
applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this worksheet “Attachment 7 – Section 6409 
Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to 
demonstrate the intended technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of 
the applicant’s network in the area that would be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the 
proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Project Purpose and Technical Objectives” 
and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Dominant Project Purpose 
 
Identify and describe the dominant project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed 
facility or modification will: 
  
 add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not 
currently provide any personal wireless service coverage 
 
132 of 204

--- page 133 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 8 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently 
provides personal wireless service coverage 
 
If the project has a different dominant purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in 
full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the 
proposed wireless facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height 
and equipment configuration are necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must 
include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
 a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be 
improved through the proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”) 
 
 full-color signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that show current and 
predicted service coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant 
signal level or quality indicator) and with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in 
dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps 
 
 a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, 
highway, etc.) within the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be 
negatively affected if the Service Area were to remain unaddressed 
 
 a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test 
results and data (in .XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how 
and when the applicant conducted such test(s) 
 
3. Network Map 
 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial 
boundaries that shows (1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates 
and (2) all future wireless facilities that are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application 
submission. The map must provide a legend that distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell 
facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that 
describes how the proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San 
Mateo Municipal Code, which includes without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all 
the alternative locations and designs considered before submitting this application. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 9 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
 a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location 
annotated to show: 
 
 all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
 
133 of 204

--- page 134 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 9 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 the search ring used for this particular project 
 
 all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
 
 for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without 
limitation all the following: 
 
 the nearest physical address 
 
 zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
 
 support structure type considered 
 
 general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
 
 overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
 
 the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location 
and/or design to be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with 
the development standards in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This 
explanation must include a meaningful comparative analysis and such technical 
information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the reasons 
why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with 
the development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular 
alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
 for each alternative site within the search ring, signal propagation maps in scale with the 
street level map that show current and predicted service coverage in the area for all active 
frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant signal level or quality indicator) with and without the 
alternative site and with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in dBm that 
correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps. The signal 
propagation maps required must be directly comparable with the signal propagation maps 
submitted to show before-and-after service from the applicant’s proposed site. If the applicant 
did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered. 
 
 
134 of 204

--- page 135 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 38 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix E: Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insert COA 
 
135 of 204

--- page 136 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 1 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
 
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS 
FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO 
MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Major or Minor Wireless Permits. In addition to all 
other conditions adopted by the approval authority, all major or minor wireless 
permits, whether approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. 
The approval authority (or the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion 
to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary 
or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and safety or allow 
for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and 
applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day 
from its issuance if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 
120 days prior to permit expiration, except when California Government 
Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or superseded in the future, 
authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety or substantial 
land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted 
or deemed-approved under federal or state law, will not extend this term 
limit unless expressly provided otherwise in such permit or approval or 
required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public 
Works issues any encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits 
required to commence construction in connection with this permit, the 
permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions associated with this 
permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the 
wireless facility in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether 
requested by the permittee or required by other departments or public 
agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be submitted in a 
written request subject to the Director’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the Director finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change substantially deviates 
from the Approved Plans or implicates a significant or substantial land-use 
concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee 
commences full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or 
deemed-approved under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the 
permittee shall provide the Director with documentation reasonably 
acceptable to the Director that the wireless facility has been installed and/or 
constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject to 
the Director’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be 
limited to, as-built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
136 of 204

--- page 137 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 2 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other 
permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the 
approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits or 
approvals required by the any federal, state or local public agencies with 
jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or its use. The 
Director may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not to exceed 
one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend 
the limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 
30 days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, 
which includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, 
structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean 
and safe condition in accordance with the Approved Plans and all conditions 
in this permit. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter and 
debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or 
other vandalism occurred.  
 
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all 
times with all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other 
rules that carry the force of law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the 
subject property, the wireless facility or any use or activities in connection 
with the use authorized in this permit, which includes without limitation any 
Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these 
conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the 
permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws. In the event 
that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any 
applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any 
permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or 
permittee will not be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects 
with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to 
this permit, the permittee and the property owner shall reasonably 
cooperate with efforts by the City to evaluate whether the wireless facility 
complies with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure 
to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to the City and may 
include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with 
applicable FCC rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as 
the frequencies in use, power output levels and antenna specifications, 
reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with maximum permissible 
exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its designee to have 
supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections and 
field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City 
137 of 204

--- page 138 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 3 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
or its designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the 
foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all 
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse 
impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee’s or its 
authorized personnel’s construction, installation, operation, modification, 
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. The 
permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, 
installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other 
work that involves heavy equipment or machines except during normal 
construction work hours authorized by the San Mateo Municipal Code. The 
restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any work required to 
prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The Director or the Director’s 
designee may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates this 
condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power 
generators only during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for 
maintenance purposes during normal construction hours in accordance with 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The Director may approve a temporary 
power source and/or generator in connection with initial construction, major 
repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not operate 
any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and 
agrees that the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter 
onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment upon reasonable 
prior notice to the permittee, or at any time during an emergency. The City’s 
officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not be obligated to, 
enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or 
persons. The permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, 
staff or other designee while any such inspection or emergency access 
occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Director 
with accurate and up-to-date contact information for a person responsible 
for the wireless facility, which includes without limitation such person’s full 
name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile number, mailing address and 
email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information up-to-
date at all times and immediately provide the Director with updated contact 
information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon 
which the wireless facility is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless the City, City Council and City boards, commissions, agents, 
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all (1) damages, 
liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, 
138 of 204

--- page 139 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 4 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings (“Claims”) 
brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the 
City’s approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, 
whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in 
connection with the permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, 
employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or customers’ acts or 
omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. In the event 
the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to 
promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall 
reasonably 
cooperate 
in 
the defense. 
The permittee 
expressly 
acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to approve, 
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel 
providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as 
applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses 
directly and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s 
indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification 
obligations will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to 
commence construction in connection with this permit, the permittee shall 
post a performance bond from a surety and in a form acceptable to the 
Director in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove the 
improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The 
written estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other 
improvements, which includes without limitation all antennas, radios, 
batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, hardware, 
cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings and 
foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or 
installed in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely 
restore any areas affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with 
applicable laws. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount required 
under this condition, and in accordance with California Government Code § 
65964(a), the Director shall take into consideration any information provided 
by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to a 
standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall 
expressly survive the duration of the permit term to the extent required to 
effectuate a complete removal of the subject wireless facility in accordance 
with this condition. 
 
14. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The approval authority 
may recall this permit for review at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to 
this permit. At a duly noticed public hearing and in accordance with all 
applicable laws, the approval authority may revoke this permit or amend 
these conditions as the approval authority deems necessary or appropriate 
to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
139 of 204

--- page 140 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 5 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain complete and accurate 
copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in connection 
with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all 
conditions associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or 
approvals issued in connection with this approval. In the event that the 
permittee does not maintain such records as required in this condition, any 
ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an inspection 
of the missing records will be construed against the permittee. The 
permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard copies 
or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any 
conflicts between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s 
electronic copies, and complete originals will control over all other copies in 
any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable 
television operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities 
where the permittee’s wireless facility is located, the permittee must 
underground its equipment except the antennas and antenna supports. 
Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense 
except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility 
provider adopts or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or 
ground-mounted electric meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own 
initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall apply to the City for 
permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter and 
enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the 
City, in its sole discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, 
width or location; (2) add, remove or otherwise change any improvements 
in, on, under or along any street owned by the City or any other public 
agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm drains, 
conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, 
water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work 
deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City 
Work”). The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any 
admission on its part that the City would not have such rights without the 
express reservation in this permit. In the event that the Director determines 
that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged 
and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement 
and/or relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or 
temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a 
reasonable time after the Director’s notice, the City may (but will not be 
obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee 
when the Director determines that the City Work is immediately necessary 
to protect public health or safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for 
all costs and expenses in connection with such work within 10 days after a 
140 of 204

--- page 141 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 6 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to 
support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and 
hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers 
harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, 
electricity or other utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features 
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, 
maintenance or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee’s 
direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees are damaged or 
displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to select, 
plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for 
the species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed 
arborist shall be used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and 
other standards for any replacement trees shall be subject to the Director’s 
approval in consultation with the licensed arborist. The permittee shall, at 
all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply 
with the City of San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) 
and property damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an 
additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services 
Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an 
"occurrence" basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal   & advertising injury, with limits no less than 
$2,000,000 per occurrence.  If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering 
any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, 
(Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property 
damage. 
iii. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of 
California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability 
Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. 
 
 
 
141 of 204

--- page 142 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 7 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to 
be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of 
automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor; and on the COL policy with respect to liability arising out of 
work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in coru1ection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form 
CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor's insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor's insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not 
be canceled, except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for 
non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, 
which any insurer of said Contractor may acquire against the City by virtue 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance.    Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the 
City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the Contractor to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to 
pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of 
no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to 
142 of 204

--- page 143 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 8 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
be received and approved by the City before work commences.   
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the Contractor's obligation to provide them.  The 
City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these 
specifications, at any time. 
 
22. 
Public Noticing.  All residences and/or businesses impacted by project 
construction are to be notified in writing at least 48 hours in advance 
describing work schedule, including dates, time frames, and on-site project 
manager name and cell phone number prior to commencing work.  
 
23. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures 
allowed, must allow through traffic at all times.  Contractor must notify City 
of San Mateo's Police (650) 522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo 
County Communications (650) 363-4961, at least 24 – 48 hours in advance 
of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon removal of lane closure 
or detour. 
 
24. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any 
of the following criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with 
the “Guidelines for Submittal of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the 
Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway 
classifications are defined in the Circulation Element of the General 
Plan. A map of roadway classifications can be seen here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 
and is attached to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road 
closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed 
necessary. 
 
25. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before 
commencing work, the permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert 
(USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify elevations and locations of all existing 
utilities 
 
26. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private 
sewer laterals in the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service 
Alert (USA) program. Permittee is to take precautions to locate and protect 
private sewer laterals from damage during construction. In the event any 
damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to immediately dig and 
repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are being 
installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video 
inspect any sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as 
part of this project, a copy of this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
 
 
143 of 204

--- page 144 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 9 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other 
conditions adopted by the approval authority, all section 6409 approvals, whether 
approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the operation of law, 
shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The approval 
authority (or the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or 
amend these conditions on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or 
appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and safety or allow 
for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and 
applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 
approval constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base 
station, and will be regarded as a modification to the underlying approval 
for the subject tower or base station. The City’s grant or grant by operation 
of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit term, if any, for 
any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with 
the underlying permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject 
tower or base station. This condition shall not be applied or interpreted in 
any way that would cause the term of the underlying permit for the modified 
facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court 
of competent jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or 
any FCC rule that interprets Section 6409 such that federal law would not 
mandate approval for any section 6409 approval(s), such approval(s) shall 
automatically expire one year from the effective date of the judicial order, 
unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the Director grants an 
extension upon written request from the permittee that shows good cause 
for the extension, which includes without limitation extreme financial 
hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous sentence to the 
contrary, the Director may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements 
approved under the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained 
the applicable permit(s) or submitted an application for such permit(s) 
before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of 
a section 6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to 
waive, any standing by the City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules 
that interpret Section 6409 or any section 6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public 
Works issues any encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits 
required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 
approval, the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all 
conditions associated with this section 6409 approval and any approved 
photo simulations into the project plans (the “Approved Plans”). The 
permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility in 
substantial compliance, as determined by the Director, with the Approved 
144 of 204

--- page 145 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 10 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved 
Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other departments 
or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the Director’s prior review and 
approval.  The Director may revoke the section 6409 approval if the Director 
finds that the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause 
a substantial change as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.40001(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee 
commences full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or 
deemed-approved under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the 
permittee shall provide the Director with documentation reasonably 
acceptable to the Director that the wireless facility has been installed and/or 
constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject to 
the Director’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be 
limited to, as-built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one 
(1) year from the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee 
obtains all other permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or 
operate the approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any 
permits or approvals required by any federal, state or local public agencies 
with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or its use. The 
Director may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the 
permittee shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written 
request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to the automatic 
expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, 
which includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, 
structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean 
and safe condition in accordance with the Approved Plans and all conditions 
in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept in “like new” 
condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all 
litter and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall 
remove and remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 
hours after the permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that 
such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The permittee and property owner 
shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance with an 
approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, 
foliage or other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 
30 calendar days after written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all 
times with all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other 
rules that carry the force of law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the 
subject property, the wireless facility or any use or activities in connection 
with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which includes without 
limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is 
intended to be broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in 
145 of 204

--- page 146 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 11 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the 
permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws. In the event 
that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any 
applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any 
permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or 
permittee will not be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects 
with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to 
this permit, the permittee and the property owner shall reasonably 
cooperate with efforts by the City to evaluate whether the wireless facility 
complies with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure 
to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to the City and may 
include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with 
applicable FCC rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as 
the frequencies in use, power output levels and antenna specifications, 
reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with maximum permissible 
exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its designee to have 
supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections and 
field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City 
or its designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the 
foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all 
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse 
impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee’s or its 
authorized personnel’s construction, installation, operation, modification, 
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. The 
permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, 
installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other 
work that involves heavy equipment or machines except during normal 
construction hours authorized by the San Mateo Municipal Code. The 
restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any work required to 
prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The Director or the Director’s 
designee may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates this 
condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power 
generators only during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for 
maintenance purposes during normal construction hours in accordance with 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The Director may approve a temporary 
power source and/or generator in connection with initial construction, major 
repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not operate 
any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and 
agrees that the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter 
onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment upon reasonable 
prior notice to the permittee, or at any time during an emergency. The City’s 
146 of 204

--- page 147 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 12 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not be obligated to, 
enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or 
persons. The permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, 
staff or other designee while any such inspection or emergency access 
occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Director 
with accurate and up-to-date contact information for a person responsible 
for the wireless facility, which includes without limitation such person’s full 
name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile number, mailing address and 
email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information up-to-
date at all times and immediately provide the Director with updated contact 
information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon 
which the wireless facility is installed, shall defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless the City, City Council and City boards, commissions, agents, 
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all (1) damages, 
liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, 
demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings (“Claims”) 
brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the 
City’s approval of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any 
kind or form, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that 
arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, 
officers’, 
employees’, 
contractors’, 
subcontractors’, 
licensees’, 
or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, 
the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the permittee and the private 
property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the 
right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the 
legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or 
permittee (as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and 
expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the 
defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material 
consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 approval, 
and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to 
commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, the 
permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the Director in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the 
cost to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a 
written estimate from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless 
facilities removal. The written estimate must include the cost to remove all 
147 of 204

--- page 148 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 13 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
equipment and other improvements, which includes without limitation all 
antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, 
hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, 
constructed or installed in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost 
to completely restore any areas affected by the removal work to a standard 
compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount 
required under this condition, and in accordance with California 
Government Code § 65964(a), the Director shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the 
wireless facility to a standard compliant with applicable laws. The 
performance bond shall expressly survive the duration of the permit term to 
the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of the subject wireless 
facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The Director may 
recall this section 6409 approval for review at any time due to complaints 
about noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions 
attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and an opportunity to 
cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the 
noncompliance, the Director may revoke this section 6409 approval or 
amend these conditions as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to 
correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain complete and accurate 
copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in connection 
with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all 
conditions associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or 
approvals issued in connection with this approval. In the event that the 
permittee does not maintain such records as required in this condition, any 
ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an inspection 
of the missing records will be construed against the permittee. The 
permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard copies 
or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any 
conflicts between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s 
electronic copies, and complete originals will control over all other copies in 
any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable 
television operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities 
where the permittee’s wireless facility is located, the permittee must 
underground its equipment except the antennas and antenna supports. 
Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense 
except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility 
provider adopts or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or 
ground-mounted electric meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own 
initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall apply to the City for 
148 of 204

--- page 149 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 14 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter and 
enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the 
City, in its sole discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, 
width or location; (2) add, remove or otherwise change any improvements 
in, on, under or along any street owned by the City or any other public 
agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm drains, 
conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, 
water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work 
deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City 
Work”). The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any 
admission on its part that the City would not have such rights without the 
express reservation in this permit. In the event that the Director determines 
that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged 
and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement 
and/or relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or 
temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a 
reasonable time after the Director’s notice, the City may (but will not be 
obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee 
when the Director determines that the City Work is immediately necessary 
to protect public health or safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for 
all costs and expenses in connection with such work within 10 days after a 
written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to 
support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and 
hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers 
harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, 
electricity or other utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility. 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features 
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, 
maintenance or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee’s 
direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees are damaged or 
displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to select, 
plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for 
the species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed 
arborist shall be used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and 
other standards for any replacement trees shall be subject to the Director’s 
approval in consultation with the licensed arborist. The permittee shall, at 
all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement landscape features. 
149 of 204

--- page 150 ---
MACKENZIE & ALBRITTON LLP 
155 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 800 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA  94104 
 
TELEPHONE  415 / 288-4000 
FACSIMILE  415 / 288-4010 
 
  
April 13, 2021 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Susan Rowinski 
Commissioners Clifford Robbins, 
   Rafael Reyes, Adam Loraine, 
   and Kimiko Narita 
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, California 94403 
 
Re:  Draft Design Standards and Application Requirements 
Wireless Facilities in the Right-of-Way 
SIC Agenda Item 2, April 14, 2021 
 
Dear Chair Rowinski and Commissioners: 
 
 
We write on behalf of Verizon Wireless regarding the draft Design Standards and 
Application Requirements for wireless facilities in the right-of-way (the “Draft 
Standards”).  Verizon Wireless appreciates the City’s initiative to expedite review of 
small cell applications through code amendments that streamline the permit procedures.   
 
To ensure that the Draft Standards accommodate typical small cells required for 
service, several criteria should be revised to be feasible and reasonable, consistent with 
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulations.  A few of the application 
requirements are inconsistent with the overall permit process and contradict state and 
federal law.  Below, we provide suggested revisions.  We urge the Commission to defer 
recommendation of the Draft Standards, application requirements, and conditions of 
approval, to allow staff to make needed revisions. 
 
In its 2018 Infrastructure Order, the FCC confirmed that a city’s aesthetic criteria 
for small cells must be “reasonable,” that is, technically feasible and meant to avoid “out-
of-character” deployments, and also “published in advance.”   See Accelerating Wireless 
Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, Declaratory 
Ruling and Third Report and Order, 33 FCC Rcd. 9088 (September 27, 2018) ¶¶ 86-87 
(the “Infrastructure Order”).  Following a challenge by local governments, the Ninth 
Circuit Court of Appeals upheld these FCC requirements last year.  See City of Portland 
150 of 204

--- page 151 ---
San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
April 13, 2021 
Page 2 of 6 
 
v. United States, 969 F.3d 1020 (9th Cir. 2020).  Local governments have filed a petition 
for review of the appellate court’s decision by the Supreme Court.   
 
Our comments on the Draft Standards are as follows. 
 
Site location, pole selection (p. 3) 
 
To avoid a prohibition of service, the lists of preferred locations and pole types should be 
accompanied by a reasonable review radius to limit the search distance for any more-
preferred options.  In the right-of-way, small cells serve targeted areas with a limited 
coverage footprint.  Steering a small cell too far from a proposed location would leave a 
target coverage area underserved or unserved, constituting a prohibition of service in 
violation of federal law.  See 47 U.S.C. §§ 253(a), 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II); see also 
Infrastructure Order, ¶¶ 37-40. 
 
The search area should be limited to a reasonable distance that will ensure a small cell 
can meet its coverage objective.  For example, the City of Concord adopted a 250-foot 
review radius last year.  We suggest that these location and pole preferences be prefaced: 
“An applicant may use a less-preferred location or pole if there is no preferred option 
within 250 feet along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically feasible.”  
 
Design standards (pp. 4-6) 
 
In our comments below, we mention several standards that may contradict Public 
Utilities Commission General Order 95, which regulates installations on utility poles that 
carry electric lines.  If a City standard is infeasible due to General Order 95 constraints, it 
is unreasonable according to the FCC’s Infrastructure Order, as described above.  For 
utility poles, we suggest that the City add a blanket exception allowing applicants to 
deviate from standards as necessary to comply with General Order 95.   
 
1.  Least obtrusive.  The vague requirement to use designs that are “less obtrusive,” or 
that have been adopted by other cities, disregards San Mateo’s responsibility to develop 
its own small cell standards that are published in advance.  As new technology is 
available, the City should work with wireless carriers to amend the Design Standards, 
instead of deferring to other cities’ regulations (which may contradict state or federal 
law).  This item should be deleted. 
 
2.  Pole heights minimized.  While this provision properly acknowledges the antenna 
separation distance above utility pole conductors required by General Order 95, it also 
must allow for the antenna itself.  Pole-top antennas may be placed on utility poles that 
do not carry electricity.  The phrase should be revised to read: “…four feet, plus the 
minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 95….” 
 
3.  View obstruction.  This requires that facilities “not obstruct views from habitable 
living areas,” as feasible.  Such vague, subjective standards can be used to deny small 
151 of 204

--- page 152 ---
San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
April 13, 2021 
Page 3 of 6 
 
cells that otherwise satisfy reasonable, specific standards.  The Design Standards impose 
other, specific measures to minimize visual impacts for facilities on existing and new 
poles.  Small equipment components are not “out-of-character” compared to other 
infrastructure along the right-of-way, such as existing utility or streetlight poles.  This 
item should be deleted.   
 
12.  Noise.  This strict requirement not to exceed ambient noise levels would demand 
silent facilities, essentially prohibiting some installations, and it is much more stringent 
than the permissible sound levels of Code Section 7.30.040.  We note that, in a 
contradiction, the utility pole standards of Page 20 allow equipment fans to emit noise 
consistent with City standards.  Noise-baffling equipment should not be mandated, 
because applicants must design their facilities to satisfy local noise regulations, or risk 
denial.  This section should simply require right-of-way facilities to comply with the 
Code’s sound levels, as measured at the nearest property line.   
 
13.  Antennas.  This provision requires placement of antennas at the top of a pole, 
shrouded as feasible, but this poses issues for both utility poles and streetlight or new 
poles. 
 
First, on utility poles that carry electricity, antennas are now mounted to the middle of the 
pole in the communication utility zone, below electric conductors.  This is because 
PG&E no longer allows antennas on top of the pole in the space it controls, so mandating 
a pole-top antenna would be technically infeasible and unreasonable.  For such mid-
mount antennas, General Order 95 Rule 94.4(E) requires that they be separated at least 
two feet horizontally from the pole centerline, so the antennas are placed at the end of a 
short mounting arm.  This provision must be revised to accommodate mid-mount 
antennas on utility poles, allowing for the 2-foot horizontal separation distance.   
 
Second, for streetlight poles and new poles, this provision should be revised to reflect 
new 4G and 5G small cell designs.  A typical 4G pole-top “cantenna” is manufactured in 
its own sleek radome, and does not require an additional shroud that would only add 
bulk.  For 5G service, three small antennas may be flush-mounted to the side of a pole, 
facing different directions where they provide service, sometimes below a pole-top 4G 
cantenna.  A shroud would add substantial mass if covering multiple 5G antennas (plus a 
4G antenna).  Further, 5G antennas cannot be covered because that impedes their high-
band signal.  This standard may be technically infeasible and unreasonable.  At a 
minimum, this provision should allow an exception to shrouding if technically infeasible.  
Verizon Wireless would be pleased to provide design examples of 4G and 5G small cells 
to guide revision of the antenna design standards.   
 
17.  Utilities.  The City should not forbid new aerial lines where there are already lines 
attached to a utility pole.  An additional line is not “out-of-character,” and the standard 
would be unreasonable.  This attempts to regulate the electric and communication 
backhaul lines belonging to other companies, installed under separate franchises or 
permits.  The City should allow new aerial lines where already attached to utility poles.  
152 of 204

--- page 153 ---
San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
April 13, 2021 
Page 4 of 6 
 
 
Streetlight poles (pp. 13-14) 
 
Shroud, antenna.  As noted above, a shroud adds bulk when covering multiple antennas, 
and may be infeasible for 5G antennas, which typically are placed on the side of a pole.  
The City should work with wireless carriers to develop antenna standards that reflect 
typical small cells required for service. 
 
Utility poles (pp. 20-21) 
 
Antenna.  As noted in our comment above on Design Standard 13, the City must allow 
antennas to be mounted to the middle of a utility pole on a short mounting arm, if 
required by PG&E rules or state safety regulations.  Otherwise, the requirement is 
technically infeasible and unreasonable.  This provision must be revised to accommodate 
mid-mount antennas on utility poles, allowing the 2-foot separation distance.   
 
Equipment cabinet.   The utility pole standards refer to an “on-pole” equipment cabinet 
and a volume up to 17 cubic feet, but the City should instead use the FCC’s term 
“associated” equipment for non-antenna gear, referenced on Page 4 of the Design 
Standards, which allows pole-mounted equipment.   
 
Freestanding pole placement requirements (p. 26) 
 
3.  View obstruction.  Some of the placement requirements are safety-related, while 
others are aesthetic.  The aesthetic requirement “not to significantly create a new 
obstruction to property sight lines” is vague, and unnecessary considering that the 
following standard, 4, favors placement along property lines or secondary frontages.  This 
item should be deleted.   
 
13.  Prohibition in residential areas, and near schools and parks.  This broadly 
prohibitive language regarding residential areas, schools and parks contradicts the site 
location preferences of Page 3 (which should be qualified by a 250-foot review radius to 
avoid a prohibition of service).  This provision contradicts Public Utilities Code Section 
7901 that grants telephone corporations a statewide right to place their equipment along 
any right-of-way, including new poles.  If strictly applied, it would constitute a 
prohibition of service in conflict with the federal Telecommunications Act.  This item 
should be deleted.   
 
Application Requirements 
 
Project purpose and technical objectives.  This information bears no relation to the 
required findings and standards for right-of-way facilities.  The City cannot require such 
information regarding need because Public Utilities Code Section 7901 grants telephone 
corporations such as Verizon Wireless a statewide right to place their equipment along 
any right-of-way.  Further, the FCC determined that small cells are needed to enhance 
153 of 204

--- page 154 ---
San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
April 13, 2021 
Page 5 of 6 
 
service, introduce new services and densify networks, which are Verizon Wireless’s 
objectives in placing small cells in San Mateo.  The FCC also disfavored dated service 
standards based on “coverage gaps” and the like, so the coverage/capacity information, 
propagation maps, drive test data and network maps sought by this submittal requirement 
are preempted.  Infrastructure Order, ¶¶ 37-40.  This submittal requirement should be 
deleted.   
 
Alternative site analysis.  This is inconsistent with the location and pole preferences on 
Page 3, which should be qualified by a reasonable 250-foot review radius, as we 
explained above.  If a proposed small cell is in the most-preferred location that can serve 
its target coverage area, there is no reason to analyze alternatives.  As noted, propagation 
maps and “search ring” information are inapplicable to small cells in the right-of-way, 
and should not be required for review of alternatives.  This submittal requirement should 
be deleted.  Instead, the City should require applicants to evaluate any more-preferred 
locations or poles within 250 feet along the right-of-way, and to demonstrate that they 
are technically infeasible or unavailable.   
 
Section 6409 Modifications (Eligible Facilities Requests) 
 
Per FCC rules, the City must approve a Section 6409 modification request provided it 
does not involve a “substantial change” to an “existing” facility, as defined by the FCC.  
47 C.F.R. §§ 1.6100(b)(5), 1.6100(b)(7).  The findings of proposed ordinance Section 
17.10.110(d) are consistent with FCC rules, but we note that the City cannot apply any 
other findings or subjective standards to Section 6409 approvals.   
 
Notice (p. 9).  The FCC confirmed that approval of qualifying Section 6409 
modifications is “obligatory and non-discretionary,” or, administrative in nature.  See 
Report and Order FCC 14-153, 29 FCC Rcd. 12865 ¶¶ 188-89, 227, 232 (FCC October 
17, 2014).  Because Section 6409 review is administrative, and review of the “substantial 
change” criteria is objective, there is no benefit of public notice for these modification 
applications.  The notice provision should be revised to exempt Section 6409 
applications. 
 
Conditions of approval (p. 9).  The FCC allows cities to condition eligible facilities 
requests on only reasonable, codified health and safety regulations.  Id., ¶ 188. 
Many conditions of approval of Appendix C, including some specific to Section 6409 
approvals, exceed the health- and safety-related conditions allowed by the FCC, 
including indemnification, performance bonds, underground utilities, record retention, 
and any excessive encroachment permit conditions.  The City should limit conditions of 
approval for Section 6409 approvals to codified health and safety factors only.   
 
Conditions of approval, B(1), no term extension for Section 6409 approvals.  The 
City is granting a wireless facility permit for Section 6409 approvals.  This condition 
would unreasonably limit the presumptive 10-year minimum permit term under 
154 of 204

--- page 155 ---
San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
April 13, 2021 
Page 6 of 6 
 
Government Code Section 65964(b).  Also, this condition is not related to health and 
safety.  This condition should be deleted.   
 
 
Verizon Wireless appreciates the City’s collaborative approach to updating is 
code and standards for wireless facilities in the right-of-way.  We urge the Commission 
to defer recommendation of the Draft Standards, application requirements, and conditions 
of approval, and to direct staff to work with industry on needed revisions.   
  
 Very truly yours, 
        
 
 Paul B. Albritton 
 
cc: Barbara Choi, Esq. 
 
Tracy Scramaglia 
155 of 204

--- page 156 ---
Wireless Communications Facilities 
in the Public ROW
Update to SMMC 17.10 & Design Standards
April 14, 2021
Tracy Scramaglia
Senior Engineer
156 of 204

--- page 157 ---
AGENDA
Discuss and review revisions to SMMC 17.10 and 
Design Standards & Application Requirements
Recommend approval to City Council
157 of 204

--- page 158 ---
Timeline
• June 2018 – San Mateo adopted Wireless Communications 
Ordinance (San Mateo Municipal Code 17.10)
• September 2018 – FCC Order adopted
• January 2019 – FCC Order in effect
• September 2020 – Verizon attorney put City on notice
• October 2020 – 9th Circuit of Appeals affirmed FCC Order
3
158 of 204

--- page 159 ---
Key Objectives of Code and Standards Update
• Streamline approval process
• Create one Wireless Permit
• Review and approval at staff level
• Simplify appeal process
• Simplify meetings and noticing
• Move siting and design regulations from the Code to the Design Standards
• Create objective design standards
• Clarify design requirements and process
• Remove subjective design standards and drawings
4
159 of 204

--- page 160 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.010 – Purpose and Intent.  Addition to the Purpose and Intent 
to include language regarding the City’s inability to regulate RF 
emissions.
• 17.10.020 – General Definitions.  Additions/Deletions to the General 
Definitions
• (a), (b), (f), (h) Accessory equipment, Approval Authority, CPCN, Department 
definitions deleted
• City Council, Design Standards and Application Requirements, Wireless 
Permit, Pole License, Public Right-Of-Way, Small Cell wireless facilities 
definitions added
5
160 of 204

--- page 161 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.040 – Required Approvals.  Minor and Major Wireless Permits 
deleted that were reviewed and approved by the Director of PW or 
SIC.  Replaced with  one wireless permit subject to review and 
approval by City staff
• (b)  Added language regarding obtaining a master license agreement and 
paying a fee
• (d) Added language regarding Fees
6
161 of 204

--- page 162 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.050 – Application Process and Requirements.   
• (b) Application Content deleted and moved to the Design Standards
• (c)(1) Pre-Submittal Conference deleted.  Voluntary Informational Meeting 
with City Staff added to Design Standards
• (c)(2) Submittal Appointment deleted.  A mandatory Application Submittal 
appointment added to Design Standards
• (d)(1-3)  Informational Neighborhood Meeting deleted. Voluntary 
Informational Neighborhood Meeting added to Design Standards
• (e) Application Deemed Withdrawn deleted and moved to the Design 
Standards
7
162 of 204

--- page 163 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.060 – Notice. Section deleted and moved to the Design Standards
• 17.10.070 – Decisions; Decision Notices; Limited Exceptions; Protests; 
Appeals.  
• (a) Decisions language added that the Director shall approve, conditionally 
approve or deny complete applications
• (a)(3-4)  Application requirements for most preferred location and 
comparative analysis deleted and moved to the Design Standards
• (c)(1) Required Findings section deleted and added to the Design Standards
• Decision Notices to the Applicant section added
• (d) Right to Protest Director’s Decision deleted
• Appeals language edited to replace City Council with SIC for all appeals
8
163 of 204

--- page 164 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.090 – Revocation; Abandonment.  New section added.
• 17.10.090 – Site Location Guidelines.  Section deleted and moved to 
the Design Standards
• 17.10.100 – Design Regulations.  Section deleted and moved to the 
Design Standards
• 17.10.110 – Temporary Wireless Facilities.  Section edited to allow 
such facilities for emergencies only without a wireless permit
• 17.10.120 – Amortization of Nonconforming Wireless Facilities.  
Section deleted and moved to the Design Standards
9
164 of 204

--- page 165 ---
Proposed Changes to the Code
• 17.10.130 – Special Provisions For Section 6409 Approvals.  
• (d) Decisions; Appeals section deleted.  All permits follow the same process
• 17.10.120 – Review of Ordinance.  Section added to allow City 
Council to make changes by resolution
10
165 of 204

--- page 166 ---
Proposed Changes to the Standards
• Updated formatting and appearance
11
166 of 204

--- page 167 ---
• Siting Location added (previously in the Code)
• Design Standards updated to be objective and clear
“No Obstruction of Views. New wireless communications facilities installations
shall not obstruct views from habitable living areas (such as bedrooms, balconies,
living rooms) to the maximum extent feasible.”
“Antennas. Antennas shall be placed at the top of the pole and shall be shrouded
to the maximum extent feasible.”
12
167 of 204

--- page 168 ---
• Brand new chapter
• Voluntary Information Meeting with City Staff
• Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting
• Application Submittal
• Applications Deemed Withdrawn
• Notice Requirements for Wireless Permits
• Standard Conditions of Approval
• Decision Notices to the Applicant
• Notice of Conditional Approval to the Public
• Peer and Independent Consultant Review
• Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities
• Appeals
• Revocation of Permits or Other Authorized Use
13
168 of 204

--- page 169 ---
• Updated Table 4.1 Design Standards
• Added Figures 4.2 and 4.3 to show Acceptable Designs
• Added Table 4.2 Procedures
14
169 of 204

--- page 170 ---
• Updated Table 5.1 Design Standards
• Added Figures 5.1 and 5.2 to show Unacceptable and
Acceptable Designs
• Added Table 5.2 Procedures
15
170 of 204

--- page 171 ---
• Updated Table 6.1 Design Standards
• Added Table 6.2 Procedures
16
171 of 204

--- page 172 ---
• Brand new chapter
• Table 7.1 Procedures
17
172 of 204

--- page 173 ---
• Brand new chapter
• Replaces SMMC 17.10.120 Amortization of Nonconforming Wireless Facilities
18
173 of 204

--- page 174 ---
• Updated the Permit Application
• Updated the Permit Application Checklist
• Updated the Standard Conditions of Approval
• Removed the Standard Detail Drawings and Flowchart
19
174 of 204

--- page 175 ---
Next Steps
• Receive feedback on proposed Code and Standards and 
recommendation for approval to City Council
• Present proposed Code and Standards to City Council in June 2021 
and receive approval
• Second Reading of Code changes to City Council in July 2021
• New SMMC takes effect August 2021
20
175 of 204

--- page 176 ---
Thank You
Tracy Scramaglia
Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
176 of 204

--- page 177 ---
Small Cell Stats
•
How many applications have we received? 77
•
How many applications on wood poles versus streetlights? 46/31
•
Of all the applications, how many are installed? 23
•
How many master license agreements does the City have for installations 
on City owned streetlights? 3
•
How many 5G related applications? 5
•
How many neighborhood meetings have been requested/held?  5
•
Which neighborhood has the most small cell applications?
177 of 204

--- page 178 ---
Small Cell Stats
Pre-Ordinance Small Cells - Neighborhoods (002).pdf
178 of 204

--- page 179 ---
Small Cell Stats
Post Ordinance Small Cells - Neighborhoods (002).pdf
179 of 204

--- page 180 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 2018 - 21-4523
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 14, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) Long-Term Reliable Water Supply Strategy - Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update from the Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) on the long-term reliable water 
supply strategy for the Bay Area. 
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation Agency (BAWSCA) comprises of 26 utilities that purchase water from the San 
Francisco Public Utilities Commission and includes Cal Water, the City’s water purveyor. BAWSCA will provide an update on 
regional water supply reliability needs. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Update has no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the 
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
NA
STAFF CONTACT
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
180 of 204

--- page 181 ---
Water Supply Update 
Presentation to the City of San Mateo’s 
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission 
Tom Francis, Water Resources Manager            April 14, 2021
181 of 204

--- page 182 ---
What Questions Will This Presentation Address?
1. What is the current water 
supply outlook for 2021?
2. What elements are part of 
the SF Regional Water 
System?
3. What is the water demand 
projected through 2045, 
and what elements of 
BAWSCA’s Long Term 
Water Supply Strategy will 
help address future 
demands?
2
182 of 204

--- page 183 ---
3
What Parts of the State of California Are Currently 
in a Drought? 
Tuolumne River 
Watershed; Hetch 
Hetchy Reservoir
183 of 204

--- page 184 ---
CURRENT RESERVOIR CONDITIONS

4552 LEGEND

4000
3000 ooo om Te
2448
— 7 sia % of Capacity | % of Historical
Average
1000 1000 1000 977 |
Trinity Lake Lake Shasta Lake Oroville Folsom Lake
53% | 67% 53% | 64% 41% | 54% 37% | 55%
2420
2000
1000 1000 n
0 0
New Melones Lake

Don Pedro Reservoir

63% | 101% 70% | 95%

—

0
Lake McClure

39% | 70%
2039
1000
0 . J
San Luis Reservoir
C=
a Pine Flat Reservoir
Millerton Lake 28% | 49%
35% | 50%
= =
Lake Perris Castaic Lake 184 of 204

90% | 107% 77% | 86%


--- page 185 ---
SFPUC’s Reservoir Supply Conditions Slightly 
Lower Than Normal – April 2021
185 of 204

--- page 186 ---
6
Upcountry Rainfall (through April 4, 2021)
186 of 204

--- page 187 ---
Upcountry Precipitation (through April 4, 2021)
187 of 204

--- page 188 ---
Upcountry Snowpack (through April 4, 2021)
188 of 204

--- page 189 ---
9
Local Rainfall (through April 4, 2021)
189 of 204

--- page 190 ---
SFPUC’s Total Water Deliveries to its Retail and 
Wholesale Customers
10
190 of 204

--- page 191 ---
What is the Possibility of a Drought Declaration in 
2021?
11
• SFPUC will release its final Water Supply Availability Update for 
2021 on April 15, 2021
▪The report will include any calls for rationing / cutbacks
• Supplies are sufficient this year
▪Hetch Hetchy Reservoir is predicted to fill by the end of the water year 
given demand levels and snowmelt
▪The total system storage is not predicted to fill, however
• Given ongoing dry conditions, SFPUC may ask for a voluntary 10% 
reduction in water use by customers (still uncertain)
• State could request or require further water conservation activity 
in the future if necessary
191 of 204

--- page 192 ---
BAWSCA’s 26 Member Agencies are Served by SF 
Regional Water System 
Alameda County
• Hayward, Alameda County Water District
Santa Clara County
• Milpitas, San Jose, Santa Clara, Sunnyvale, 
Mountain View, Palo Alto, Purissima Hills 
WD, Stanford University
San Mateo County
• East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, Redwood City, 
Cal Water Service Company, Mid-
Peninsula WD, Coastside CWD, Foster 
City (Estero), Burlingame, Hillsborough, 
Millbrae, San Bruno, Brisbane, Guadalupe 
Valley MID,  North Coast CWD, 
Westborough CWD, Daly City
12
BAWSCA Board is comprised of an elected or appointed 
representation from each member agency (SM Board of 
Supervisors appoints an officer or employee of Cal Water)
192 of 204

--- page 193 ---
• Stanford
• San Mateo
• Hayward
• San Jose
• Daly City
San Francisco Regional 
Water System
San Antonio Reservoir
Calaveras 
Reservoir
San Andreas
Reservoir
Hetch Hetchy
Reservoir
Crystal  Springs
Reservoir
13
193 of 204

--- page 194 ---
What are the General Characteristics of the 
Regional Water System?
• 8 reservoirs and 3 
hydropower plants
• 60,000 acres of watershed 
land
• 167 miles from the Sierras to 
the Bay Area
• 340 miles of tunnels & 
pipelines in Bay Area
• Gravity flow from Yosemite to 
Fisherman’s Wharf
• 265 mgd water delivered to 
the Bay Area
New Calaveras Dam Construction - 2017
194 of 204

--- page 195 ---
BAWSCA Agencies Rely on the SF Regional Water 
System for Two-Thirds of Their Total Water Supplies
15
Source:  BAWSCA FY 2018-19 Annual Survey
Source = BAWSCA FY 2019-20 Annual Survey
195 of 204

--- page 196 ---
BAWSCA Agencies See Growth in Demand Thru 
2045, but % of Supply From SFPUC Decreases
16
Source = BAWSCA FY 2019-20 Annual Survey
196 of 204

--- page 197 ---
From 1986 to 2045, Demand Decreases 7% While 
Population Increases by 75%
17
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Population (millions)
Demands (mgd)
Historic Demands
Active Conservation
Historic Population
Projected Population
197 of 204

--- page 198 ---
Demand Estimates for Cal Water Mid Peninsula 
Predict a Decrease in Water Purchases from SFPUC  
18
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
SF RWS Purchase 
(MGD)
12.53
12.36
12.23
12.06
11.94
Active Conservation 
(MGD)
0.28
0.28
0.24
0.26
0.28
Source - BAWSCA FY 2019-20 Annual Survey
• Factors impacting decrease are low projections in population 
growth (3%) coupled with impact of passive conservation
• 2020 Demand = 12.9 mgd
• Cal Water is preparing their 2020 Urban Water Management 
Plan (UWMP) and the above numbers are subject to change
198 of 204

--- page 199 ---
How to Meet Future Challenges by Building 
Resilience Into Our Water System
19
• Future Challenges
▪Climate change
▪Population growth (ABAG Plan Bay Area 2050 & RHNA)
▪How to meet the increased needs for water supply for fish in rivers while 
also providing for reliable water supply (addressing the Bay-Delta Plan)
▪Groundwater overdraft / salt-water intrusion
▪Water quality considerations
• Building Resilience into the Water System
▪The SFPUC is contractually obligated to meet a 184 mgd supply assurance, 
including a level of service goal of not requiring greater than 20% rationing 
during a drought
▪The SFPUC is implementing its Alternative Water Supply Program to further 
development of new supplies to address future supply shortfalls
▪Cal Water is investigating local water supply needs and projects that can be 
implemented to address shortfalls and add resiliency
199 of 204

--- page 200 ---
Can Water Recycling be Expanded and Purified 
Water Projects be Developed?
20
Daly City Recycled 
Water Expansion
Potable Reuse 
Exploratory 
Plan (PREP 
Project) – San 
Mateo County
ACWD-SFPUC-
Union Sanitary 
District Purified 
Water
200 of 204

--- page 201 ---
Can Reservoir Storage be Expanded?
21
Expand Calaveras 
Reservoir
Expand Los 
Vaqueros 
Reservoir
201 of 204

--- page 202 ---
What Other Possible Projects Are Being 
Considered to add to Water Supply Resiliency?
22
• Groundwater Banking (in Stanislaus County or elsewhere)
• Desalination (Bay Area partnership or brackish desalination of 
groundwater)
• Water Transfers (from agencies outside of the Bay Area)
• Local Efforts
▪Groundwater development by Agencies (Cal Water is investigating 
groundwater opportunities)
▪Stormwater projects that can lead to groundwater replenishment or help 
feed recycled water / potable reuse efforts)
202 of 204

--- page 203 ---
Current 
Measures
Large Landscape 
Surveys & Budgets
Lawn Be Gone! & 
Rainwater Rebates
Residential Device 
Giveaway
Public & School 
Education
Water Smart 
Reports (non-AMI)
AMI Customer 
Portal
Water Loss 
Management
Near-Term 
Implementation
CII Water Surveys
Irrigation Hardware 
Incentives
Residential Indoor 
Surveys
Flow Meter Rebates
Leak Repair 
Assistance
Future 
Consideration
CII Custom Rebates
School Retrofits
Multifamily HET 
Direct Install
Multifamily 
Submetering 
Retrofits
Codes and 
Ordinances
Fixture Retrofit on 
Resale (CII)
Landscape and 
Irrigation Codes
Hot Water on 
Demand Codes
Low Impact New 
Development
Fixture Rebate on 
Resale
Multifamily New 
Development 
Submetering
Are Conservation Measures being Considered to Reduce 
Demands on the Water System?
•
Measures as Listed in BAWSCA’s 2020 Demand Study
•
Cal Water runs their own conservation programs and does not 
participate in BAWSCA’s
203 of 204

--- page 204 ---
Thomas Francis
tfrancis@bawsca.org
510-944-4392 (Cell)
650-350-3000 (Office)
Contact
204 of 204