Flock Safety, local officials share information about license plate readers | Local Government | journalgazette.net Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Vimeo Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home About Us Staff Contact Us Advertising Terms of Use/Privacy Policy Subscribe Submission Forms Local Weather TV Listings e-Edition Archives Newsletters Search obituaries Place an obituary Search Public Notices Place a Public Notice Customer Service Single Copy Locations Local Courts Indiana State Government Elections Local Government Ohio Police/Fire Schools News Health & Science National News World News National Politics Sports Colleges IU Local Colleges Notre Dame Purdue High Schools Olympics Professional Komets MLB NFL NBA NHL Tincaps Fort Wayne FC Recreation Stats Golf Living Divorces Marriage License Filings Local Arts Calendars Community Update Entertainment Celebrities Food The Dish History Journal Business Business People Opinion Books Cartoons Letters Editorials Five Questions Columnists Multimedia Photo Galleries Videos FortWayne.com Public Notices Search Public Notices Place a Public Notice Obituaries Search Obituaries Place an Obituary Advertising Jobs Celebrations Customer Service 76° Partly Cloudy Saturday, July 4, 2026 E-edition Subscribe Facebook Twitter Bluesky LinkedIn Instagram Vimeo Menu Search Site search Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home Local Elections News Sports Living Business Opinion Multimedia Newsletters Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Editor's Pick Flock Safety, local officials share information about license plate readers Devan Filchak | The Journal Gazette Devan Filchak Metro and Enterprise Editor Author twitter Author email Jun 16, 2026 Jun 16, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Automatic license plate readers from Flock Safety in use in the city help prosecutors solve crimes but have drawn opposition over privacy concerns. Courtesy Flock Safety Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Prosecutors would likely not be able to solve as many cases without Flock Safety’s license plate reader cameras, Allen County’s chief counsel said Tuesday. The cameras have caught opposition from City Council members and citizens regarding their privacy, the data’s security and the Fort Wayne Police Department’s transparency. A $120,250 contract to renew the services for 36 cameras was initially shot down by council members before they decided to delay the final decision until July 28. Flock Safety representatives and Fort Wayne Police Department officials presented more information to council Tuesday about the technology in hopes of quelling fears. Tesa Helge of the Allen County prosecutor’s office said the technology has been instrumental in providing sufficient evidence for jurors in trials. It’s also helped locate suspects, such as Jermard Lewis, who was convicted of murdering 59-year-old cashier Perla Nieto at a Kroger grocery store on Dec. 7, 2023. Surveillance cameras caught Lewis’ vehicle but not the license plate. But investigators were able to use Flock to locate the silver SUV with a sunroof driven by Lewis. “This is a very quick arrest for the safety of the community and justice for Perla,” Helge said, “and I don’t believe that would have happened (without Flock) – certainly not as quickly.” Flock license plate readers are used by about 6,000 agencies across the country, and the cameras have supported more than a million investigations, said Holly Beilen, a Flock Safety spokesperson. She also shared information about how the technology works and how the data can be accessed. The Fort Wayne Police Department has to agree to share information with other agencies before they can access the data. Detective John Greenlee said the department works with more than 2,200 other agencies. Local investigators can only search Fort Wayne’s database after entering a case number and selecting an offense type. Police Chief P.J. Miller previously said the system hadn’t been audited by Internal Affairs. However, Sgt. Jonathan Cutler said Tuesday that the searches are audited every month. The system also automatically flags irregular searches, including ones that were searched by only one officer. Data is stored for 180 days before it’s deleted , Cutler said. That timeframe was chosen because it matches the department’s policy for holding onto officer-worn, body camera footage, he added. Council members asked for information for similar-sized cities that used the cameras. Andrew Blanchette, Flock territory sales manager, said data from cameras in the Michigan City and South Bend areas are used in 30 to 40 criminal cases every three months. Beilen said many myths surround Flock’s technology, including that the company sells data and the cameras can track people and use facial recognition. None of those are true, and the technology does not attach vehicles to specific drivers or owners, she said. When the contract was first considered last month, council members were split on the contract with a 5-4 vote. The opposition was from Councilwoman Rohli Booker, D-6th, and Councilmen Paul Ensley, R-1st; Nathan Hartman, R-3rd; Russ Jehl, R-2nd; and Scott Myers, R-4th. Before the final decision later that night, council members decided to hold off. Jehl first suggested waiting until July 14, and Hartman asked for a couple more weeks. The presentation and answers to council members’ questions did not seem to make opponents more comfortable with the technology’s use in Fort Wayne. About 20 people spoke during public comment, asking council members to vote against the Flock contract. Council members said after the meeting that they appreciated the presentation, but they need more information before a final decision. Councilwoman Rohli Booker, D-6th, said the presentation was helpful, but many concerns remain. “Do we have time to kind of mull those things over, connect with the police department, do some more research and ultimately make a decision about how we are going to move forward with this and how we’re going to make sure that we actually are protecting the citizens of our community as far as policy and surveillance and also supporting the police department too?” she said. “It’s not an easy thing. We have to weigh a lot of different things.” Councilman Paul Ensley, R-1st, said he appreciated receiving the information, but he’s not sure whether it was enough to change his mind. “Fundamentally, I don’t think it changes my calculation, which is not really even about the security of their systems or the effectiveness of their programs,” he said. “It’s really a question of safety versus personal liberty.” The contract is expected to be discussed July 28 at a 5:30 p.m. meeting at Citizens Square, 200 E. Berry St. dfilchak@jg.net Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Fort Wayne City Council unsure about continuing Flock license plate readers Whether the Fort Wayne Police Department can continue using 36 cameras placed throughout the city as license plate readers remains up in the air. Tags Flock Safety Fort Wayne Police License Plate Readers Cameras City Council Devan Filchak Metro and Enterprise Editor Author twitter Author email Follow Devan Filchak Most Read Former Three Rivers Festival leader uses experience for upcoming city parade Fort Wayne Community Schools announces new principals, administrators Recent divorce filings in Allen County – June 30 Northwest Allen County Schools board to consider new superintendent Public camping ban, military police and other laws go into effect July 1 Stocks Market Data by TradingView Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Vimeo Sections Local News Sports Living Business Opinion Multimedia Online Features Services Subscribe Submission Forms Calendar Email Alerts Search Weather Media Kit FW Magazine rate card Contact Us journalgazette.net 600 W. Main Street Fort Wayne, IN 46802 Phone: 260-461-8773 Email: jgnews@jg.net × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 The Journal Gazette 600 W. Main Street, Fort Wayne, IN | Terms of Use Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .