--- page 1 ---
The most important stories for you to know today
NEWS
Inglewood ICE activists
Push for protections ahead of World Cup
By LaMonica Peters | The LA Local
Published April 18, 2026 10:06 AM
Sponsored message
Audience-funded
nonprofit news
DONAT
E
LISTEN

--- page 2 ---
A coalition of community activists and supporters held a vigil Thursday evening near the Home Depot on Century Boulevard to
acknowledge those who were detained by masked agents earlier this year.
(LaMonica Peters / The LA Local)
Topline:
A coalition of community activists and supporters held a vigil Thursday evening near
the Home Depot on Century Boulevard to acknowledge those who were detained by
masked agents earlier this year.
The background: The vigil was organized by ING Fellowship, a grassroots organization
founded in 2018 to address issues affecting Inglewood residents, where about 25 people
gathered in the parking lot with flowers, candles and signs that read, “Boycott Home
Depot” and “Inglewood Unidos.”
Why now: The event was part of the group’s week of action to demand stronger
protections for immigrant families and more accountability from city leaders in the wake

--- page 3 ---
FULL STORY
HOUSING & HOMELESSNESS
Fed homelessness report
The federal point-in-time count is months overdue
By Marisa Kendall | CalMatters
Published May 13, 2026 3:46 PM
of ongoing federal immigration enforcement. 
Read on ... for more on the push for immigrant protections ahead of the World Cup.
Henry Wilkinson and Kristina Ross record a makeshift shelter during LAHSA's homeless count Jan. 20.
(Jordan Rynning / LAist)
Topline:

--- page 4 ---
FULL STORY
Every December, the federal government releases a report that reveals the number of
homeless residents in each state and across the country. It’s now May and the report,
which compiles data from a homeless census known as the “point-in-time count,” is
nowhere to be found.
Point in time count: For the past two decades, the federal Department of Housing and
Urban Development has required local regions to take a census of their homeless
populations every other year in a massive undertaking called the point-in-time count.
Volunteers go out on foot over a day or two in January and count every person they see
living outside. People sleeping in shelters are tallied as well. Counters also conduct
surveys of a sample of unhoused people, collecting extra data on people’s race, age,
gender, time spent homeless, medical and mental health conditions, and more. Each
jurisdiction must submit their count to HUD by the spring. They also release their local
data to the public. Meanwhile, HUD verifies the data, tallies the total count for each state
and for the country as a whole, submits a public report to Congress and uploads more
detailed data on its website.
Why it matters: While there’s no legal deadline, that report usually comes out in
December of the year of the count. It’s unclear why the 2025 report still isn’t out. The
delay is a problem because the report dictates how funding is allocated in California and
beyond. It also shapes policy decisions and provides the country’s main barometer for how
the homelessness crisis is being managed. The five-month delay is leaving public officials,
policymakers and advocates scratching their heads. California has filled the gap by
tallying its own data, showing a 9% drop in the number of people sleeping outside. But
unlike the official federal report, California’s analysis leaves out information such as the
race, age and mental health status of the people who are counted. And without the full
federal report, there’s no way to tell where California stands compared to other states.
Sponsored message

--- page 5 ---
NEWS
Olympic wage change?
Council considers delaying wage increases
Libby Rainey is a general assignment reporter. She covers the news that shapes Los Angeles and
how people change the city in return.
Published May 13, 2026 3:31 PM
Los Angeles City Council President Marqueece Harris-Dawson introduced the motion to delay minimum wage increases for
tourism workers.
(Samanta Helou Hernandez / LAist)
Topline:
The Los Angeles City Council is moving forward with a contentious plan to roll
back minimum wage increases for tourism workers, as the city faces the looming
prospect of a measure to repeal the business tax that could financially ruin the city
landing on the November ballot.

--- page 6 ---
FULL STORY
If you're enjoying this article, you'll love our daily newsletter, The LA Report. Each
weekday, catch up on the 5 most pressing stories to start your morning in 3
minutes or less.
SUBSCRIBE
The context: The move, approved in a 10-5 vote Wednesday, is an about-face for the
council, which voted just last year to increase the minimum wage for airport and hotel
workers in the city to $30 an hour by 2028. Now, the council is considering a plan to delay
that boost until 2030, slowing down the pace of annual increases to the minimum wage.
Why has the council shifted its position? City leaders are hoping to stave off a tax repeal
that would slash the city budget and lead to major cuts and lay-offs. Business leaders
behind that ballot initiative garnered enough signatures to get it placed on the ballot, but
could still withdraw it. They've indicated that they might if the council delays minimum
wage boosts.
What are city councilmembers saying? Council President Marqueece Harris-Dawson
said Wednesday the city was in ongoing discussions with labor and business leaders to
broker a compromise, and that he expected that the proposal the council was considering
would change as those discussions continue.
Keep reading ... for the history of the battle over wages for tourism workers in Los
Angeles.
Email

--- page 7 ---
NEWS
Military family
A look at one family's life as Iran war continues
By Juliana Kim | NPR
Published May 13, 2026 3:30 PM
(Stella Kalinina for NPR )
Topline:
Military life has always involved some degree of uncertainty. But for many families,
the war in Iran is the first time they are navigating the fear and unknowns that come
with having a loved one deployed to an ongoing conflict. NPR spent time with the
Los Angeles family of an Army reservist and got a close look at how the war — with
its bursts of fighting, shaky truce and slow-moving peace talks — has reshaped life
at home thousands of miles away.

--- page 8 ---
FULL STORY
EXPLORE LA
747 in Exposition Park?
Museum expansion edges closer to an opening date
Makenna Cramer has been covering space shuttle Endeavour's journey at the California Science
Center for nearly three years.
Published May 13, 2026 1:51 PM
A family's life on pause: Jessica Serrato's partner is expected to return to Los Angeles this
summer but she's skeptical. His return date has already been delayed a month. — meaning
he'll miss Laylah's birthday. About 50,000 American troops are currently deployed across
the Middle East as hostilities between the U.S. and Iran grind into a third month. The two
nations are once again at an impasse — with President Trump on Monday calling Iran's
latest demands "garbage" and warning that the ceasefire was on "massive life support."
Being deployed on short notice: A unique aspect to the current conflict is that many
service members are being deployed on short notice, according to Shannon Razsadin, the
CEO of the Military Family Advisory Network. A monthslong deployment typically
requires a lot of prep work for military families, such as managing finances and arranging
child care. During the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Razsadin said most families had
months to prepare. But under Operation Epic Fury, many service members were sent off in
a matter of days. Serrato's partner had a few months' notice before he left. But for families
of National Guard members or reservists, deployments can be especially challenging
because they often don't live near or on military bases — as in Serrato's case — making it
harder to access resources and support networks.

--- page 9 ---
Guests will be able to walk around the outside and inside of part of a Boeing 747-400, including the cockpit.
(Courtesy California Science Center )
Topline:
The California Science Center has installed the first of more than a dozen aircraft in
the museum’s 200,000-square-foot expansion coming to Exposition Park.
Why now: As of this week, the front portion of a Boeing 747-400 towers over the ground
floor of the Korean Air Aviation Gallery, one of three main spaces in the Samuel Oschin
Air and Space Center.
Why it matters: Once open to the public, the center will be the only place in the world to
see an authentic space shuttle in its “Go for Stack” position, which is what officials called
the months-long process of moving each component into place, according to the museum.

--- page 10 ---
FULL STORY
LOADING...
The backstory: The new center, which recently completed construction, is built around a
towering centerpiece:  space shuttle Endeavour in its 20-story vertical launch position.
What's next: Jeffrey Rudolph, president and CEO of the California Science Center, said
museum officials are working to announce an opening date for the center within the next
several weeks.
Go deeper: The Final Lift For Space Shuttle Endeavour’s 'Go For Stack' Mission

--- page 11 ---
Keep up with our local independent news
The L.A. Report newsletter is your daily morning update on the biggest stories in the Los Angeles
region.
SUBSCRIBE
About LAist
Editorial Staff
Careers
Sponsorship
Newsletters
Contact Us
Support Us
Ethics & Guidelines
Public Information
LAist is an independent, nonprofit newsroom that is also home to L.A.’s largest NPR station broadcasting at 89.3 FM. We
center our coverage around people and communities, not institutions or policies. We hold power to account. We are
unapologetically L.A.
 
© 2026 Southern California Public Radio - All Rights Reserved
Terms of Service
 Privacy Policy
Email