--- page 1 ---
NEWS
South Pasadena cancels contract with Flock
Safety, citing privacy concerns
Libby Rainey is a general assignment reporter. She covers the news that shapes Los Angeles and
how people change the city in return.
Published Mar 19, 2026 1:49 PM
There are 27 Flock cameras installed around the city of South Pasadena.
Sponsored message
Audience-funded
nonprofit news
DONAT
E
LISTEN

--- page 2 ---
This story is free to read because readers choose to support LAist. If you find value in independent
local reporting, make a donation to power our newsroom today.
(Libby Rainey / LAist)
The South Pasadena City Council moved Wednesday not to renew a contract with
Flock Safety, a controversial surveillance company that operates AI-powered
automated license plate readers in thousands of communities across the U.S.
The move ends the use of 14 cameras installed around town while city officials seek
alternative camera vendors.
The city still has a second contract with Flock for 13 operating cameras, which
capture the license plate numbers and locations of passing cars. That information is
temporarily stored in a database that's shared with law enforcement agencies across
the state.
The council's decision follows public outcry after reports that some local law
enforcement agencies in Southern California illegally shared license plate reader data
with federal immigration agents. Those included the Riverside County Sheriff’s
Office, which South Pasadena shares its data with.
Keep up with LAist.
If you're enjoying this article, you'll love our daily newsletter, The LA Report.
Each weekday, catch up on the 5 most pressing stories to start your morning in
3 minutes or less.
SUBSCRIBE
Email

--- page 3 ---
Trending on LAist
All aboard the D Line! First phase of historic Metro line
extension opens
LA City Council moves to ban LAPD from making pretextual
stops
A $10M fundraiser could save the land around Big Bear's bald eagle nest.
It's halfway over
"We probably wouldn't be here tonight if it'd been a different federal administration.
We could trust more, not so much chaos," City Councilmember Michael Cacciotti
said at Wednesday's meeting. "Many of our residents are very concerned about the
misuse and abuse of data."
The decision was not unanimous. City Councilmember Jon Primuth said he thought
people speaking out against Flock did not represent the majority of residents in
South Pasadena. He also expressed concern about moving to a different vendor for
automated license plate readers, since so many surrounding cities use the Flock
network. Pasadena and San Marino both have Flock cameras, as do many cities in
the L.A. area.
Sponsored message

--- page 4 ---
"I don't think there's anything to be gained by canceling a contract right now,"
Primuth said.
Council members also discussed shortening the time period that the city holds onto
its data from 30 to 15 days.
South Pasadena joins a handful of California cities that have reconsidered their
contracts with Flock in recent months. The first was Santa Cruz, which killed its
contract with Flock in January following reports that the city's data was accessed by
agencies outside of California and shared with ICE.
The Oxnard Police Department also suspended its use of Flock license plate readers,
after an audit revealed that data from the city's cameras was made available to federal
law enforcement agencies between February and March of 2025 through a
"nationwide query" setting, against the city's wishes and state law.
Flock responded to the incident, saying out-of-state law enforcement agencies' access
to some of its camera networks was "inadvertent" and it had strengthened its
protections. The company also says it does not work with ICE or any agency within
the Department of Homeland Security.
The incidents have sparked a deeper debate around automated license plate readers,
which have become ubiquitous in many communities without much notice. Local
law enforcement agencies say the cameras have greatly enhanced their ability to solve

--- page 5 ---
You come to LAist because you want independent reporting and trustworthy local information.
Our newsroom doesn’t answer to shareholders looking to turn a profit. Instead, we answer to
you and our connected community. We are free to tell the full truth, to hold power to
account without fear or favor, and to follow facts wherever they lead. Our only loyalty is to
our audiences and our mission: to inform, engage, and strengthen our community.
Right now, LAist has lost $1.7M in annual funding due to Congress clawing back money already
approved. The support we receive from readers like you will determine how fully our newsroom
can continue informing, serving, and strengthening Southern California.
If this story helped you today, please become a monthly member today to help sustain this
mission. It just takes 1 minute to donate below.
Your tax-deductible donation keeps LAist independent and accessible to everyone.
Megan Garvey
Senior Vice President News, Editor in Chief
Make your tax-deductible
donation today
Monthly
One time
crimes, while privacy advocates including the ACLU have called the technology a
dangerous "dragnet."
While South Pasadena scales back Flock's presence, some of its neighbors are adding
more. Pasadena has 61 Flock automated license plate readers and plans to install 11
additional cameras.

--- page 6 ---
Trending on LAist
FOOD
The birria soup dumpling is here and it's the most LA thing
we've ever eaten
$10
$15
$30
SUPPORT NOW
$ other

--- page 7 ---
VOTER GUIDES
Los Angeles mayor: Who's running in the June 2 primary and
why it matters
CRIMINAL JUSTICE

--- page 8 ---
Turner’s Outdoorsman is linked to the largest share of guns
traced to crimes in California
TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY
Arbitrator sides with union claiming LAX People Mover
subcontractor owes workers back pay
The Brief
Homelessness in LA
City agrees to boost housing and shelter options
3 hours ago
OC Dems pull endorsement
Assessor candidate denies former staff claims
3 hours ago
CA controller race
A look at the top candidates for controller
4 hours ago

--- page 9 ---
CalFresh in college
Study shows food access keeps students on track
4 hours ago
Hantavirus outbreak
LA officials monitoring potential virus reports
6 hours ago

--- page 10 ---
Keep up with our local independent news
The L.A. Report newsletter is your daily morning update on the biggest stories in the Los Angeles
region.
SUBSCRIBE
About LAist
Editorial Staff
Careers
Sponsorship
Newsletters
Contact Us
Support Us
Ethics & Guidelines
Public Information
LAist is an independent, nonprofit newsroom that is also home to L.A.’s largest NPR station broadcasting at 89.3 FM. We
center our coverage around people and communities, not institutions or policies. We hold power to account. We are
unapologetically L.A.
 
© 2026 Southern California Public Radio - All Rights Reserved
Terms of Service
 Privacy Policy
Email