source: packet.pdf
sha256: 557ac366119e2e99e74f713b9ab9d03d56240f1458b168f17256fef161158815
pages: 6
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting
April 2, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Sabrina Ocampo
Regina Trapp
Thomas Jelniker – Youth Commissioner
 Vacant – Youth Commissioner
 
 
AGENDA
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the regular meeting of March 5, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at
this time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
​2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs and Events Preview - Informational​
​Receive a presentation on the upcoming 2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs, and Events.​
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
1 of 6

--- page 2 ---
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 6

--- page 3 ---
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 
Regular Meeting 7:00 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
Chair Fields called the meeting to order at 7:04 PM.  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call  
 
Commissioners Present: Chair Fields, Vice Chair Wicher, Kiapi, Ocampo, and Trapp 
 
Youth Commissioners: Jelniker was absent.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion 
without discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
1. Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of February 5, 2025. 
 
5/0 Motion passed.  
 
Moved: Wicher  Seconded: Trapp 
Ayes: Wicher, Trapp, Ocampo, and Fields 
Noes: 
Abstained:  
PUBLIC COMMENT 
• 
Michael Ragan – Was interested in finding out any updates on the East Hillsdale Park. Also, mentioned 
the West Park needs upgrades/renovations.  
NEW BUSINESS 
2. Proposed Five-Year (Fiscal Year 2026-2030) Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Plan 
3 of 6

--- page 4 ---
Suzette Silberman, Business Manager, presented the Parks and Recreation Proposed Five-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan to FY 2026-2030.  
Public comment: There was no public comment for this item. 
Commissioners asked questions and provided comments and feedback including considering private 
investments for projects. Commissioners requested to get an update on current and on-going projects. 
Additionally, they suggested a joint meeting with the Measure S Oversight Committee.  
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Joanne Magrini, Director, provided an update on the following items:  
o City Council approval on Central Park Playground Contract, invitation for the 
groundbreaking ceremony coming next month. 
o State of the City happening on Monday, March 10 at the Library, please RSVP. 
o Summer Camp and Aquatics registration next week, residents on March 11 and non-
residents March 13.  
o Registration for Joinville pool is delayed due to planned repairs. 
o Police Activities League (PAL), recognition dinner on Friday, April 11th.  
o 48th Annual Eggstravaganza on Saturday, April 19 at Central Park  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:07 PM 
 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
 
 
 
 
4 of 6

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9812
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
April 02, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs and Events Preview - Informational
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the upcoming 2025 Summer Recreation Camps, Programs, and Events. 
BACKGROUND:
Summer is the peak season for Parks & Recreation, the longer days and school break allow us to offer a variety of activities 
to the entire San Mateo community. Alongside our regular programming, the department provides in-house camps, 
contracted camps, teen volunteer opportunities, aquatics programming, and a diverse range of events across multiple 
locations. 
This year, summer camps will run June 16 – August 8 and aquatic programs are offered June 16-August 9. The summer 
camp Activity Guide was made available to the public on February 5; registration opened on March 11 for San Mateo 
residents and March 13 for non-residents. In addition to summer camps and aquatics, we also offer regular programming 
including adult softball leagues, senior programs, dance, fitness and enrichment classes.  During the summer season, 
programs have historically generated approximately 35% of the annual department revenue of nearly $4.4 million. 
Another highlight of the season is our highly attended events which include the Central Park Music Series on Thursdays, 
from June 26 – August 14 and 4th of July in the Park. 
Amidst the excitement of summer activities, we proudly observe National Parks & Recreation Month in July. This serves as 
an opportunity to join parks and recreation departments across the nation to emphasize the creation of strong, vibrant, 
and resilient communities through the transformative power of parks and recreation. 
Summer provides a unique opportunity to strengthen community engagement through parks and recreation by offering 
diverse programs, employment and volunteer opportunities, and community events. These efforts not only enhance the 
quality of life for residents but also the connection and enjoyment of San Mateo’s public spaces. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
None.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
5 of 6

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None.
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager
zsilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7474
6 of 6