--- page 1 ---
NATIONAL
Some sanctuary states discover feds mining local license
plate data
HEARD ON ALL THINGS CONSIDERED
UPDATED NOVEMBER 12, 2025 · 1:24 PM ET 
Martin Kaste
Police rely on license plate cameras to help solve crimes. Recently, lookups of
this data have surged by federal agencies, who are potentially using it for
immigration enforcement in sanctuary states.
: [POST-BROADCAST CLARIFICATION Nov. 12, 2025: In this story, Holly Beilin
says, "Flock has never opted any agencies into sharing relationships that they did

--- page 2 ---
not opt themselves into." Since the story aired, NPR has learned that Flock Safety
admitted to at least one such case. In June, a company representative told San
Diego officials that their police department's data had been mistakenly made
available to other departments in California. Flock safety blamed a
"miscommunication on implementation," and said it corrected the setting.]
JUANA SUMMERS, HOST:
Local police have become increasingly reliant on license plate tracking cameras
to solve crimes, and federal investigators have noticed. There's been a recent
spike in federal searches of local data, which means police departments in some
sanctuary states may find themselves illegally sharing information for
immigration enforcement. NPR's Martin Kaste has the story.
MARTIN KASTE, BYLINE: This isn't new tech. For years now, police have used
automatic license plate readers to log when and where random passing cars are
seen in traffic. But what is new is how common the cameras have become.
PHIL NEFF: Some of the comments you see are, well, these are only tracking
criminals. But that's not true. It's everyone.
KASTE: Phil Neff is the research coordinator at the University of Washington's
Center for Human Rights. He's been looking at the internal audits from police
departments that store those license plate records in the cloud. The audits show
which other law enforcement agencies have looked at their records, and Neff was
shocked by how often the inquiries seemed to be coming from the feds.
NEFF: Over the summer, hundreds if not thousands of searches by U.S. Border
Patrol - and it would have keywords that were sometimes as vague as, like,
investigation or targeting.
KASTE: This could be a problem in a state like Washington, which limits the
information that local police can share with immigration enforcement.
RYAN RUTLEDGE: Yeah, it was alarming to hear that, and we wanted to dig in
right away and find out what we need to do.
KASTE: Ryan Rutledge is deputy chief of police in Renton, a suburb of Seattle. It
was one of the departments singled out by Neff's research. Like other

--- page 3 ---
departments, Renton says it didn't mean to share data with immigration
authorities, and Rutledge says the city temporarily locked down outside access
to its data while it took a closer look at its settings.
RUTLEDGE: You know, did we go in and click a box to give access to these
federal agencies? No, we did not.
KASTE: The police departments pointed to what they saw as a lack of clarity
about who had access through a setting called national lookup. The data system
they're using is run by Flock Safety. That's the company that supplies the license
plate readers.
HOLLY BEILIN: Flock has never opted any agencies into sharing relationships
that they did not opt themselves into.
KASTE: Flock Safety spokesperson Holly Beilin says these departments chose to
allow access to federal agencies, which is normal and legal in Washington when
it's a criminal matter, such as human trafficking.
BEILIN: We see agencies cooperate with federal agencies for these complex cases
that are very much within the purview of their laws. But again, that's not Flock, to
determine whether agencies cooperate with federal agencies or they don't. That is
entirely up to them.
KASTE: The problem is the uncertainty over how often the feds are looking at
plates for immigration cases. ICE didn't respond to NPR's request for comment,
but the Trump administration has strongly and repeatedly criticized sanctuary
states, accusing them of illegally obstructing immigration enforcement.
Another sanctuary state, California, bans police from sending license plate data
outside its borders, and Attorney General Rob Bonta recently sent letters to 20
local police departments, warning them that their systems were open to law
enforcement outside California. He says most of them seemed surprised.
ROB BONTA: It seemed like it wasn't voluntary. It was unwittingly. And they
changed the permissions and the sharing, and that was that from 19 of the 20.
They fixed the problem.

--- page 4 ---
KASTE: In the case of the 20th, though, the city of El Cajon, Bonta got pushback.
City manager Graham Mitchell tells NPR that they're not sharing data with the
feds, but they do believe they're allowed to share with police departments in
other states. AG Bonta is now suing the city, and he suspects it's funneling data
to the feds indirectly through requests from local police in places like Texas,
which work closely with ICE.
BONTA: There's search terms that were used, including immigration, immigration
enforcement, immigration violation, ICE assist.
KASTE: Some privacy groups say this whole situation shows the larger risk of
surveillance when police keep records of average Americans' comings and goings.
Bonta acknowledges that risk, but he doesn't go so far as to say the databases
aren't worth having, as long as his state enforces clear guardrails on who gets the
data. Martin Kaste, NPR News.
Copyright © 2025 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages
at www.npr.org for further information.
Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct
errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or
publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
Clarification
Nov. 13, 2025
In this story, Holly Beilin says, "Flock has never opted any agencies into sharing relationships
that they did not opt themselves into." Since the story aired, NPR has learned that Flock Safety
admitted to at least one such case. In June, a company representative told San Diego officials
that their police department's data had been mistakenly made available to other departments
in California. Flock Safety blamed a "miscommunication on implementation" and said it
corrected the setting.
READ & LISTEN
Home
News
CONNECT
Newsletters
Facebook

--- page 5 ---
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
ABOUT NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
GET INVOLVED
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Extra
terms of use
privacy
your privacy choices
text only