Sedro-Woolley turns off law enforcement cameras while it seeks court ruling | Local News | goskagit.com Opens in a new window Opens an external website Opens an external website in a new window This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy Accept Deny Non-Essential Manage Preferences Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook YouTube Instagram Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Subscribe Today Or get a Day Pass for only $1.99! Newsletters Sign up for news in your inbox every day! Read e-Edition Special Sections e-Edition How-To Subscriber Services Subscribe Manage Subscription (Pay Your Bill, Vacation Request, Update Account Info) Subscriber Savings Newsletters Contact Customer Service Submit News Submit News and Photos Submit your advertising Photo News Local News Crime Elections Environment Business Education State News Gallery Video Wildfires National News Sports High School Sports High School Sports Stats National Sports Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit Letter Community Local Events Contests Health Local Churches Submit Calendar Info The Skagit Valley Herald Christmas Fund Fondo de Navidad Best of Skagit 2025 Women in Business 2025 Faces of Skagit 2026 Local Eats Obituaries View Obituaries Place an obituary Classifieds Careers Homes Legal Notices Service Directory Vehicles View Classifieds Marketplace Magazines Our Publications goSkagit goAnacortes SC News Entertainment 360 Grow Skagit Make An Announcement Birthdays Engagement Wedding Birth Anniversary Site Services About Us Contact Us Advertising Add A Calendar Event Legal Notices Terms of Use Browse the Archives goSkagit goAnacortes SC News Entertainment 360 GrowSkagit Marketplace Latest E-Edition Skagit Valley Herald Manage Your Subscription Friday, May 8, 2026 Print Edition e-Edition How-To Mobile App Facebook YouTube Instagram Email 55° Cloudy Menu Search Site search Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout SUBSCRIBE Home News Local News Crime Wild Fires Elections Environment Business Education Politics & Elections State News Photos Sports High School Sports Stats National Sports Skagit County Athletes of the Week Nominate Your Athlete of the Week Opinion Letters_to_the_editor Conversation Submit a Letter Events Community Contests Health Local Churches Submit Info Argus Fund Christmas Fund Fondo de Navidad Obits Place an Obituary Classifieds Careers Homes Legal Notices Place an Ad Service Directory Vehicles Video Special Sections This website uses certain cookies, pixels and similar tracking technologies in order enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Certain information collected by that technology may be shared with our third party partners. By continuing to use this website, you agree to the use of these technologies. Prev Previous Previous Property owners concerned about taxes more than doubling SEDRO-WOOLLEY — A significant property tax increase on a 4.9… Next Next Up Next Up Second candidate enters race for PUD board A second candidate has entered the race for a seat on the Sk… Sedro-Woolley turns off law enforcement cameras while it seeks court ruling VINCE RICHARDSON and MILO WHITMAN Skagit Valley Herald Vince Richardson Newsroom Author email Oct 24, 2025 Oct 24, 2025 0 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email This photo provided by Flock Safety shows what the company’s cameras look like. Flock Safety photo Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save The city of Sedro-Woolley is no longer using cameras that read license plates while it seeks a court ruling on whether images recorded by the cameras are considered public records. Police Chief Dan McIlraith said the seven Flock Safety cameras that went live in Sedro-Woolley in March were disabled in June. “The system is currently disabled and not collecting any data,” McIlraith said. “They are still out there, but they are not on.” According to court records, the Sedro-Woolley Police Department received a public records request on May 29 for data logs and images created by the Flock Safety cameras from 5 to 5:30 p.m. on May 5. Sedro-Woolley and the city of Stanwood, which had a similar public records request from the same person, are asking a Skagit County Superior Court judge to determine if what was requested is subject to the state Public Records Act. In a motion for declaratory judgment file July 16, lawyers for the two cities wrote, “The Cities respectfully request the Court issue a Declaratory Judgment that the data and images stored in the Flock AWS Cloud system are not public records unless and until a public agency accesses the particular data.” A hearing on the motion is scheduled for Nov. 6. The city of Mount Vernon, which has six Flock Safety cameras, is continuing to use its cameras. THE VALUE OF THE CAMERAS The cities of Sedro-Woolley and Mount Vernon still believe in the value of the Flock cameras, which are touted as being able to aid law enforcement in identifying vehicles associated with suspects, witnesses or victims of crimes. The cameras record vehicle data, including license plate information as well as vehicle descriptors such as type, make and color along with other identifiers, including bumper stickers. In the short time they were used by the Sedro-Woolley Police Department, they proved beneficial. “Right off the bat, Whatcom County had a robbery and it was entered into the system and as soon as (the suspects) came into town, we were able to arrest them for theft,” McIlraith said. “We also located a missing person from Sammamish who was suffering from Alzheimer’s and had made it to Sedro-Woolley, so we got a hit on the plate and then we were able to perform caretaking of the individual and get him back where he belonged.” Mount Vernon Police Chief Dan Christman said that his city’s Flock cameras have aided in solving a couple cases involving stolen vehicles. He said that in the case of a missing person, the Flock cameras would be especially helpful. In times of tighter city budgets, the cameras have added value. Mount Vernon paid $38,550 for the installation of its six cameras and pay a yearly fee to Flock Safety of about $18,000. “If you put it side by side, it’s $18,000 (a year) for six cameras versus somewhere between $140,000 and $160,000 (for an officer) with salary and benefits and screening and equipment and uniforms and everything that goes along with a single body,” Christman said. “So cost wise, I feel like we’re being fiscally responsible.” Sedro-Woolley signed a two-year contract with Flock for $44,548. Despite his Flock cameras not being in use, McIlraith still believes in what they offer his city. “We believe this program is beneficial to our town,” McIlraith said. “It provides a great ability to solve crimes when you wouldn’t otherwise.” Christman said some residents may have concerns regarding their photo being captured by Flock cameras. He said that the cameras don’t use facial recognition and solely capture images of license plates and the car. “One of the really big fears in our community right now is biometrics and facial recognition software… (It’s) just a camera that takes a picture of a vehicle,” Christman said. And Flock data is not shared with federal agencies for immigration enforcement. The Keep Washington Working Act is a state law that “restricts the extent to which local law enforcement agencies may participate in the enforcement of federal immigration laws.” Christman said he and his staff stand by that law. Mount Vernon Police Department Lt. David Shackleton said, “That’s not something we do. That’s the job of the federal government.” The data recorded by Flock cameras is only accessed during an investigation and is deleted after 30 days, Christman said. Vince Richardson can be reached at 360-416-2181, vrichardson@skagitpublishing.com Milo Whitman can be reached at mwhitman@skagitpublishing.com or 360-428-0400 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Vince Richardson Newsroom Author email Follow Vince Richardson Recommended for you × Post a comment as anonymous Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (0) comments Welcome to the discussion. Log In Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd, racist or sexually-oriented language. PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK. Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated. Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone or anything. Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person. Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts. Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article. Post a comment Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Submit your event now. Local Events Local Events Footer Offer Promo CARRIERS NEEDED! Local News Worth Delivering Become a newspaper carrier for the Skagit Valley Herald and earn up to $1,500 a month. Apply Today! goskagit.com 1215 Anderson Road Mount Vernon, WA 98274 Phone: 360-424-3251 Email: classified@skagitpublishing.com Sections goSkagit goAnacortes SC News Entertainment 360 Grow Skagit E-Edition Classifieds Obituaries Calendar Directory Subscribe Today goskagit.com 1215 Anderson Road Mount Vernon, WA 98274 Phone: 360-424-3251 Email: classified@skagitpublishing.com Services Contact Customer Service Contact Us Email Newsroom Email Advertising Email Circulation Email Classified About Us Report a Delivery Issue Manage Your Subscription Community Room Stanwood-Camano Phonebook Subscriber Savings APG State News Follow Us Facebook YouTube Instagram Skagit Publishing Social Media Policy Submissions Promote Your Event Submit News Send a Letter to the Editor Submit an obituary Birthday Announcement Engagement Announcement Wedding Announcement Birth Announcement Anniversary Announcement Follow Us Facebook YouTube Instagram × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Skagit Valley Herald 1215 Anderson Road, Mount Vernon, WA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Privacy Manager Back × Log In Sign Up You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone CAPTCHA Create Account or Sign up with Newzware Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link or Sign in with Newzware Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted Sign in with Email Address Continue with Email Address or Continue with Newzware What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close