Driver wins $76 after ALPR led to bogus traffic stop, drug searches - Ars Technica Privacy Center Currently, only residents from GDPR countries and certain US states can opt out of Tracking Technologies through our Consent Management Platform. Additional options regarding these technologies may be available on your device, browser, or through industry options like AdChoices. Please see our Privacy Policy for more information. Social Media On These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Essential On This website uses essential cookies and services to enable core website features and provide a seamless user experience. These cookies and services are used to facilitate features such as navigation, remember user preferences, and ensure the security of the website. Targeted On These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. OK English Deutsch Español Français Italiano 日本語 繁體中文 en Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to content Ars Technica home Sections Forum Subscribe Search AI Biz & IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Feature Reviews AI Biz & IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Forum Subscribe Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only Learn more Pin to story Theme HyperLight Day & Night Dark System Search Sign In KIKI SAID SO Driver wins $76 after ALPR led to bogus traffic stop, drug searches Mass surveillance gets stupider. Cyrus Farivar – Oct 8, 2026 7:42 PM | 61 Credit: Getty Images | Joseph Sohm/Visions of America Credit: Getty Images | Joseph Sohm/Visions of America Text settings Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only Learn more Minimize to nav A federal jury in Texas recently ruled in favor of a man who sued Bexar County and its sheriff over allegations that the agency ran what the plaintiff’s attorneys called an “unconstitutional traffic stop scheme” enabled by “AI-powered” license plate readers. Late last month, plaintiff Alek Schott of Houston was awarded $76, one dollar for each minute that he was detained. (Schott asked for this exact amount as symbolic compensation.) “After the stop, I filed a complaint with the Sheriff’s Office because I knew what happened to me was wrong,” Schott said in a statement after his win. “The department reviewed it, told me they didn’t see any violation, and said if I had a problem with it, I should sue them. So I did.” Suspicion In his civil complaint , Schott outlined a wild tale. Schott had been driving his pickup truck home from a work trip to Carrizo Springs, in the southwestern part of the state, in March 2022. While in Bexar County, which covers the area around San Antonio, a police officer pulled Schott over for “lane drifting.” The father of two was questioned by deputy Joel Babb, who admitted later that the stated reason for the traffic stop was bogus. The real reason for the stop was that Babb had received a tip via a law enforcement WhatsApp group. It came from someone named “ Kiki ,” who allegedly worked with a federal fusion center in Laredo. Kiki apparently had near real-time access to automated license plate reader data. According to Babb’s deposition, Kiki told him that Schott’s truck had made a potentially suspicious “one-day turnaround.” That is, Schott drove all the way from Houston, stopped in Carrizo Springs for one night, and then returned home to Houston the next day. (Schott sells oilfield supplies.) To authorities, this was apparently enough to make one look like a smuggling suspect. After seeing the WhatsApp message, Babb waited for Schott’s vehicle and pulled it over once it passed his location. During the traffic stop, Babb said that he was on the “Criminal Interdiction Unit” looking for “human smuggling, drug smuggling, and all those things like that.” According to the Institute for Justice , which helped Schott with his lawsuit, the entire stop was a travesty. “Footage from Alek’s own dashcam shows he never drifted lanes,” the group said. “Bodycam footage from the deputy shows Alek gave the officer calm, mundane answers about a run-of-the-mill work trip. Nothing about what he said was suspicious, but the deputy called a drug dog anyway. And moments before the dog alerted by jumping on the truck, the handler’s bodycam shows that he signaled the dog.” Schott was detained for 76 minutes while his truck was thoroughly searched. Cops found nothing, despite the drug dog’s alert. Schott eventually sued Bexar County. In late September, he won—the jury gave him the token $76 he requested. “Money was never what mattered,” his lawyers said. “This was and has always been about the Constitution. IJ will now ask the court to enjoin Bexar County from using baseless traffic stops as a tool for warrantless searches, and will work to enforce the precedent across the state.” “This is what mass surveillance looks like when it reaches the shoulder of the highway,” Josh Windham, one of Schott’s attorneys, said in a statement. “An AI-powered camera flagged Alek’s plate. An anonymous law enforcement agent decided his completely ordinary trip looked suspicious. And a deputy went out and found a violation that never happened.” The Bexar County Sheriff’s Office, which touts its use of Flock Safety cameras , declined Ars’ request for comment. Who watches the watchers? Longtime critics of license plate readers generally, and Flock in particular, told Ars that scrutiny of this technology is increasing. “I think this case seems like a pretty quintessential example of what we’re seeing more and more as the public digs into ALPR surveillance: AI tech that vendors sell with pie-in-the-sky promises to improve public safety often face a tough reality check,” Jake Laperruque , deputy director of the Center of Democracy and Technology’s Security and Surveillance Project, wrote in an email to Ars. “The truth is that ALPRs create serious dangers for Americans’ civil liberties, and if there aren’t sensible guardrails and checks on how these powerful tools are used, they also create serious risks to public safety with drivers being improperly pulled over or stalked by officers abusing the tech.” 61 Comments Comments Forum view Loading comments... Prev story Next story Most Read 1. “Software is over”: Bold AI developer takes aim at Adobe with open source clones 2. SpaceX calls for better coordination in orbit after near-misses with Starlink 3. Feds get ready to rewrite car headlight rules 4. Amazon builds 1,000th satellite, will launch space internet service by end of year 5. Let's Encrypt cuts certificate lifetimes to 64 days starting February 2027 Customize Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important. More from Ars About Us Staff Directory Newsletters General FAQ Posting Guidelines AI Policy RSS Feeds Contact Contact us Advertise with us Reprints Manage Preferences © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and Your California Privacy Rights . Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Sign in dialog... Sign in