--- page 1 ---
WHOOPS
Boston dumps Flock, says it shared data nationwide in
violation of contract
City: Flock enabled “nationwide lookup” despite contract requiring it to be disabled.
JON BRODKIN – SEP 15, 2026 6:14 PM |
 67
Flock license plate reader and camera with solar panel in Pleasant Hill, California on April 16, 2026.
Credit: Getty Images | Smith Collection/Gado
TEXT SETTINGS
The Boston city government abandoned Flock Safety’s license-plate reader cameras after the
company shared data nationwide in violation of a contract provision, according to city officials.
“We have actually abandoned Flock,” Boston Mayor Michelle Wu said in her monthly “Ask the
Mayor” segment on GBH News last week. Wu made the comment a few days before the release of
SECTIONS
FORUM
SIGN IN

--- page 2 ---
Boston’s annual surveillance technology report, which said a Flock “vendor error” resulted in
nationwide data sharing.
The report, which covers 2025, describes how the Boston Police Department deployed about 45
Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) cameras in a trial with Flock from April to September last
year. The unauthorized data sharing occurred during the first few days of the pilot, the report said:
The report didn’t say how many law enforcement agencies accessed the data. The problem with
Flock didn’t stop Boston from seeking another vendor of license-plate reader technology. The
police department started another license-plate reader trial with Motorola in February 2026 and a
third trial with Axon in June 2026.
ARS VIDEO
 
Pursuant to the contract, the Flock ALPR Pilot Program was designed to restrict access
to the data collected by BPD ALPR cameras exclusively to trained BPD personnel. The
contract clearly noted that data sharing was to be disabled, and BPD confirmed with
Flock that settings were “off” for sharing. Within three days of initiating the Pilot, BPD
became aware that other law enforcement agencies were able to access license plate
and vehicle information collected from BPD ALPR cameras using a nationwide lookup
feature that was enabled by the vendor in error. Upon learning of the vendor error, BPD
ensured that the function was immediately disabled and access to the Department’s
data was no longer available without submitting a written request to BPD as described
above. No further direct access was available for the duration of the Pilot.

--- page 3 ---
Boston’s report comes amid a larger privacy debate over law enforcement access to license-plate
camera data. An Electronic Frontier Foundation report yesterday described how the nationwide
lookup tool lets police conduct searches with little or no justification.
ADVERTISEMENT
“An EFF analysis of ALPR search logs from Flock Safety systems shows that officers across the
country are spying on drivers for completely nonsensical ‘reasons,’” the EFF wrote. “Police are
routinely searching the Flock database without providing any legitimate justification, making a
mockery of our civil liberties by logging reasons like ‘LOL’ (short for ‘laugh out loud’), ‘LMAO’ (short
for ‘laughing my ass off’), ‘sexy,’ and ‘idk’ (short for ‘I don’t know’) to access sensitive ALPR location
data.”
The EFF wrote that “Flock Safety claims it has improved its system by requiring officers to select
from a dropdown list of crimes before running a search,” but the new system in place since late
2025 “does not require proof that the dropdown reason actually matches the true purpose of the
search.”
Boston will keep using cameras, just not Flock’s
When asked if the city will keep using license-plate cameras as long as there are appropriate
constraints, Wu replied, “Yes, we need a publicly approved and authorized policy to guarantee all
of those protections, privacy, civil liberties, and if that’s in place, then we should deploy technology
to be able to keep people safe and solve crimes faster.”
Boston’s annual report said the city requires vendors to agree not to share license-plate-reader
data and to erase recordings after 30 days unless police request that video be retained for legal or
investigative purposes.
“The police department has been piloting different versions [of the technology] to better
understand where vehicles might be going,” Wu said. City officials need to “know exactly who can
access that data, how it will be retained, how long will it be saved for,” she said.
“It can really help with safety in a lot of ways, but it has to be used responsibly,” Wu said. “When the
toggles or the access controls either are not able to be restricted in the ways that conform with that
policy, or are set but then can be unset or reset in ways that violate that policy, we would not use
that platform.”

--- page 4 ---
PREV STORY
NEXT STORY
JON BRODKIN SENIOR IT REPORTER
Jon is a Senior IT Reporter for Ars Technica. He covers the telecom industry, Federal
Communications Commission rulemakings, broadband consumer affairs, court cases, and
government regulation of the tech industry.
67 COMMENTS
As we wrote last month, cities have been dropping Flock at an accelerating pace “over concerns
regarding out-of-control surveillance, unwanted data sharing, high expenses, and reports of police
abusing the tool.” However, the company told Ars at the time that, “so far in 2026, new city
partnerships have outpaced nonrenewals by approximately 10 to 1.” We contacted Flock today
about the Boston city report and will update this article if it provides a response.
MOST READ
1.
This Atlantic hurricane season is about to do something that hasn't
happened in 175 years

--- page 5 ---
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea
of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
MORE FROM ARS
ABOUT US
STAFF DIRECTORY
ARS NEWSLETTERS
GENERAL FAQ
POSTING GUIDELINES
AI POLICY
RSS FEEDS
CONTACT
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
REPRINTS
2.
For the first time, the US military confirms it has deployed weapons in
orbit
3.
SpaceX declares Starship ready for orbit, sets launch date next week
4.
Steam Frame: The Ars Technica review
5.
"Offensively cheap": Solar power is looking up

--- page 6 ---
Manage Preferences
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and
Your California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices