Lawmakers target Flock cameras with a threat to highway funding - Ars Technica Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please email privacy_administration@condenast.com or call 1-877-241-4999 . Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to content Ars Technica home Sections Forum Subscribe Search AI Biz & IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Feature Reviews AI Biz & IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Forum Subscribe Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only Learn more Pin to story Theme HyperLight Day & Night Dark System Search Sign In They’re watching us Lawmakers target Flock cameras with a threat to highway funding A bipartisan bill would restrict Flock cameras to a handful of public safety uses. Paresh Dave, wired.com – Sep 16, 2026 2:03 PM | 58 Credit: Barry Chin/Getty Credit: Barry Chin/Getty Text settings Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only Learn more Minimize to nav A bipartisan pair of US lawmakers tell WIRED they plan to introduce legislation today that would strip federal funding from states that fail to restrict the use of Flock cameras and other automated license plate readers. The devices, which help police track the location of vehicles tied to crimes, have become the subject of nationwide backlash in recent months over more nefarious uses by officers. The No FLOCK Act—for Federal License-Plate Observation and Camera Keeping—directs the US secretary of transportation to withhold 10 percent of annual financial support due to states for highways, roads, and bridges if it fails to ban Flock and similar devices for all but five use cases. Congressmen Raja Krishnamoorthi, a Democrat representing Chicago suburbs, and Michael Cloud, a Republican whose Texas district includes Corpus Christi, are cosponsoring the bill. The legislation says that Flock cameras could be used only for “enforcing toll systems, identifying stolen vehicles, missing or endangered persons, vehicles registered to persons with a warrant for a felony offense, or investigating a vehicle involved in a felony offense.” Notably absent are uses like conducting traffic studies, investigating minor drug crimes, and enforcing parking and speeding rules. “Our investigation into Flock exposed serious gaps in oversight, and this bipartisan bill would put clear limits in place to prevent abuse while preserving legitimate public safety uses,” Krishnamoorthi said in a statement. But the bill stops short of banning Flock systems altogether, which has been the number one demand from supporters of a global protest movement against the Atlanta-based company and its competitors. It also doesn’t stop Flock users from broadly sharing license plate tracking data with other government agencies, including immigration authorities. Flock did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the proposed bill. If the legislation passes this year, states that fail to comply with it would begin losing out on tens of millions to hundreds of millions of dollars in annual transportation funding starting in October 2028. The Department of Transportation calculates the amount of so-called surface transportation funds it gives to states based on factors such as how many roadways they have and how busy they are. Congress has repeatedly threatened taking away the funding to pressure states into taking action on public safety. The tactic helped establish a national minimum drinking age, standard rules for what constitutes driving under the influence, and regulations for billboards alongside highways. Another bipartisan bill introduced in Congress recently called for banning the use of federal funding to purchase Flock cameras. Flock’s lobbying spending in Washington, DC, has been steady over the past 18 months, and it recently hired a fifth firm to help with the efforts, according to federal records. Tech backlash A number of issues related to emerging technologies, including rogue AI systems , data center construction , and law enforcement abuse of Flock cameras , have become major topics in the upcoming US midterm elections , which are now less than two months away. But it’s unclear whether any legislation designed to address voters’ concerns will advance through Congress anytime soon, let alone gain the approval of President Donald Trump. The president expressed support for Flock cameras on Sunday, telling reporters that they help law enforcement authorities. Lawmakers largely agree, but they are frustrated by cases in which police officers have been caught using Flock footage for personal reasons, such as stalking their one-time romantic partners . One report found at least 100 instances of alleged abuse over the past eight years. “Taxpayers shouldn’t be forced to fund the shredding of their own civil liberties or the growth of a surveillance state,” Cloud said in a statement. “Flock cameras are enabling mass surveillance of Americans, infringing on the Fourth Amendment.” About 25 states and US territories have laws about automated license plate readers, including mandating transparency about the systems and requiring unnecessary data to be promptly deleted, but few of the measures limit types of uses, according to the New York University School of Law’s Policing Project. The bill is “a first step toward reining in unchecked surveillance,” Cloud said, adding, “we can protect public safety without sacrificing the privacy of Americans.” This story originally appeared on wired.com . WIRED WIRED Wired.com is your essential daily guide to what's next, delivering the most original and complete take you'll find anywhere on innovation's impact on technology, science, business and culture. 58 Comments Comments Forum view Loading comments... Prev story Next story Most Read 1. Iran strikes on Amazon data centers caused permanent loss of customer data 2. macOS 27 Golden Gate: The Ars Technica review 3. This Atlantic hurricane season is about to do something that hasn't happened in 175 years 4. Apple reportedly building server packed with M-series Ultra chips for AI 5. Scientists develop new method for deciphering ancient scrolls Customize Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important. More from Ars About Us Staff Directory Ars Newsletters General FAQ Posting Guidelines AI Policy RSS Feeds Contact Contact us Advertise with us Reprints Manage Preferences © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and Your California Privacy Rights . Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Sign in dialog... Sign in