--- page 1 ---
KIKI SAID SO
Driver wins $76 after ALPR led to bogus traffic stop, drug
searches
Mass surveillance gets stupider.
CYRUS FARIVAR – OCT 8, 2026 7:42 PM |
 61
Credit: Getty Images | Joseph Sohm/Visions of America
TEXT SETTINGS
A federal jury in Texas recently ruled in favor of a man who sued Bexar County and its sheriff over
allegations that the agency ran what the plaintiff’s attorneys called an “unconstitutional traffic
stop scheme” enabled by “AI-powered” license plate readers.
SECTIONS
FORUM
SIGN IN

--- page 2 ---
Late last month, plaintiff Alek Schott of Houston was awarded $76, one dollar for each minute that
he was detained. (Schott asked for this exact amount as symbolic compensation.)
“After the stop, I filed a complaint with the Sheriff’s Office because I knew what happened to me
was wrong,” Schott said in a statement after his win. “The department reviewed it, told me they
didn’t see any violation, and said if I had a problem with it, I should sue them. So I did.”
Suspicion
In his civil complaint, Schott outlined a wild tale.
Schott had been driving his pickup truck home from a work trip to Carrizo Springs, in the
southwestern part of the state, in March 2022. While in Bexar County, which covers the area around
San Antonio, a police officer pulled Schott over for “lane drifting.”
The father of two was questioned by deputy Joel Babb, who admitted later that the stated reason
for the traffic stop was bogus.
The real reason for the stop was that Babb had received a tip via a law enforcement WhatsApp
group. It came from someone named “Kiki,” who allegedly worked with a federal fusion center in
Laredo. Kiki apparently had near real-time access to automated license plate reader data.
According to Babb’s deposition, Kiki told him that Schott’s truck had made a potentially suspicious
“one-day turnaround.” That is, Schott drove all the way from Houston, stopped in Carrizo Springs
for one night, and then returned home to Houston the next day. (Schott sells oilfield supplies.) To
authorities, this was apparently enough to make one look like a smuggling suspect.
After seeing the WhatsApp message, Babb waited for Schott’s vehicle and pulled it over once it
passed his location. During the traffic stop, Babb said that he was on the “Criminal Interdiction
Unit” looking for “human smuggling, drug smuggling, and all those things like that.”
ADVERTISEMENT
According to the Institute for Justice, which helped Schott with his lawsuit, the entire stop was a
travesty. “Footage from Alek’s own dashcam shows he never drifted lanes,” the group said.
“Bodycam footage from the deputy shows Alek gave the officer calm, mundane answers about a
run-of-the-mill work trip. Nothing about what he said was suspicious, but the deputy called a drug

--- page 3 ---
PREV STORY
NEXT STORY
61 COMMENTS
dog anyway. And moments before the dog alerted by jumping on the truck, the handler’s bodycam
shows that he signaled the dog.”
Schott was detained for 76 minutes while his truck was thoroughly searched. Cops found nothing,
despite the drug dog’s alert.
Schott eventually sued Bexar County. In late September, he won—the jury gave him the token $76
he requested.
“Money was never what mattered,” his lawyers said. “This was and has always been about the
Constitution. IJ will now ask the court to enjoin Bexar County from using baseless traffic stops as a
tool for warrantless searches, and will work to enforce the precedent across the state.”
“This is what mass surveillance looks like when it reaches the shoulder of the highway,” Josh
Windham, one of Schott’s attorneys, said in a statement. “An AI-powered camera flagged Alek’s
plate. An anonymous law enforcement agent decided his completely ordinary trip looked
suspicious. And a deputy went out and found a violation that never happened.”
The Bexar County Sheriff’s Office, which touts its use of Flock Safety cameras, declined Ars’ request
for comment.
Who watches the watchers?
Longtime critics of license plate readers generally, and Flock in particular, told Ars that scrutiny of
this technology is increasing.
“I think this case seems like a pretty quintessential example of what we’re seeing more and more
as the public digs into ALPR surveillance: AI tech that vendors sell with pie-in-the-sky promises to
improve public safety often face a tough reality check,” Jake Laperruque, deputy director of the
Center of Democracy and Technology’s Security and Surveillance Project, wrote in an email to Ars.
“The truth is that ALPRs create serious dangers for Americans’ civil liberties, and if there aren’t
sensible guardrails and checks on how these powerful tools are used, they also create serious risks
to public safety with drivers being improperly pulled over or stalked by officers abusing the tech.”

--- page 4 ---
MOST READ
1.
“Software is over”: Bold AI developer takes aim at Adobe with open source
clones
2.
SpaceX calls for better coordination in orbit after near-misses with
Starlink
3.
Feds get ready to rewrite car headlight rules
4.
Amazon builds 1,000th satellite, will launch space internet service by end
of year
5.
Let's Encrypt cuts certificate lifetimes to 64 days starting February 2027

--- page 5 ---
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea
of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
MORE FROM ARS
ABOUT US
STAFF DIRECTORY
NEWSLETTERS
GENERAL FAQ
POSTING GUIDELINES
AI POLICY
RSS FEEDS
CONTACT
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
REPRINTS
Manage Preferences
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and
Your California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices