--- page 1 ---
“LUDICROUS”
Texas city demands $2M for public records on Flock
usage
Prices of public records tracking cops’ use of Flock go up as backlash swells.
ASHLEY BELANGER – OCT 5, 2026 8:31 PM |
 60
Credit: Justin Sullivan / Staff | Getty Images News
TEXT SETTINGS
As bipartisan backlash against Flock grows, some cities are asking anti-surveillance advocates and
media outlets to pay eye-popping fees—including charging tens of thousands or even millions—to
get information about how police departments are using and potentially abusing AI-enabled
camera systems that track every vehicle that passes them.
SECTIONS
FORUM
SIGN IN

--- page 2 ---
On Monday, the Texas Tribune reported that city officials in a Fort Worth suburb, North Richland
Hills, asked one group to pay $2.3 million before it would fulfill a public records request for Flock
data. To reach that high fee, officials claimed that searching “about a terabyte worth of
communications about errors, misuse, and effectiveness of the Flock system” would take
approximately 14 years of labor at a rate of $15 per hour.
Phil Mynona, who filed the request using a pseudonym on behalf of his group, the Texas Privacy
Coalition, told the Tribune that the fee seemed “ludicrous” and designed to stifle his public records
searches.
Mynona has sought similar records from more than 200 law enforcement agencies across the US,
and he said it was impossible to predict how cities assessed fees for Flock records. Some cities
provided more than 400,000 pages of documents for free, while others charged $5,000. Other
groups, including a Houston news station called KPRC, have seen officials quote up to $121,000 for
Flock records, the Tribune reported.
The high price tags may be hiding data that anti-surveillance groups note have triggered audits,
arrests, and changes in how law enforcement uses cameras, including decisions to get rid of
cameras. Many cops have been found using the cameras to stalk strangers and people in their
personal lives, and so far, Flock has yet to introduce meaningful reforms to confront its stalker cop
problem.
ARS VIDEO
How Scientists Respond to Science Deniers
Texas is a perfect example of how increasing transparency about police use of Flock cameras works
to protect the public from invasive searches that serve no lawful purpose. Last week, an ex-Texas

--- page 3 ---
cop, Zachary Anthony Klein, reportedly pled guilty to 100 felony counts of misuse of official
information, which he agreed to do in exchange for the state not pursuing charges related to
stalking several people. Klein’s Flock abuse—along with another cop’s—was outed after USA Today
submitted a public records request that sparked a probe, then his arrest. Disturbed by the case,
Texas Governor Greg Abbott quickly halted Flock funding and stopped issuing permits, the Tribune
noted.
ADVERTISEMENT
Additionally concerning are officials who deny requests outright. Consider that the Tribune
reported that the state Department of Public Safety has sought help from “the Attorney General’s
Office to allow it to withhold the entirety” of Flock data that the Texas Tribune has requested. And
that denial came after DPS had already responded to an identical request seeking data from prior
weeks, the Tribune noted.
Flock misuse recently ruled unconstitutional
Flock maintains that its automated license plate readers (ALPR) are designed for public safety,
while courts have largely agreed that cops can reasonably access Flock databases without
infringing Fourth Amendment rights. But ongoingly, there are cases dominating the headlines that
show a widening web of privacy risks, including not just illegal surveillance by police but also
hackers or bad actors improperly accessing data that can be used to track people’s daily
movements.
Courts may start to rethink their stance on Flock, with one federal judge in Oklahoma last week
ruling that a cop conducted an unconstitutional search when searching a Flock database simply
because a woman’s license plate was from California,” 404 Media reported.
That judge, Sara Hill, argued that Flock’s network “is a type of indiscriminate mass surveillance,”
with its ALPR technology creating a “large-scale, dragnet-type surveillance system” that should
require a warrant to search.
A Flock spokesperson told 404 Media that the company had nothing to do with the case but
expects Hill’s ruling to be an outlier that will likely be appealed and overturned.
Importantly, Hill’s decision does not set any precedent, but it could be influential as one of the first
to recognize that Flock searches can be unconstitutional. 404 Media said they reviewed audits

--- page 4 ---
showing “there are currently more than a hundred thousand warrantless searches of the Flock
system every month.” Sometimes innocent people are arrested, including one man jailed for a
month based on a Flock alert that he argued should have itself provided the evidence cops needed
to see that he was innocent and five miles away from the crime scene.
ADVERTISEMENT
For members of the public increasingly scrutinizing Flock cameras over unconstitutional searches
and other privacy concerns, it’s hard to know basic things, like where the cameras are posted,
who’s looking at the footage, how often the data is accessed, and how long the data is stored.
Public records requests can help answer these questions, and sometimes police choose to
voluntarily share it, using optional “transparency portals” that Flock builds. Those portals log
statistics like total number of cameras, vehicles scanned, or police searches in a given area.
Flock spokesperson Andrew Smith told the Texas Tribune that the portals “give agencies a public-
facing way to publish information about their [ALPR] programs, including policies, usage, and
access rules to help communities better understand how the technology is being used.”
However, very few agencies seem to be opting in to the sharing. In Texas, there are hundreds of
agencies using Flock cameras, and only 59 agencies use transparency portals, the Tribune
reported. Of those, just 16 share data with the public.
Without courts requiring warrants or state and local officials requiring more transparency, Flock
cameras will continue tracking movements in ways that the public doesn’t fully understand,
advocates warn. And new privacy risks may emerge as AI makes it easier to process data across the
ever-broadening network.
Michael Soyfer is a lawyer at the Institute for Justice who “has studied Flock camera abuse and is
litigating several cases on Fourth Amendment grounds,” 404 Media noted. He suggested that
without more transparency on how police are using the cameras, Flock may end up building tools
to support some of these police misuses the public dislikes, such as automating the type of alerts
used when tracking vehicle movements that have raised false suspicions or caused wrongful
arrests.
“We’re seeing that repeatedly with police flagging whatever they’ll call suspicious patterns of
movement. Federal agents were using ALPRs to monitor cars making day trips across the border

--- page 5 ---
PREV STORY
NEXT STORY
ASHLEY BELANGER SENIOR POLICY REPORTER
Ashley is a senior policy reporter for Ars Technica, dedicated to tracking social impacts of
emerging policies and new technologies. She is a Chicago-based journalist with 20 years of
experience.
60 COMMENTS
and back to manufacture a basis to stop them, interrogate the drivers, and search them,” Soyfer
told 404 Media. “I think Flock is going to automate that, using AI where cops can set alerts for those
kinds of travel patterns.”
MOST READ
1.
Texas city demands $2M for public records on Flock usage
2.
MCP for agent-to-agent comms may be the riskiest protocol you've never
heard of
3.
Command-line tool quickly removes Apple Intelligence from macOS 27

--- page 6 ---
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea
of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
MORE FROM ARS
ABOUT US
STAFF DIRECTORY
NEWSLETTERS
GENERAL FAQ
POSTING GUIDELINES
AI POLICY
RSS FEEDS
CONTACT
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
REPRINTS
Manage Preferences
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and
4.
OpenAI agents tried to hack Wikipedia tools and flooded it with traffic
5.
Mass quarantine issued in Russia after unexplained death of plague
researcher

--- page 7 ---
Your California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices