--- page 1 ---
“MAKES ME FEEL VERY UNSAFE”
Florida cops say they don’t know who owns 11
unpermitted Flock cameras
Floridians alarmed by 14 mysterious Flock cameras; 11 have no clear owner.
ASHLEY BELANGER – OCT 1, 2026 4:49 PM |
 136
St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office wouldn't explain why cops installed three cameras without permits.
Credit: Barry Winiker | Stockbyte Unreleased
TEXT SETTINGS
Florida cops are facing questions after a mandate to remove all Flock cameras tracking cars on St.
Lucie County roads led local police to uncover more than a dozen suspicious cameras operating
without permits.
SECTIONS
FORUM
SIGN IN

--- page 2 ---
Local residents told The Washington Post that they were alarmed that no one knows who owns
many of the mysterious cameras.
Of the 14 cameras found, 11 had no obvious owners, raising concerns about who has access to
sensitive data that bad actors could abuse. After the cameras were discovered, St. Lucie County
Commissioner James Clasby told a local news outlet that there’s “potential for non-law
enforcement to have cameras out there, and I’m not OK with that.”
But the St. Lucie County Sheriff’s Office ended up claiming three of those cameras, then refused to
explain why they never obtained the required permits. The office did not immediately respond to
Ars’ request to clarify whether it ever accessed data recorded by the cameras.
In Florida, police have repeatedly been caught misusing Flock cameras, sometimes tracking single
cars hundreds of times for personal reasons. One officer in Fort Pierce, Josepher Crutchfield,
accessed a Flock database 382 times while stalking an ex-girlfriend, the Post noted, while another
cop, Christopher Goodson, reportedly nearly doubled that number of searches while looking for his
estranged wife.
Two Pinellas County cops were arrested for invasive Flock tracking, with one, Travis Stanton, found
searching a minor and the other, Karl Gwynne, stalking a woman he wanted to date. Across the US,
the Post has found at least 50 cases of similar police misuse. As the problem has escalated, Flock
has claimed that it has added safeguards to prevent police misuse of its databases, but experts
warn they’re ineffective.
ADVERTISEMENT
For St. Lucie County residents who frequently pass the unpermitted cameras, privacy concerns
remain, as the county is giving owners 30 days to remove the cameras, seemingly with no
questions asked. One camera already came down, a Post reporter confirmed, after St. Lucie
County’s interim administrator Mayte Santamaria explained that the county put up “bright red”
notices.
Cops remain uncertain if the cameras are actively collecting data, the Post reported. Until the
deadline arrives—which for some cameras could be as late as October 20—county spokesperson
Erick Gill told the Post that “staff plan to start placing plastic bags over the cameras.”

--- page 3 ---
That small step could help obscure footage to prevent invasive tracking, but one resident, Ty Grant,
told the Post that concerns remain—even about the camera that was promptly removed. For
people potentially recorded by the cameras, it’s imperative that cops try to figure out who owns
them, Grant said.
“That makes me feel very unsafe,” Grant said.
Todd Richter, who manages a fishing supply shop located across the street from a different camera,
told the Post that he has no issue with Flock’s automated license plate readers, so long as it’s clear
who’s accessing them.
“I’m not happy about it unless I know who it is,” Richter said, “and I don’t.”
Flock’s web of mystery cameras
St. Lucie County officials appear determined to give the camera owners time to take them down
before moving forward with investigations to unmask them. Gill told the Post that Flock will be
contacted if the county’s 30-day deadline passes and cameras remain up.
ADVERTISEMENT
It’s possible that Flock dropped the ball on submitting permitting requests for either private or
police use of the mysterious cameras. That has happened for years, as a 2024 Forbes investigation
reported, and the Post has noted other more recent examples. Last December, Flock installed two
cameras in Cambridge, Massachusetts, without telling anyone, after local officials had banned the
technology. And just last month, officials in Millcreek, Utah, were baffled to find an unknown
camera installed on city property that neither the city nor police requested.
About an hour from the most recent batch of sketchy cameras, officials in Palm Bay, Florida,
suspended their camera system after finding that Flock continually installed cameras and then
failed to request final inspections. In that case, city officials ended up approving Flock’s permits.
St. Lucie County commissioner Clasby told local media he thinks that “not knowing who” the
cameras belong to is “another issue” beyond police misuse and data privacy that Flock must
address.

--- page 4 ---
PREV STORY
NEXT STORY
ASHLEY BELANGER SENIOR POLICY REPORTER
Ashley is a senior policy reporter for Ars Technica, dedicated to tracking social impacts of
emerging policies and new technologies. She is a Chicago-based journalist with 20 years of
experience.
136 COMMENTS
Already battling backlash—particularly in Florida, the only state to ban cameras on state roads—
Flock appears motivated to connect with the county before the 30-day notice period expires.
A Flock spokesperson told the Post that the company already reached out to officials to discuss the
unpermitted cameras. That spokesperson seemed to downplay the controversy, saying that
permitting requirements “vary by jurisdiction and are not necessary in every location.”
Ars reached Gill to confirm that St. Lucie County began talks with Flock this week. According to Gill,
Flock is juggling many requests right now, since there are demands to remove cameras throughout
the state. As Flock assesses the cases, Gill said that county “staff is still working on the best
possible way to make sure the cameras are removed by the permittee before the deadline. Once
the deadline has passed, staff will be working to safely remove the cameras and/or add coverings,
so that they are unable to capture video.”
MOST READ

--- page 5 ---
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea
of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
1.
Florida cops say they don't know who owns 11 unpermitted Flock cameras
2.
SpaceX describes surgical intervention before launch of latest crew
mission
3.
As US relations fray, Canada gets serious about its own launch industry
4.
Can good design stop content creators from having sex in robotaxis?
5.
Memory executives expect RAM shortage to continue through 2028

--- page 6 ---
MORE FROM ARS
ABOUT US
STAFF DIRECTORY
NEWSLETTERS
GENERAL FAQ
POSTING GUIDELINES
AI POLICY
RSS FEEDS
CONTACT
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
REPRINTS
Manage Preferences
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and
Your California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices