--- page 1 ---
THEY’RE WATCHING US
Lawmakers target Flock cameras with a threat to
highway funding
A bipartisan bill would restrict Flock cameras to a handful of public safety uses.
PARESH DAVE, WIRED.COM – SEP 16, 2026 2:03 PM |
 58
Credit: Barry Chin/Getty
TEXT SETTINGS
A bipartisan pair of US lawmakers tell WIRED they plan to introduce legislation today that would
strip federal funding from states that fail to restrict the use of Flock cameras and other automated
license plate readers. The devices, which help police track the location of vehicles tied to crimes,
have become the subject of nationwide backlash in recent months over more nefarious uses by
officers.
SECTIONS
FORUM
SIGN IN

--- page 2 ---
The No FLOCK Act—for Federal License-Plate Observation and Camera Keeping—directs the US
secretary of transportation to withhold 10 percent of annual financial support due to states for
highways, roads, and bridges if it fails to ban Flock and similar devices for all but five use cases.
Congressmen Raja Krishnamoorthi, a Democrat representing Chicago suburbs, and Michael Cloud,
a Republican whose Texas district includes Corpus Christi, are cosponsoring the bill.
The legislation says that Flock cameras could be used only for “enforcing toll systems, identifying
stolen vehicles, missing or endangered persons, vehicles registered to persons with a warrant for a
felony offense, or investigating a vehicle involved in a felony offense.” Notably absent are uses like
conducting traffic studies, investigating minor drug crimes, and enforcing parking and speeding
rules.
“Our investigation into Flock exposed serious gaps in oversight, and this bipartisan bill would put
clear limits in place to prevent abuse while preserving legitimate public safety uses,”
Krishnamoorthi said in a statement.
But the bill stops short of banning Flock systems altogether, which has been the number one
demand from supporters of a global protest movement against the Atlanta-based company and its
competitors. It also doesn’t stop Flock users from broadly sharing license plate tracking data with
other government agencies, including immigration authorities.
Flock did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the proposed bill.
If the legislation passes this year, states that fail to comply with it would begin losing out on tens of
millions to hundreds of millions of dollars in annual transportation funding starting in October
2028.
ADVERTISEMENT
The Department of Transportation calculates the amount of so-called surface transportation funds
it gives to states based on factors such as how many roadways they have and how busy they are.
Congress has repeatedly threatened taking away the funding to pressure states into taking action
on public safety. The tactic helped establish a national minimum drinking age, standard rules for
what constitutes driving under the influence, and regulations for billboards alongside highways.
Another bipartisan bill introduced in Congress recently called for banning the use of federal
funding to purchase Flock cameras. Flock’s lobbying spending in Washington, DC, has been steady

--- page 3 ---
WIRED 
Wired.com is your essential daily guide to what's next, delivering the most original and
complete take you'll find anywhere on innovation's impact on technology, science, business
and culture.
58 COMMENTS
over the past 18 months, and it recently hired a fifth firm to help with the efforts, according to
federal records.
Tech backlash
A number of issues related to emerging technologies, including rogue AI systems, data center
construction, and law enforcement abuse of Flock cameras, have become major topics in the
upcoming US midterm elections, which are now less than two months away. But it’s unclear
whether any legislation designed to address voters’ concerns will advance through Congress
anytime soon, let alone gain the approval of President Donald Trump.
The president expressed support for Flock cameras on Sunday, telling reporters that they help law
enforcement authorities. Lawmakers largely agree, but they are frustrated by cases in which police
officers have been caught using Flock footage for personal reasons, such as stalking their one-time
romantic partners. One report found at least 100 instances of alleged abuse over the past eight
years.
“Taxpayers shouldn’t be forced to fund the shredding of their own civil liberties or the growth of a
surveillance state,” Cloud said in a statement. “Flock cameras are enabling mass surveillance of
Americans, infringing on the Fourth Amendment.”
About 25 states and US territories have laws about automated license plate readers, including
mandating transparency about the systems and requiring unnecessary data to be promptly
deleted, but few of the measures limit types of uses, according to the New York University School of
Law’s Policing Project.
The bill is “a first step toward reining in unchecked surveillance,” Cloud said, adding, “we can
protect public safety without sacrificing the privacy of Americans.”
This story originally appeared on wired.com.

--- page 4 ---
PREV STORY
NEXT STORY
MOST READ
1.
Iran strikes on Amazon data centers caused permanent loss of customer
data
2.
macOS 27 Golden Gate: The Ars Technica review
3.
This Atlantic hurricane season is about to do something that hasn't
happened in 175 years
4.
Apple reportedly building server packed with M-series Ultra chips for AI
5.
Scientists develop new method for deciphering ancient scrolls

--- page 5 ---
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea
of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
MORE FROM ARS
ABOUT US
STAFF DIRECTORY
ARS NEWSLETTERS
GENERAL FAQ
POSTING GUIDELINES
AI POLICY
RSS FEEDS
CONTACT
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
REPRINTS
Manage Preferences
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes
acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and
Your California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices