source: packet.pdf
sha256: 590a34dfcbdec0b1ed9aed26bd52e2885b64e1a92eb33640759033508b63b735
pages: 29
ocr_pages: 14
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
May 15, 2023
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 15, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 876 1932 0497      Passcode: 577396
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
4th and Railroad Parking Lot – Bespoke Development Term Sheet
Review and provide feedback on the proposed Term Sheet for the public-private partnership Bespoke
development project, which includes the City-owned parking lot at 4th and Railroad Avenue.
CEQA: This review of the Term Sheet is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) The proposed Bespoke development project will be subject to environmental
review which is being completed through the entitlement process.
2.
Downtown – Public Restroom
Consider options for the opening of a public restroom in Downtown.
CEQA: This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
1 of 29

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 29

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7462
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 15, 2023 
SUBJECT:
4th and Railroad Parking Lot – Bespoke Development Term Sheet
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and provide feedback on the proposed Term Sheet for the public-private partnership Bespoke development 
project, which includes the City-owned parking lot at 4th and Railroad Avenue.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently party to an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement (ENA) for the redevelopment of the City-owned 
surface parking lot located at 4th and Railroad Avenue, directly across the railroad tracks from the Kiku Crossing 
development. The ENA is with a three-party development team comprised of Prometheus, Harvest Properties, and 
Alta Housing (a non-profit affordable housing developer) and is intended to be in place throughout the entitlement 
phase of the project.  The City entered into the ENA in October 2021 and has since been working with the 
development team to refine the project, now referred to as Bespoke, through the planning entitlement process. The 
Bespoke project completed the pre-application phase of its planning review and submitted their formal planning 
application in February 2023.  
The Bespoke project will redevelop the entire block located between B Street and Railroad Avenue between 4th and 
5th Avenues. The project includes 60-units of affordable housing, 150,000 square feet of office space, 12,000 square 
feet of retail space, and approximately 4,500 square feet of community space intended for Self-Help for the Elderly. A 
shared underground parking garage will be built across the site which will include 38 residential parking spaces and 80 
commercial spaces. 
As the project has evolved, so have the deal terms related to the City’s provision of land and funding support for the 
affordable housing component of the project. This report is intended to provide the City Council with an update on 
the project status and to get Council feedback on the proposed deal terms as outlined in the Term Sheet, included as 
Attachment 1.  In addition to the Term Sheet, the development team has provided a letter outlining their commitment 
to the project, included as Attachment 2. 
Developer Selection History
The City Council adopted a resolution declaring the surface parking lot at East 4th Avenue and South Railroad Avenue, 
known as the Talbot’s parking lot, as “Surplus Land” at the January 4, 2021 City Council meeting. Following this 
declaration, staff released a Notice of Surplus Lands Availability to all housing developers that have registered with the 
State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). In response to this notice, the City received four 
letters of interest for the development of affordable housing on the site. 
The City requested that the interested parties respond with a proposal responding to the following criteria:
3 of 29

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1.
Develop an 100% affordable housing project featuring a range of unit sizes from studios up to 3-bedrooms. 
Project should accommodate a mix of incomes and age ranges.
2.
Maximize the number of units that can be accommodated on the site by building a 7-story project.
3.
Provide a ground floor space that can be used by the non-profit Self-Help for the Elderly. It can be assumed 
that they can contribute some amount to rent, but not likely a market rent, such as would be charged to a 
retailer. They will also provide some funding for their own tenant improvements.
4.
The City will contribute the land for the project in the form of a long-term ground lease.
5.
Specify the expected ask of financial assistance for the affordable housing from the City. It is expected that the 
development team will minimize the City’s financial assistance to the best possible extent by applying for 
multiple outside sources of financing.
6.
Indicate if the development team would consider trying to acquire the parcels immediately fronting the Talbot’s 
parking lot along B Street for a larger development site.
The City received three responsive proposals based on these criteria. After going through an evaluation process, on July 
19, 2021, the City Council directed staff to negotiate an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement (ENA) with the 
Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing team to explore the redevelopment of the City’s parking lot site. The City 
Council subsequently approved the ENA at the October 4, 2021 meeting. 
The development team was selected based on a few critical factors that set their proposal apart from the other others. 
First and foremost, they were the only team that was willing to consider acquiring additional parcels. They were already 
under contract for the former Talbot’s store site and were willing to explore acquiring the remaining two parcels on the 
block. If those two parcels were left out of the development, there would be an abrupt transition between the one-
story buildings on B Street and the 7-story affordable building immediately behind them. In addition, one of those 
parcels had easement rights across the City’s surface parking lot in order to access their parking stalls in the back of 
their building. Maintaining this access would have been a major challenge. In addition, the development team proposed 
a mix of unit sizes that make the project family friendly, offered the highest ratio of on-site parking for the housing, and 
served income levels up to 70% of Area Median Income (AMI) which addresses the Council’s interest in serving both 
low- and middle-income households.
Since entering into the ENA the project has evolved from the original development proposal. The development team 
was successful in acquiring development rights to all of the parcels on the block. This resulted in an increase in the 
office square footage from the initial proposal of 118,000 square feet to 150,000 square feet. Additionally, they were 
able to increase the number of affordable housing units from the original proposal of 52 to a total of 60. And finally, to 
address concerns about the availability of parking for the residents, the developer is proposing to offer shared parking 
where the residential units can access a portion of the commercial spaces during non-business hours. 
The development team has met all of their obligations under the ENA to date and is currently ahead of the proposed 
schedule of performance in the ENA. The project is expected to be before City Council for approval of their final 
entitlements in early 2024.
Key Deal Terms
The Term Sheet summarizes the key deal terms for the public-private partnership. These terms will form the basis of 
the Disposition and Development Agreement that the City and developer will enter into at the time that the project 
receives its entitlements. A summary of the key project terms is as follows:
•
The development team will enter into 99-year ground leases for the City’s parcel at the rate of $1 per year. 
•
The City’s parcel will be divided into two separate ground leases, with 13,320 square feet of the parcel being 
used for the affordable housing and 3,170 square feet being used for the commercial development.
•
The City will contribute $2.75 million to support the construction of the affordable housing from the City’s 
4 of 29

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
dedicated affordable housing funds. The specific source of funds from within the City’s housing funds is still to 
be determined.
•
The development team will contribute $2.9 million to support the construction of the affordable housing.
•
The development team will finance and construct the shared underground parking garage across the entire site 
and create separate pads for the development of the affordable housing building and the commercial building.  
The commercial building will cover the full cost of the construction of the parking garage, including the spaces 
dedicated to the affordable housing.
•
The development team will provide ground floor space in the affordable housing building at a substantially 
subsidized rent to Self-Help for the Elderly to allow for their relocation from the Central Park Recreation Center, 
which will be necessitated by the implementation of the Central Park Master Plan.
•
In order to allow for the construction of the underground parking garage and the various site ownership 
mechanisms, the development team will use a lot tie agreement to allow for development across parcel lines.
•
Due to the construction readiness requirements of affordable housing financing, the underground parking 
garage must commence construction prior to the affordable housing project applying for funding. As a result, 
the commercial component is likely to be completed prior to the housing. The length of this differential 
between the completion of the commercial and the affordable housing components of the project will depend 
on whether the affordable housing has to go through multiple cycles in order to obtain construction funding 
from the typical affordable housing financing sources, including the federal tax credits.
•
The project will be subject to prevailing wage and DIR registry requirements.
The majority of these deal terms have remained constant from when the development team was selected. The primary 
changes are that the City contribution for the affordable housing has increased from $2.0 to $2.75 million to provide 
financial assistance for the additional 8 units and the proposed use of the lot tie agreement to allow for the construction of 
the shared garage across multiple parcels. In addition, the extent of the City parcel that would be used to support the 
commercial development was not previously specified. Staff has requested that the development team explore the 
financial feasibility of using the full extent of the City parcel for affordable housing. This could result in an increase in the 
number of affordable units included in the project but will also likely require an increase in the City’s funding contribution 
to the housing. In order to accomplish this, the development team will explore ways to preserve the commercial floor area 
ratio through design changes as well as analyzing the ability of the affordable housing project to obtain financing for the 
additional units.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Term Sheet requests that the City commit our City-owned parcel to this project for a 99-year ground lease at $1 per 
year and provide $2.75 million to support the affordable housing development. This project will be subject to all of the 
City’s development impact fees, including but not limited to traffic impact fees, commercial-linkage fees, and park impact 
fees. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review of the Term Sheet is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) The 
proposed Bespoke development project will be subject to environmental review which is being completed through the 
entitlement process.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Term Sheet
Att 2 - Letter from Development Team
5 of 29

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
6 of 29

--- page 7 ---
Page 1 of 3
Bespoke Deal Terms:
Big Picture Project Details:
o
Parcels Included: Entire block bounded by 4th Ave, 5th Ave, Railroad Ave, and B Street 
inclusive of the City owned parking lot, and the buildings that include Talbot’s Toyland, 
Tomatina, and Pokeatery stores. See Figure 1 below
▪
APN’s: 034-179-010, 034-179-020, 034-179-030, 034-179-040 , 034-179-050, and 
034-179-060
Figure 1: Development project included parcels
o
60-units of family-friendly affordable housing within a 76’ tall 7-story structure
▪
50% of units to consist of two- and/or three-bedroom units
▪
Income levels to range between 30% and 70% of Area Median Income
▪
State Density Bonus Law utilized to allow for greater density and height
▪
Height noted excludes the mechanical penthouse
o
Roughly 150,000 sf of commercial office within a 74 foot tall 5-story structure
▪
State Density Bonus Law utilized to allow for greater height
7 of 29

--- page 8 ---
Page 2 of 3
▪
Height noted excludes the mechanical penthouse
o
Roughly 12,000 square feet of ground floor retail provided to improve the downtown 
retail experience along South B Street, 4th Avenue, and 5th Avenue 
o
Roughly 4,500 square feet of ground floor space in the affordable housing building along 
4th Avenue provided to Self Help for the Elderly inclusive of:
▪
Kitchen & prep space
▪
Multi-purpose room with seats for up to 120 individuals
▪
Administrative office space
o
118 total parking stalls of which 38 are dedicated to residential; additional commercial 
stalls will be available after working hours for the residential building. 30 of the 38 
dedicated residential stalls will be in mechanical parking lifts.
Financial Terms:
o
City to contribute the city-owned parking lot to the development to allow for the full block 
development via a non-escalating 99-year ground lease at $1 per year
o
City to contribute $2.75M to the affordable housing project in the form of a residual 
receipts loan
o
Commercial Developer (Prometheus and Harvest Properties) to contribute $2.9M to the 
affordable housing project
o
Commercial Developer to construct and finance the entire below grade parking, inclusive 
of residential parking
o
Self Help for the Elderly shell space to be delivered and rent to be substantially subsidized
Details of Property Transaction/Construction Phasing:
o
City-owned parcel to be allocated primarily to the residential, roughly 13,300 square feet, 
with 3,200 square feet allocated to the commercial structure. See Figure 2 below
Figure 2: Residential & Commercial extents on city-owned parcel
8 of 29

--- page 9 ---
Page 3 of 3
o
Project to utilize a lot-tie mechanism to allow for the residential project to utilize and 
share maintenance of the below-grade garage to be constructed by the commercial 
office.
o
Entitlement term length to be 10 years from entitlement approval to allow for the 
affordable housing project to apply for multiple funding rounds.
o
Exclusive negotiating right with respect to the City ground leases through October of 
2024.
o
Commercial project will commence construction first, as it is the builder of the garage, 
and will turn over the ground floor slab as a “pad” for the residential project to commence 
construction. Neither construction nor occupancy of the commercial project will be 
conditioned in any way on the commencement, completion or occupancy of the 
residential project post “pad” handover
o
Residential project to apply for funding post pad handover in order to meet project 
readiness criteria for federal tax credit applications, but will utilize best efforts to acquire 
funding in advance or at pad handover.
o
Project to comply required Prevailing Wages & DIR Registration
 
9 of 29

--- page 10 ---
Page 1 of 3
RE: Bespoke Cover Letter
April 28th, 2023
City Council of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Dear Council Members, 
 
Over the past two and a half years, our collective team has engaged with City Staff, the Planning 
Commission, and the previous and current City Council on our public private partnership project, Bespoke, 
encompassing the entire city block bounded by 4th and 5th Avenue, B Street, and Railroad Avenue. We are 
excited to come back in front of you this calendar year to reaffirm our previously stated goal of providing 
affordable housing, developing an extension to the successful B Street Retail environment, being a 
champion for local businesses, and designing a project that maintains the fabric of the surrounding 
neighborhood.
The purpose of this letter is to provide a brief overview of the applicant team, the history of the Bespoke 
project, what we have heard from the community during the course of our development, and a summary 
of the current development project.
Development Team
The applicant team is comprised of Harvest Properties, Prometheus Real Estate Group, and Alta Housing 
- all locally-based, highly experienced, and community-focused developers. Harvest and Prometheus have 
been active in the San Mateo market for over five decades and currently manage approximately 320 
residential units and 850,000 square feet of office space in San Mateo. Prometheus is currently developing 
the former Trag’s site located at 303 Baldwin site in Downtown San Mateo, which will create a high-
quality, uniquely designed building with the goal of enhancing the public realm near the Downtown 
Caltrain station and serve as the company’s new headquarters. Harvest properties is currently under 
construction on a 290 unit home development that will replace four office building totaling 225,000 
square feet and provide a significant amount of for-sale entry level housing. Alta Housing has been 
committed to providing affordable housing in Silicon Valley since its inception over 50 years ago with the 
help of local community leaders. Known for innovative development, outstanding resident support, and 
high-quality maintenance of its buildings, Alta Housing manages over 850 units to house more than 2,000 
low-income residents across the Bay Area.
History of Bespoke
The history of the Bespoke project dates back to the summer of 2020 when the applicant team started to 
have informal discussions with the City of San Mateo regarding its parcel on 4th Avenue and Railroad 
10 of 29

--- page 11 ---
Page 2 of 3
Avenue. Those discussions subsequently developed into a Request for Proposals from the City of San 
Mateo which formally accepted the applicant’s proposal in the second quarter of 2021. Since then, the 
applicant team has collaborated with City Staff to execute an Exclusive Negotiating Agreement and meet 
an agreed upon schedule to submit the Preliminary Title Report, Phase I and Geotechnical Studies, Pre-
Application, and Formal Entitlements Application in addition to completing the applicant-led CEQA studies 
and commencing the CEQA scoping necessary for the project. Throughout the past two and a half years, 
the applicant team has collaborated with City Staff and spent millions of dollars in pursuit of the best 
development project.
What Our Team Has Heard
The development team has spent considerable time reaching out to and connecting with San Mateo 
residents, local retail partners, and City Leadership throughout official City-led sessions to informal coffee 
meetings in Downtown. The themes we have heard from these various sessions are as follows:
❖Provide affordable housing
❖Champion local businesses
❖Create an active retail environment
❖Concentrate jobs around transit
❖Maintain the fabric of the neighborhoods
Our development project has responded to these themes and we are excited to share with the City Council 
our currently proposed project.
Bespoke Project Summary
The Bespoke project includes 60 residential units, an increase of eight units from the Request for Proposal 
response, that will be designated as family-friendly units, meaning that over 50% of the units are two- and 
three- bedroom – housing up to 260 individuals. All of the units will be income restricted between the 
30% to 80% area medium income threshold. The housing project is supported by 38 dedicated parking 
spaces in addition to spaces shared with the commercial office after typical working hours. The ground 
floor of the housing project includes a dedicated space for Self Help for the Elderly, a local non-profit 
stalwart of San Mateo, which provides services to over 40,000 seniors in the San Mateo community and 
the Bay Area.
The curated development locates approximately 12,000 square feet of retail storefront space along B 
Street, wrapping around the corner onto 4th and 5th Avenues, allowing for the extension of San Mateo’s 
already lively downtown core. Control over the entire block allows for the project to put forth a continuous 
design aesthetic that improves the pedestrian experience across the entire block and reflects the City’s 
stated goals regarding pedestrians in the downtown.
The commercial portion of the project includes a total of ~150,000 square feet of office space. This office 
project reflects the City’s stated desire of developing new commercial office in smart locations; i.e. close 
11 of 29

--- page 12 ---
Page 3 of 3
to transit and close to existing retail cores – helping to provide a stable daytime population in support of 
downtown. This project ticks both of those boxes. Secondly, the project strives to be on the leading edge 
of sustainable design including a mass timber structure, LEED Gold Certification as well as WELL Building 
Core & Shell Certification, and Carbon Neutrality. Finally, the commercial project will pay approximately 
$20 million in impact fees and $4.3 million in commercial linkage fees.
To allow this collective project to move forward, the following commitments by the City and the 
Commercial developer are included:
❖City contribution of $2.75M to the housing project in the form of a residual receipts loan
❖City to contribute the city-owned parking lot via a non-escalating 99-year ground lease at $1 per 
year
❖Commercial Developer to contribute $2.9M to the affordable housing project
❖Commercial Developer to finance and construct the parking garage inclusive of the housing 
project’s parking
Greater detail on all of the project’s deal terms can be found in the Term Sheet document.
We appreciate the time to update the City Council as to the status of our public-private partnership and 
hope that Bespoke can serve as a template for future public-private partnerships where a commercial 
development can provide economic support to catalyze housing production for the community. We look 
forward to discussing the project’s deal terms in greater detail with you all.
 
Sincerely, 
The collective Alta, Harvest, and Prometheus Team 
12 of 29

--- page 13 ---
From:
Sent on:
To:
Edward Evans
Friday, May 12, 2023 3:59:37 PM
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
CC:
Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz
Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard
Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob
Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Douglas M. Chesshire
Subject:
Carpenters Local Union 217 Support Letter for 445 Southg B Street Project
Attachments: Local 217 Support Letter.pdf (64.86 KB)
Good morning Council Members and Madam Clerk,
Please see Carpenters Union Local 217's attached letter of support for the
Harvest Properties proposed project located at 445 South B Street. Thank you.
All the best,
Ed Evans
Senior Field Representative/Financial Secretary-Treasurer
Local 217, San Mateo County
Nor Cal Carpenters Union
"Any time you have an opportunity to make a difference in this world and you don't, then you
are wasting your time on earth." 
Roberto Clemente
13 of 29

--- page 14 ---
CARPENTERS UNION LOCAL 217
SAN MATEO COUNTY

— 1153 CHESS DRIVE ¢ SUITE 100 * FOSTER CITY, CALIFORNIA 94404-1197 © (650) 377-0217
May 12, 2023

City of San Mateo
City Council

330 West 20" Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: Carpenters Union Local 217 Support for 445 South B St.
Dear: Mayor Lee & Fellow Councilmembers,

The members of Carpenters Local 217 in San Mateo and the surrounding Bay Area
strongly support the approval and development of 445 South B Ave. This project will not
only provide much-needed housing in the area, it will also generate hundreds of union
construction jobs in San Mateo and provide an opportunity for local apprentices,
including women, minorities, veterans and at-risk youth, to begin or continue a career in
the construction industry.

The Bespoke project has highlighted the best in what development should look like in
the City of San Mateo. With the creation of 60 housing units, and 160 thousand sf. of
commercial space, this development falls in line with the goals of both the City and
County when it comes to adding affordable housing, walkable ecosystems and creating
viable work opportunities for the construction workers in the area. While creating an
economic opportunity that will help create small business diversification within the City,
promoting equity and inclusion and adding additional tax revenue to the City.

The Bespoke project will enhance the City of San Mateo for many years to come and by
creating opportunities for local residents and businesses, San Mateo will continue to lead
the way on what responsible development looks like.

With this Development Team's commitment to the City of San Mateo, the Carpenters Union,
residents, and our community at large, we urge you to support this project.

An TT

Sincerely,

Ed Evans

Senior Field Representative

14 of 29


--- page 15 ---
@ Self-Help for

| 731 Sansome Street, Suite 100 | San Francisco, CA 94111-1725
the Elderly Ba ,
Es # AB Kz _ t: (415) 677-7600 | f: (415) 296-0313 | e: info@selfhelpelderly.org
Providing strength, hope and empowerment to seniors since 1966
www.selfhelpelderly.org

"ASMAY 15 19:4 Say

Please inelede ui Pecker for
City Ounce! Study Sessa at 5:30 pm
femcaht 5/5023.

Ke: Oespeke Froyect

chia Sse

Seof- Help fr tho Eldest.
fa saad Bozrd. /

San Francisco San Mateo South Bay Alameda & Contra Costa

| 415.677.7500 650.342.0822 | 408.733.1883 510.336.0144
_ 601 Jackson Street _ 50 East Fifth Avenue _ 550 East Remington Drive 2400 MacArthur Boulevard
_ San Francisco, CA 94133 | San Mateo, CA 94401 _ Sunnyvale, CA 94087 _ Oakland, CA 94602

15 of 29


--- page 16 ---
@ Self-Help for

1 Sansome Street, Suite 100 | San Francisco, CA 94111-172
the Eldert ie )6 600 | f: (415) 296 | e: info@ Ihelpeld yore
REA MR : (415) 677-7600 | f: (415) 296-0313 | e: info@selfhelpelderly.org

www.selfhelpelderly.org _ Providing strength, hope and empowerment to seniors since 1966

Dear City Staff, Planning Commissioners,
and City Council Members,

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in
San Mateo Central Park, I am writing to express my support for the mixed-use development
project, Bespoke (lead developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent
home for its Senior Activity Center.

For over 30 years, Self-Help for the Elderly (SHE) has been dedicated to serving seniors in the
City of San Mateo regardless of race, culture, gender or physical capability. In year of 2020-
2021, the organization served over 30,000 meals. At the height of the pandemic, SHE quickly
pivoted and was able to convert dine-in meal service to take-out and delivery orders. It also
expanded its home delivery service to reach the North Central district of San Mateo with an
additional 15,000 home delivery meals, demonstrating SHE’s unwavering commitment to
meeting the critical needs of our cherished community members.

However, as you are no doubt aware, the organization's current Central Park facility lease will
expire June 2025 in anticipation of the launch of the Central Park improvement project. The
Bespoke project offers a timely and much-needed solution to this challenge, providing a new
permanent home for Self-Help for the Elderly that is thoughtfully designed with the
organization's program and functional needs in mind. The proposed space consists of
approximately 4,500 sq. ft., and it will be delivered at substantially below market rent.

Valuing family is a core value of the SHE Senior Activity Center and its seniors. In addition to
providing SHE a permanent home, the Bespoke project plans 60 units of much needed family-
friendly 100% affordable housing, bringing multi-generational workforce housing to Downtown
San Mateo and helping to concentrate jobs around transit.

As a member of the community of San Mateo, I strongly support the timely approval of the
Bespoke project so that the future home for Self-Help for the Elderly can be delivered as soon as
possible. This project will have a profound and positive impact on our community by creating
jobs, providing much-needed affordable housing, and last but not least, providing the home
urgently needed by Self-Help for the Elderly, an essential local non-profit organization.

Thank you for your careful consideration of this letter, and for all that you do to make our
community the vibrant and thriving place that I call “home”.

Sincerely,

San Francisco San Mateo ’ South Bay , Alameda & Contra Costa
415.677.7500 650.342.0822 408.733.1883 510.336.0144

601 jackson Street 50 East Fifth Avenue 550 East Remington Drive | 2400 MacArthur Boulevard
San Francisco, CA 94133 San Mateo, CA 94401 Sunnyvale, CA 94087 | Oakland, CA 94602

16 of 29


--- page 17 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

Print Name

») g 1D ay “ah M Soon

+
eC

17 of 29


--- page 18 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity

Center.

eee eee eee eee
pte Pee
FE AS

BS iay OF ce
er ra |
pt dube hic |

18 of 29


--- page 19 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

LY Tran?

; ;
ri

.
:

>

19 of 29


--- page 20 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead

developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

wer-YinG Cu;

20 of 29


--- page 21 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead

developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

My Us7
|| Write Laud



--- page 22 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

22 of 29


--- page 23 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As aresident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

23 of 29


--- page 24 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity

Center.

a VENA PANG

tu pon Vv, (/ cra j

i
tow

Lh
nN

24 of 29


--- page 25 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As a resident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity

Center.

a ee ee ee

25 of 29


--- page 26 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As aresident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity
Center.

Print Name

(- LLC) 8 fie
— ‘ ¢ —
. Je wrey cun

Mex Sh io ha

An

—

26 of 29 ©


--- page 27 ---
Petition In Support Of Bespoke Development Project

As aresident of San Mateo and a friend of Self-Help for the Elderly Senior Activity Center in San Mateo
Central Park, I am signing to express my support for the mixed-use development project, Bespoke (lead
developer is Harvest Properties), which will offer Self-Help a permanent home for its Senior Activity

Center.
[
| Print Name Address" Signature
fan Loe
Alaris (Cc

|

1
- 4
7 A] A
A /

ae

| HE ELEA Le a NC
| w UN NING LEUNG
| | eden Yak fp

chy TTA’ B / BRI EM

|
=
aC
|
|

Vv t- oe Ns i A ) lA
A i — i
Fan er. Ci Li aS | 7K esa IK

27 of 29


--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 23-7412
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 15, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Downtown – Public Restroom
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider options for the opening of a public restroom in Downtown.
BACKGROUND:
City Council’s annual goal-setting process includes the adoption of a prioritized list of initiatives for staff. In fiscal year (FY) 
2022-23, City Council included the opening of a public restroom in Downtown as a priority for staff to develop. As part of 
the workplan, Public Works identified the Transit Center and Main Street Garage as feasible options for a public restroom. 
Transit Center Station
The Transit Center Station is located at 385 1st Ave, was built in 1999, has above ground parking, two separate structures 
that are connected by a continuous roof structure, and an underground garage. The facility serves Caltrain patrons and has 
spaces for restaurant and office tenants. The structure includes two single-occupancy restrooms that are located at the 
train station platform level and were previously open to the public. The facilities were closed about seven years ago due to 
on-going vandalism, increased maintenance needs, and security concerns. Currently, these restrooms are not in use nor 
maintained, and always remain locked.   
The restrooms do not meet current building code requirements and would require upgrades to facilitate public use. The 
intent of the California building code is to provide fully accessible facilities when alterations are planned. To meet code 
compliance requirements, both restrooms would need improvements to meet clearances for accessibility (i.e., plumbing, 
fixtures, signage, doors, lighting, locking mechanisms, etc.). The cost to upgrade both restrooms to meet compliance 
standards is estimated at approximately $90,000. This cost is not a full renovation and only includes the minimum 
improvements needed to meet code requirements.  
Main Street Garage
The Main Street Garage is a five-story concrete parking structure that was built in 2001 and contains approximately 
380 parking spaces located on 360 Main St. The structure includes two single-occupancy restrooms located on the street 
level that have never been open to the public but are currently used by nearby building tenants and City employees. 
While the restroom facilities meet current building code requirements, the path of travel does not. The paths from the 
accessible parking stalls along Main St., 1st Avenue, and along the Caltrain right-of-way do not meet current slope 
requirements for accessibility. To open these restrooms to the public, improvements including repaving/re-sloping the 
path of travel along Main Street and the sidewalk along 1st Avenue would be required. Additional modifications to the 
doors would be needed, as well as improvements to the lighting and signage. The cost for the improvements is estimated 
at approximately $100,000.
28 of 29

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Discussion and Feedback
Public restrooms provide important public health benefits. To address security concerns, the Police Department 
recommends a location that has regular foot traffic, is visible and well lit, is properly cleaned and maintained, and has 
security cameras. For adequate maintenance, an operating budget of $1,500 per month ($36,000/year) would be required 
for daily cleaning, callouts to address needed repairs, and graffiti abatement. 
Council direction is needed on the following:
•
Confirm direction to open a public restroom downtown;
•
Preferred location;
•
Hours of operation (i.e., 24/7 or limited hours); currently parks restrooms are generally open from 7am – 8pm and 
operated by Park Rangers; and
•
Funding source.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is currently no funding allocated for this work. A funding source will need to be identified and reallocated to fund 
this work.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Evan Albert, P.E.
Deputy Director of Public Works
ealbert@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7308
29 of 29