Sandy Springs officer resigns amid Flock misuse investigation | News | appenmedia.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Site search Search Appen Press Club Become a Member Manage Account About the Club Our Impact Advertise Merch Store Best of Perimeter Newsletters Local News Alpharetta Cumming Decatur Dunwoody Forsyth Johns Creek Milton Roswell Sandy Springs Regional News Business Schools Arts & Entertainment Public Safety Sports Community Opinion Carl Appen Hans Appen Ray Appen Valerie Biggerstaff Patrick Fox Master Gardeners Steve Hudson Bob Meyers Kathy Manos Penn Mike Tasos Lewis Walker More Latest E-Editions Alpharetta-Roswell Herald Decaturish Ink Dunwoody Crier Forsyth Herald Johns Creek Herald Milton Herald Sandy Springs Crier Others Podcasts Calendar Obituaries Submit Wedding Engagement Obituary Letter to the Editor Calendar Event New Business Spotlight Legal Notice Sponsored Best of North Atlanta Classifieds Circulation Legal Notices About Contact Story Acknowledgements Write for Appen About Guides Sandy Springs lawsuit Independent news. Trusted by Metro Atlantans. Made possible by readers like you. Menu Support Local News Support Local News JOIN THE CLUB Site search Search Best of Perimeter Merch Store Featured Sandy Springs officer resigns amid Flock misuse investigation Report alleges subject tapped data for personal gain By CARL APPEN Carl Appen Director of Content & Development Author linkedin Author twitter Author email Oct 10, 2025 Oct 10, 2025 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save [+] Add Appen Media on Google SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. — A Sandy Springs police officer has resigned after allegedly using the city's Flock camera network to help develop a surveillance product for a company where he works, according to interviews and documents obtained by Appen Media. Public records show Francis Michael Esposito had been with the Sandy Springs Police Department since 2016. According to an internal affairs report and other materials obtained by Appen Media, he resigned in August amid a department investigation into his alleged use of city-leased software to help improve commercial data platform Signal 8. The Sandy Springs Police Department uses products from Flock Safety, an automated license plate reader and security software company based in Atlanta. The firm’s technology identifies and logs vehicles moving through town to assist police with criminal investigations. Flock users can perform searches of identifying information – such as license plate numbers or descriptions – to help locate vehicles they suspect are connected to criminal activity. When departments make these queries, they can search certain databases of other agencies as well, tapping into a nationwide network of sources . The platform also allows agencies to set up lists of vehicles to monitor, getting alerts if they appear in the network. Flock says its system “is trusted by more than 5,000 communities across the country…” That figure includes all 10 of the cities and counties Appen Media covers in north Metro Atlanta. News Sandy Springs used Flock cameras to aid ICE immigration enforcement, data shows By CARL APPEN Esposito joined the Sandy Springs Police Department in 2016 and was promoted to sergeant in 2021, according to public records obtained by Appen Media. While employed as a Sandy Springs officer, Esposito began working for Canton-based Signal 8, a public safety software startup founded by former Sandy Springs Police Detective Brandon Puhlman , according to their LinkedIn profiles and other public materials. Signal 8 connects “multiple systems in one interface to reduce time spent on administrative tasks” and help officers deploy quickly, according to its website . Puhlman, who served with Sandy Springs Police from 2017 to 2021, did not respond to interview requests for this story. Esposito also did not respond. Earlier this year, Esposito used his Sandy Springs Police credentials to conduct searches in the Flock network for the purpose of informing Signal 8 algorithms, according to a police internal affairs report obtained by Appen Media. The report alleges Esposito searched Flock for license plate numbers belonging to himself and other employees of Signal 8 along with their families. “Additionally, there were other entries identified relative to the same dates and reasons, but the names and vehicles could not be definitively identified,” as tied to Signal 8, it noted. The report also alleges Esposito made searches for the personal license plate number of a fellow Sandy Springs officer. Esposito’s Flock queries were not made for law enforcement purposes, but instead “for the benefit of a private company for which he was employed,” the investigation alleges. According to the internal affairs report, data gleaned from the searches was used to inform and improve the Signal 8 platform. Sandy Springs Police officials also sent a letter to Flock Safety, which Appen Media obtained , alerting them to the allegations. In it they write that Esposito, “was utilizing his Sandy Springs Police Department Flock login to obtain Flock Camera data for commercial purposes to validate beta data for a product for a company identified as Signal 8.” Esposito was under investigation for the alleged actions when he resigned in August. However, Sandy Springs officials say they consider his exit a termination. The reason, they told Appen Media, is because Esposito allegedly refused to answer questions during the probe. “Frank Esposito was recently terminated after he failed to cooperate during an internal affairs investigation into possible misconduct,” Sgt. Leon Millholland told the newspaper. In September, Sandy Springs sent Esposito a letter, obtained by Appen Media through a public records request , informing him the investigation had, “concluded with sustained findings of violations of department policies: Abuse of Position and Authority; Common Sense and Judgement; Conduct Unbecoming.” The notice also stated that Esposito’s status, “is officially classified as Terminated, effective August 20, 2025.” Appen Media also learned Esposito was not an active-duty officer during the time he conducted the alleged Flock searches, according to state, city and other records obtained by the newspaper. The internal affairs report alleges Esposito made the license plate inquiries from January to April. According to his personnel file and state records, Esposito resigned from his full-time post with Sandy Springs Police and joined the department’s volunteer Reserve Unit in January. “Reserve SSPD officers are unpaid sworn officers that volunteer 10 hours a month with the department,” Millholland said. “All Reserve SSPD officers have the same access to department resources and must adhere to the same policies and standards as full and part-time sworn officers.” Appen Media asked Flock for its reaction to the allegations. “Upon learning of the situation last month, Flock promptly addressed it directly with Signal 8,” Flock Safety Communications Officer Josh Thomas said. Managing Editor Pat Fox, Staff Reporter Annabelle Reiter contributed reporting. News Sandy Springs policy means more police chases than surrounding cities By HAYDEN SUMLIN Appreciate the work? Help us keep this reporting available to all by joining the Appen Press Club. Your support makes all the difference. Chip in! Reach Carl Appen at 770-847-7097. Follow him on Twitter @carlappen . Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Sandy Springs SWAT raids High Point home, drug and elder abuse charges follow Open records bill stripped of loopholes for state lawmakers, police reports Appeals court rejects previous ruling in Sandy Springs police records suit Sandy Springs Police to form its own SWAT team Opinion: Sandy Springs quacks like a duck Sandy Springs says police foundation is private, exempt from sunshine laws Sandy Springs sets sights on $37-$45 million police training center Police chief: Put Coke warehouse on ‘do not respond’ list Opinion: The mayor of Sandy Springs has no name Why Appen Media is suing Sandy Springs over access to public records Sandy Springs approves out-of-county jail contracts Juvenile armed robberies absent from Sandy Springs crime dashboard Appen Media files suit in Sandy Springs open records case Sandy Springs officer allegedly helped girlfriend cheat Alpharetta police exam Judge orders Sandy Springs to produce more documents in records lawsuit Dunwoody council wants more information on Flock Safety data collection Dunwoody City Council pauses Flock agreement Opinion: Dunwoody tax dollars fund nationwide surveillance network Related Links Letter to Flock [pdf] Letter to Esposito [pdf] Tags Sandy Springs, Ga Sandy Springs Police Department Flock Safety Signal 8 Appen Media Carl Appen Director of Content & Development Author linkedin Author twitter Author email Latest Girl Scouts to unveil new statue honoring military working dogs +2 Johns Creek High alum earns Big South honor Forsyth County to consider $5.9 million federal road safety grant Your questions, answered All of us here at Appen Media want to know, and try to help answer, the questions you have about our community. Milton says tree clearing along Little River within city ordinance Ask Appen: Smith Plantation, Holly Hill and Milton teens Ask a Question Site Home Newsletters Memberships Podcasts Advertise Write for Appen About Site Acknowledgements Pay My Bill Contact Information appenmedia.com 319 N. Main St. Alpharetta, GA 30009 770-442-3278 hello@appenmedia.com Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube RSS × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Appen Media 319 N. Main St., Alpharetta, GA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Close Enhance your article Feature Your News Online $25.00 / for 30 days Highlight your business' news for just $25! We'll feature your content on our News From Local Business section & our Marketplace front page to give it maximum exposure for the next 30 days. Purchase Feature Your News On Herald Headlines $55.00 / for 30 days Highlight your business' news on North Fulton's premier newsletter. Reach your audience on Friday morning alongside news they've opted-in to receive. Want to see more? Check out our other newsletters here . Purchase