--- page 1 ---
https://www.appenmedia.com/news/sandy-springs-officer-resigns-amid-flock-misuse-
investigation/article_b2aa4213-4acc-4098-9f94-2ec986165bac.html
FEATURED
Sandy Springs officer resigns amid Flock misuse
investigation
Report alleges subject tapped data for personal gain
Oct 10, 2025
By CARL APPEN
SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. — A Sandy Springs police officer has resigned after allegedly
using the city's Flock camera network to help develop a surveillance product for a
company where he works, according to interviews and documents obtained by Appen
Media.
Public records show Francis Michael Esposito had been with the Sandy Springs Police
Department since 2016. According to an internal affairs report and other materials
obtained by Appen Media, he resigned in August amid a department investigation into
his alleged use of city-leased software to help improve commercial data platform Signal
8.
The Sandy Springs Police Department uses products from Flock Safety, an automated
license plate reader and security software 
 based in Atlanta. The firm’s
technology identifies and logs vehicles moving through town to assist police with
criminal investigations.
Flock users can perform searches of identifying information – such as license plate
numbers or descriptions – to help locate vehicles they suspect are connected to criminal
activity. When departments make these queries, they can search certain databases of
other agencies as well, 
.
The platform also allows agencies to set up lists of vehicles to monitor, getting alerts if
they appear in the network.
company
tapping into a nationwide network of sources

--- page 2 ---
Flock says its system “is trusted by more than 5,000 communities across the country…”
That figure includes all 10 of the cities and counties Appen Media covers in north Metro
Atlanta.
Esposito joined the Sandy Springs Police Department in 2016 and was promoted to
sergeant in 2021, according to public records obtained by Appen Media.
While employed as a Sandy Springs officer, Esposito 
 for Canton-based
Signal 8, a public safety software startup founded by former Sandy Springs Police
Detective 
, according to their LinkedIn profiles and other public
materials.
Signal 8 connects “multiple systems in one interface to reduce time spent on
administrative tasks” and help officers deploy quickly, according to 
.
Puhlman, who served with Sandy Springs Police from 2017 to 2021, did not respond to
interview requests for this story. Esposito also did not respond.
Earlier this year, Esposito used his Sandy Springs Police credentials to conduct searches
in the Flock network for the purpose of informing Signal 8 algorithms, according to a
police internal affairs report obtained by Appen Media.
The report alleges Esposito searched Flock for license plate numbers belonging to
himself and other employees of Signal 8 along with their families.
“Additionally, there were other entries identified relative to the same dates and reasons,
but the names and vehicles could not be definitively identified,” as tied to Signal 8, it
noted.
The report 
 Esposito made searches for the personal license plate number of
a fellow Sandy Springs officer.
By CARL APPEN
Sandy Springs used Flock cameras to aid ICE immigration enforcement,
data shows
began working
Brandon Puhlman
its website
also alleges

--- page 3 ---
Esposito’s Flock queries were not made for law enforcement purposes, but instead “for
the benefit of a private company for which he was employed,” the investigation alleges.
According to the internal affairs report, data gleaned from the searches was used to
inform and improve the Signal 8 platform.
Sandy Springs Police officials also sent a letter to Flock Safety, 
, alerting them to the allegations. In it they write that Esposito, “was utilizing his
Sandy Springs Police Department Flock login to obtain Flock Camera data for
commercial purposes to validate beta data for a product for a company identified as
Signal 8.”
Esposito was under investigation for the alleged actions when he resigned in August.
However, Sandy Springs officials say they consider his exit a termination. The reason,
they told Appen Media, is because Esposito allegedly refused to answer questions during
the probe.
“Frank Esposito was recently terminated after he failed to cooperate during an internal
affairs investigation into possible misconduct,” Sgt. Leon Millholland told the
newspaper.
In September, Sandy Springs sent Esposito a letter, 
, informing him the investigation had, “concluded with sustained
findings of violations of department policies: Abuse of Position and Authority; Common
Sense and Judgement; Conduct Unbecoming.” The notice also stated that Esposito’s
status, “is officially classified as Terminated, effective August 20, 2025.”
Appen Media also learned Esposito was not an active-duty officer during the time he
conducted the alleged Flock searches, according to state, city and other records
 by the newspaper.
The internal affairs report alleges Esposito made the license plate inquiries from
January to April.
According to his personnel file and state records, Esposito resigned from his full-time
post with Sandy Springs Police and joined the department’s volunteer Reserve Unit in
January.
which Appen Media
obtained
obtained by Appen Media through a
public records request
obtained

--- page 4 ---
“Reserve SSPD officers are unpaid sworn officers that volunteer 10 hours a month with
the department,” Millholland said. “All Reserve SSPD officers have the same access to
department resources and must adhere to the same policies and standards as full and
part-time sworn officers.”
Appen Media asked Flock for its reaction to the allegations.
“Upon learning of the situation last month, Flock promptly addressed it directly with
Signal 8,” Flock Safety Communications Officer Josh Thomas said.
Managing Editor Pat Fox, Staff Reporter Annabelle Reiter contributed reporting.
MORE INFORMATION
By HAYDEN SUMLIN
Sandy Springs policy means more police chases than surrounding cities
Reach Carl Appen at 770-847-7097. Follow him on Twitter 
.
@carlappen
Sandy Springs SWAT raids High Point home, drug and elder abuse charges follow
Open records bill stripped of loopholes for state lawmakers, police reports
Appeals court rejects previous ruling in Sandy Springs police records suit
Sandy Springs Police to form its own SWAT team
Opinion: Sandy Springs quacks like a duck
Sandy Springs says police foundation is private, exempt from sunshine laws
Sandy Springs sets sights on $37-$45 million police training center
Police chief: Put Coke warehouse on ‘do not respond’ list
Opinion: The mayor of Sandy Springs has no name
Why Appen Media is suing Sandy Springs over access to public records
Sandy Springs approves out-of-county jail contracts
Juvenile armed robberies absent from Sandy Springs crime dashboard
Appen Media files suit in Sandy Springs open records case
Sandy Springs officer allegedly helped girlfriend cheat Alpharetta police exam
Judge orders Sandy Springs to produce more documents in records lawsuit

--- page 5 ---
Tags
Director of Content & Development
RELATED LINKS
Dunwoody council wants more information on Flock Safety data collection
Dunwoody City Council pauses Flock agreement
Opinion: Dunwoody tax dollars fund nationwide surveillance network
 Letter to Flock [pdf]
 Letter to Esposito [pdf]
Sandy Springs, Ga
Sandy Springs Police Department
Flock Safety
Signal 8
Appen Media
Carl Appen