Richmond mayoral election: 1st forum tackles Flock, Chevron Our coverage is free for all of Richmond, because we want everyone to know what's really happening in our city. Will you help support our free journalism? DONATE 📢 We have more news to share! Start your weekday mornings with the free Richmondside Report. Sign up Don’t miss Richmond’s biggest stories. Get the free Richmondside Report sent straight to your inbox every weekday morning. Sign up The local news you need, sent to you daily. 📬 Every weekday, the free Richmondside Report newsletter tells you what’s happening around town so you can better enjoy and engage with your community . Sign up Get WCCUSD news texted to you. Text "Richmondside" to 510-781-9051 to sign up. Close ♥ Donate NEWSLETTERS TIPS Search for: Search Latest News City Community Schools Events Elections Nosh Public Safety How Richmond Works About Contact us Advertise Instagram Tiktok Facebook WhatsApp Close Test tesst C ool Story Hello Skip to content About Contact us Advertise Instagram Tiktok Facebook WhatsApp Richmondside Independent nonprofit news for Richmond, CA ♥ Donate NEWSLETTERS TIPS Open Search Search for: Search ♥ Donate Menu Latest News City Community Schools Events Elections Nosh Public Safety How Richmond Works News bar - RS Voter guide to Richmond’s first-ever primary election Former Hilltop chef is back making smoked brisket and ribs In brief: Anti-Chevron Day, voter registration deadline, art center director retiring Posted in 2026 Election Richmond mayoral candidates clash over Flock cameras, crime, Chevron funds Mayoral hopefuls sparred about the Chevron settlement and license plate readers during an online election forum hosted by the Marina Bay Neighborhood Council. by Joel Umanzor March 13, 2026, 12:12 p.m. March 17, 2026, 1:40 p.m. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print Share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Clockwise from top left: The June 2026 Richmond mayoral candidates are: Ahmad Anderson, Claudia Jimenez, Demnlus Johnson, Mark Wassberg and incumbent Eduardo Martinez. Courtesy of the candidates Richmonders got their first look at the five mayoral candidates at the first candidates forum of the June primary election season. Challengers Ahmad Anderson, Claudia Jimenez, Demnlus Johnson and Mark Wassberg faced off against incumbent Mayor Eduardo Martinez in a Wednesday night Zoom forum hosted by the Marina Bay Neighborhood Council (MBNC). The forum, which lasted about two hours, delved into citywide issues, such as the $550 million Chevron settlement, license plate readers and homelessness, as well as District 5 concerns including the future of the Craneway Pavilion and housing developments. Don’t miss Richmond’s biggest stories. Get the Richmondside Report sent straight to your inbox every weekday morning. Sign up More primary election news and information Each candidate made a two-minute opening statement then answered five various questions by moderator and MBNC president Margarita Mitas. The opening statements included what candidates believe is the most critical issue facing the city. All three non-Richmond Progressive Alliance aligned candidates, Anderson, Johnson and Wassberg, referenced public safety as the most critical issue while the RPA members, Jimenez and Martinez, referenced the Chevron settlement funds . If you go What: League of Women Voters candidates forum (mayoral and district races) When: 6 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Mon., March 16 Where: Richmond City Council chambers, 440 Civic Center Plaza More info: The forum will also be livestreamed via Zoom , i.d. 894 2523 5268; submit questions here “Public safety is one of my No. 1 priorities,” Anderson said. “If folks don’t feel safe to eat, work and live in your community then sustaining businesses that bring forth economic development and revenue to the city, and also workforce development to provide jobs, then it becomes a non-issue.” Johnson, another one of the moderate candidates running in the race, said that he believes the city’s biggest priority should be working “for all,” beginning with public safety, the city’s pension obligations and overall economic development. “Those are some of the major things that we have to address in order to make sure that we have a functioning city for all, not just for a select few or a small group, but for everyone here in the city of Richmond,” Johnson said. Wassberg referenced the “defunding” of the Richmond police as the issue he would address first if elected. In 2021, the then-Richmond City Council reallocated $3 million from the department due to vacancies and used it to fund alternative responses to law enforcement. “People talk about jobs and the economy but if you don’t have a safe city then people won’t come,” he said. “The police are working overtime. All the money they’re spending on overtime, they could hire more cops.” Richmond has seen a historic plunge in homicides in the last decade, reaching a record low in 2025 with just six. Though overall violent crime decreased from 1,446 incidents in 2024 to 1,208 in 2025, some crimes, such as sexual assaults, have increased in recent years. There were 139 reported sexual assaults in 2025, up from 81 in 2021. For Jimenez, the most important issue facing the city is ensuring that the Chevron settlement is spent wisely, given that it’s a “once-ina-generation” opportunity. Jimenez and Martinez were both on the ad-hoc committee that won the settlement. “If we invest carefully, we can create a strong return for the city and provide a higher level of services in the city,” she said, pointing to the fact that the funds will only be coming during the next 10 years. “To do that, we need to learn from experts in other cities and listen closely to our residents about how they want to see those resources invested.” Martinez said that “diversifying the economy” is the city’s most important issue. Since his election in 2022, the port’s development has been a focal point for Martinez, who helped draft the proposed “ Green Blue New Deal ,” which looks to implement projects such as off-shore wind turbines and manufacturing of ships powered by those turbines as well as smaller-scale shoreline ecotourism and surplus food rescue projects. “We need good jobs, well-paying jobs and we need jobs that will bring in the funds that we will be missing if and when Chevron leaves,” Martinez said. What do the candidates think about Flock? City leaders have recently been figuring out what to do with its Automate License Plate Reader (ALPR) system . This technology, which is owned by a company called Flock, is used by local law enforcement agencies nationwide to instantly capture plate images. In December, Richmond police Chief Tim Simmons turned off the city’s ALPR cameras after learning that some of the data was externally accessible through a back-door software feature. A Richmond City Council discussion on the future of Flock automated license plate readers brought supporters and opponents to the meeting on Tue., March 3, 2026. Credit: Joel Umanzor/Richmondside The issue was discussed at the March 3 city council meeting and is set to be on this Tuesday’s agenda for a decision. Some opponents of the city’s Flock cameras have said that the city should not do business with the company because its reported data breaches could affect undocumented residents if federal agencies were to gain access to Richmond data. Jimenez said that’s her concern. “I believe that police need tools. I don’t agree with Flock as a company,” she said. “What they did was to make us violate our own sanctuary policies. You can’t trust a company that does that and acts in bad faith.” Martinez also said he disagrees with continuing the city’s relationship with Flock and suggested the city seek another local option. “People talk about buying local,” Martinez said. “There are companies, surveillance companies, who do the same work as Flock but do it here in California.” The three other candidates all stated they support the use of ALPR cameras by the police department. Johnson slammed the current mayor and council member for not deciding to turn on the ALPR system after they were told March 3 it might help police locate a missing, sex-trafficked teen. A Flock license plate reader (the small circular device) is powered by a solar panel in Texas. Credit: Associated Press “I support the use of Flock and ALPRs here in the city,” Johnson said. “Ulike the current council member and mayor on the call, who were approached to turn on the cameras to find a missing teenager. Even after studies have shown that data in the state of California is not shared with out of state agencies. California is an anti-ICE state so to suggest that is ludicrous.” Wassberg pushed back on the idea that local authorities could limit ICE enforcement in sanctuary policies if the federal government decided to come to Richmond, pointing to the why Simmons turned off the cameras in the first place. “California is not anti-ICE,” Wassberg said. “You can’t stop ICE.” Anderson, who echoed the detail of the missing teen, who Simmons said in a police commission meeting was from Stanislaus County, said he believed that the council did not do enough during the March 3 meeting, criticizing District 5 council member Sue Wilson, who said on the dais that she could not be available for a meeting the next day due to a scheduled trip. “We had people needing to go on trips while people’s lives were in jeopardy,” Anderson said, also pushing back on Wassberg’s claims and adding that regardless of documented status everyone deserves to feel safe. “We turned our backs (on the missing teen) and the cameras off but we need to turn them on. We need to make the decisions that make our community safe all around.” Read more primary election news in Richmondside’s voters guide . Related stories Will Richmond’s next mayor be a progressive, a moderate or a staunch conservative? March 11, 2026 May 8, 2026, 8:01 a.m. Two Richmond Progressive Alliance members officially running for mayor March 6, 2026 March 9, 2026, 11:27 a.m. Claudia Jimenez to run for mayor against RPA ally Eduardo Martinez February 25, 2026 Feb. 27, 2026, 12:29 p.m. ...We have a small favor to ask. We know that most readers don't get to the end of the article. But you did! To support our in-depth, rock-solid reporting, please consider making a donation to our nonprofit newsroom today. We rely on our readers — particularly the ones who read the whole story! Yes, I want to support Richmondside’s newsroom. Tagged: 2026 primary election , Marina Bay , richmond city council , richmond mayor Joel Umanzor City Reporter joel@richmondside.org Joel Umanzor Richmondside's city reporter. What I cover: I report on what happens in local government, including attending City Council meetings, analyzing the issues that are debated, shedding light on the elected officials who represent Richmond residents, and examining how legislation that is passed will impact Richmonders. My background: I joined Richmondside in May 2024 as a reporter covering city government and public safety. Before that I was a breaking-news and general-assignment reporter for The San Francisco Standard, The Houston Chronicle and The San Francisco Chronicle. I grew up in Richmond and live locally. Contact: joel@richmondside.org More by Joel Umanzor Leave a comment Richmondside welcomes thoughtful and relevant discussion on this content. Please review our comments policy before posting a comment. Thanks! Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Contact us About How We Work Donate Newsletters Elections Advertise Policies Berkeleyside The Oaklandside Careers © 2026 Cityside. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Policies Instagram Tiktok Facebook WhatsApp Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Policies . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website